February 20, 2021||Business||Subscriber base of NPS, APY up 22% to 4.05 crore at January-end 2021: PFRDA||NEW DELHI: The number of subscribers under government-run pension schemes NPS and APY rose nearly 22 per cent to 4.05 crore at January-end this year, according to data from PFRDA. There were over 3.33 crore subscribers under both the schemes by the year-ago same period. It shows a year-on-year increase of 21.63 per cent, the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) said in a release on its website on Friday. Under Atal Pension Yojana (APY), there was an increase of 31.17 per cent in the subscriber base to 2.65 crore at January-end 2021 as against 2.02 crore in the year-ago period, showed the PFRDA data. Giving a break-up of the types of subscribers under the National Pension System(NPS), PFRDA said central government employees subscriber base rose 3.74 per cent to 21.61 lakh, while state government employees base increased 7.44 per cent to 50.43 lakh at end-January 2021. For the 'all citizen sector' category, the subscriber base under NPS jumped 31.72 per cent to 14.95 lakh, while for the corporate sector it rose 17.71 per cent to 10.90 lakh. PFRDA said registration is not permitted under the NPS Lite category from April 1, 2015. The number of subscribers under NPS Lite category stands at 43.07 lakh at January-end 2021. NPS Lite was designed with the intention of securing the future of people who are economically disadvantaged. "As on 31st January 2021, total pension assets under management stood at Rs 5,56,410 crore showing a year-on-year growth of 35.94 per cent," PFRDA said. The two flagship schemes -- NPS and APY -- of PFRDA are targeted at the organised and the unorganised sector employees respectively. The defined contribution based NPS is a voluntary retirement savings scheme. The savings generated from NPS are pooled into a pension fund which in turn are invested by PFRDA regulated fund managers into diversified portfolios such as government bonds, bills, corporate bonds as well as shares. It has two categories of account, tier I and tier II. Tier I is a non-withdrawable permanent retirement account while, tier II is a voluntary withdrawable account which is allowed only upon having an active tier I account. APY caters to those segments of employees who do not have any statutory social security scheme and who are not income tax payers. Subscribers can get a fixed minimum pension of Rs 1,000 to a maximum of Rs 5,000 per month, at the age of 60 years, depending on their contributions. To encourage people to subscribe to APY, the Centre also made a provision to co-contribute 50 per cent of the total contribution or Rs 1,000 per annum, whichever was lower for a period of five years from 2015-2019, who joined APY before December 31, 2015. The scheme was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in May 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/subscriber-base-of-nps-apy-up-22-to-4-05-crore-at-january-end-2021-pfrda/articleshow/81116307.cms||---
February 20, 2021||India||Gadkari for mandatory EVs for govt officers in Delhi, offers to take lead in his ministries||NEW DELHI: Amid increasing petrol and diesel prices, Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday advocated the need for making the use of electric vehicles mandatory for officers in the Central government to push electric mobility in the country. Launching the “Go Electric” campaign to promote electric vehicles (EVs) and electric cooking, Gadkari said the mandatory use of 10,000 EVs by officers will help save nearly Rs 30 crore per month on account of fuel expenditure. “There are so many secretaries, additional secretaries and government officials in Delhi. If all of them shift to electric vehicles it will help reduce air pollution and the fuel expenditure. I urge you (power minister R K Singh) to start this in your ministry to shift all vehicles attached to your ministry to electric and I will do the same in my ministry...I have decided to use only electric vehicles when I am in Nagpur,” Gadkari said. The minister said he doesn’t use the government vehicle when he is in Delhi. The minister urged the power ministry to be a partner in the execution of the proposed pilot project to have a dedicated lane for electric trucks on the upcoming Delhi-Mumbai Expressway. R K Singh said they will soon hold consultation with the highways ministry on this issue. Responding to an observation from the power minister of how use of electric induction for cooking is 30% less compared to using LPG, Gadkari said, “I learnt this for the first time from you. One question came to my mind that why we shouldn’t provide subsidies on electric cooking appliances, which are manufactured after good research as this will reduce the cost of cooking. We already provide subsidies on cooking gas to nearly nine crore families.” He was of the view that electricity cooking is clean and will also reduce import dependence for gas. Gadkari said he will launch an electric tractor in the next fortnight. The minister said while pushing for electric mobility, the government also needs to keep the interest of farmers in mind and must promote ethanol and biofuels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gadkari-push-for-mandatory-evs-for-govt-officers-in-delhi-offers-to-take-lead-in-his-ministries/articleshow/81116359.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 20, 2021||Business||Gadkari for mandatory EVs for govt officers in Delhi, offers to take lead in his ministries||NEW DELHI: Amid increasing petrol and diesel prices, Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday advocated the need for making the use of electric vehicles mandatory for officers in the Central government to push electric mobility in the country. Launching the “Go Electric” campaign to promote electric vehicles (EVs) and electric cooking, Gadkari said the mandatory use of 10,000 EVs by officers will help save nearly Rs 30 crore per month on account of fuel expenditure. “There are so many secretaries, additional secretaries and government officials in Delhi. If all of them shift to electric vehicles it will help reduce air pollution and the fuel expenditure. I urge you (power minister R K Singh) to start this in your ministry to shift all vehicles attached to your ministry to electric and I will do the same in my ministry...I have decided to use only electric vehicles when I am in Nagpur,” Gadkari said. The minister said he doesn’t use the government vehicle when he is in Delhi. The minister urged the power ministry to be a partner in the execution of the proposed pilot project to have a dedicated lane for electric trucks on the upcoming Delhi-Mumbai Expressway. R K Singh said they will soon hold consultation with the highways ministry on this issue. Responding to an observation from the power minister of how use of electric induction for cooking is 30% less compared to using LPG, Gadkari said, “I learnt this for the first time from you. One question came to my mind that why we shouldn’t provide subsidies on electric cooking appliances, which are manufactured after good research as this will reduce the cost of cooking. We already provide subsidies on cooking gas to nearly nine crore families.” He was of the view that electricity cooking is clean and will also reduce import dependence for gas. Gadkari said he will launch an electric tractor in the next fortnight. The minister said while pushing for electric mobility, the government also needs to keep the interest of farmers in mind and must promote ethanol and biofuels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gadkari-push-for-mandatory-evs-for-govt-officers-in-delhi-offers-to-take-lead-in-his-ministries/articleshow/81116363.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 20, 2021||India||2 cops shot in Valley; 3 Badr terrorists killed||SRINAGAR: Two unarmed policemen were shot dead by two Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists in Srinagar’s Barzulla area on Friday, while three Al-Badr terrorists were killed in an encounter earlier in the day in south Kashmir’s Shopian even as two of their accomplices managed to flee, IGP Kashmir Range Vijay Kumar said. He added that Wednesday’s attack on the 22-year-old scion of Srinagar’s landmark Krishna Vaishno Dhaba, which left the youth critically injured, was carried out to instil fear among tourists on a day when a 24-member European Union delegation was on a two-day visit to the Valley. During interrogation, the newly-recruited trio that carried out the strike confessed that The Resistance Front (TRF) commander Gazi had lured and tasked them with the crime. Earlier, the little-known Muslim Janbaz Force — which the South Asia Terrorism Portal lists as a Pakistani outfit — had owned responsibility for the strike in a statement, claiming it was in retaliation to “outsiders” being allowed to settle in J&K under the new domicile rules. On Friday’s attack in Srinagar, Kumar said senior grade constable Mohammad Yousuf from Kupwara and constable Suhail Ahmed from Anantnag, were “on a routine duty and at a shop to purchase something” in Baghat Chowk when, according to eyewitnesses, the Lashkar duo brandished AK-47 rifles that they had concealed under their pherans (robes) and opened fire at the cops from behind. The injured policemen were rushed to separate hospitals where they succumbed during treatment. Speaking at the wreath-laying ceremony of the slain constables at DPL Srinagar, the IGP said that the Lashkar ultras — one of them from Pakistan and another a local terrorist named Saqib — had been identified and would be traced soon. “We will go for a security review and plug the loopholes. Had the policemen carried weapons, they could have retaliated,” he said, adding no one was detained or arrested yet in the attack. On the south Kashmir encounter, the IGP said, “Late Thursday, security forces laid a cordon in Shopian’s Imam Sahab area acting on intelligence inputs about the presence of terrorists there. Early Friday, contact was established with holed in ultras and in the ensuing fire exchange, three local Al-Badr terrorists were killed.” Two AK-47 rifles and a pistol were recovered from the encounter site. About Wednesday’s dhaba attack, Kumar said, “We acted swifty and constituted teams under the supervision of a DIG-rank officer that was headed by SP (south city). A civilian informed the SP that the attackers were riding a bike, following which we accessed CCTV footage and followed other inputs.” A joint police team from Srinagar and Anantnag subsequently arrested two youths involved in the attack and seized the bike and pistol used in the crime. “During interrogation, they revealed that a third person was involved in the attack, and we arrested him too. All three — two from Pampore and another from Pulwama — were newly-recruited terrorists and one of them was given pistol training in Pahalgam’s forest area,” the IGP said. TRF commander Gazi instructed them to attack Krishna Vaishno Dhaba, which is open even during strikes and always sees a rush of tourists. “We have recorded their confession statement in a video to be produced before the court with the challan,” Kumar said. To a question on whether security would be stepped up for the upcoming tourist season, the IGP said more surveillance and deployment would be carried out in Srinagar’s busy areas and elsewhere. “Additional bunkers may be set up if need be. A close watch will be kept on elements who might attempt to disrupt peace. Frisking will be intensified,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-cops-shot-in-valley-3-badr-terrorists-killed/articleshow/81116930.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 20, 2021||Kanpur||Finally Kanpurites get to party hard||It was party time for folks in Kanpur after nearly a year and they pulled all sops to enjoy it. Members of a social club in the city celebrated Valentine’s Day at a rooftop lounge and had loads of fun. The venue itself was beautifully decorated with a cutout of Eiffel Tower, hearts and flowers. (L) Ankita Dhandharia and Navita Vasan (R) Asha Thakkar, Nishi Omer and Nidhi Gupta (BCCL/ IB Singh)(L) Ankita Dhandharia and Navita Vasan (R) Asha Thakkar, Nishi Omer and Nidhi Gupta (BCCL/ IB Singh) (L) Dharmesh and Shakti Chaturvedi (R) Gitika and Anoop Jain (BCCL/ IB Singh)(L) Dharmesh and Shakti Chaturvedi (R) Gitika and Anoop Jain (BCCL/ IB Singh) The organisers of the party ensured that the do was a hit. “Almost after a year we all members are partying together,” said Amit Goenka, president of the club. Going by the dress code of the party, most of the members came dressed in pink and black. (L) Gyan and Anamika Verma (R) Hema Gupta and Rashmi Agarwal (BCCL/ IB Singh)(L) Gyan and Anamika Verma (R) Hema Gupta and Rashmi Agarwal (BCCL/ IB Singh) (L) Lilia and Vineet Rastogi (R) Monika and Abhishek Agarwal (BCCL/ IB Singh)(L) Lilia and Vineet Rastogi (R) Monika and Abhishek Agarwal (BCCL/ IB Singh) The highlight of the party was the dance performance. We also spotted Amit, Tanu Jain, Amit, Smita Kanodia and Ankita Dhandharia enjoying the performances. Later, the guests too joined in with the dancers. Dharmesh, Shakti Chaturvedi, Gitika, Anoop Jain, Rakesh and Radhika Mundhra were seen having a gala time on the dance floor. (L) Pragati Newetia and Rashmi Agarwal (R) Rakesh and Radhika Mundhra (BCCL/ IB Singh)(L) Pragati Newetia and Rashmi Agarwal (R) Rakesh and Radhika Mundhra (BCCL/ IB Singh) (L) Shankul and Preeti Misra (R) Utkarsh and Divyanshi Agarwal (BCCL/ IB Singh)(L) Shankul and Preeti Misra (R) Utkarsh and Divyanshi Agarwal (BCCL/ IB Singh) The party continued till late in the night. Also present at the party were Monika, Abhishek Agarwal, Rajiv, Vinti Seth, Vinay and Harshita Bansal. Vinay and Harshita Bansal (BCCL/ IB Singh)Vinay and Harshita Bansal (BCCL/ IB Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/finally-kanpurites-get-to-party-hard/articleshow/81109544.cms||Sumit Jha
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||A marathon morning for Lucknowites||Despite the pandemic, the Lucknow City Half Marathon, organised recently, witnessed an impressive turn out. People from all walks of life including bureaucrats, police officials, from the defence forces, ran in the marathon which had three categories of 21, 10 and 5 kilometers runs. (L) Abhishek Mishra and Raghvendra Kumar Mishra (R) Gaurav Prakash (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Abhishek Mishra and Raghvendra Kumar Mishra (R) Gaurav Prakash (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Volunteers wearing gloves, face shields and masks and armed with hand sanitizers, helped the runners navigate the distance safely and without a hitch. People gathered at the 1090 Crossing at dawn to participate in the run. (L) Sunil CK (R) Volunteers wore masks, face shileds and gloves at the event (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Sunil CK (R) Volunteers wore masks, face shileds and gloves at the event (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Shweta Singh (L) and Lalita Panday (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Shweta Singh (L) and Lalita Panday (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Organiser Iron Man Abhishek Mishra egged the runners on with his words. Naresh Rawat and Sweta Patel covered a distance of 21 kms easily followed by Sunil CK, Anjali Chaurasia coming in second and Mukesh Yadav and Balbinder Kaur following in the third place. The 5km run was successfully completed by Rajneesh Kumar and Harshita Shahi in first place followed by Rajkumar Pandit, Priti and Adarsh Kumar and Ankita Yadav in second and third places, respectively. The 5km run had Sourabh Singh Yadav and Shraddha Dwivedi coming in first and Nishant Sinha and Swati Goel coming second and Akshay Mehta and Suman Kachan clinching the third spot. (L) Sapna Chattertee (R) Preeti Ahuja and Anil Kumar (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Sapna Chattertee (R) Preeti Ahuja and Anil Kumar (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)  (L) Kunal Jethanandani (R) Chandan Singh (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Kunal Jethanandani (R) Chandan Singh (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Abhinav Chavdhary (R) Dr Pooja Mishra (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Abhinav Chavdhary (R) Dr Pooja Mishra (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Maj Shubhanshu Mishra (R) Mansi (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Maj Shubhanshu Mishra (R) Mansi (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Neha Bhatt (R) Lucky Singh (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Neha Bhatt (R) Lucky Singh (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Mohit Saxena and Deeksha Singh (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Mohit Saxena and Deeksha Singh (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-marathon-morning-for-lucknowites/articleshow/81111172.cms||---
February 20, 2021||India||8 months on, China admits 4 soldiers were killed in Galwan Valley clash||NEW DELHI: : Eight months after the savage Galwan Valley clash, China on Friday finally admitted that People’s Liberation Army soldiers had been killed in the hand-to-hand fighting that had resulted in death of 20 Indian soldiers. The Chinese apex Central Military Commission (CMC) awarded posthumous honorary title and first class merit citation to four PLA soldiers, acknowledging casualties that various reports have put as much higher. Estimates, based on observation of movements on the Chinese side, have put the toll as high as 45. A colonel, who led the troops and was seriously injured, was also conferred with honorary title, according to the CMC, which is headed by President Xi Jinping. There was no confirmation of the Chinese toll for months after the June 15 clash even as India declared its casualties promptly, with last rites of the dead attended by large numbers of people. Social media was also abuzz with a video, purportedly of the Galwan area, that was put out by the Chinese authorities. It was not possible to establish if it was about the events of the Galwan clash in June, which was sparked by PLA troops attacking Indian soldiers led by Col Santosh Babu with clubs studded with nails and stones. A Chinese state media expert claimed that the video showed Indian troops entering Chinese territory. Interestingly, the citations were made public at a time when disengagement of Indian and Chinese troops is under way in the Finger 4-8 area of eastern Ladakh and the announcements were quickly followed by China’s foreign and defence ministries reiterating that the responsibility for the clash in Galwan Valley lay entirely with India. While China has now admitted to casualties, Pakistan did not do so during and after the Kargil war, claiming mujahideen were involved. The Chinese defence ministry spokesperson said that while China had exercised a high degree of restraint, the Indian side had repeatedly “hyped up the casualties, distorted the truth, misled international public opinion, and slandered the Chinese border troops”. India had maintained that PLA troops had also suffered casualties in the June 15 clash.PM Modi had said in an address that Indian soldiers “maarte maarte marein hain (soldiers died while killing the enemy)”. Asked why China had revealed casualty figures now, foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said, “The report has been revealed to give the truth to the public because the truth is long awaited and is necessary for the people to know the true story.” Three PLA soldiers were killed in the combat while another soldier died while crossing the river, according to a Xinhua report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/8-months-on-china-admits-4-soldiers-were-killed-in-galwan-valley-clash/articleshow/81118060.cms||---
February 20, 2021||World||US urges Myanmar to 'refrain from violence' after death||WASHINGTON: The United States on Friday urged Myanmar's military to refrain from violence and relinquish power after the first death in protests against the coup. "We condemn any violence against the people of Burma and reiterate our calls on the Burmese military to refrain from violence against peaceful protesters," State Department spokesman Ned Price told reporters, using Myanmar's former name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-urges-myanmar-to-refrain-from-violence-after-death/articleshow/81118881.cms||---
February 20, 2021||World||US urges Myanmar to 'refrain from violence' after death||WASHINGTON: The United States on Friday urged Myanmar's military to refrain from violence and relinquish power after the first death in protests against the coup. "We condemn any violence against the people of Burma and reiterate our calls on the Burmese military to refrain from violence against peaceful protesters," State Department spokesman Ned Price told reporters, using Myanmar's former name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/us-urges-myanmar-to-refrain-from-violence-after-death/articleshow/81118875.cms||---
February 20, 2021||India||India gives 1 crore+ vaccine jabs in 34 days, 2nd fastest after US||NEW DELHI: India administered more than one crore doses of Covid vaccines till Friday evening, becoming the second fastest in the world to cross the milestone in the fight against the global pandemic with plans to boost vaccination sessions to 40,000-50,000 a day from the current average of 10,000.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  India has taken 34 days to achieve the landmark of 1.04 crore vaccinations, closely following the US, which took 31 days. “For a country as diverse as India, this is a very big achievement and, in next few weeks, the numbers will increase tremendously,” a senior government official said. Live updates: Coronavirus pandemic The government talking of ramping up vaccination sessions points at plans to start vaccinating the priority population groups of above 50 years of age and those with co-morbidities by early or mid-March. The government plans to significantly ramp up vaccination sessions across the country and states as well as the private sector have been roped in to facilitate the same. “This will enable people to fix up vaccination appointments at sessions of their choice, in a nearby location and convenient time. This will encourage people to come forward for vaccination and increase the footfall. Besides, it is important to have more sessions to better organise the vaccination process,” the official said. So far, 2,20,877 sessions have been organised across the country to give over 1.04 crore vaccine doses till Friday. Of this, almost 63 lakh healthcare workers and close to 34 lakh frontline workers have taken the first dose. Besides, 7.6 lakh health workers have also received the second dose. On Thursday, the highest single-day vaccination of 6,58,674 doses were administered. While eight states accounted for around 57% of the total vaccine doses administered so far, UP administered the highest of over 11.3 lakh doses, followed by Maharashtra and Gujarat at 8.5 lakh and 8.4 lakh, respectively Watch Covid-19 vaccine: Vaccinations in India cross 1 crore-mark||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-gives-1-crore-vaccine-jabs-in-34-days-2nd-fastest-after-us/articleshow/81119063.cms||Sushmi Dey
February 20, 2021||India||Disha case: HC cautions TV channels on 'leaks'||NEW DELHI: : Cautioning against “sensationalism” by TV channels in reporting the ongoing investigation against environmental activist Disha Ravi, the Delhi high court on Friday, however, declined to order at this stage removal of content already aired by them. Justice Prathiba M Singh said that a “balance needs to be struck” between the right to fair trial and privacy of Disha on one hand and the public’s right to know besides the sovereignty/integrity of the country. In its order, the HC asked media houses to ensure that no leaked investigation material is broadcast as it could affect the probe. The court directed Delhi Police to abide by its stand in its affidavit that it has not leaked, nor intends to leak any probe details to the press. “The question that arises is what should be the ad interim directions that ought to be passed, if any, in order to ensure that all the three aspects — the petitioner’s privacy, dignity and right to a fair trial, sovereignty and integrity of the country and the right to free speech are equally protected and balanced,” the court noted. “The recent coverage by the media definitely shows that there is sensationalism,” the HC observed during the hearing on Disha’s plea to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material. The HC pointed out that while a journalist cannot be asked to reveal the source, “it would have to be ensured that the source ought to be a verified source and the content ought not to be merely speculative or conjectural”. Meanwhile, some of the news channels said the source of information in the present case was Delhi Police and its tweets. The HC maintained that police would be entitled to hold press briefings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/disha-case-hc-cautions-tv-channels-on-leaks/articleshow/81119220.cms||Abhinav Garg
February 20, 2021||India||City court sends Disha to 3 days' judicial custody||NEW DELHI: Climate activist Disha Ravi was sent to 3-day judicial custody by a Delhi court on Friday after she was produced amid high security at the end of her 5-day police custody. Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Akash Jain sent Ravi to jail after Delhi Police said that her custodial interrogation was not required for the time being and it may seek to further interrogate her once her co-accused — Shantanu Muluk and Nikita Jacob — joined the interrogation. Police claimed Ravi was evasive during her interrogation and tried to shift blame onto co-accused Nikita and Shantanu. Both have been asked to appear before the investigating agency on February 22, the prosecution told the court. “All the accused need to be confronted with one another. That is why three days judicial custody is being sought,” the prosecution added. Meanwhile, Ravi’s lawyers opposed the police plea and informed that a bail plea has been filed, which is likely to be heard on Saturday. The defence counsel said the arrest is illegal and that there was apprehension of tampering of evidence by police as the “case diary is not properly made.” The lawyer added that “there is no ground to keep her in any custody, police custody or judicial custody. She (Ravi) ought to be released right now.” Ravi was arrested from Bengaluru on February 13 for allegedly editing and sharing a ‘toolkit’ on social media related to the farmers’ protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/city-court-sends-disha-to-3-days-judicial-custody/articleshow/81119238.cms||Abhinav Garg
February 20, 2021||India||Left’s priority is batting for China, says BJP||NEW DELHI: BJP on Friday attacked the CPM's Puducherry unit for praising late Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping as a revolutionary communist leader on his death anniversary, saying the Marxists had always batted for the hostile neighbour. “Dear West Bengal and Kerala, Left Front’s priorities are crystal clear - bat for China,” BJP tweeted from its official handle in what also appeared to reflect the ruling party's estimate that relations with China are not going to improve anytime soon. Dear West Bengal and Kerala, Left Front’s priorities are crystal clear - bat for China. Reject the outdated Com… https://t.co/x6i0xR4PDt— BJP (@BJP4India) 1613739868000"Reject the outdated communist ideology, communist hypocrisy and communist tyranny. They neither empathise with our soldiers nor our citizens,” the BJP said, apparently a veiled reference to the tension on the India-China border in eastern Ladakh. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the Galwan Valley with the Chinese, who on Friday finally acknowledged that PLA soldiers were also killed in the confrontation. BJP has for decades criticised CPI and CPM for their alleged proximity to the erstwhile USSR and China, respectively. However, the attack lost its intensity as ties with China settled into a “tense equilibrium”. The strong attack on CPM for its praise for Deng marks the renewal of the ideological offensive coinciding with the conflict with China during the build-up to the polls in Kerala and West Bengal. CPM’s Puducherry unit had tweeted, “24 years ago, on February 19, 1997, Comrade Deng Xiaoping died.  He was a revolutionary communist, leader of the People’s Republic of China from 1978 to 1989.” The Left party further said, “CPC led China socialism with Chinese characteristics, be guided with Marxism-Leninism, Mao thought and his theory.” The Left Front is in office in Kerala, where BJP has been working hard to emerge as a political force. While it has proven to be a tough political party in a state polarised for decades between Congress and CPM, BJP has replaced Left as CM Mamata Banerjee’s principal challenger in West Bengal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lefts-priority-is-batting-for-china-says-bjp/articleshow/81119310.cms||---
February 20, 2021||India||It's tough to land on Mars, Nasa did a good job; our 2nd Mars mission will be an orbital one: Isro chief||NEW DELHI: While congratulating Nasa scientists for the successful landing of their ‘Perseverance’ rover on Mars, Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) chairman K Sivan on Friday said that “India’s next Mars mission will also be an orbital one and not a landing mission”. Talking to TOI, the Isro chairman said, “It’s a really tough to land on the Martian surface. But Nasa scientists did it. It’s a very good effort. I congratulate the entire team.” On the role of Indian-Americans like Swati Mohan, a Nasa scientist who led the guidance, navigation and control operations of the Perseverance rover mission, Sivan said, “I am also very happy to see Indian-American people doing a fantastic job in space missions abroad. I wish them all a great success.” Swati Mohan, who emigrated from India to the US when she was only a year old, confirmed the Perseverance touchdown. Her team’s job was to figure out how the spacecraft was oriented and make sure it was pointed correctly in space — “solar arrays to the sun, antenna to Earth and manoeuvre the spacecraft to get it where we want to go”. Sivan informed TOI that India’s second Mars mission "will also be an orbital mission and a call for proposals through an announcement of opportunity had already been made” to seek proposals for scientific experiments from academia and institutions. The payload capability of the proposed spacecraft is likely to be 100 kg and 100W. However final values are to be tuned based on the final configuration. He said “after the MOM-2 mission, Isro will then plan the landing mission on Mars but it’s too early to talk about it right now. Currently, our main priorities are Chandrayaan-3 and Gaganyaan missions''. Isro’s first Mars mission MOM-1 had successfully entered the Mars orbit on September 24, 2014, making India the first Asian country to reach the Martian orbit and the first nation in the world to do so in its maiden attempt. The Mars orbiter had since then sent thousands of pictures of the Red planet totalling over two terabytes, giving valuable data about the Red planet. Other countries are also in the race to reach out to Mars. China's Tianwen-1 spacecraft, consisting of an orbiter, lander and rover, now orbiting Mars is slated to perform systematic checks of onboard equipment after adjusting its orbit in preparations for the country's first Martian landing attempt later this year. For at least 92 Martian days (or 95 Earth days), the Chinese rover will conduct high-resolution on-the-spot surveys of the Red planet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/its-tough-to-land-on-mars-nasa-did-a-good-job-our-2nd-mars-mission-will-be-an-orbital-one-isro-chief/articleshow/81119391.cms||Surendra Singh
February 20, 2021||India||Highly educated can be terrorists: PM at V-B Univ||SANTINIKETAN: Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speaking at the convocation ceremony of Visva-Bharati University via video conferencing on Friday, pointed out that “there are some highly educated and highly skilled persons among terrorists, and there are those who have dedicated themselves in combating Covid-19. It is all about mindset,”. He asked the “knowledgeable” to work with a positive mindset. “You have to decide whether you want to be part of the problem or you want to find a solution. If you are committed to Ma Bharati you will find a solution,” he said, adding, “Success and failure are not in our hands. But we shouldn’t hesitate to take decisions. Maybe, the outcome is not on your desired lines. Yet, one has to take decisions, take risks to work for a solution without which one loses his youth. He, however, also cautioned the “knowledgeable and powerful” to have restraint. “One has to be restrained and responsible while in power. The educated should follow the same spirit because knowledge, creativity, skills are not static. There is always a need for progressive unfolding,” the PM said. Modi urged the Visva Bharati family to contribute to India’s 21st century “knowledge economy” with “ek Bharat, shresht Bharat” motto. “We have allocated Rs 50,000 crore under the National Research Fund to boost research and innovation. Students under the new policy will be able to pursue education in their own language. They will have varied options over the choice of subjects. As part of gender inclusion, the policy imparts training on skill sets from carpentry to coding to girl students from Class VI,” the PM said. Elaborating on the “ek Bharat” concept, the Prime Minister referred to Tagore’s poem “Shivaji Utsav” in which Gurudev paid tribute to Chhatrapati Shivaji and his vision of one India. The PM held that the New Education Policy, 2020 aimed at breaking boundaries with emphasis on developing skill sets, entrepreneurship, research and innovation, gender inclusion as a step towards Atmanirbhar Bharat while remembering Rabindranath Tagore’s bid to free the country’s education system from the fetters of subordination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/highly-educated-can-be-terrorists-pm-at-v-b-univ/articleshow/81119412.cms||Someswar Boral
February 20, 2021||World||Biden declares 'America is back' in welcome words to allies||WASHINGTON: President Joe Biden used his first address before a global audience Friday to declare that "America is back, the transatlantic alliance is back," after four years of a Trump administration that flaunted its foreign policy through an "America First" lens. Speaking to the annual Munich Security Conference virtually, Biden ticked through a daunting to-do list - salvaging the Iran nuclear deal, meeting economic and security challenges posed by China and Russia and repairing the damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic - that he said would require close cooperation between the US and its Western allies. Without mentioning Donald Trump's name once in his speech, Biden mixed talk of a reinvigorated democratic alliance with a rebuke of his predecessor's approach, a message warmly received by Western allies. 'I know the past few years have strained and tested the transatlantic relationship," Biden said. "The United States is determined to reengage with Europe, to consult with you, to earn back our position of trusted leadership." The president also participated Friday in a virtual meeting of the Group of Seven industrialized nations, where leaders managed to work Biden's campaign theme into their closing joint statement, vowing to "work together to beat Covid-19 and build back better." "Welcome back, America," said European Council President Charles Michel, effectively summing up the mood of the Munich conference. But while such happy talk conveyed the palpable sense of relief among allies at Biden's full-throated commitment to mending frayed US-Europe relations, plenty has changed over the past four years in ways creating new challenges. China has cemented its place as a fierce economic competitor on the continent as the US has reconsidered long-held national security and economic priorities embedded in the transatlantic alliance. Populism has grown through much of Europe. And other Western countries have, at moments, sought to fill the vacuum left as America stepped back from the world stage. German Chancellor Angela Merkel noted that some differences between the US and Europe remain "complicated." Europe sees China's economic ambitions as less of an existential threat than the US does and has its own strategic and economic concerns that are not always in sync with Biden on Russia as well. Still, Merkel, who had a strained relationship with Trump, didn't hide her preference for an American foreign policy informed by Biden's world view. "Things are looking a great deal better for multilateralism this year than two years ago, and that has a lot to with Joe Biden having become the president of the United States of America," Merkel said. "His speech just now, but also his administration's first announcements, have convinced us that this is not just talk but action." Biden made his address to a global audience as his administration this week took steps to reverse key Trump administration policies. He said that the US stands ready to rejoin talks about reentering the 2015 multilateral Iran nuclear deal abandoned by the Trump administration. The Biden administration announced Thursday its desire to reengage Iran, and it took action at the United Nations aimed at restoring policy to what it was before Trump withdrew from the deal in 2018. Biden also spoke out about the two-decade war in Afghanistan, where he faces a May 1 deadline to remove the remaining 2,500 US troops under a Trump administration negotiated peace agreement with the Taliban. He also called for cooperation in addressing economic and national security challenges posed by Russia and China and identified cyberspace, artificial intelligence and biotechnology as areas of growing competition. "We must prepare together for long-term strategic competition with China," Biden declared. His message was girded by an underlying argument that democracies -- not autocracies -- are models of governance that can best meet the challenges of the moment. The president urged fellow world leaders to show together that "democracies can still deliver." At the G-7, administration officials said, Biden focused on what lies ahead for the international community as it tries to extinguish the public health and economic crises created by the coronavirus pandemic. He announced the US will soon begin releasing $4 billion for an international effort to bolster the purchase and distribution of vaccine to poor nations, a program that Trump refused to support. Biden's turn on the world stage came as the US officially rejoined the Paris climate agreement, the largest international effort to curb global warming. Trump announced in June 2017 that he was pulling the US out of the landmark accord, arguing that the pact would undermine the American economy. Biden announced the US intention of rejoining on the first day of his presidency, but he had to wait 30 days for the move to go into effect. He has said that he will bake considerations about climate change into every major domestic and foreign policy decision his administration faces. "This is a global existential crisis," Biden said. Biden also encouraged G-7 partners to make good on their pledges to COVAX, an initiative by the World Health Organization to improve access to vaccines, even as he reopens the US spigot. Trump had withdrawn the US from WHO and refused to join more than 190 countries in the COVAX program. The Republican former president accused WHO of covering up China's missteps in handling the virus at the start of the public health crisis that unraveled a strong US economy. Biden urged greater international cooperation on vaccine distribution amid growing calls for his administration to distribute some US-manufactured vaccine supplies overseas. French President Emmanuel Macron has called on the US and European nations to allocate up to 5% of current vaccine supplies to developing countries _ the kind of vaccine diplomacy that China and Russia already are deploying. Biden, who announced last week that the US will have enough vaccine by the end of July to inoculate 300 million people, remains focused for now on making sure every American is vaccinated, administration officials say. Macron on Friday again pressed the US and Europe to do more. "It is up to Europeans and Americans to allow all the poor and emerging countries in the world to get access to vaccines as fast as possible," he said. Allies were listening closely to what Biden had to say about a looming crisis with Iran. Iran informed the International Atomic Energy Agency this week that it would suspend voluntary implementation next week of a provision in the 2015 deal that allowed UN nuclear monitors to conduct inspections of undeclared sites in Iran at short notice unless the US rolled back sanctions by Feb. 23. "We must now make sure that a problem doesn't arise of who takes the first step," Merkel told reporters. "If everyone is convinced that we should give this agreement a chance again, then ways should be found to get this agreement moving again."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-declares-america-is-back-in-welcome-words-to-allies/articleshow/81119502.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Business||Petrol shoots past `90, diesel `80+ in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Petrol prices continued to spiral on Friday, crossing the Rs 90 perlitre mark in Delhi and shooting past Rs 100 in several cities of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Diesel price, too, rose to Rs 80.60 in Delhi and was selling for much more in many cities. In Mumbai, petrol was selling for Rs 96.62 a litre and diesel at Rs 87.62. Petrol prices have risen by Rs 3.24 a litre in the last 11 days, a record since the pricing was deregulated in 2010, and diesel rates have gone up by Rs 3.47.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/petrol-shoots-past-90-diesel-80-in-delhi/articleshow/81119533.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Patna||Captured VTR tigress, which killed three people, dies in Patna zoo||PATNA: A tigress captured from the Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in West Champaran after it killed three people and injured a forest department employee, died at the Patna zoo on Friday due to old age. The injured big cat was trapped by forest officials near a sugarcane field at Manpur in the Manguraha range on Thursday. The tigress was tranquilised and brought to the Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park (Patna zoo) around 1 am on Friday and died a few hours later. Zoo officials claimed that she was weak and passed away around 8 in the morning. “The post-mortem report of the tigress cites old age as the cause of her death. The tigress had maggot formation in the upper portion of the mouth and had no canine teeth left owing to old age. As a result, she was not able to hunt and started straying into the villages for food. She probably did not get proper food for the last 10-15 days, which made her too weak and she passed away,” a senior forest official told this newspaper wishing anonymity. Another senior official at VTR claimed that the tigress, named T-3, was around 14 years old and has been spotted in the tiger reserve since 2012-13. “A 14-year-old tigress in the wild is quite old. She had delivered cubs at least five-six times and as per observation, five to six cubs are resident of VTR. She used to be spotted by our camera traps, moving in the tiger reserve with her cubs till 2018. However, she was moving alone in the forest as she was old and unable to breed anymore,” the VTR official said. He added, “Tigers are very shy felines and they do not venture out in the open unless necessary. T-3 had turned old and started coming out from the forest in search of food and in the course of that attacked a few humans.” The official claimed that the tigress first attacked a human on February 9 at a village under Manguraha range while hunting a goat. On February 12, the tigress had killed Akalu Mahto (55) and his wife Rikha Devi (50) of Surajpur Parsauni village under the Manguraha range while guarding their crop at night. On the next day (February 13), the tigress attacked a forest department employee, who was a member of the tracking team to trap the feline. Altogether 60 personnel of the forests department were searching for the tigress in VTR. Forest officials claimed the team had surrounded sugarcane fields adjacent to the forest area in the Manguraha range. She was finally tranquilised on Friday afternoon when she came out to drink water at a water body. “The tigress was tranquilised following consent from the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). A committee was formed to decide on the same,” the VTR official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/captured-vtr-tigress-which-killed-3-people-dies-in-patna-zoo/articleshow/81115936.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 20, 2021||Business||Truck rentals surge 13% in 6 weeks on fuel, tyre costs||CHENNAI: Rising fuel and tyre prices, coupled with an improvement in cargo availability, have resulted in a sharp increase in truck rentals in the last six weeks. According to S P Singh, senior fellow and coordinator at the Indian Foundation of Transport Research & Training (IFTRT), between January and February 16, truck rentals on trunk routes have gone up by 12-13%. Half of that hike came in the last fortnight itself. Transporters say, apart from the fuel price increase, what has also pinched truckers is the rise in tyre prices. With tyre companies withdrawing discounts, buying a pair is now costlier by Rs 3,000-3,500 said Singh. Transporters are passing on both the fuel and the tyre cost to customers through higher rentals. “Vegetables, fruits and food items have been travelling longer distances because it’s winter. There has been a 30-40% increase in items travelling to the APMCs,” said Singh. “There is also increased cargo from automobile companies, consumer durable makers and FMCG companies. So, transporters feel they can pass on the fuel price pinch on the rentals,” he added. FMCG cargo has gone up by 5-6% and cement & steel by 5-10%, said transporters. The Delhi-Mumbai-Delhi trunk route rates, for example, have gone from an average of Rs 86,400 in January-December of 2019 to Rs 1,18,200 as on January 1, 2021, and then to Rs 1,25,300 on February 1, and further to Rs 1,31,000 on February 16, said Singh. Similarly, the Delhi-Chennai-Delhi route has increased from an average of Rs 1,17,900 in January-December 2019 to Rs 1,27,700 on January 1 this year, then Rs 1,37,900 on February 1 and around Rs 1,44,000 on February 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/truck-rentals-surge-13-in-6-wks-on-fuel-tyre-costs/articleshow/81116090.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
February 20, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Polavaram project designs may get panel’s nod today||AMARAVATI: In what could be a major development, the Dam Designs Review Panel (DDRP) is all set to finalise Polavaram project designs. DDRP, headed by former Central Water Commission (CWC) chairman AB Pandya, is holding the crucial session on Saturday to review and stamp its nod on the designs submitted by the project contractor Mehga Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (MEIL) through the state irrigation department. The panel members inspected the project works on Friday. The review panel consists of YK Handa, former chief engineer, CWC, DP Bhargava, former director, NHPC, Polavaram project chief engineer, chief engineer (designs), CWC, chief engineer (HSO), CWC and chief engineer (designs), irrigation department of the state government. The elite panel of water, power and irrigation engineers had already examined the designs of the project readied in 3-D mode at Central Water and Power Research Station (CWPRS) in Pune before arriving at the project. The clearance of the final designs of the project is crucial to take the project to the next phase. The panel is examining the designs readied by the irrigation department based on project outflows from the spillway. The project contractor Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (MEIL) constructed the model design in about one acre space in CWPRS in Pune and presented the model to the DDRP members. Engineers from MEIL accompanied DDRP experts and explained to them the impact of outflows on the project, the spillway, spill channel, right canal and left canal when the water was pumped out at full velocity from the model design. Water released from the spillway would flow through the spill channel and the pilot channel before meeting the ocean. The expert panel had also examined the impact of water flows from Polavaram on the right canal to finalise the designs. The panel is likely to suggest strengthening of the right canal to withstand the massive outflows from the project. The Polavaram project was designed to manage about 50 lakh cusecs of water flow during floods. Although CWC had granted formal approval for construction of the project with 50 lakh cusecs outflow, it is yet to stamp its nod on the final designs. The construction of guider wall is considered to be crucial to take maximum flood outflows from the project. The expert panel would make suitable recommendations to the CWC after discussions and analysis of its findings. The DDRP is also expected to finalise the pending designs of 29 structures that are part of the Polavaram project. “The expert team examined the model project constructed at CWPRS in Pune and analysed various factors. The team will send its recommendations to CWC after the deliberations on Saturday,” irrigation engineer-in-chief (ENC) Narayana Reddy told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/polavaram-project-designs-may-get-panels-nod-today/articleshow/81115314.cms||Samdani MN
February 20, 2021||Business||Gold dips to 8 month low of sub-Rs 46,000 on rising dollar||MUMBAI: Price of gold in India slid below the Rs 46,000-per-10gm mark for the first time in about eight months. This was the result of the US dollar becoming stronger due to rising bond yields in the world’s biggest economy, leading to a selloff in the yellow metal globally. According to data from MCX, the spot  had dipped to Rs 45,900 levels on Friday, while gold futures for April expiry were trading at Rs 46,126 in the late evening session. On the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (Comex) in the US too, the price of gold was at $1,784 per ounce — the lowest level since June 29. Being a globally traded commodity, the yellow metal’s price in India fluctuates due to — other than the demand factor — the international price and also the rupee-dollar exchange rate. Of late, although the dollar has been strengthening against most major currencies, it has been hovering at the 73 mark for the last few months against the rupee. On Thursday, the rupee had closed at 72.65 to the dollar (the interbank forex market was closed on Friday). According to Motilal Oswal Financial Services VP (commodities research) Navneet Damani, gold prices fell because the recent strength in US treasury yields dented the non-yielding metal’s appeal. “Benchmark US treasury yields edged higher, having hit a near one-year peak earlier in the week. On the data front, US jobless claims unexpectedly increased last week. This raised the possibility of a second straight month of tepid job growth despite declining new Covid infections,” Damani said. “The broader range on the Comex could be $1,755-1,782 and, on the domestic front, prices could be Rs 45,700-Rs 46,300,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-dips-to-8-mth-low-of-sub-rs-46k-on-rising-/articleshow/81117247.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||BITS-Pilani, IIT-Madras graduates to be junior officers in Goa administration||PANAJI: Six of the seven candidates selected for the posts of junior scale officers (JSO) in the Goa administration are engineers, including one each from IIT Madras and BITS-Pilani. The Goa public service commission (GPSC) on Friday recommended the appointment of seven candidates to the position of JSO in the personnel department of the government of Goa. GPSC chairman Jose Manuel Noronha said that in all, 3,700-odd applicants had applied for the 22 positions that were advertised in January last year, and the entire selection process was delayed due to the pandemic. The commission had introduced a pre-screening examination, where around 2,700 of the 3,700 who had applied appeared, and only 103 were declared successful. Of these 103, only seven were declared passed, and were eligible to answer the written examination, which comprised four papers carrying 250 marks in total. The interviews were conducted on Wednesday and all the candidates were declared successful. “Once the government accepts these recommendations, the commission will advertise the balance positions and start the recruitment process,” he said. Once the government appoints a new junior scale officer, they are given the post like deputy collector, deputy director in government departments, and chief officer of grade-A municipalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bits-iit-m-graduates-to-be-junior-officers-in-goa-admin/articleshow/81118458.cms||Murari Shetye
February 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Reliance Jio largest telecom operator in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Telecom operator, Reliance Jio, is now officially the market leader with a highest subscriber base in Gujarat. According to the latest telecom subscription report for December 2020, released by Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), Reliance Jio now holds 2.54 crore mobile subscribers in Gujarat. The telecom company added 3.36 lakh subscribers in the Gujarat circle in December 2020 alone, and now holds a market share of 37.5% in the state. On the other hand, Vi (formerly Vodafone Idea Limited), which was the market leader for about 25 years, lost out on some 1.62 lakh subscribers during the same period. With 2.5 crore mobile subscribers, its market share is 37.01% in Gujarat. Gujarat added some 2 lakh new mobile subscribers in December 2020. Airtel also added 2.55 lakh new subscribers in the same month with the total settling at 1.11 crore mobile subscribers, whereas state-owned telecom operator, BSNL lost 2.2 lakh subscribers. Well-placed sources confirmed that Jio with its affordable tariff plans made it the preferred telecom operator in the state. “Jio has become the leading operator in Gujarat with a 2.54 cr subscriber base and a 37.51% customer market share,” mentioned Parimal Nathwani, director, corporate affairs, Reliance Industries Limited, in a tweet. “With the best network and affordable rate, this has been achieved in less than 4.5 years to beat Vodafone Idea, which was a market leader in the state for 25 years.” Vodafone Idea Limited refused to comment on TOI’s email query regarding the declining market share in Gujarat and the company’s plans to regain lost ground. In its Q3 result announcement, Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director, Reliance Industries Limited, said, “Jio will continue to accelerate the rollout of its digital platforms and indigenously developed next generation 5G stack and make it affordable and available everywhere.” Overall, all telecom operators lost some 14.21 lakh subscribers pan India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/reliance-jio-largest-telecom-operator-in-guj/articleshow/81116847.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Patna||Fake certificate submission: 33 headmasters, 800 teachers under lens||BHAGALPUR: The education department has issued show-cause notices to at least 33 headmasters of different government schools in the district following complaints that they had submitted fake postgraduate degree certificates from unrecognised institutions or non-existent institutions for promotion. Several schoolteachers in the district have also been asked to submit their certificates for verification after it came to light that they had produced fake training certificates for appointment as teachers in government schools. Bhagalpur district education officer (DEO) Sanjay Kumar said certificates of at least 800 schoolteachers would be verified. “So far, information about appointment of 25 schoolteachers on the basis of forged certificates has come to the notice of the education department,” he said. Explanations from the 33 headmasters and schoolteachers have also been sought and the block education officers of the respective blocks, under whose jurisdictions the erring government schools fall, have been asked to make in-depth inquiry and submit the report by next week. “Suitable legal action will be taken against the guilty persons after verification of the postgraduate certificates submitted by headmasters for their promotion and experience or training certificates of schoolteachers for their appointment,” the DEO said. Sources in the education department said 34,540 teachers in the state were appointed between 2012 and 2015 on the directives of Supreme Court. Nearly 1,000 schoolteachers were appointed in Bhagalpur district alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fake-certificate-submission-33-headmasters-800-teachers-under-lens/articleshow/81117644.cms||Kumar Rajesh
February 20, 2021||Vijayawada||Mysterious sea creature washed ashore in Andhra Pradesh's Chirala||VIJAYAWADA: A mysterious sea creature that washed ashore on Friday along Vadaveru coast in Chirala town in Prakasam district has left local fishermen puzzled. According to locals who examined it, the creature resembles a stone but has the texture of rubber, as it can be stretched. “It weighs three-and-half kilograms and has three ‘eyes’. We usually know the names of different fishes but this is the first time we are all seeing this,” a local fisherman said. The local fishermen believe that the creature could be a rare fish or a kind of deformed animal. The fishermen were initially hesitant to touch the creature but ventured closer on realising it was dead. Later, officials from the fisheries department took note of the discovery and collected the animal for further examination. They, too, pointed out that they have not come across such a creature in the past. However, looking at visuals of the creature, aquatic experts are of the opinion that it could be a member of Phylum porifera, commonly known as sea sponge. Even so, Chirala or most parts of the eastern coastal region do not have sea sponges or even corals growing near the coastline due to sea pollution. Local fishermen who examined the creature were initially hesitant to touch it. The animal, they said, resembles a stone and has the texture of rubber||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mysterious-sea-creature-washed-ashore-in-chirala/articleshow/81115389.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
February 20, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: No enquiry into single nominations till February 23||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Friday directed the state election commission not to conduct any enquiry into complaints lodged against candidates already announced as elected in MPTC and ZPTC elections. Two petitions were filed before the high court challenging the orders of the SEC, which had directed election authorities to probe complaints received against single nominations. Arguing on behalf of the petitioners, senior counsel C V Mohan Reddy said the SEC does not have the power to conduct any enquiry after election result is declared, adding that the orders are against rules 16 and 63 of Panchayat Raj Act. SEC’s standing counsel N Ashwani Kumar said the intention of the SEC is to ensure purity of elections. He said a distinction has to be drawn in cases where Form 10 is issued declaring the election and Form 10 is not issued where election is yet to be declared. After hearing both sides, Justice D V S S Somayajulu observed that prima facie the petitioners have made out a case on merits for consideration, and passed interim orders directing the SEC not to conduct enquiry at places where election was announced and not declare any action if taken at places where election is yet to be announced, till February 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-enquiry-into-single-nominations-till-feb-23/articleshow/81115404.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||Youth shoots girlfriend; injures another friend in Jhansi classroom||Jhansi: A misunderstanding regarding relationship between three classmates took a grisly turn on Friday when a 24-year-old postgraduate student of Bundelkhand Degree College in Jhansi first shot at and critically injured his male classmate in a classroom and then shot his woman classmate dead in front of her house. He was later arrested and sent to jail. All the three students, said to be close friends, are students of MA-I, psychology. The incident took place inside Bundelkhand Degree College of Bundelkhand University (BU) during day time while the classes were on. As per reports, the accused, Manthan Singh Senger, who was carrying a pistol, entered the classroom and shot at his friend Hukmendra Singh Gurjar, 22, from behind on his head while he was studying. After shooting Gurjar, the accused wrote on the blackboard ‘Manthan Finished’. He then went to Godu Compound area falling under Sipree Bazar police station jurisdiction and shot his woman classmate Kritika Trivedi, 22, who was sitting in front of her house on a chair along with her grandmother. Hearing the gunshots, her relatives and neighbours overpowered the accused, tied him up with an electric poll before calling the police, reports added. Police arrested Manthan while both the victims were rushed to Jhansi Medical College where Kritika succumbed during treatment. Hukmendra is said to be battling for life in a critical state. He was later shifted to Delhi when his condition deteriorated. Police said all the three were close friends and knew each other since 2016. While Hukmendra and Kritika belong to Jhansi, Manthan belongs to Niwari district of MP. As per Hukumendra’s uncle Sanjay Singh with whom he lives, and who is a clerk in the same college, both the boys were good friends. Unconfirmed reports said Manthan was in a relationship with Kritika and unhappy over Hukumendra’s interference. SSP Jhansi Dinesh Kumar P said, “The accused and the victims were close friends. They had developed some misunderstanding over relationship issues. Manthan suspected that Hukumendra was spreading some rumours about their relationship.” “The accused had come prepared to shoot both his friends and acted accordingly. We have booked the accused under murder charges and attempt to murder. We have recovered the murder weapon which is 0.32 bore country-made gun and are investigating the matter further,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/youth-shoots-girlfriend-injures-another-friend-in-jhansi-classroom/articleshow/81115829.cms||Arindam Ghosh
February 20, 2021||Business||Canadian govt gives Solavio Labs Rs 40L||Coimbatore-based Solavio Labs, a clean tech startup making cleaning robots for solar panels, has raised Rs 40 lakh in funding from Energia Ventures, a Canadian government set up startup accelerator. With this, the startup has totally raised Rs 2 crore in funding, and says it has been backed by funds and commercial relationships from the Indian, Canadian and Middle East government bodies. The company recently entered into a long-term MoU with the Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA) and commissioned its first set of autonomous solar panel cleaning bots to pilot at the 1.8 MW Solar PV located within the DEWA campus. In India, it is in the process of raising funds from AIC RAISE in Coimbatore, an incubator established by the government’s Atal Innovation Mission. The startup makes automated cleaning technology for both roof and ground mounted solar panels. It intends to use the funds for technology development and business expansion plans. The company already has around 10 large clients in India and roughly six abroad, and is expanding to the Middle East and North American Market. Solavio Labs also intends to scale its manufacturing base in India with the production of 12,000 units by end of fiscal year 2021-22.The startup’s patented autonomous dry cleaning solution for solar PV panels claims it is almost 30% lighter than most bots in the market and saves over 2,00,000 litres of water per megawatt per year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/canadian-govt-gives-solavio-labs-rs-40l/articleshow/81115928.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Patna||Crematorium land cannot be used for other purposes: Minister||PATNA: The revenue and land reforms department will submit a proposal to the state cabinet soon, seeking its nod to not let the land earmarked for crematorium and public roads to be used for other purposes. “Once the proposal gets cabinet approval, the department will send detailed guidelines to all the districts, asking them not to use the land earmarked for crematoriums as well as public roads for other purposes,” revenue and land reforms department minister Ram Surat Kumar said. The gross anomalies in transfer of such land came to light during divisional-level review meetings chaired by the minister recently. In Muzaffarpur alone, around 3.5-acre land earmarked for crematorium at Prahladpur village under Musahari block was transferred for setting up a water treatment plant by the circle officer in 2019. The construction work on the crematorium land for the water treatment plant continued in defiance of the orders of two district magistrates. Some locals under the leadership of Independent MLA from Mushahari Baby Kumari launched an agitation to save the crematorium land, but in vain. “The government will ensure that the land earmarked for crematorium or graveyard is not used for other purposes,” the minister said, adding the mapping of such land would be done through electronic system. In addition, the department has decided to deprive people of benefits of all government welfare schemes if they are found guilty of encroaching on government land. The Bihar Land Disputes Resolution (Amendment) Act 2012 is being enforced effectively in the state to dispose of land related disputes, the minister said. Under the provisions of the Act, the land reforms deputy collector (LRDC) will have to dispose of the cases related to land disputes within a timeframe. “This will lead to quick disposal of land-related disputes,” the minister added. Earlier, CM Nitish Kumar had said at a review meeting that 60% of the murders in the state were related to land-related disputes and asked the senior officials of the revenue and land reforms department to initiate steps to resolve such disputes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/crematorium-land-cannot-be-used-for-other-purposes-minister/articleshow/81117409.cms||Ramashankar
February 20, 2021||Patna||Opposition MLAs protest fuel price rise in unique ways||PATNA: The opposition leaders protested steep rise in prices of petroleum products, including LPG cylinders, in their imitable style on the first day of the budget session of the state legislature on Friday. While RJD MLA from Mahua Mukesh Raushan reached the assembly premises on a new bicycle, Congress legislator Shakeel Ahmad Khan staged a protest with a traditional earthen stove. Other leaders too joined the protest. Raushan said the steep hike in the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas cylinders has forced the people to abandon their vehicles and use bicycles. Sharing people’s sufferings due to increase in prices of petroleum products, the first-time MLA said the common people have been left to fend for themselves. “Janata ko kaun puchhta hai (Who takes care of the people?” he asked. The legislator started his journey from Hajipur around 7am and reached the assembly premises after covering a distance of about 25km. “Crime is at its peak. Essential commodities have become expensive. We will raise these issues in the House,” said the MLA from Mahua, which was earlier represented by RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav. Congress MLAs Pratima Kumari and Shakeel Ahmad Khan didn’t lag behind. Pratima, the MLA from Rajapakar and Khan, who represents Kadwa assembly constituency, reached the assembly with a traditional firewood stove and a few sticks of firewood. Reacting to the price rise, Khan said, “The people have been forced to depend on traditional firewood stove due to rise in prices of LPG cylinders. The BJP is responsible for the plight of the people.” Meanwhile, AIMIM legislators led by Akhtarul Iman reached the assembly premises with posters against price rise. The MLAs belonging to the Left parties were also seen protesting against rise in fuel prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opposition-mlas-protest-fuel-price-rise-in-unique-ways/articleshow/81117400.cms||Ramashankar
February 20, 2021||Rajkot||Blood type can indicate nCov risk, severity of infection||Rajkot: Blood groups can give a fair indication of how much one is at the risk of contracting coronavirus infection as well as the infection’s severity. A study involving 405 Covid patients carried out by Rajkot-based Saurashtra University (SU) has shown that people with A blood group are the highest risk of getting infected while those having O blood group have the least chances. The findings done by by the psychology department team complements the similar findings published in the reputed ‘Blood Advances’ journal of American Society of Hematology, said Yogesh Jogsan, head of the psychology department. “Several studies carried out during the peak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) pandemic had also concluded that O blood group people had less risk of infection. The genetic code of novel coronavirus and SARS virus match 80%, said Jogsan. Nimisha Padariya, who was also part of this research added, “There are several analysis including one published in ‘Annals of Internal Medicine’ by Dr Mypinder Sekhon, a clinical assistant professor, which supports similar findings. One of them was that O blood group people have stronger immunity compared to A and AB group.” According to the study published in Blood Advances last October, there was a correlation between the severtiy of the diseases and the complications of the infection. The study involved as many as 4.73 lakh people and scientists have found that O blood group people were at lower risk of infection and organ complications in the event of hospitalization. The same study have found that the people with A or AB blood type had higher chances of infection and severity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/blood-type-can-indicate-ncov-risk-severity-of-infection/articleshow/81115892.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
February 20, 2021||Patna||Railways to run more Kisan Rail trains||PATNA: Railways has decided to run more parcel cargo Kisan Rail airconditioned (AC) express trains from different places under the East Central Railway (ECR) in Bihar to facilitate farmers sent their perishable agricultural products like vegetables, fruits, flowers, fish, meat, milk and other products outside the state to fetch better prices. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, railways had started a weekly parcel cargo Kisan Rail express train (00107/00108) between Devlali (Nasik Road) and Danapur on August 7. “Later, it was extended up to Muzaffarpur on demand of the farmers. Besides, railways had increased its frequency from weekly to thrice a week between Devlali and Muzaffarpur, a distance of about 1594km,” he said. Altogether eight Kisan Rail parcel cargo express trains will now pass through Bihar to New Delhi, Kolkata, Guwahati, Howrah, Amritsar, Indore and other places, the CPRO said railways is giving at least 50% subsidy on vegetables and fruits in particular to the farmers for booking their products outside the state. He said railways charges Rs405 per quintal for booking vegetables and fruits from Muzaffarpur to Devlali. “It is hardly Rs203 per quintal now, especially on the items given 50% subsidy. Similarly, railways charges Rs197 per quintal between Danapur and Devlali, Rs125 per quintal between Patna and Guwahati, Rs138 per quintal between Patna and New Delhi and Rs130 per quintal between Patna and Howrah on vegetables and fruits only,” he said. The Kisan Rail trains are running with the load combination of at least 11 parcel vans. “Railways has fixed tariff for each item per ton freight loading based on the distance. Railways is thus running its first ever multicommodity Kisan Rail trains with the facility to store and carry safely other fruits like pomegranate, banana, grapes as well as capsicum, cauliflower, drumsticks, cabbage, onion and chillies. The facility has opened a floodgate of opportunities to the farmers of Bihar to double their income by way of marketing their agricultural products outside the state at better price,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-to-run-more-kisan-rail-trains/articleshow/81115861.cms||Kumod Verma
February 20, 2021||Patna||Expedite railway projects, ECR GM tells Ircon||PATNA: East Central Railway (ECR) general manager L C Trivedi on Friday reviewed progress of various railway projects being executed by Ircon International in the state. Ircon International project director Yogesh Mishra and other senior railway officials were present at the meeting. Trivedi asked the Ircon to expedite the projects and complete them within the deadline. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the GM took stock of the Hajipur-Bachwara and Rampur Dumra-Tal-Rajendra Pul track doubling projects. Railways has also decided to complete track doubling work on the Kiul-Gaya route up to Sheikhpura by December-end and on Seikhpura-Warsalignaj route by March 2022. “The GM also sought details on progress of Jayanagar-Bardibas international rail project. The total length of Jayanagar-Bardibas rail project is 71.61km, out of which 68.72km area falls in Nepal,” the CPRO said . DRMs of Danapur, Sonepur and Samastipur also attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/expedite-railway-projects-ecr-gm-tells-ircon/articleshow/81115905.cms||Kumod Verma
February 20, 2021||Varanasi||Registration must for holding Ganga Aarti at ghats now||Times News Network Varanasi: The social organisations arranging Ganga Aarti at various ghats will have to get registered with the Varanasi Municipal Corporation. The municipal authorities have also been asked to prepare the records of the Ganga Aarti. The decision has been taken by the district administration to check encroachments on the riverfront, which is a public property. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma has asked the municipal authorities to prepare the records of the Ganga aarti and complete the registration process by March end. No such activities on the ghats would be allowed without the registration and prior permission of the VMC. “The riverfront is a public property owned by the state government and being looked after by the Varanasi Municipal Corporation,” said the DM, who wrote a letter to the municipal commission regarding the management of ghats and regulation of Ganga Aarti. It has been noticed that quite often that some people indulge in disputes over holding Ganga Aarti, said the DM adding that the municipal corporation should make a specific regulation for organizing the Ganga Aarti along the ghats. The VMC should register the aarati organizers with the allotment of space, which should be renewed every year. Besides, it should also be ensured that no Aarti is organised by any individual or organisation without the VMC’s permission. The VMC should also ensure that any individual or organisation does not organise Aarti on more than one ghat. The DM instructed to prepare the records of Ganga Aarti organised till February 17, and complete the registration within a month. The VMC has also been directed to nominate a nodal officer to look after the whole process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/registration-must-for-holding-ganga-aarti-at-ghats-now/articleshow/81115958.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Patna||How Nitish cut detractors Chirag, Mayawati to size||PATNA: On et Thursday when around 200 disgruntled leaders and workers of the Chirag Paswan-led Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) joined the ruling JD(U), many of them said, “It’s just a trailer. More leaders will desert the LJP and join the camp of CM Nitish Kumar.” LJP’s former state general secretary Keshav Singh said he would organize a similar event at JD(U) office on the 18th of every month and make sure that at least a dozen senior LJP leaders join JD(U). “On February 18, nearly 200 leaders and workers of LJP under my leadership joined JD(U). On coming March 18, April 18 and May 18, more LJP leaders will join JD(U),” Singh told TOI over the phone on Friday, adding, “Many more leaders are disgruntled with Chirag because of his ‘autocratic style’ of functioning and they all want to switch to JD(U).” Earlier, LJP’s lone MLA Raj Kumar Singh and its Nawada MP Chandan Kumar separately called on CM Nitish Kumar. Four days before meeting the CM, the LJP MLA had met building construction minister Ashok Choudhary. Taking a stand contrary to his party chief Chirag, the LJP MLA had categorically told the media that “Nitish Kumar is the NDA leader in Bihar.” Since then, it is being speculated that the lone LJP MLA might switch over to JD(U). Sources in LJP said Raj Kumar joined the party just days before the allotment of tickets for the 2020 assembly polls. Ever since his election as an MLA from the Matihani constituency, Raj Kumar was never active in LJP’s activities. Raj Kumar’s recent meeting with the CM and Ashok Choudhary was seen as his “pre-joining talk” mainly because the lone BSP MLA Zama Khan, too, had merged his party with JD(U) after a similar meeting with the CM and the building construction minister. Weeks after joining the JD(U), Zama Khan was made a cabinet minister. Chainpur MLA’s move caused major embarrassment to BSP boss Mayawati, who had fought the Bihar assembly polls as part of a multi-party coalition headed by former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP. The grouping also included Asaduddin Owaisi's AIMIM. While the RLSP had drawn a blank, the AIMIM ended up winning five seats, all in the Seemanchal region where it substantially damaged the Grand Alliance. Sources in JD(U) said, more leaders from LJP have expressed their desire to “work under the leadership of Nitish Kumar.” Some of them might join JD(U) in the next few months. “After ‘poaching’ the lone BSP MLA, the JD(U) leadership has set its target to influence the lone LJP MLA to give a befitting reply to Chirag Paswan for the damages he caused to the JD(U) in the last assembly polls,” a senior NDA leader, who didn’t want to be named, told TOI. “If the lone LJP MLA comes to JD(U) fold, Chirag’s party will lose its presence in the 243-member assembly,” said a political analyst. The LJP has one MLC (Nutan Singh) in the state legislative council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/how-nitish-cut-detractors-chirag-mayawati-to-size/articleshow/81117440.cms||Madan Kumar
February 20, 2021||Business||Sensex slides 4th time in row, closes below 51K||TNN Mumbai: Sliding for the fourth consecutive session, the sensex lost another 435 points on Friday to close at 50,890 points as rising bond yields globally have been weighing on equity markets. As a result, foreign investors have also slowed down their buying of stocks in India, official data showed. Since hitting an intraday high of 52,516 points on Tuesday, the sensex has now lost a little over 1,600 points or 3.1%. Investors too are poorer by Rs 1.2 lakh crore with BSE’s market capitalisation now at nearly Rs 204 lakh crore. Friday’s slide on Dalal Street came on the back of strong selling in most bank stocks. End-of-the-session data showed that ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank and SBI contributed the most to the sensex’s slide. Outside of the index, public sector banks — the stocks that had seen one of the most spectacular rallies in recent times since the Budget on February 1 — lost heavily. Among the most sold were Central Bank, which closed at the 10% lower circuit limit, while Bank of India closed with a 9.6% loss. According to Nirali Shah of Samco Securities, markets continued their optimism at the start of the week but due to lack of any motivation, the selling pressure took over after indices hit new lifetime highs. “A sudden rise in domestic as well as global bond yields was a prime hindrance which moderated the enthusiasm of equity market participants throughout the world. Akin to 10-year G-Sec yields which rose nearly 17bps this week, US 10-year bond yields too saw a similar rise. For an investor, it is imperative to know that rising bond yields are huge determinants of equity valuations,” Shah wrote in a note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-slides-4th-time-in-row-closes-below-51k/articleshow/81117395.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Kolkata||Greta org to hold march in city next week||Kolkata: The Bengal chapter of climate campaigner Greta Thunberg’s NGO Fridays for Future is set to organize a rally from Sealdah to Esplanade next Tuesday demanding immediate release of Disha Ravi and withdrawal of charges against other environmental activists. 21-year-old Ravi was arrested allegedly for editing and sharing a document — coined ‘toolkit’ — intended to make people aware of the farmers’ protest against the new agricultural laws. Non-bailable warrants were also issued against Ravi’s co-campaigners Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk. While Jacob and Muluk managed pre-arrest bails, Ravi was sent to three days of judicial custody on Friday after her five days’ police custody. “This is a first-of-its-kind protest organized by us to show solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ movement as the path shown by Greta, Disha and many more. We will hold a peaceful demonstration and submit a memorandum before the Governor demanding immediate release of Disha and all other social, political and environmental activists all over the country,” said Brishti Chanda, one of the founding members of the organization. The group will gather at Sealdah at noon and march towards Raj Bhawan at 1pm. The programme is likely to end at 4pm. The rally will follow a meeting between human rights and climate activist groups on Saturday to discuss the future course of action. “We are trying to form an umbrella body of environmental organizations to address the issue together,” said Biswajit Chanda of Teachers for Future who will be hosting the meeting at a Sealdah address with representatives of multiple activist groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/greta-org-to-hold-march-in-city-next-week/articleshow/81116227.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 20, 2021||Jaipur||Anti-tank missiles Helina and Dhruvastra successfully hit targets||Jaisalmer: The final user trials for Helina (Army Version) and Dhruvastra (Air Force version) Missile Systems designed and developed by DRDO were successfully carried out from Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) platform in the desert ranges.A press statement issued by DRDO claimed five missions were carried out for evaluating the missile capabilities in minimum and maximum range. The missiles were fired in hover and max forward flight against realistic static and moving targets. Some missions were carried out with warheads against derelict tanks. A mission was carried out against a moving target from a forward flying helicopter.It addedthat the Helina and Dhruvastra are third generation, Lock on Before Launch (LOBL) fire and forget Anti-Tank Guided Missiles that can engage targets both in direct hit mode as well as top attack mode. The system has all-weather day and night capability and can defeat battle tanks with conventional armour as well as with explosive reactive armour. It is one of the most-advanced anti-tank weapons in the world. Now, the missile systems are ready for induction.Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO, the Army and Air Force for the achievements. Secretary, department of Defence R&D and chairman DRDO Dr G Satheesh Reddy appreciated the efforts of teams involved in the successful trials.Officials said the Indian Air Force, Indian Army and DRDO also jointly tested Dhruvastra, the final improved version of Helina. ALH Dhruv helicopter fired the indigenously developed missile on a target 7km away and successfully demolished it.Sources said for the last three days the teams of Air Force and DRDO were making preparations at the range. The missile can be fired from a helicopter, thus the name Helina. The range of this missile is 4-8km. After the testing, it will be handed over to IAF. Helina is the helicopter launch version of Nag missile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/anti-tank-missiles-helina-and-dhruvastra-successfully-hit-targets/articleshow/81116288.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Patna||‘Many who joined JD(U) were not LJP workers’||PATNA: Former LJP MLA Riju Tiwari on Friday wrote to CM Nitish Kumar, demanding a probe into the induction of over 200 workers into the JD(U) who were introduced as workers of the Chirag Paswan-led party. The letter alleged that the list of the 208 people, who took membership of the JD(U) on Thursday in presence of party’s national president R C P Singh, contained the names of some who were never associated with the LJP. The LJP parliamentary board chairman claimed that even those leaders who had contested the recently held assembly polls on the tickets of RLSP led by Upendra Kushwaha joined the JD(U), but were shown as workers of the LJP. “This is another scam in the JD(U) on the pattern of fudging of Covid data. Some leaders of your party are befooling you in the name of strengthening the party,” the former Govindganj MLA’s letter read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-who-joined-jdu-were-not-ljp-workers/articleshow/81117528.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Over 1 lakh devotees gather for Ratha Saptami in Tirumala||TIRUPATI: The annual Radha Saptami festival was observed on a grand note at the Lord Venkateswara temple in Tirumala on Friday. This was the first time after nearly 11 months that a massive turnout of devotees witnessed religious festivities at the hill town. In the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams had suspended the celebration of major festivals and was holding daily rituals in ‘ekantham’. On Friday, devotees were allowed into the galleries encircling the main temple complex for the mini Brahmotsavam festivities. More than one lakh devotees gathered along the four mada streets to sight Lord Malayappa Swamy and His divine consorts, goddesses Sridevi and Bhudevi, on different ‘vahanams’. The series of processions started as early as 5.30 am. Adorned with special ornaments and garlands, Lord Malayappa Swamy stepped out on the Surya Prabha vahanam with the Sun god as his charioteer. The Lord also blessed the devout from the Chinna Sesha vahanam, followed by the Garuda vahanam, and the Hanumantha vahanam. At around 2 pm, temple priests performed the Chakrasnanam ritual at Srivari pushkarini in ‘ekantham’, in keeping with Covid-19 guidelines. Later, Lord Malayappa Swamy stepped out on the Kalpa Vruksha vahanam, followed by the Sarvabhoopala vahanam. The series of processions reached a finale with the Chandra Prabha vahanam in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-1-lakh-devotees-gather-for-ratha-saptami-in-tirumala/articleshow/81115429.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Cricket Association of Uttarakhand 'accidentally' selects banned player in state squad for Vijay Hazare Trophy||DEHRADUN: In a strange turn of events, the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) selected a banned player in the state squad for the Vijay Hazare Trophy. The player is currently serving his suspension period yet he was said to have been ‘accidentally’ selected in the Uttarakhand squad for the country’s premier List A tournament. CAU officials claimed it was “a case of miscommunication and the batsman has been omitted and recalled to Dehradun.” The player was reportedly banned for a period of two years for submitting a fake birth certificate in 2018, when Uttarakhand participated for the first time in the BCCI domestic tournaments. The birth certificate showed his age as reduced by more than two years during the trials for the U-19 state team. Later, after the verification of documents, an enquiry was conducted at the conclusion of which he was served a ban by the BCCI. The batsman’s ban is going to end in March 2021 and after that, he is eligible to participate in BCCI and CAU-affiliated tournaments. Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand team is scheduled to play its first match of the Vijay Hazare Trophy tournament against Meghalaya in Chennai on Sunday. The side is going to be led by a new captain, Kunal Chandela as well as a new coach Manish Kumar Jha who was appointed after the recent controversial exit of incumbent coach Wasim Jaffer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cricket-association-of-ukhand-accidentally-selects-banned-player-in-state-squad-for-vijay-hazare-trophy/articleshow/81115134.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 20, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Active cases below 100 in all districts in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 79 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,89,156. The toll increased to 7,167 as one more patient succumbed to the novel coronavirus in Visakhapatnam district. Altogether 77 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state. There are currently 620 active cases with 8,81,369 cumulative recoveries and 7,167 deaths. Chittoor reported 16 new infections, followed by Nellore (12) and Anantapur (11). Vizianagaram did not record any new cases. The remaining nine districts posted single-digit case numbers. The active caseload has dropped below the 100-mark in all the districts, while it is less than 50 in eight districts. Active cases are as few as nine in Vizianagaram district. Seven states accounted for about 61% of the second vaccine dose as of Friday afternoon. Telangana leads the states with a 12% share of second doses (73,281 beneficiaries), while Andhra Pradesh is fifth by giving the second dose to about 52,000 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/active-cases-below-100-in-all-districts/articleshow/81115361.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Business||‘Altcoins’ up 5x on hunt for next Bitcoin||CHENNAI: Altcoins, or alternate cryptocurrencies, are gaining traction because buyers find them cheaper than Bitcoins, which have been reaching new highs every day. Most of the capital has gone into the top five altcoins — Ethereum (ticker symbol ETH), Ripple (XRP), Binance Coin (BNB), Stellar (XLM) and Tron (TRX). These have seen a 4-5x growth. Bitcoin (BTC) is up 2x in the last 30 days in terms of buying volumes. According to Nischal Shetty, founder and CEO of WazirX, besides Bitcoin, many other tokens have grown tremendously in the last one week (see graphic). BNB has grown by over 100%, Swipe (SXP) has grown by 48%, Dash (DASH) by 41%, WazirX Token (WRX) by 14% and TRON (TRX) has grown by 12%. There is a whole wave of investors who are not only buying into the crypto narrative, but have caused an explosion in altcoin purchases, say cryptocurrency exchanges. Sharan Nair, chief business officer at CoinSwitch Kuber, said, “Most Indian investors are on the lookout for the next Bitcoin. They feel Bitcoin is already expensive and are betting on altcoins, with the hope of a similar growth.” Altcoins refer to all cryptocurrencies other than Bitcoin and similar alternatives. The success of Bitcoin as the first peer-to-peer digital currency paved the way for this trend. Many altcoins are trying to leverage on the perceived limitations of Bitcoin. Cryptocurrency exchanges say the Indian market mirrors the global one. Buyers want to explore alternate coins as they are much cheaper and have an aggressive growth potential. Despite Bitcoin crossing $50,000 this month, altcoins have outperformed it. Cryptocurrency exchanges say Indian investors who wanted to get an exposure in crypto have diversified their investment with 60% in Bitcoin and 40% in altcoin currently. Earlier, in December 2020, most investors’ portfolios had about 30% in altcoins and 70% in Bitcoins. “Bitcoin could be the reserve currency for the crypto world. However, altcoins offer very different perspectives. For example, Ethereum, the most popular altcoin in terms of market cap, builds a decentralised distributed computing network. It offers an alternative to using a Google cloud. This means it offers complete auditability and one can read every line of code. Here, the consumer pays for the interaction, and the currency is called Ethe,” said Darshan Bathija CEO of the crypto platform Vauld. On the demography of Indian investors, Shetty said, “Female participation has increased this year. In 2020, about 87% were male and 13% were female. Now the female traders have gone up to 15%.” Bitcoin and its first few alternatives like Litecoin and BitcoinCash eliminated middle men for processing transactions. However, the middle men were still needed for contractual obligations. “This issue got answered with more advanced alternatives like Ethereum that are capable of executing smart contracts including decentralised financing,” said co-founder of Unocoin, Sathvik Vishwanath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/altcoins-up-5x-on-hunt-for-next-bitcoin/articleshow/81116018.cms||Mamtha Asokan
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||Congress scouting for premises in Prayagraj for Priyanka’s office||Prayagraj: In a bid for reviving and strengthening the party ahead of the impending state assembly polls and next general election, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is planning to open her office in Prayagraj, the city that has been closely associated with the Nehru-Gandhi family. Congress workers are scouting for a premises which could serve her purpose and among all options, the Swaraj Bhawan seems to be the frontrunner. UPCC spokesperson Kishore Varshney said, “Opening an office of Priyanka here will ensure her active involvement and would give a major morale boost to the party workers and leaders in the coming elections. Her presence would have a positive impact on the Phulpur Lok Sabha seat, which even she can contest, besides in the entire Purvanchal.” Priyanka started her campaign in an informal way by taking a dip in the Sangam on Mauni Amavasya and she wants to make Prayagraj the main centre for 2022 assembly elections, said party sources. Senior Congress leader Pramod Tiwari, however, said, “There had been a zonal office here at Prayagraj during last elections and would be again in next election. She (Priyanka) can visit the city frequently and stay at Swaraj Bhawan, meet party workers and public but she cannot open an office there as the property belongs to a trust.” However, her active involvement would have a huge positive impact on the party’s performance in Prayagraj in the state and general elections, he added. Another party office-bearer, requesting anonymity, said half a dozen buildings have been identified for her office. “We are looking for a premises with a seating arrangement of at least 500 people and are looking at buildings with around 10 to 12 rooms. The building will be selected soon. The office could be inaugurated in Chaitra Navratra,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/congress-scouting-for-premises-in-prayagraj-for-priyankas-office/articleshow/81129261.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Patna||Law & order top priority of Bihar govt, says governor Phagu Chauhan||PATNA: Maintaining law and order is the top priority of the state government, governor Phagu Chauhan said while addressing the joint session of the state legislature and marking the start of the monthlong Budget session on Friday. He appealed to the people to go for immunization, wear masks and take other precautionary steps against the Covid-19. Chauhan also pointed to the government’s achievements and said the metro rail project under execution at Patna would be completed by September 2024. As many as 4.95 lakh healthcare and frontline workers have been immunized, while a road map is ready for giving vaccine shots to people above 50 years of age and below 50 years with multiple morbidities as the state government has adopted a resolution to provide free immunization against Covid-19 to all in the state, he said. CM Nitish Kumar, deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, as well as leader of the opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, along with other members were present, while acting chairman of the legislative council, Awadhesh Narayan Singh and assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha, flanked the governor. The governor said maintaining law and order was the “highest priority” of the government, and it was being done by providing transparent and responsible administration. He also said the government has maintained zero tolerance towards corruption and the vigilance bureau had been activated to nab and identify officials indulging in corrupt practices. In tune with the same, action had been taken in 32 cases. The Economic Offences Unit booked 28 accused under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and seized property worth Rs45.81 crore amassed through illegitimate means, he added. The governor referred to the seven resolves-2 programme for implementation over the 2020-25 period. It, among other things, will facilitate imparting of skill development and proper training to the youths for their employment and self-employment activities, besides developing entrepreneurial skill among them to sustain their activities. He also said 30.22 lakh tonnes of paddy had already been procured even as the drive would continue till February 21. Paddy was being procured from the farmers at the minimum support price (MSP) rate, he also said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/law-order-top-priority-of-state-govt/articleshow/81117119.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Civil surgeons put on alert against new Covid variants||PATNA: The recurrence of Covid-19 virus in Maharashtra and some other parts of the country has put the state health department on alert. State Health Society (SHC) executive director Manoj Kumar on Friday said though there was no report of any surge in the pandemic or detection of the Brazilian or African variants from any part of Bihar, the health department has asked the civil surgeons to remain alert and keep watch on the hospitals. Though the number of Covid patients is dropping further, the big hospitals in Patna have geared up to take up any new challenge. “There is nothing to be panic. We should be alert and take precautionary measures against the pandemic,” said AIIMS-P director Dr PK Singh. “There were few Covid cases from the villages and slums, indicating that they have higher immunity level than the affluent class people,” he said. Dr Singh, however, stated that both the vaccines being used for immunization were effective against any mutant form of this virus. “PMCH is ready to handle any situation. Today, we have only one Covid patient,” said PMCH superintendent Dr I S Thakur. He, however, stated that there was no reason to panic. The number of Covid patients at the NMCH has also dropped to two, but the hospital was alert after the detection of new variants at some places in the country. “There is possibility of the new strains striking people in Bihar. That is why we are in ready mode,” said NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh. As the new variants developed with some changes in the genetic material, the impact of infection could also differ with new symptoms. However, the health facilities in the state are fully capable for treatment. “The best way to keep the virus away is to follow the government guidelines like use of masks, sanitisers and keep social distance,” said Dr Binod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/civil-surgeons-put-on-alert-against-new-covid-variants/articleshow/81116053.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Patna||Hooch makes two partially blind in Bihar's Gopalganj||PATNA: At least two persons developed partial blindness at Majhaulia village in Gopalganj district where two daily wagers from Gumla in Jharkhand had died due to suspected hooch two days back. Liquor is banned in Bihar. Gopalganj SP Anand Kumar said actually three daily wagers working at the Majhaulia kiln had died on Wednesday. He suspended Vijaypur police station SHO Manoj Kumar and Majhaulia village chowkidar Amresh Yadav on Friday for dereliction of duty, including ‘intelligence failure’ on liquor smuggling. The persons who developed blindness were identified as Ramdhyan Sah (78) and Tilakdhari Yadav (64). Police said both developed complications on Thursday night. Anand told TOI over phone that the two persons who developed partial blindness on Friday had consumed ‘liquor type substance’ at least two to three days back. “An FIR was registered against one Subhash Gaur and his family members on Friday for smuggling and selling liquor at Majhaulia. Gaur’s sisters Sunita Devi and Kiran Devi were arrested,” he said. The SP said Gaur’s residence was extensively searched but no liquor was found. “Divers searched the nearby pond also but found nothing,” he said. Gaurwasevading arrest. Regarding the Wednesday deaths, he said one person’s body was already taken to Gumla by his family members. “His postmortem was conducted there after contacting Gumla administration. His viscera has been preserved,” he said. Karma Panna (50) and Buddhua Panna (48) of Gumla had died within hours of suffering from abdominal pain and breathlessness. The SP, however, denied that Ramavadh Yadav (60) and his son Kashi Yadav (30) and Kedar Yadav (70) had died at Khutaha village since Wednesday night. “Ramvadh died after prolonged illness on Wednesday night and Kashi died of shock on Thursday morning. Police quizzed the villagers and their family members but nothing related to liquor surfaced,” he said. Meanwhile, Hathua SDPO Naresh Kumar said Ramdhyan and Tilakdhari confessed that they had consumed liquor supplied by Gaur a few days back. “The duo told police that Gaur smuggles liquor pouches from Uttar Pradesh and sells at Majhaulia. Gaur’s sisters were also involved in selling liquor,” he said. The SDPO said Ramdhyan and Tilakdhari were undergoing treatment, but they were also made accused in the FIR registered on the complaint of new Vijaypur SHO Sanjeet Kumar. He said massive survey is going on in villages under Vijaypur police station area after the hooch deaths to know who others are ill. 3 die in Muzaffarpur under mysterious circumstances: Three persons, identified as Ramchandra Manjhi (70), his wife Manju Devi (67) and Vinod Manjhi (45), died at village Dargah under Katra police station area in Muzaffarpur under mysterious circumstances since Wednesday night. Katra police station SHO Sikandar Kumar said the couple died at their home on Wednesday night and were cremated by the family members. Kumar said police came to know that the couple was suffering from asthma. He said police received information about their deaths on Thursday evening. Vinod also died at home on Thursday night. Kumar said Vinod had undergone treatment at Katra primary health centre for tuberculosis. He said Vinod’s postmortem was conducted on Friday. Muzaffarpur DSP (east) Manoj Kumar Pandey said an FIR against unknown persons was registered with Katra police station on the chowkidar’s statement for investigating the entire matter. “Strong rumours are circulating that the three deaths took place due to hooch. If the deaths were found due to natural causes, action would be taken against those who had spread rumours,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hooch-makes-2-partially-blind-in-gopalganj/articleshow/81117186.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 20, 2021||Patna||Petrol, diesel smuggling rampant from Nepal||MOTIHARI/BAGAHA: Cross-border smuggling of petrol and diesel is rampant due to cheaper rates of the fuel in Nepal than in India. Nepal shares porous border with India. People easily cross the border through narrow tracks. Petrol and diesel are being smuggled by the local people in jerry cans from Nepal on foot and sold to small retailers in bordering markets of East Champaran district, badly affecting the business of petrol pump owners in bordering areas of the district for the last one month. The owners of Raxaul, Adapur, Chauradano, Ghorasahan and Kundwa-Chainpur petrol stations claim heavy losses due to smuggling of petroleum products from Nepal. Mukesh Kumar, a petrol pump owner of Adapur, said his petrol sales dropped from 1300 litres daily to 200 litres. East Champaran district administration claims to have taken up steps to check the petrol/diesel smuggling from Nepal. The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) has stepped up patrolling on the border and seized diesel in dozens of jerry cans in the last two days. Madhaw Joshi, spokesman of Nepal Udyog Vanijya Sangh of Kanchanpur, said petrol is Rs25. 26 cheaper in Nepal than in India. Similarly, diesel costs Rs24.70 per litre less in Nepal. The smugglers are illegally transporting the fuel to India and making money. Petrol in Nepali currency is at 71.25 per litre compared to around INR 96.51 in Bihar. Nepal police have also taken steps to stop the smuggling of petroleum products. The Birgunj police in Parsa district arrested three smugglers and seized 1,060 litres of diesel from an oil tanker near integrated checkpost at Birgunj on Tuesday. Manojit Kanwar, the spokesman of Parsa police, said the arrested smugglers were Nepal citizens. Ramesh Kumar and his friends from Ghorasahan and Chauradano said they earned Rs1,000 daily by smuggling petrol and diesel from Nepal in evening hours. Around 40 boys of their villages have been in this business for the last 15 days, they said. Similarly, petrol and diesel smuggling from Nepal has been rampant in West Champaran. People easily cross the border through Gandak river by country boats near Chumbhatta, Chakdaha and Susta. Petrol is being sold at Rs69/litre at Tribeni, Raninagar and Ratanganj in Nepal and at Rs93.86/litre at Valmikinagar. Locals claimed that petrol is being smuggled from Nepal near Bhikhanathori, Sikta and Inarawa and sold to small retailers in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/petrol-diesel-smuggling-rampant-from-nepal/articleshow/81117551.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
February 20, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Smart bins, plastic-free markets in New Town soon||KOLKATA: New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) plans to install artificial intelligence-based sensor-fixed dustbins across New Town, which will prevent overflowing of waste once they reach capacity. Officials said each dustbin will have an internet-of-things (IOT) device fixed on it. “The device will act as an ultrasonic sensor. Once the waste almost reaches optimum level inside the bin, the lid will close. After this happens, the control room will receive a message that the particular bin has reached its optimum level and garbage carrying vehicles will reach the spot to collect the waste from the bin,” said an official. Officials said that the IOT device will also help optimize the use of the bin. “For example, there may be some places where the dustbins are not much used. The IOT device will send a message to that effect and they can then be moved to places which do require them,” said an official. To begin with, the authorities plan to install around 50 such dustbins on different spots off the Main Arterial Road from Nazrul Tirtha to Rabindra Tirtha. “We are waiting to get the technology to implement the plan,” the official added. The authorities have also set a target to start the pilot project to make the township’s markets plastic free from the first week of March, starting with CB Block. The market has about 25 stores and the authorities have spoken to the traders about replacing plastic bags with paper or jute. Awareness drives will also be conducted at the market complex. Officials said there are about 10 markets across New Town under NKDA and the plastic-free campaign will be conducted at all the other markets once the pilot project at CB Block market is successfully completed. “A project report is being prepared with the cost to introduce jute or paper bags and make the market plastic-free,” said an official. NKDA has already introduced a waste segregation at source scheme in New Town, where biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste is separated at source at the household level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/smart-bins-plastic-free-mkts-in-new-town-soon/articleshow/81116195.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 20, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Jagan unveils 40-feet-high chariot at Antarvedi temple||Rajahmundry: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday unveiled the chariot of Sri Lakshminarasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi village in East Godavari district, coinciding with the auspicious Ratha Saptami. The CM also offered puja and aarti and pulled the 40-foot tall chariot to herald its commissioning. The CM was earlier given a traditional welcome on his arrival. After darshan of the main deity, he participated in the puja following which he was showered vedasirvachanam (blessings) by vedic pundits. He then proceeded to the decorated chariot and offered puja and aarti. The seven-tier chariot was commissioned with the chief minister along with his cabinet colleagues formally drawing it forward. The chariot was built with at a cost of Rs 1 crore after a fire gutted the previous one on September 5, 2020. The government took up construction of the chariot soon after the incident and completed it in three months ahead of the annual Kalyanotsavam. The new chariot with six wheels and seven tiers was made out of 1,330 cubic feet of wood. It is equipped with hydraulic brakes and has a protective shed with iron gates. It may be recalled that the old chariot at the Devasthanam was gutted in the early hours of September 5 last year. The government sanctioned Rs 95 lakh for the new chariot and the endowments department sent revised estimates of Rs 1.10 crore after adding features like braking system and jockey to the chariot, which is 42 feet high, 14 feet wide and 20 feet long. Each wheel of the chariot is six feet in radius. Quality Bastar teakwood worth Rs 72 lakh was used to build it, with about 40 workers engaged round the clock to complete the work. JNTUK and Andhra University assisted the endowments department. Arount 10 teams visited several places to identify teakwood. The Rathotsavam will be held at the temple on February 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/jagan-unveils-40-feet-high-chariot-at-antarvedi-temple/articleshow/81115343.cms||Samson Raj
February 20, 2021||Visakhapatnam||‘VSP is state’s pride, must be continued as PSU’||Visakhapatnam: YSRC Rajya Sabha MP V Vijayasai Reddy on Friday said Visakhapatnam steel plant is the pride of Andhra Pradesh and it must be continued as a public sector undertaking. On the eve of his 25-km-long padayatra here on Saturday in protest against the proposed privatisation of the VSP, the senior YSRC leader told TOI that despite losses, the VSP can be bailed out and continued as a PSU. The steel plant has earned profits and contributed to the exchequer, he pointed out. At present, lack of captive mines and delay in expansion works are among the reasons that have led to a cost escalation and loss. “Because of lack of captive mines, the cost of raw material is higher by Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000 per tonne when compared to other plants,” he said, adding that the amount borrowed for the plant’s expansion and delay in completing these works also escalated costs. Vijayasai will undertake the padayatra from GVMC Gandhi statue to the steel plant’s entrance at Kurmanapalem, a stretch of 25 km. “If the Centre converts debt into equity and allots mines to the plant, the cost of production will come down. The overheads will also significantly come down,” Vijayasai said. When asked whether selling a parcel of land would help the revival of the plant, he said the move would be unviable and the VSP has to be run as a PSU. The MP said VSP paid almost Rs 1,500 crore to the Odisha Mining Development Corporation (OMDC) for acquiring mines but not a single tonne of raw material was received from OMDC. “If the Centre could not find mines, it should merge VSP with NMDC or SAIL, which have mines. If the merger takes place, the cost of production would come down,” he said. He hoped the prime minister would give appointment to MPs, if not trade unions when Parliament meets on March 8. “We will request the PM for appointment and lead a delegation to give the representation,” he said. TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu is aware the state has no role in either privatisation or retaining the plant as a PSU, the MP said. RINL is 100% owned by GOI. Any decision can only be taken by it and not the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vsp-is-states-pride-must-be-continued-as-psu/articleshow/81115349.cms||Siva G
February 20, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Srikakulam temple sees low-key celebrations||Visakhapatnam: Ratha Saptami at the Sri Suryanarayana Swamy temple in Arasavilli, Srikakulam town was a quiet affair on Friday. Temple executive officer V Hari Suryaprakash Rao attributed the absence of crowds to Covid-19. “Devotees who stood in queues maintained social distance and patiently waited their turn without pushing,” Rao told TOI. The atmosphere at the temple was markedly different from previous years which have often seen stampedes. In February 2013 three women fell unconscious while waiting in line. The temple management had introduced a pass system for every devotee, including VIPs, after the incident. “There is a separate line for VIPS, but there was no pass system earlier. Now, even VIPs must carry a pass. A separate queue was arranged for donors,” Rao said, adding that nearly 50,000 devotees visit the temple on this day. Deputy chief minister Dharmana Krishna Das and speaker Tammineni Sitaram were among those who visited the temple with their families. Speaking on the occasion, Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said the administration is committed to developing the temple and plans to renovate it with modern amenities. “Covid-19 halted our plans. We will be able to focus on works soon,” Nivas said. — Kamalakara Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/srikakulam-temple-sees-low-key-celebrations/articleshow/81115437.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
February 20, 2021||Kanpur||3 buried alive, 3 injured as mud mound collapses in Chitrakoot||Jhansi: An 11-year-old girl and two women were buried alive, three others were injured while one had a narrow escape when a mud mound collapsed over them in Chitrakoot on Friday. The injured have been admitted to a community health centre and district hospital. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the incident and announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. The incident has been reported from Basinda village falling in Raipura police station area where around a dozen women had gone to collect mud from a hillock situated near a river. While they were busy digging the mud, the upper portion of the hillock caved in and many of them got buried beneath it. Locals rushed to rescue the victims followed by the local administration who rushed with JCB machines to remove the mud. Those who have died have been identified as Neetu 11, Sunita Prajapati, 35, and Gyana Devi, 40. Senior officials including DM Chitrakoot Sheshmani Pandey and SP Chitrakoot Ankit Mittal rushed to the accident site to monitor the rescue operation. The CM expressed deep condolence over the incident and instructed the local administration for quick rescue operation. He also announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. Talking to TOI, DM Chitrakoot said that the rescue operation has been completed. “Seven persons were present at the site, of whom three died and three were injured. One injured is serious and has been referred to the district hospital. One person had a miraculous escape.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/3-buried-alive-3-injured-as-mud-mound-collapses-in-chitrakoot/articleshow/81115757.cms||Arindam Ghosh
February 20, 2021||Patna||Mask, other Covid safety norms compulsory in Bihar from today||PATNA: Those letting their masks slip need to pull back up the life-saving face cover as the state government plans stricter implementation of Covid-19 prevention norms from Saturday. In the wake of the surging coronavirus cases in some parts of the country due to new strains of the virus, the Crisis Management Group of the state government, chaired by chief secretary Deepak Kumar, resolved on Friday that the Covid-19 preventive norms, including compulsory use of face masks and physical distancing, will again be strictly imposed. The chief secretary told this newspaper on Friday that just like the peak Covid period, face masks will now be compulsory, and all other guidelines of the ministry of health and home affairs will be strictly adhered to. “We have decided to strictly re-enforce all Covid preventive norms, especially the use of face masks and social distancing in public places. Implementation of all measures will be compulsory for all,” he said. The state transport secretary, Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, who was also present at the meeting said Covid norms such as compulsory face mask while driving and physical distancing while using public transport will be mandatory from Saturday. Meanwhile, in its efforts to curb the surge in Covid cases, Bihar had expanded Covid-19 wards in hospitals and even turned stadiums, schools, hotels and train coaches into quarantine centres. But despite the decline in the number of Covid cases and fatality rates, the state government is mulling reviving quarantine centres and Covid hospitals that are now out of operation, to their pre-Covid state. Patna civil surgeon, Dr Bibha Kumar Singh said the state is prepared in case of any turn of events. “We have kept the hotel Patliputra Ashok, near Income tax roundabout fully equipped and ready as a quarantine centre in case of any emergency. Because of the new coronavirus variants, we are being cautious and ready,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mask-other-covid-safety-norms-compulsory-in-bihar-from-today/articleshow/81116023.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Patna||149 govt ITIs affiliated to NCVT: Minister||PATNA: Altogether 149 government ITIs in the state have been affiliated to the National Council of Vocational Training (NCVT) in a bid to make them centres of excellence, labour resources department minister Jibesh Kumar said on Friday. Till the financial year 2019-20, only 45 ITIs in the state were recognised by the NCVT and only 12,000 students out of 26,904 enrolled in those institutes were covered under NCVT, he said. The remaining 14,904 students were granted certificates from the SCVT, he added. “The department is committed to ensuring the implementation of state government's various programmes of skill development for the youth and women,” he said. Jibesh said nine districts in the state, which were badly hit by Left wing extremism (LWE), have been covered under the skill development programme of the Centre. The districts covered under the scheme are Jamui, Gaya, Aurangabad, Jehanabad, Arwal and Rohtas, Banka, Muzaffarpur and Nawada. Under the programme, one ITI has been set up in each district. Out of nine, the buildings of five have been already completed and granted affiliation by the NCVT. The minister said the construction of the remaining four was in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/149-govt-itis-affiliated-to-ncvt-minister/articleshow/81117578.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Vijayawada||ACB continues searches in Kanaka Durga temple||Vijayawada: Sleuths with the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) continued their searches across the Kanaka Durga temple complex for the second consecutive day on Friday. Officials said that they have kept their focus on the ticket counter, prasadam counter and the administration block as further irregularities have been found in these areas. Irregularities include pending bills, uncleared files and unaccounted cash. Four teams consisting of nearly 25 ACB officials began their surprise checks on Thursday morning. Officials began their searches at the stores in the Maha Mandapam and verified the stocks and the records. They also looked into the provisions and ingredients which are used for making laddus and free meals and found irregularities in the maintenance of registries and attendance. Officials said that they also searched the saree counter and sale of tickets and collected information from the staff. Sources said they would continue the searches on Saturday as well before coming up with a consolidated report on irregularities and submit it at ACB headquarters for further action. Explaining the reason behind the searches, officials said they have received several complaints on irregularities in certain sections and decided to examine the matter. Officials began their searches at the stores in the Maha Mandapam and verified the stocks and the records. Ingredients for making laddus and meals were also checked||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/acb-continues-searches-in-kanaka-durga-temple/articleshow/81115411.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Agri laws against farmers, middle class, says Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Congress leader and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Friday said the Centre's agricultural laws are not only anti-farmer but also against the middle class and they will force the government to withdraw these ‘black laws’. Addressing a mega “kisan mahapanchayat” in the Kotkhawada area of Chaksu town of Jaipur, the third in the series, Pilot claimed that the laws will push the future of farmers into darkness due to which farmers from all over the country are up in arms against it. He said the farmers who are agitating will not rest till the laws are withdrawn. “There is a huge crisis for farmers in the country today. We all must understand that the Union government has brought the laws that are not only anti-farmer but also against the middle class and the youth,” he said, adding that his party was committed to the farmers' interest and will compel the government to withdraw the laws. He also said farmers are not begging but fighting for their rights. The self-respecting famers are not seeking ‘Sahanubhuti’ (sympanty) but ‘Sahajog’ (cooperation), he said. Pilot also asked the farmers gathered there whether they got their income doubled as was promised by Modi in 2014. But on the other hand, the common man is reeling under ever increasing fuel prices and input costs. A three-point resolution was passed in the “mahapanchayat”, demanding the withdrawal of the farm laws, a legislation to ensure the minimum support price (MSP) for agriculture produce and the rollback of the hike in fuel prices. It was the first major farmers' rally in Rajasthan after the recent visit of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to the state and third “kisan mahapanchayat” addressed by Pilot after similar events organised in Dausa and Bharatpur. Some of the speakers also spoke about a farmer’s son at the helm of affairs to improve their plight and mentioned about Sachin Pilot being denied the CM post despite working hard in the last assembly polls. Former ministers Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, MLAs Hemaram Chaudhary, Brijendra Ola, Murari Meena, Rakesh Parekh, G R Khatana, Prashant Bairwa and other leaders of the party were present in the rally organised by Chaksu MLA Ved Prakash Solanki. Chaksu on the outskirts of Jaipur is dominated by SC/ ST and OBCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/agri-laws-against-farmers-middle-class-says-pilot/articleshow/81116291.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Patna||Amid surge alert, Covid cases remain below 100 in Bihar||PATNA: The fresh spike in Covid-19 cases in states such as Maharashtra and Kerala notwithstanding, Bihar continues to report less than 100 cases for more than a fortnight. On Friday, just 67 new Covid cases were registered in Bihar, taking the tally to 2,62,008. Patna continues to report the highest number of Covid positive cases as it reported 15 new ones on Friday. As per the health department bulletin, 75 patients have recovered from the infection in the past 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 2,59,973 and the recovery rate reached 99.2%. While the new cases are low, the health department is reporting just one death on an average for more than a week now. Fresh cases apart, the second dose of vaccination against the deadly virus is also underway and altogether 1,600 healthcare workers took the jab on Saturday. The number was low as compared to 17,377 healthcare workers taking the dose on Thursday. An official of the health department attributed the lower number of beneficiaries taking the vaccine on Saturday to routine immunisation on the day, which is carried out on Wednesday and Saturday. Altogether 3,97, 491 healthcare workers have taken the vaccine starting January 16, when the vaccination exercise was launched across the country. Also, 35,019 healthcare workers have taken the second dose of the vaccine, out of whom 34,188 have opted for Covishield manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute. The number of frontline workers, including employees associated with the home department, revenue, personnel, urban development and housing, district administration and Panchayati Raj institutions, having taken the vaccination to date stood at 1,17,789. The vaccination for frontline workers in Bihar started on February 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/amid-surge-alert-covid-cases-remain-below-100-in-bihar/articleshow/81115919.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Patna||Patna: Private school principal arrested for sexually assaulting minor boy||PATNA: The Lakhisarai police arrested a 50-year-old principal of a private school on Thursday on charges of sexually assaulting an 11-year-old male student of his institution. Police said the accused, Yashpal Benjamin, had committed the crime on the premises of the school under the Kabaiyya police station area in Lakhisarai on Thursday. The boy is a Class VI student of the school. SHO of Kabaiyya police station Rajeev Kumar said the matter came to light after the boy and his mother informed the police about it. “An FIR was registered on the basis of a complaint lodged by the boy’s mother. A police team later arrested the principal from the school premises,” he added. The SHO said the accused, who is unmarried, was remanded in judicial custody by a local court on Friday. “The principal had sexually assaulted the boy after taking him inside a room on the school premises. Students of classes I to VII are enrolled in the school,” he added. Meanwhile, Lakhisarai sadar SDPO Ranjan Kumar said there were information that the principal had sexually assaulted minor students earlier also, but none had brought the matter to the notice of the police. The SDPO said police would file chargesheet in the case within stipulated timeframe and ensure speedy trial. On February 15, a special POCSO court in Patna had awarded death penalty to a private school principal, Arvind Kumar alias Raj Singhania (31), after he was found guilty of repeatedly raping an 11-year-old girl student and making her pregnant. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-school-principal-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-boy/articleshow/81117492.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Patna||JD(U) new legislators to get training: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday said JD(U) would hold a special training session for its new legislators at the party’s office here on February 24. “The first-time MLAs and MLCs will be given information about the constitutional provisions, rules and different procedures of the legislative assembly and the council. The party’s senior lawmakers will also educate the new legislators how to raise issues of their constituencies in the legislative houses during the session,” Nitish told reporters after the JD(U)’s legislature party meeting on the first day of the Budget session. JD(U) had convened its legislature party meeting at its state headquarters to educate its legislators how to manage the floor in both the houses of state legislature during the Budget session. Almost all JD(U) MLAs and MLCs attended the meeting. “For the first time, the JD(U) legislature party meeting was organized at the Karpoori Sabhagar. Never in the past had JD(U) legislature party been organized at the party office,” Nitish said. Earlier, such meetings used to take place at the CM’s official residence. Nitish further said “antisocial matters” were being run on different social media platforms these days. “The party MLAs and MLCs were informed how to spread ‘positive things’ and ‘positive thoughts’ among the people through social media. This will create an atmosphere of love and mutual harmony among the people,” the CM said. Nitish also said he would attend a meeting of NITI Aayog on behalf of Bihar government on Saturday through videoconferencing. “It will be the sixth meeting of the NITI Aayog,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-new-legislators-to-get-training-nitish/articleshow/81117363.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Surat||10% candidates in Surat have a criminal record||SURAT: At least 10% of candidates out of the total 484 contesting election for the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) have criminal cases registered against them. Opposition Congress has fielded the highest 17% candidates with criminal cases against them followed by Aam Aadmi Party (8%) and BJP (6%). This was revealed following an analysis of the declarations submitted by the candidates by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR). On the other hand, the ruling BJP has the highest number of crorepati candidates, 50 (44%). “The three richest candidates in this years election are from the BJP,” said city-based RTI activist Krishnakant Chauhan, who along with Ajay Jangid analysed the data for ADR. Of the total 484 candidates, ADR representatives analysed 113 BJP, 106 Congress and 103 AAP candidates besides some of the smaller parties and independent candidates. “Congress had fielded the highest number of candidates with a criminal record that is 18. It is followed by AAP with 8 and BJP has 7 candidates with criminal cases,” said Chauhan. Of the total candidates 5% (23) candidates have serious criminal cases against them which attract imprisonment of five years or more if convicted. Out of all the candidates, 12 (3%) are in the age group of 21 to 24 years, 359 (79%) are between 25 to 50 years age while 81 (18%) are in 51 to 70 year age group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/10-candidates-in-surat-have-a-criminal-record/articleshow/81116039.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 20, 2021||Patna||Patna University colleges start offline classes for undergrads||PATNA: Offline classes of newly admitted undergraduate students in different colleges of Patna University (PU) commenced on Thursday. There has been hardly 40% attendance during the last two days, officials said. B N College principal Raj Kishore Prasad said hardly 40% of the students supposed to attend classes turned up. Only 50% of the students in a class are being called on alternate days. It means only the attendance of students was just 20%, which is quite unsatisfactory, he said. He further pointed out that the Covid-19 fear still persists in the minds of most guardians and hence they are not willing to allow their wards to go to the college. Moreover, most students are still residing at their native places and the news of resumption of their offline classes is yet to reach them. The attendance of students would pick up gradually, he said. The situation in Patna College is no better than that of B N College. Even though classes having greater strength of students have been divided in two parts, smaller classes have been left as such. “Acute dearth of teachers has made the conduct of regular offline classes very difficult. How can classes in subjects like history and political science having maximum number of students be held with just one teacher each,” asked college principal Ashok Kumar. Magadh Mahila College principal Shashi Sharma said about 50% of the students has reported for classes during the last two days. Guardians of some girls are still hesitant in sending them to the college for fear of Civid-19. Their fear is not unwarranted as most girls coming to the college are least concerned about Covid-19. Despite repeated warnings by the college authorities and teachers, most girls fail to maintain social distance and more often than not most of them would sit in proximity on just two to three front benches, the principal said. In Patna Science College, an induction meet for newly admitted BSc Part I honours students would be held on Monday and their classes would commence thereafter, said college senior teacher Anil Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-colleges-start-offline-classes-for-undergrads/articleshow/81116032.cms||B K Mishra
February 20, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Congress, BJP workers clash on last day of poll campaign||VADODARA: The Congress and BJP workers clashed with each other on Dabhoi Road during the civic poll campaign on Friday afternoon. At least five persons suffered injuries and some vehicles were damaged during the clashes that happened just hours before the civic poll campaign closed. Both parties blamed each other for the violence but the police said that no FIR was registered in the case. “It was a pre-planned attack on our campaign rally by the BJP. Senior BJP leaders had provoked the workers to create ruckus in our ward as they are scared of losing,” claimed Congress leader, Chandrakant Srivastava, who is contesting from ward 16. Srivastava’s son Vishal suffered minor head injuries along with Congress workers, Jay Thakore and Ashish Mangrola. Congress candidate, Alka Patel, who is contesting from the same ward, alleged, “The BJP workers abused us and asked us to leave the area,” she claimed. The incident occurred at about 12.15 pm when Congress and BJP rallies came face to face near Soma Talav. Workers of both parties first resorted to sloganeering but within minutes, the ruckus turned ugly and some unidentified persons began pelting stones. The police intervened and tried to control both the groups that went on rampage. Senior police officials too rushed to the spot and ensured that no untoward incident occurs later. BJP city unit president, Vijay Shah alleged, “The Congress workers began abusing our party workers when the election rallies came face to face. They then attacked our workers who suffered injuries. Such incidents spoil the image of our city.” “The timings of Congress and BJP rallies were different. But the Congress rally started bit late and hence they came face to face. There were clashes but we haven’t received complaint from both sides,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cong-bjp-workers-clash-on-last-day-of-poll-campaign/articleshow/81116299.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Ramgarh crater will be developed as tourist spot||JAIPUR: A crater of 3-km diameter in Baran district estimated by geologists to have occurred some 150 million years ago due to the impact of a meteorite will be developed as a tourist spot. The crater also has a 10th-century Shiva temple called BhandDeva in the style of the Khajuraho group of monuments which was demolished byAurangzeb. But the temples, which are under the archaeological department, hasnot been restored and developed. The state mines and geology department is currentlypreparing a strategy for developing the geological aspect of the crater,archeological site and tourism infrastructure at the Ramgarh village where thecrater is located. Because of the impact of the meteorite, a lake of 1-km length and 250-meter width was formed which exists today, said a seniorofficial of the geology department. Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, mines and petroleum,said, “We will coordinate with all government agencies and departments both in the Centre and the state like tourism, forestry, Geological Survey of India and others to make Ramgarh crater an international tourist destination.” Pradeep Agarwal, additional director, Department of Minesand Geology, who has been nominated as a nodal officer for developinggeo-heritage sites, said after developing the Ramgarh crater the state willrecommend the case to the international body International Union of Geo-Heritage (IUGH) to get it declared as an international geo-heritage site. Ramgarh crater was first discovered by the Geological Surveyof India in 1869. Since then several geo-scientists have undertaken studies toascertain the genesis of the crater. Agarwal said that the crater has copy-bookpatterns of a meteorite impact. In 2018, a team of Geo-scientists have from GSI and INTACH(National Trust for Art and Culture Heritage) visited the site to collectevidences of its origin. They had said that it was likely that the crater wascreated by the fall of a massive meteorite. India has two more craters, one is Lonar lake in Buldhana district of Maharashtra and another in Shivpuri district of Madhya Pradesh. But Agarwal said the morphological features of Ramgarh crater is more pronounced than the Lonar lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ramgarh-crater-to-be-developed-as-tourist-hub/articleshow/81116319.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
February 20, 2021||Jaipur||RERC issues standards of performance regulations for discoms||Jaipur: The Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (RERC) issued the standards of performance regulations for the discoms on Friday under which the distribution companies have pay compensation to the consumers for failure in ensuring services.As per the regulations, overhead line /overhead cable break down has to be rectified within four hours in cities, while six hours in urban areas and 10 hours in rural areas.Distribution transformer failure has to be rectified within 8 hours in city and urban areas, while it is 24 hours in rural areas. Similarly, power transformer failure has to be put on track within 48 hours in city, urban and rural areas.In case of failure of a licencee/franchisee to meet the Guaranteed Standards of Performance and completion within actual time as specified in these regulations as well as Supply Code Regulations, compensation should be payable to the consumer by the licensee/franchisee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rerc-issues-standards-of-performance-regulations-for-discoms/articleshow/81116301.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Coimbatore||Western TN no AIADMK fort: Stalin||Coimbatore: The 2021 assembly election will disprove the notion that western Tamil Nadu is a bastion of AIADMK, DMK president M K Stalin said. Vowing to crack the whip on ‘corrupt ministers in the AIADMK government’ soon after DMK formed the government, Stalin who held a meeting in Coimbatore on Friday said that state local administration minister S P Velumani would be among the first to face action. Addressing cadres and the public in the city and later in the day at Karamadai near Mettupalayam, Stalin said AIADMK leaders, more recently deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, had claimed that western Tamil Nadu was an impenetrable fortress of the AIADMK. “That fortress was breached by DMK in the Lok Sabha election. We bagged up to two lakh votes more than AIADMK in each of the Lok Sabha segments here. In the assembly election that claim of Kongu belt being AIADMK bastion would be buried deeper down the soil,” Stalin said. Noting that despite AIADMK having several ministers from western districts, the region has not benefited much, Stalin said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was opening mini–clinics at the fag-end of the term to salvage his ‘misrule’ and issuing pages of advertisements with tall claims. “If we dig deeper, either those claims would be false, or those projects would have been in place long before he became CM,” Stalin said. In a vitriolic attack on local administration minister S P Velumani, Stalin levelled a series of corruption charges against the minister. Accusing Velumani’s brother of running a parallel government in Coimbatore, Stalin said that the minister as well as his benamis would be held accountable for their actions once DMK forms government. To put an end to EPS–S P Velumani combine, DMK should win all segments in western TN, he said. Stalin noted that though DMK opposed MGR and Jayalalithaa, he would acknowledge the leadership qualities of both the leaders. “But EPS lacked such qualities. He has mortgaged the rights of TN to retain the post and has become a puppet in the hands of BJP to retain his post,” he alleged. EPS and Velumani are hoping to win at least a few seats in western belt by one way or the other, but their designs would be defeated by the people, Stalin said. “DMK could prove in the courts that the EPS government was the most corrupt in the country. Before that people should spell out their verdict,” he said, adding that once DMK comes to power, it would clamp down on rowdyism by AIADMK men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/western-tn-no-aiadmk-fort-stalin/articleshow/81117881.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: HC quashes order removing MDS varsity VC on corruption charges||JAIPUR: The high court on Friday quashed and set aside the order of the chancellor removing the then vice-chancellor Dr Rampal Singh of Maharshi Dayanand Saraswati University, Ajmer, as it had not followed the Universities (Amendment) Act, 2019, which laid down the process for removal of the VC of any university. The single bench of Justice S P Sharma in his order, however, said, “This court leaves it open for the chancellor and the state government to pass appropriate orders either by following recourse to Section 19(1) of the MDS University Act, 1987 as amended in 2019 by directly following the procedure laid down therein or by taking recourse to invoking clause (b) of second proviso to Article 311(2) of the Constitution of India.” Both the provisions ensure that the person in question be given an opportunity to show cause for his action. Singh was initially suspended and then removed from the post by an order on December 9 last year by the chancellor following an ACB FIR against him on a complaint of demanding a bribe of Rs 2.2 lakh for affiliation of a college. The court said the chancellor of the university did not invoke clause (b) of second proviso to Article 311(2) of the Constitution of India in the present case. He has instead only invoked the power contained under Section 19A sub-section 1 of the MDS University Act, 1987. The court said under Section 19A sub-section 1, the petitioner has not been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause for the action proposed. The government said in the court that since the accused was in jail, he was not given a show cause notice on the charges. The court also noted that the advice of the state government to the chancellor was factually erroneous. As per the letter sent by the ACB on November 3, 2020, the ACB had not filed charge-sheet against the petitioner and only a decision has been taken to file a charge-sheet whereas the letter dated December 4, 2020, sent to the chancellor mentions of charge-sheet have been filed. The noted that additional advocate general in the court admitted that the charge-sheet had not been filed when the letter was sent to the chancellor advising him to remove the petitioner. The order of chancellor, therefore, stands vitiated on that count also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-quashes-order-removing-mds-varsity-vc-on-corruption-charges/articleshow/81116324.cms||Joychen Joseph
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Petrol price Rs 3 short of Rs 100-mark in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The price of petrol in Mumbai is at an all-time high again, at just around Rs 3 short of the Rs 100-mark. Sources in oil marketing companies said that due to huge fluctuations in crude oil prices in the international market, the possibility of petrol hitting Rs 100 in the city cannot be ruled out. On Friday, the price rose by 30 paise to peak at Rs 96.62 per litre at city pumps. The price of petrol in Parbhani district touched Rs 98.78 on Friday. The diesel rate in Mumbai is also at a record high, and has been hiked by over Rs 3 for 11 days in a row. On Friday, the rates were hiked by 35 paise to retail at Rs 87.67 per litre.  Transporters are worried that the hike in diesel prices will impact the common man—not just in the prices of essentials, but will hit them hard if there is a nationwide protest by transporters by month-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/petrol-price-rs-3-short-of-rs-100-mark-in-city/articleshow/81118901.cms||Somit Sen
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Drone technology centre starts at IIT-Roorkee for research on drones||Roorkee: Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee (IIT-R) has inaugurated a state-of-art centre for drone research on the campus. The initiative has secured a seed funding of Rs 1.4 crore from alumni of the 1994 batch on the occasion of their Silver Jubilee Reunion. A communique from the institute said that the centre is envisaged to evolve as “a unique facility at the national level wherein state-of-the-art and frontier research would be conducted on several aspects of drone technology, including drone development, drone applications and anti-drone technology”. The centre will be housed at the electronics and telecommunications department of the institute. Among the alumni of the 1994 batch, Amit Kumar Sinha, IG (telecom) of Uttarakhand police was also present at the function in Roorkee. The inaugural function — conducted in virtual mode — also witnessed the participation of VK Saraswat, member of Niti Aayog, RK Tyagi, institute alumnus and former chairman of Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd; BVR Mohan Reddy, chairman of board of directors of IIT-R; and Ajit Kumar Chaturvedi, institute director. As many as 198 former students of the 1994 batch donated money to establish the drone centre. The students of the same batch had also collectively donated Rs 1.42 crore to the institution in 2017 for a different cause. According to experts, India will become a drone hub by 2030 and drones and anti-drones will define the core combat capabilities of tomorrow. The drone market is pegged at 128 billion and has around 38 different areas of application. Hence, there is a huge opportunity in this segment, especially in the healthcare and social impact domains. “I would like to congratulate IIT Roorkee for this initiative. The drone segment has witnessed a surge in demand by leaps and bounds and is currently being harnessed by 50-60 academic institutions for developing a variety of applications. The growth of this segment aligns to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of Aatma Nirbhar Bharat,” said VK Saraswat, chief guest of the event and former director-general of DRDO. He also stressed upon the significance of indigenisation in the design process of drones and the need for prudent business models to make it commercially viable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/drone-technology-centre-starts-at-iit-roorkee-for-research-on-drones/articleshow/81115180.cms||Tapan Susheel
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||Abhinav leads HT to SF in T20 media cup||Lucknow: Overall performance by Hindustan Times captain Abhinav Shukla helped his team defeat Photo Journalists Eleven by 92 runs and entered the semi-finals of the SBI T20 Media Cup cricket tournament here on Thursday. In the rain affected second tie, Electronic Media defeated Dainik Jagran by 30 runs under the VJD method and entered the semi-finals. In the first match, HT scored 138 runs in seven wickets, 20 overs. Abhinav with the help of 10 fours scored 67 runs in 52 balls. Sharad Deep made 20 runs and Rohit and Manish scored 12 runs each. For the Photo Journalist Eleven Sharad Shukla took four wickets giving 24 runs in four overs. Kashif Hasan, Ashutosh Tripathi and Amit Singh took one wicket each. Photo Journalist Eleven could score only 46 runs in 12.3over. Amir Raza was the top scorer with 13 runs. For HT, Rohit Singh took three wickets in 2.3 overs giving eight runs. Abhinav, Manish and Dilip Pandey took two wickets each. In the second tie, batting first, Dainik Jagran scored 130 runs in 19.5 overs. Sunil Singh scored 56 runs with the help of six fours in 54 balls. Rohit scored 23 and Saurabh 14. For Electronic Media Eleven Fhaeem and Rajiv Srivastav took two wickets each. Rain disrupted the play many a time. Finally, the match was stopped when Electronic Media had scored 88 runs in 10.2 overs after losing three wickets. Later, under the VJD method Electronic Media Eleven was declared the winner. Sunil Singh was declared Man of the Match. BOX 1st semi-final today The first semi-final between HT and Electronic Media will be played on Friday and the second semi-final between The Times of India and Doordarshan will be played on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/abhinav-leads-ht-to-sf-in-t20-media-cup/articleshow/81099795.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Sonu Sood to support family of man who died in Chamoli disaster||Dehradun: After helping several people during the Covid-19 lockdown, Bollywood actor Sonu Sood has now stepped in to support the family of a 45-year-old man who lost his life in the Chamoli disaster. The actor on Friday confirmed the decision to support the four daughters of Alam Singh Pundir, who was among those working on the NTPC hydropower project site at Tapovan, when the flash floods hit on February 7. Pundir worked as an electrician at the hydropower project, and his body was among the first to be brought out from the tunnel, where he was trapped along with over 30 others. The eldest of the four girls is 14 years old while the others are aged 11, 8 and 2 years. The family lives in a small village, Dogi Patti, located on the outskirts of Tehri Garhwal district. Pundir was working inside the tunnel when the flash flood took place. After the plight of the family was highlighted on various social media platforms, it caught the attention of the actor who will be helping the girls receive an education and get married. A total of 62 bodies and 27 body parts have been recovered so far from the disaster site while 143 people are still missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sonu-sood-to-support-family-of-man-who-died-in-chamoli-disaster/articleshow/81115188.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 20, 2021||Coimbatore||Burglary attempt foiled after ATM catches fire in Pollachi||Coimbatore: An ATM owned by the South Indian Bank at Vettaikaranpudur near Pollachi was gutted on Friday morning after a burglar tried to open it using a gas cutter.CCTV cameras captured a man, with his face covered with a piece of cloth and wearing gloves, enter the ATM centre at 2.50am. He attempted to open the currency chest using a gas cutter for 10 minutes, but was forced to flee when a fire broke out.Bank authorities received information about the fire around 3.40am and rushed to the ATM centre. After trying to put out the fire on their own, they contacted the Pollachi fire service station and a team of firefighters reached the place to extinguish it at 4am.Forensic experts collected evidence from the scene. The Rs 16.40 lakh kept in the cash chest was found intact, bank sources said.Two special teams have been formed to nab the miscreant, superintendent of police Ara Arularasu said.The Anaimalai police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/burglary-attempt-foiled-after-atm-catches-fire-in-pollachi/articleshow/81117918.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||Faizabad’s last rite Samaritan on death bed, yet to receive Padma award announced last year||AYODHYA: Padma awardee and Faizabad’s ‘last rites’ Samaritan, Mohammad Shareef, 83, who gave honour in death to over 25,000 people when their bodies lay unclaimed, is wallowing in penury and on the verge of death in his ramshackle two-room rented house. More than a year after he was conferred with the Padma award on Republic Day, Shareef Chacha as he’s popularly known, is yet to receive the medallion and citation and his family fears he may breathe his last without getting a glimpse of the medal, forget walking the red carpet in Rashtrapati Bhawan to receive it from the President. His family doesn’t have money to buy medicines to treat his critical illnesses and Shareef Chacha was barely conscious when TOI visited him at his house at Mohalla Khirki Ali Beg in Faizabad. Once agile and sharp, Shareef who would walk miles to pick unclaimed bodies and carry them to the burning ghats and graveyards, has lost his memory and can’t even remember the Padma honour conferred on him last year. His cycle repair shop, which helped him eke out a living, is in shambles after he lapsed into a vegetative state. Their dilapidated home has a tin ceiling and the house belongs to a local waqf member. His 15-year-old granddaughter, Ayesha, said, he’s suffering from multiple diseases, including an impaired liver and kidney. Shareef's wife, Bibbi, 76, said, “We are perpetually in debt and owe thousands of rupees to the local moneylender and chemist shop. My husband is yet to receive the Padma medal as the award function was postponed due to the pandemic-triggered lockdown. We are still waiting for the elusive phone call from a government official.” Talking to TOI, his son, Mohammad Sagheer, said, “On January 31 last year, we received a letter from Union home ministry, informing us about the Padma Shri bestowed on my father. When we received a call from Delhi, requesting us to reach Rashtrapati Bhawan to receive the award, my father took a loan of Rs 2,500 from local money lender and booked train tickets. But at last minute, we were told not to board the train as the event was cancelled due to the pandemic. We still have not been able to repay the loan taken to buy train tickets.” Sagheer, a driver by profession, earns a pittance and is barely able to make two ends meet. When TOI spoke to BJP MP from Faizabad, Lallu Singh, who had proposed the Padma award for Shareef Chacha, he said, “I am not aware he has not got the Padma award. I will mobilise funds for his treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/faizabads-last-rite-samaritan-on-death-bed-yet-to-receive-padma-award-announced-last-year/articleshow/81118716.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Timely info, fewer concerns of side- effects improve turnout||LUCKNOW: The final mop-up round of phase I for healthcare workers on Friday witnessed a record number turning up to get vaccinated against Covid-19. However, owing to poor response in earlier rounds, thousands are still to get their first shots. Of 9,020 workers enlisted for the day, 7,486 (83%) were vaccinated in the drive conducted at 85 booths in 35 centres. While 3,225 (77%) out of the targeted 4,187 got the first dose, 4,261 (88%) out of 4,833 in the list took the second dose. The turnout for the first dose was highest in terms of percentage among all the seven rounds for healthcare workers in phase I held earlier. Prominent among those who took the second dose on Friday was chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar. Now, of 59,000 healthcare workers in the city, altogether 43,056 (73%) have got their first dose so far including Friday’s round. This means, about 16,000 (27%) are still left. The two mop-up rounds were added to cover left-out beneficiaries, but overall coverage is yet to be achieved. “We will ensure that those still left get one more chance at the mop-up round for frontline workers on February 22,” said Dr M K Singh, district immunisation officer. The situation improved on Friday because beneficiaries were informed twice about their schedule. The reluctance among beneficiaries also dropped after seeing that there were no side-effects in their colleagues vaccinated earlier. At RMLIMS, head of physiology Dr Rajani Bala Jasrotia, who got her second dose, said, “As healthcare workers, we deal with patients everyday, so it is important to take both the doses.” Some health professionals also complained that their names were not included in the seven rounds held earlier and it was only after contacting the authorities that they got the second chance. Former director of RML Hospital Dr Ashok Kumar Chawla (70), who currently runs a private clinic in Gomtinagar, said, “I am getting my first dose today as in the previous rounds, my name was not on the portal.” BOX Frontline workers also inoculatedOne reason for high figures on Friday was that some centres had also inoculated frontline workers left out in previous rounds of phase II. For example, at SPM Civil Hospital, only 65 of 250 enlisted healthcare workers turned up. Hence, authorities inoculated 296 frontline workers who had come to inquire about schedules by adding them in the list through the ‘add-on’ option in the CoWIN app. IG Lucknow range office PRO Vindhya Singh (39) had missed the shot on Thursday as he was out of station. “I decided to get the jab today because I may have to go again,” he said. (With inputs from Yashita Arora and Anahita Chauhan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/timely-info-fewer-concerns-of-side-effects-improve-turnout/articleshow/81118619.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Senior MLAs meet Speaker, want to be honoured||LUCKNOW: The UP legislative assembly may honour and felicitate MLAs who have completed their 25 years as members of the House, though a final decision is awaited. Since the term of the assembly is coming to an end with the next elections scheduled to be held in 2022, the Speaker has to take the call whether or not to follow his predecessor’s tradition of honouring the senior ones. Sources confirmed to TOI that a delegation of seniormost MLAs had also called on Speaker Hridaya Narain Dixit to apprise him of the past tradition when then Speaker Mata Prasad Pandey and chief minister Akhilesh Yadav had honoured the seniormost MLAs including Suresh Khanna, Shyam Sunder Sharma and Durga Shankar Yadav and had felicitated them in 2016. Khanna is now the Parliamentary affairs minister in Yogi government. The three have now completed their eighth term in the Assembly without changing their constituencies. Among the top ranking MLAs this time are two ministers, Satish Mahana and Jai Pratap Singh, apart from Shyam Sunder Sharma BSP MLA and Raghuraj Pratap Singh also an Independent, though he has floated his own political outfit. Veteran Shyam Sunder Sharma has been consecutively a member of the assembly from Manth constituency in Mathura since 1989 and was minister in Kalyan Singh and Mayawati governments. Similarly, Satish Mahana, who is MLA from Maharajganj in Kanpur, with roots in the RSS and the Bajrang Dal, has worked with five chief ministers in the past and feels inspired by the “energetic and hardworking chief minister Yogi Adityanath”. Similarly, Raghuraj Pratap Singh remains literally invincible in his Kunda assembly constituency for the 8th term despite stiff challenges by his political opponents including former chief ministers Kalyan Singh and Mayawati. Talking to TOI, Raghuraj Pratap Singh, popularly known as Raja Bhaiyya, confirmed that some senior MLAs had met the Speaker to draw his attention towards the glorious tradition of honouring the seniormost MLAs of the House. The delegation also reminded the Speaker of similar felicitation in the previous state assembly. Later on, talking to TOI, the Speaker said that a delegation had met him in this regard and he would actively consider their proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/seniormost-mlas-meet-speaker-want-to-be-honoured/articleshow/81118632.cms||Subhash Mishra
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||‘UP grows strawberry, can produce Chinese silk too’||Lucknow: A five-day training programme on ‘Hands on sericulture’ was inaugurated at Amity University here on Friday. The participants will be trained in empowering rural women, uplift socio-economic status of women farmers, and help farmers double their income through sericulture farming. The programme has been jointly organised by Amity Food and Agriculture Foundation, Amity University Lucknow campus and UP sericulture department. Addressing the programme, chief guest and additional chief secretary (ACS), silk, handloom and textile, Rama Raman, said at present sericulture production is around 300 metric ton while the demand is for 3,000 metric ton and this wide gap needs to be bridged. He said UP has a rich tradition of Handloom and this field can be further strengthened with use of new technology. He suggested that a certificate course in handloom should be started at Amity University. Raman said the government is working on a plan to develop a Silk Park in Lucknow. Addressing the participants, ACS information and chairman of UP Handicraft Development and Marketing Corporation, Navneet Sehgal, said the Yogi government is continuously developing the state through various schemes like ODOP. The state government’s ODOP department will soon sign an MoU with Amity University under which the university will promote sericulture and the ODOP department will market the final products, he said. Insisting that the state government plans to promote sericulture so that the dependence on import of silk from China could be minimized, Sehgal said, “It is well known that Varanasi is the hub of silk products, like sarees and dress materials. The artisans and entrepreneurs import silk from China for the manufacturing purpose. Why can’t we produce the same silk here in Uttar Pradesh.” Citing the success of strawberry farming in Jhansi, Sehgal said, “Growing strawberry in Jhansi was something unthinkable. When people can grow strawberry in Jhansi, the Chinese silk can also be produced in UP.” Sehgal claimed that while the pandemic affected trade across the globe, Uttar Pradesh attracted investment worth Rs 57000 crore during the corona period itself. This became possible because of the intense follow-up and liberal policies floated by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, he said. Ashok K. Chauhan, founder president of Amity Group, also addressed the session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-grows-strawberry-can-produce-chinese-silk-too/articleshow/81118584.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Coimbatore||Commuters struggle without suburban trains, depend on overcrowded buses||Coimbatore: With the railways yet to restart unreserved and local trains, thousands of people travelling to the city for work from Mettupalayam, Pollachi, Palakkad and Singanallur are forced to use their own vehicle or get into crowded buses, which make them more susceptible to catching Coronavirus. “This has led to taking buses from Palakkad to Coimbatore, which cost eight to nine times more than the train,” said Madhavi, a GST department employee, who travels from Palakkad daily. “It costs Rs 5,000 a month, compared to the Rs 270 one-month pass.” Sangavi from Pollachi, who has now begun taking bus to work, said it takes at least 10 minutes longer. “Though the bus is faster, it must take roundabouts due to the Athupalam flyover work and due to the election. It is also more tiring.” As many as 700 passengers depended on the Coimbatore-Pollachi train. Those who take the Mettupalayam-Coimbatore train are also affected. “The bus to Mettupalayam takes at least 15 minutes longer than the train,” said K Shiva from Mettupalayam. “It also costs Rs 20 a day, which is much more expensive than the train,” he said. With local commuters not depending on trains, the Coimbatore Railway Junction’s footfall remains at 35% of the pre-Covid levels. “The footfall remains at 10,000 a day, which is almost a third of the pre-Covid footfall of 28,000 people. Only 68 pairs of trains pass through the station. We are yet to reopen ticket counters because now we are only running fully-reserved express trains,” said commercial manager Chitti Babu. “We don’t allow non-passengers to enter the station building to see off their loved ones. We are yet to start selling platform tickets.” To ensure that senior citizens carrying luggage are not inconvenienced, work to install an escalator on platforms 1 and 2 is almost complete. Escalator to platform 1A is operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/commuters-struggle-without-suburban-trains-depend-on-overcrowded-buses/articleshow/81117935.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Allahabad||Man, brother held for kidnapping and killing a girl in Pratapgarh||Prayagraj: A man was arrested by Pratapgarh police on the charges of kidnapping and killing a Dalit girl and seized a mobile along with two SIM cards from his possession. The arrested man, identified as Hariom Yadav alias Raj (20), was a resident of Tardeeh (Antoo) village. Police have also been looking for the accused’s elder brother and his wife who were also involved in the crime. Police said that one Ramnath Saroj, a resident of Khajohari village had on January 13 lodged a complaint with Kotwali police station that her daughter identified as Anjali (17) had left the house on January 6 to attend school and alleged that the girl was “forced to elope” with unidentified persons. The police after lodging case under section 363 of IPC started probing the incident and further found the involvement of three persons including Hariom Yadav alias Raj, his elder brother Rahul Yadav and Deepmala (wife of Rahul Yadav), residents of Tardeeh village behind the mysterious disappearance of the girl. The police team despite conducting a series of raids at the suspected hideouts of wanted persons were not able to trace their locations. On Friday, a police team managed to arrest the prime accused Hariom Yadav alias Raj, from near a bus stand while he was planning to escape from the town and recovered a mobile and two sim cards (used in the crime) from his possession. During quizzing, the prime accused Hariom confessed that he with the help of his brother and Bhabhi had kidnapped Anjali on January 6 and later killed and dumped her body near Chamraudha river bridge and escaped. After the confession of the accused, police later added other sections including 302, 201 and 120 B , 34 of IPC and 3(2) 5 of SC\ST act in the FIR regarding the incident. Police said that the accused, who was in a relationship with the girl, had hatched the conspiracy to eliminate the girl as she was constantly “mounting pressure” on him for marriage and the accused wanted to get rid of her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-brother-held-for-kidnapping-and-killing-a-girl-in-pratapgarh/articleshow/81114835.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||3rd party inspection toverify clean city claims||Lucknow: As a part of Swachh Bharat Survey (SBS) 2021, an eight-member team deployed by ministry of housing and urban affairs (MOHUA) would conduct a ‘third party inspection’ in the second week of March to verify Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC)’s claims of cleanliness and efficient services in the city. Drawn from the Quality Council of India (QCI), team members will take feedback from citizens on garbage collection, disposal and management as well as segregation of waste. The team will also conduct random inspection of public toilets to verify LMC’s claim of Open Defecation Free (ODF) status. Under SBS 2021, cities will be evaluated under three parameters — citizen feedback (1,800 marks), service level progress (2,400 marks) and certification (1,800 marks). Many citizens have already given online feedback. Now, the team will talk to a few residents in different parts of the city directly. The team will check cleanliness and services in public toilets as well and visit several residential localities to find out whether residents have access to toilets or not. This year, another protocol “water plus” has been added to the certification parameters in which the team will check how much sewage generated in the city is treated before discharging into the Gomti river. It will also verify if LMC has adopted a model to reuse water in public toilets. This year, Lucknow is competing with 52 other cities with a population of 10 lakh or more. In 2020, the city’s all India ranking was 12. LMC official in charge for SBS 2021 Arvind Rao said, “We are very confident that we will get positive results after the third party inspection is completed. We are aiming for the top spot this year under SBS.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3rd-party-inspection-toverify-clean-city-claims/articleshow/81118589.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Allahabad||Devotees throng Sangam on Achala Saptami||Prayagraj: Scores of devotees took holy dip in Ganga on the occasion of ‘Achala Saptami’ and offered prayers to the Sun God. The footfall started rising since early Friday and the flow continued as the day progressed. Mela police maintained a strict vigil on the ghat and police mobile teams were engaged to regulate the flow of crowd. Noted astrologer Amitabh Gour said Achala Saptami is celebrated on the seventh day of Magh’s ‘shukla paksha’. It is also known as ‘Rath Saptami’ and ‘Arogya Saptami’. He said devotees offer prayer to the Sun God for good health, wealth and prosperity. Piyush Kumar, a resident of Khargon (MP), arrived at Magh Mela along with his family to take a holy dip on ‘Achala Saptami’. “This was a auspicious day to take a holy dip in the confluence of three rivers,” he said. Sasaram resident Ratan Singh said “He will be staying at the tent city and will return after taking a dip on Maghi Purnima.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/devotees-throng-sangam-on-achala-saptami/articleshow/81114828.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||Youth to give ‘dastak’ on social issues for change||Lucknow: College students in the city will brainstorm on social issues and also showcase their talent in a slew of events during the 12th Dastak Youth Festival which will be held at Sangeet Natak Akademi, Gomtinagar, from February 22-25. The festival’s theme is ‘Role of youth towards social change and gender equality’. The youth participants will hold deliberations on social issues like inequality due to caste system, religion and culture, income disparity; role of social media towards change and equality; farmer rights among others. “The festival’s aim is to create an equal society and how the present generation can bring a social change. Be it gender norms, economical inequalities, LGBTQ rights or our Constitution and democratic rights, all the issues will be discussed by the students creatively through poems, debates, rangoli and poster making,” said Sangita Jaiswal, one of the organisers of the festival. The festival will begin with orientation and consultation, followed by creation of a wall magazine from waste materials, on the spot painting and photography competition. On the second day, students will debate on the topic ‘Is social media being a modern, global, accessible and intuitive medium proving to be helpful in eradicating stereotypes-unscientific and social discrimination between us?’, apart from slogan writing, extempore, and photography competitions. The third day events will include poetry writing, poster making and a street play on ‘Challenges and society of the corona’, short film on ‘Illusion of social media and real change makers’ and a stand-up comedy. Mushiara and folk dances by the participants will enthral the audience on the last day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/youth-to-give-dastak-on-social-issues-for-change/articleshow/81118573.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||LU invites women to share stories that inspire; cell to compile book||Lucknow: If you have a story that can inspire the ‘Aadhi Abaadi’ or women around you, there is a platform to share it to impact others. The story can be about hardships faced in your life, gender biases at the workplace, harassment that you handled well or any success story that you think can bring about a change in the life of others. In an initiative by Lucknow University called ‘Silent Voices’, any woman student, alumni, teacher or employee of LU can write to the university’s gender sensitization cell, GenSen cell, and tell their story. All they need to do is drop an email to gensen.lkouniv@gmail.com. The compilation of these stories will be released in the form of a book and women will be given the title of ‘She-heroes’ along with recognition International Women’s Day. One can share stories anonymously too. “Every woman has a story to inspire, a story that can change the way people think, which can ignite a fighting spirit not only in women but men as well,” said vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai. He said the university wanted to recognize such women and give them a platform. “The initiative ‘Silent Voices’ will not only salute our She-heroes but also make society aware of how powerful a woman is,” he added. The platform is open to anyone who is from the LU family. There is a word limit for sharing a story. The last date to send the story is February 27. Details are available on Lucknow University’s website and will shortly be on social media as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-invites-women-to-share-stories-that-inspire-cell-to-compile-book/articleshow/81118578.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||Abandoned by parents after birth, seven-year-old with special needs finds a new home in Denmark||Prayagraj: Life had been turbulent for seven-year-old Munnu. Born with special needs, he was abandoned by his parents when he was hardly six days old. Since then, he has been staying in government-run shelter homes in search for an unconditional love and care. Now, Munnu has finally found a saviour in Denmark’s Carina Lykke Rasmussen, who came all the way to the Sangam city to formally adopt him. Munnu is set to fly to Denmark with his new mother Rasmussen and grandmother Hedda, who will take him to his new home in Esbjerg, a picturesque seaport town. Munnu is without complete legs and hands (he is missing both legs below the knee and had fingers all joined that required him to undergo a surgery). After being abondoned in Balia in 2013, he was moved to Varanasi before being brought to Prayagraj by volunteers of Childline India, an NGO working to help children in distress. “I am very happy. I will be flying in an aeroplane with my mummy,” said Munnu, a name given to him by government officials at Prayagray’s Rajkiya Bal Greh in Khuldabad, which has been his home for over six years. As Carina was formally handed over the child by district probation officer Pankaj Kumar Mishra and superintendent of Rajkiya Bal Greh, Khuldabad Harish Kumar Srivastava on Thursday, the 48-year-old certified orthotist and prosthetist felt emotional. The day came after clearing a long-drawn stringent adoption process as laid down by Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA), an autonomous and statutory body of Union minister of women and child development that had lasted many years. “It was almost 10 years back that I applied to adopt a kid with special needs. Having spent 25 years making and fitting braces and splints (orthoses) besides artificial limbs (prostheses) for people with disabilities, I wanted to love, care and provide a home to one such special child as mine,” shared Carina, who will be bringing up Munnu as a single parent. “Initially, I was on a waitlist for a child from Ethiopia for few years, but then was in line for a kid from India for years. It was only in November 2019 that I was informed that the process was finally complete, and I had the requisite court orders for adopting the child. However, Coronavirus outbreak and travel restrictions did delay the process, she said holding Munnu busy eating a packet of chips in her arms. On February 22, Carina will leave for New Delhi with Munnu where she plans to secure the necessary travel documents for the child before flying to Denmark by mid-March. “My entire family is eagerly awaiting Munnu’s arrival, especially my bother’s son who is of the same age. Once there I plan to help Munnu learn Danish and English besides find the best possible prosthesis for him,” said Carina already busy planning the future as any caring mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/abandoned-by-parents-after-birth-seven-year-old-with-special-needs-finds-a-new-home-in-denmark/articleshow/81114896.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Allahabad||AU prof suspended last year for Markaz links reinstated||Prayagraj: Authorities of Allahabad University (AU) have revoked the suspension of Prof Mohamad Shahid of the department of Political Science. Prof Shahid was suspended by AU on April 21 last year as he was accused by the district police of hiding the information about his visit to Nizamuddin Markaz and later arranging the stay of nine foreign nationals in the city who had attended Markaz with him. However, during the period of suspension, Prof Shahid was paid subsistence allowance as applicable, given the rules of the University of Allahabad and financial rules set by the government of India. Now, almost 10 months later, an order revoking his suspension was signed by the varsity registrar, Prof N K Shukla on Thursday. The order, a copy of which is with TOI, mentions that in the matter pertaining to Prof Shahid, an enquiry committee was constituted by the vice-chancellor under the chairmanship of Prof Harsh Kumar, AU’s proctor. The meeting of the enquiry committee was held on January 20 this year and recommended that the suspension of Prof Shahid is revoked with full pay and allowances. “The committee also recommended that the remaining amount of suspension period be released only on the outcome of the aforesaid FIR by the court accordingly,”, said the registrar. However, the committee has recommended that no administrative work should be given to Prof Shahid till the matter is subjudice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-prof-suspended-last-year-for-markaz-links-reinstated/articleshow/81114873.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow University to give UG students multiple entry, exit options||LUCKNOW: From the next academic session, undergraduate students of the Lucknow University are likely to get a flexibility to leave their course midway to join a job, prepare for competitive exams or other reasons. After postgraduation, the varsity is planning to implement the multiple entry and exit rule as prescribed by the National Education Policy-2020 at UG level. As per NEP-2020, the varsity’s UG course will now be for four years instead of three. The structure of UG courses whether it will be an ‘honours’ or non-honours course will be decided by a team of academics and other experts after several rounds of meetings. So far, the varsity has decided that UG will be of four years and with a multiple entry and exit options. “The structure and the modalities will be decided by a team of experts soon. We are going to adopt NEP in our UG too. At PG level, we have already become the first one to adopt it,” said vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai. He said four-year UG courses with multiple entry and exit options will allow students to build their own degrees. They will have far more autonomy which will help them to take a call on how and when they want to get a degree and plan their career. Depending on how long a course they study, they will be awarded a diploma or a degree under the new system. In the new version of UG course that is likely to be offered by LU, a student can get a certificate after a year programme, an advanced diploma after two years, a bachelor’s degree after three years, and a bachelor’s with research after four years of studies. “More entry and exit options will give students adequate options in planning their career, taking care of life events as due to financial or family problems at times they have to discontinue their studies. With the new UG structure, they can continue they studies at a later stage,” said a senior professor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-to-give-ug-students-multiple-entry-exit-options/articleshow/81118582.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Up to 75% EWS seats in state’stechnical courses lying vacant||Mumbai: Almost two years after a government resolution was passed implementing the EWS (economically weaker section) quota in the state, large numbers of seats still remain vacant in colleges offering professional courses. Of the 10,000 EWS seats in undergraduate engineering (BE/BTech) courses, almost 60% are vacant after admissions concluded recently. In MBA/MMS courses, almost three in four seats (76%) under the category are still lying vacant. Interestingly, some seats are also vacant in sought-after government and aided colleges. While officials attribute the vacancies to non-availability of documents, some feel that the overall drop in demand for engineering and other professional courses could have had an impact on the quota seats too. An official from the state's CET Cell said they have not yet studied the data. “But we do get requests from many students seeking more time for document submissions. They say their applications are pending with the concerned authorities. It happens mostly with the caste validity certificates and now even with the EWS eligibility documents. Many families wait till the last minute to apply for these documents; only when their scores are not decent enough to get a seat of their choice do they decide to seek the benefit," said the official. The state machinery also needs to expedite the process of issuing these documents, he added.“The overall decrease in demand for professional courses, especially engineering, will also have an impact,” said principal GT Thampi from Thadomal Shahani College of Engineering. “Given the pandemic and the economic slowdown, many may have postponed their plans to pursue professional courses. Despite the concessions, students may have to still pay 50% of the fees, which is also on the higher side in private institutes. This year, apart from the seven-month delay, the academic session is likely to be taken online for most months, encouraging many to take a gap year,” said Thampi. The government should ideally be promoting education loans, in addition to the existing scholarships. Overall, 45% of seats are vacant across engineering courses and in MBA/MMS, the vacancies are 33%. The percentage of vacancies in EWS is higher than the overall vacancies across professional courses. For instance, B Pharm, a sought-after programme now, has less than 7% vacant seats. But under the EWS quota, the vacancy is still higher at 40%.Sanjay Lakhe-Patil, a Maratha activist, said that many students from the Maratha community may not have been able to take the benefit as the state kept dilly-dallying on the decision to allow them to apply under EWS. The state's indecisiveness may have created confusion among students and parents, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/up-to-75-ews-seats-in-statestechnical-courses-lying-vacant/articleshow/81118908.cms||Yogita Rao
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||MNNIT to open classrooms for final year BTech students||Prayagraj: At a time when educational institutions, both secondary level and that of higher education, are gradually opening up for the students amid Covid-19 pandemic, the campus of Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT)-Allahabad too is ready to welcome back its students on the campus. Taking a step towards normalisation, the MNNIT administration has decided to restart offline classes for its BTech final year students of all branches from February 22. The classes would be conducted in strict accordance with the protocols laid down by the government under Covid-19, says director of this lone National Institute of Technology (NIT) of the state, Prof Rajeev Tripathi. He shared that in view of the Covid-19 outbreak and the resulting lockdown, holding offline classes on the campus was stopped from March 23, 2020. However, online classes and examinations and other academic e-events were conducted during this period. “However, from February 22 classes of BTech final year students of all branches will start running in the respective departments. From this very day, all researcher scholars too will start coming to the institute to undertake their respective research related works,” he said. Prof Tripathi said that likewise, final year MTech classes will also start on the campus for all the branches in the departments from March 1. After this, if everything goes well, classes of BTech other semesters as well as all other courses will be started in a phased manner, he explained. As per the protocol finalized for the students to start attending the offline classes, the institute has asked them to submit their Covid-19 negative reports based on tests performed not more than 72 hours in advance. “Only students whose Covid-19 test reports are negative will be allowed to sit in the classrooms and stay in hostels. During this time, all Covid prevention norms including maintaining social distancing, wearing facemasks and using hand sanitisers etc. will need to be ensured as per the prescribed norms,” MNNIT director said. MNNIT officials said that with the commencement of offline classes for BTech final year students in the institute, companies which have registered for taking part in the campus placement exercise will also be granted entry for undertaking placement drives. Most placements of final year students have been held online. But some well-known companies will now come to the institute and take offline interviews as per their need and convenience, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mnnit-to-open-classrooms-for-final-year-btech-students/articleshow/81114937.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Varanasi||BSP leader killed over hawala, biz rivalry: Cops||Times News Network Varanasi: The Azamgarh police, on Friday, arrested two persons for murder of BSP leader Kamaluddin on February 15. Police investigations have also revealed the involvement of a Dubai based person in the murder. The pistol used in crime has also been recovered. The police also claimed that the BSP leader was killed over hawala and business rivalry. According to reports, Kamaluddin was shot dead by the miscreants in Mehnagar area of Agamgarh district. His family members lodged an FIR against six persons. Four teams of police were engaged to work out the case. The police succeeded in nabbing two accused Rijwan and Asif from near Jainagar crossing. Azamgarh SP Sudhir Kumar Singh said that during investigation it came to light that the murder of Kamaluddin was conspired by a Dubai based accused. Two persons were killed in the past in this rivalry in which Kamaluddin was also involved. Further investigation is underway, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bsp-leader-killed-over-hawala-biz-rivalry-cops/articleshow/81116013.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||Rising cyber fraud forces Ram temple Trust to stop digital donations||AYODHYA: The Ramjanmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has decided to stop accepting digital donations, following recurring glitches in the payment gateway during online transactions. Also, the high-traffic portal has become a happy hunting ground for cyber criminals, who are hacking into accounts or creating fake websites to pilfer money, said secretary of the temple Trust, Champat Rai. Talking to reporters in Varanasi, Rai said, “the payment gateway will be shut immediately and digital transactions would stop.” On Thursday, Ayodhya police had lodged a case against two persons for running a fake website in the name of Sriram Janambhoomi Teerth Kshetra and collecting funds in the name of temple construction. Two accused, Tejveer Singh and Gaurav Kumar, were booked on a complaint by Ram Mandir Trustee, Dr Anil Mishra. Five FIRs have been lodged against cyber conmen till now. Three cases have been registered in Ayodhya, one in Bilaspur and another in Mumbai. Recently, a similar case of fraud has surfaced in Kanpur. Trust treasurer Govind Dev Giri told TOI that Trust coffers have received Rs 1,590 crore till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rising-cyber-fraud-forces-ram-temple-trust-to-stop-digital-donations/articleshow/81118722.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Varanasi||Religious books found burnt in a Gorakhpur village, police deployed||Gorakhpur: Tension prevailed in Kona Sonbarsa village under Jhangha police station jurisdiction in the district on Friday when some religious books were found burnt at a place of worship. Police have registered a case against unidentified persons while heavy police force has been deployed in the village to maintain law and order. Police said the incident came to light on Friday morning, when one Usman Ali of Kona Sonbarsa went to his place of worship and found that some religious books had been burnt. Besides, a loudspeaker, microphone and amplifier were scattered around in the building. As the news spread, tension prevailed and people gathered at the building and also informed the police. After getting information, SP (North) Manoj Kumar Awasthi, Circle Officer (CO) Chauri Chaura Dinesh Kumar Singh and Jhangha police reached the spot. Usman informed the police that the books were kept in a bag. On the written complaint of a villager, Javed Ansari, police registered a case against unidentified persons. “Some miscreants have burnt religious books in the village. A case has been filed against unidentified persons under sections 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 427 (mischief causing damage), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) of IPC and investigations are underway. Police have been deployed in the village to check any untoward incident,” said station house officer (SHO) Jhangha Inspector BB Rajbhar. “Several police teams have been deployed with instructions has been given to resolve the case within 24 hours. Whosoever is found to be involved in the wrongdoing will be arrested and sent to jail,” said SP Manoj Kumar Awasthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/religious-books-found-burnt-in-agorakhpur-village-police-deployed/articleshow/81116027.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||Unnao sisters buried under heavy security, dad wants killers hanged||UNNAO: The two teenage sisters, whose bodies were found two days ago at their farm in a Unnao village, were buried on Friday morning under heavy police cover. Two pits were dug, 200m from their homes and the bodies wrapped in white were taken out in a procession winding through mustard fields with scores of mourning villagers joining in the last rites. Residents of the sleepy Baburha village, who have been restless and awake for two nights, shook off their slumber and thronged the funeral site at 9am. They helped in digging two 8-foot-deep pits in the fields in presence of policemen and a company of provincial armed constabulary (PAC) before burying the bodies. Father of the 13-year-old girl sobbed inconsolably and said his daughter’s soul would find peace only after the killers are nabbed. “We have no demand from anybody other than arrest of the accused,” he said. Talking to TOI, the grandfather of the 16-year-old girl said, “As per tradition, unmarried girls who die under unnatural circumstances are buried.” SP Unnao, Anand Kulkarni, said, the last rites were conducted in the morning as per wishes of the families. “We did not force the family to bury the bodies at night, while clarifying on allegations that cops had been coercing the families to complete the funeral at the dead of night,” he said. District magistrate, Unnao, Ravindra Kumar handed over a cheque of Rs 5 lakh each family of the deceased and Rs 2 lakh compensation to the kin of the girl, who is battling for life at a private Kanpur hospital. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unnao-sisters-buried-under-heavy-police-cover/articleshow/81118567.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
February 20, 2021||Kanpur||19k lady constable taken into custody||Kanpur..........................8 (Faiz) Times News Network Kanpur:A lady constable posted at Bakewar police station of Etawah, was on Friday taken into custody with regard to an incident wherein she had not apprised police about a missing four-year-old child and took him to her Barra home in Kanpur, on Wednesday. The boy found by a local, was handed to her in Saurikh area of Kannauj district, where she had gone with regard to some official work, on Wednesday afternoon. According to additional superintendent of police Kannauj Vinod Kumar, the lady constable -Meera Devi posted at Bakewar police station of Etawah, had gone to Saurikh area of Kannauj on Wednesday in connection with some official work. “On the way back, a local -Surendra Singh of Saurikh area had handed her a minor boy, who was found by him loitering and crying in the area. The lady constable instead of alerting the Saurikh police station, where a missing complaint was lodged by child’s father -Sanu, took him to her Barra locality home in Kanpur,” ASP said. However, the local police on coming to know about the development, with the help of CCTV footage had identified the boy as Ayush son of Sanu, who had gone missing from his Ambedkar nagar locality home on Wednesday afternoon. “The investigating cops however managed to zero-in on the lady constable with the help of CCTV footage procured from the Saurikh area of the district. In the footage, she was found to be riding with the same boy. Subsequently, the police raided her Barra -6 home and recovered the boy. The woman constable has been taken into custody and her questioning is underway,” said ASP further. ----------eom||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/19k-lady-constable-taken-into-custody/articleshow/81115909.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath hammers Opposition for inciting farmers||LUCKNOW: UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said on the floor of UP Assembly that the opposition was inciting farmers to protest against the three farm laws and fuelling anarchy just to serve its petty political interest. Speaking on the second day of the budget session of UP assembly, Yogi insisted that the three farm laws were in the series of steps taken by government for the welfare of farmers. “The provision to allow farmers the freedom to sell their produce other than mandi is hurting the middlemen and their political masters,” he said, adding that it is not the farmers but the middlemen trying to rake up the protest. “They are bothered since the money is reaching the accounts of farmers directly,” he said. Yogi sought to identify the people who were conspiring to malign the image of the country within and abroad through protest. “This is happening at a time when the country is seen as a most sought after investment destination. Just shedding crocodile tears would not solve the purpose of the farmers,” he said, underscoring the fact that if there was any confusion on an issue then the mechanism of dialogue prevailed in a democratic set up. The CM said that the Central government had shown its full commitment in solving the issue. “But what happened in Delhi on Republic Day brought down the dignity of the Tricolor and the country before the world,” he said, tearing into the opposition of triggering the protest just for the sake of it. He said the government would now allow anyone to spread anarchy, insult constitutional symbols and take law into one’s hands. Citing PM Narendra Modi's statement that the MSP would continue, Yogi said that his government was conducting procurement of paddy on MSP. He said that the state government procured 66 lakh metric tonnes of paddy on MSP, which was much more than done in any previous government. “PM Modi has given MSP to farmers. We brought policy for procurement in Uttar Pradesh in 2017. The contract farming, too, has to be in favour of the farmer. For this, the Centre has proposed 10,000 Farmer Produce Organisation (FPOs). In UP the state government has already initiated the step that aims to increase the income of farmers,” he maintained. Yogi said that the opposition in UP would not discuss the payment of Rs 1.22 lakh crore to the cane farmers and other reforms brought in the cane sector. “All this is hurting the opposition which has never been the supporters of farmers and has largely been engaged in corrupt practices,” he alleged. He categorically took on the Samajwadi Party saying that he felt “surprised” with the SP leaders’ concern for farmers, youth and women. Yogi said that during the campaign against land sharks, the state government managed to free 66,000 hectares of land, most of which was grabbed by people associated with the party which was previously in power in UP. “We are using the same land for various purposes including construction of cow shelters and defence corridor,” he said. “Compare the performances of BSP and SP governments between 2003 and 2017 with ours. BJP’s four years of governance are better than the combined 14-year performance of these two parties,” he said. Reiterating that his government was committed to taking steps which are beneficial to the farmers, Yogi pointed out that the state government ensured operation of 199 sugar mills despite the pandemic while those in other states had to be closed. He stressed that his government managed to pay cane dues more than what was paid between 2004 and 2017. “Cane development department stood with sugar mills during the pandemic. Lockdown was announced on March 25 but the mills operated till June. We ensured that mills continue to operate so that farmers do not have to face problems in taking their produce to the mills,” he said, adding the coronavirus management in Uttar Pradesh was the best in the country. “We started wheat procurement from April 1. UP was the first state to set up wheat purchase centres. We had to make extra arrangements for wheat purchase but did not create any inconvenience for farmers and made record procurement in four years,” Yogi said. Highlighting the central government’s efforts for the welfare of farmers, Yogi said under the PM Kisan Samman Scheme, 12 crore farmers were receiving Rs 6,000 annually directly in their bank accounts. “The three laws are in continuation of pro-farmer steps being taken by the Centre. Farmers can sell their produce anywhere and at the price they deem fit,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/oppn-inciting-farmers-fuellinganarchy-says-yogi-in-assembly/articleshow/81118630.cms||Pankaj Shah
February 20, 2021||Coimbatore||Man beats wife to death, lands in jail||Coimbatore: A 50-year-old man was arrested on Friday for murdering his wife suspecting her character at Arivozhi Nagar Kuttai at Mettupalayam on Thursday night. A cop with Mettupalayam police station said the accused, P Murugesh, was an alcoholic. “A daily wage labourer, he married Parvathi 10 years ago after his first wife Kanniammal separated from him and married another person.” The officer said Murugesh had two daughters aged 20 and 17 in the first marriage. “He often suspected Parvathi’s character and used to quarrel with her. On Thursday night, he reached home drunk and fought with her. He assaulted her with a wooden log and a small iron pipe. She suffered injuries to her head, hands and legs and succumbed to them on the spot,” the police officer said. Hearing the commotion, neighbours rushed to the spot and caught Murugesh. They then alerted the Mettupalayam police, who sent the dead body to the nearby government hospital for postmortem in the early hours of Friday. Police also registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested Murugesh, who is likely to be produced before court on Saturday morning. The officer said they have launched a probe into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-beats-wife-to-death-lands-in-jail/articleshow/81117944.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Pune||Pune: MSEDCL snaps supply to 36,000 consumers over dues||PUNE: The MSEDCL has disconnected power supply of over 36,000 consumers from Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad, and Pune rural areas, for failing to clear their dues for 10 months. The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) said these consumers have pending dues worth Rs89 crore. The utility snapped power connections of over 20,000 commercial consumers, while the number in the residential category was 13,650. The MSEDCL said in a statement, “By February 17, the MSEDCL has cut power supply of as many as 19,388 consumers from Pune city, 9,885 from Pimpri Chinchwad, and 6,866 from Mulshi, Velhe, Ambegaon, Junnar, Maval and Khed areas. The Pune city, with Rs42.17 crore of bill pendency, has the highest dues among all other areas.” The MSEDCL’s appeal to pay the dues has, however, resulted in around 97,000 consumers from the Pune zone clearing their outstanding of Rs145.75 crore. Over 66,000 residential consumers have the largest share among the paid dues worth Rs55 crore. The statement added that those who have still not paid the dues would have to undergo a power cut in the coming days. It stated that the consumers can pay their bills online as well on www.mahadis.com.in website or via the mobile application as well. The MSEDCL stated that the utility was highly dependent on the amount collected through bills for purchasing power, routine maintenance and repair, clearing pending dues of the contractors and other routine expenditures related to the establishment. It added that the power cut remained their only option that will be continued for some time in near future. The MSEDCL added that in its Pune zone, the total pending dues were worth Rs819 crores on as many as 10.08 lakh consumers, in which 8.49 lakh residential consumers owe Rs505 crore and 1.38 lakh commercial consumers owe dues worth Rs211 crores. The 20,000 consumers with the industrial connection have pending dues worth Rs102 crore. The MSEDCL recently went ahead with sending power disconnection notices to the defaulters in Kolhapur despite citizens and several organisations’ opposition to the state government’s policy regarding power bills. The MSEDCL employees are under pressure to recover the arrears owing to which they are undertaking special drives as the financial year will end next month and the company is facing financial crisis due to non-payment of bills. As per MSEDCL, 23,158 consumers out of 3.31 lakh in Kolhapur district have cleared arrears amounting to Rs34crore. However, Kolhapur district has total arrears of Rs172 crore and MSEDCL is yet to recover Rs138 crore. Now, MSEDCL has prepared a list of 31,951 consumers who have not paid any bill since April last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msedcl-snaps-supply-to-36k-consumers-over-dues/articleshow/81117967.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Varanasi||Govt to promote ethanol as an alternative fuel: Min||Varanasi: Defending government on sky rocketing prices of petrol and diesel the Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Chaubey said that efforts are being made to bring relief for countrymen while works are also in progress to promote ethanol as an alternative fuel. Reacting over continuous rise in price of fuel oil while talking to the reporters here on Saturday Chaubey said, “Rise and fall in the price of petroleum products in international market is not under government’s control. Despite this fact we had succeeded in bringing down the price of oil in past and again all possible measures are being initiated to provide relief to the people in current situation.” To reduce dependency on the petrol the government has already started working on exploring possibility of utilising ethanol as alternative fuel oil, he said adding, the increased use of ethanol will help ecologically and economically. This will lead to reduction in import of crude oil and adverse impact of price fluctuation in international market, he added. Chaubey, who reviewed works done to combat Covid-19 menace in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency, highlighted the massive increase in health budget by Modi government by taking lesson from pandemic. Regarding fresh waves of Covid-19 in Maharashtra and districts like Kanpur, he said, PM is already reiterating for initiating all precautions even after vaccination. We are fighting strongly against Covid-19 and also increasing hope for the world. Failure in efforts of keeping the Coronavirus chain broken is increasing problems in some parts of country. But, the medical fraternity and people are combating the situation effectively. The minister also attacked former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on the issue of farmers protests. What should we say for Rahul as he is already exposed inside parliament and among people. There is no wave of farmers agitation as people are watching how Modi government is trying its best to increase the income of farmers. Priyanka should ask her husband to return farmers land first before talking about them, said Chaubey. The minister also visited Pt Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer centre to inaugurate the operation theatres in the presence of Tata Memorial Centres director Dr. Rajendra A Badwe and also took stock of the functioning of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/govt-to-promote-ethanol-as-an-alternative-fuel-min/articleshow/81129504.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||Six of 10 beneficiaries have taken vaccine in UP so far||LUCKNOW: More than 68% of the total beneficiaries, including frontline and health workers, took the vaccine to beat coronavirus here on Friday, according to data from the CoWIN portal. Data accessed till 9 pm revealed that of the 1,54,776 targeted persons, 1,04,871 took the vaccine. In all, 1,906 sessions were held. The list also included health workers vaccinated with the first dose on January 22 who had come for their booster dose. With the addition of Friday data, the cumulative vaccination achievement target in UP reached 61%. This means that so far six out of 10 listed beneficiaries have taken the vaccine in Uttar Pradesh which is already home to the maximum number of vaccinated persons in the country. As on date, the total number of persons vaccinated in the state reached 11,87,700 against the target of about 19.47 lakh. In terms of districts, cent percent coverage was recorded in Prayagraj, Muzaffarnagar, Chandauli and Gorakhpur. Balrampur followed with 99% coverage. Pratapgarh, Srawasti and Hardoi recorded 98% turnout, while Siddharthnagar also made it to the top five with 97% achievement. Bulandshahr finished last with just 28% achievement, while the other bottom five districts included Aligarh, Amroha (32%), Ghazipur (33%), Sambhal (36%), Varanasi and Chitrakoot (37%). State capital Lucknow recorded a handsome turnout of 66% while the turnout of some of the big districts was as follows: -- Jhansi (74%), Ghaziabad (64%), Meerut (91%) and GB Nagar (86%). An official statement from the health department said that both covishield and covvaxin were used and no adverse event following immunization was recorded. Though some people showed mild side effects none required hospitalsation as per reports. They, however, advised that people may contact the state helpline 104 or national helpline number 1075 in case of any inconvenience. Officials said that the mop-up round for leftover frontline workers will take place on February 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/6-of-10-beneficiaries-havetaken-vaccine-in-up-so-far/articleshow/81118664.cms||Shailvee Sharda
February 20, 2021||Coimbatore||Will protest till demands are met, say revenue staff||Coimbatore: About 350 revenue officials in the district boycotted work for the third consecutive day on Friday, pressing their 10-point charter of demands, including enhanced pay for office assistant to district revenue officers and filling of vacant posts, and protested in front of the district collector’s office.D Shanmugaraj, district secretary, Tamil Nadu Revenue Officials’ Association, said, ‘The strike will continue until the state government holds a talk with us and finds a solution to our demands.”He said the nature and workload of the revenue department, which deals with issues related to as many as 166 regulations, were completely different from that of other departments that had to deal only with issues related to two to three regulations. “Yet, our pay scale is equal to others. We have been demanding the state government to enhance the pay of everyone in the department based on their nature of work.”Shanmugaraj said about 30% of the posts were vacant, burdening their workload further. The government, he said, should take immediate steps to fill the vacant posts at the earliest.“Ideally, foundation and skill training should be provided to the new joiners within a year or two, but the same is offered only after five to six years because of administrative reasons. It is affecting the department work and promotion cycle of officers. As of now, there is only one training centre that too at Bhavanisagar in Erode district. We have been requesting the government to set up centres in each district, so that the newcomers could be trained without any delay,” he said.Their other demands include withdrawal of contributory pension scheme and immediate implementation of the old pension scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/will-protest-till-demands-are-met-say-revenue-staff/articleshow/81117973.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||UPEIDA asks construction firms to speed up pavement work||Lucknow: Seeking to expedite construction of Gorakhpur Link Expressway, the UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) on Friday asked construction companies to speed up work of pavement design while ensuring quality of construction. Presiding over a review meeting, UPEIDA chief executive officer Awanish Awasthi also sought to accelerate the construction of a bridge on the river Ghagra. He directed officials that the work of shifting of power utilities like transmission and distribution wires be carried out speedily. At present, 11% of Gorakhpur Link Expressway—which connects with Purvanchal Expressway—has been completed. The authority has managed to complete 89% of clearing and grubbing, while mud work has been completed to the extent of 28%. Awasthi also asked officials to ensure that the problems related to land acquisition be solved quickly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upeida-asks-construction-firms-to-speed-up-pavement-work/articleshow/81118640.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||Engine oil cans worth Rs 26L stolen from godown||Pune: Unidentified people broke into a godown in Alandi and decamped with 4,368 litres of engine oil, worth Rs26 lakh. The theft came to light on Wednesday morning and an offence was registered with the Alandi police on Thursday. Sunil Gite (37), a worker at the godown, lodged a first information report (FIR) with the police. The Alandi police said the godown is located at Gaikwad Vasti in Chimbali near Alandi. “In the early hours of Wednesday, the thieves broke the locks on the shutter and entered inside. They stole with several boxes containing engine oil cans, worth Rs26 lakh,” the officer said. E-commerce company’s employee booked for theft The Bhosari MIDC police on Thursday registered an offence against an employee of an e-commerce company for stealing laptops and other valuables, collectively worth Rs3.8 lakh, from the company’s sortation centre in Bhosari MIDC. The theft occurred between October 2020 and January this year, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/engine-oil-cans-worth-rs-26l-stolen-from-godown/articleshow/81117947.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Coimbatore||Officials take bribe for loan waiver, held||Coimbatore: Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) sleuths arrested a deputy registrar and a sub-registrar with the cooperative department on Friday night for accepting a bribe of Rs 1.25 lakh from the secretary of Dhalavaipalayam Primary Agriculture Credit Society in connection with farm loan waiver.An investigation officer said Sivaji, secretary, Dhalavaipalayam Primary Agriculture Credit Society, had approached them when Selvaraja, 41, deputy registrar of cooperative department at Mahalingapuram in Pollachi and Arumugam, 36, sub registrar at Anaimalai threatened to issue summons to him and not to wave agricultural loans of 17 members of the society if he didn’t pay a bribe of Rs 1.25 lakh.In his compliant, Sivaji said this was when the joint registrar of cooperative societies had cleared the loan related files for the waiver based on the recent state government announcement. The DVAC sleuths laid a trap to nab the officials and gave Sivaji chemical coated currency notes to be handed over to Arumugam at the office of the deputy registrar on Friday 7.15pm. The DVAC sleuths, who were in plain clothes, watched him hand over the bribe amount to the official and caught them while accepting the same. The arrested duo would be produced before the special court for DVAC cases in the city on Saturday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/officials-take-bribe-for-loan-waiver-held/articleshow/81117949.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet okays jobs for kin of four kids killed in Maur Mandi blast||CHANDIGARH: After a wait of four years, the job hopes of families of four minors killed in the bomb blast at Maur town of Bathinda on January 31, 2017, have been revived. The Punjab cabinet on Friday cleared a special provision in rules to provide government jobs on compassionate grounds to one family member of each of the four minors killed in the blast. Seven persons were killed and 13 injured in the pre-election explosion. At a meeting of the state’s council of ministers, chaired by chief minister Amarinder Singh, it was decided that the government would bring in a special provision to provide jobs to one member of the family of each deceased — Japsimaran Singh (15), Sourav Singla (14), Ankush (11), and Ripandeep Singh (9) — as per their educational qualifications in Bathinda or adjoining districts against direct quota vacant posts as a special case (without treating it as a precedent). The existing rules did not provide for giving employment in state service on compassionate grounds for minor deceased. The jobs are in addition to the financial grant of Rs 5 lakh given to the families of each of the deceased. The state government had earlier provided government jobs to the next of kin of two deceased, Harpal Singh (40) and Ashok Kumar (35), as per the existing policy, since both were the breadwinners of their families. In the case of rag-picker Ashok Kumar, his 11-year-old daughter was also killed, but since one member has already been given a job, her case has not been included in the special provision. The bereaved families have termed the government move as “better late than never”. Japsimran’s father Khushdeep Singh told TOI: “We had been waiting for it since the government had promised jobs on February 2, 2017. We feel it is better late than never even though the jobs have been approved less than a year ahead of elections.” Ankush’s mother Ritu Bala had lost her position as data entry operator on contract basis at Maur SDM’s office two years ago. Other decisions by Cabinet Amity University to open in Mohali The stage is set for tabling and passage of the bill for setting up of private, self financed Amity University at IT City, Mohali, at the forthcoming budget session of the Vidhan Sabha. The ordinance for setting up of the university could not be promulgated earlier due to the imposition of the election code of conduct for civic polls, necessitating the legislation of a Bill to be approved by the House. Approved under the ‘Punjab Private University Policy-2010’, the university will come up over an area of 40.44 acres with an investment of Rs 664.32 crore over five years. Punjab to revise 90-year-old feePunjab Government has decided to revise the nearly 90-year-old fee structure under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932, to bring it at par with other states. The council of ministers approved ‘The Indian Partnership (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2021’ for revision of fee for various services as contained in Schedule-1 under Section 71 of the Act, such as registration of firms, updation of records, inspection and copying. Encroached land for small farmers The Cabinet gave approval to ‘The Punjab (Welfare and Settlement of Landless, Marginal and Small Occupant Farmers) Allotment of State Government Land Rules, 2021’ in order to make allotment of encroached lands to small and marginal farmers on the basis of a rational criteria by sale of land at a predetermined price. Mission Lal Lakir in villages To facilitate villagers in monetising property rights, the Cabinet approved implementation of Mission Lal Lakir in all villages. As no record of rights is available for such properties within the Lal Lakir, no mortgages etc can be created on such properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cabinet-okays-jobs-for-kin-of-4-kids-killed-in-maur-mandi-blast/articleshow/81116369.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Youth shoots girlfriend, injures another friend in running class||JHANSI: Relationship between three close friends pursuing MA in psychology at a local college took a horrific turn when Manthan Singh Senger shot dead Kritika Trivedi and pumped a bullet into the head of Hukmendra Singh Gurjar here on Friday. Taking cognizance , CM Yogi Adityanath has ordered stern action against the accused. Reports said Manthan (24) went to the college carrying a gun with the intention of killing both Hukmendra (22) and Kritika (22). He entered the classroom and saw Hukmendra attending the class. Manthan shot him in the back of his head, walked up to the blackboard and scribbled “Manthan Finished”. He then looked around for Kritika. Not finding her in the classroom, he ran straight to Kritika’s house in Godu Compound area of Jhansi. Kritika was sitting in front of her house when Manthan reached. Within the blink of an eyelid, Manthan shot at her more than once. Hearing the gunshots, her relatives and neighbours rushed out and overpowered him. ‘Accused, victims knew each other since 2016’Kritika’s relatives and neighbours then tied Manthan to an electric poll and called the cops, who immediately arrested him. Both the victims were rushed to Jhansi Medical College, where Kritika succumbed during treatment. Hukmendra is said to be in a critical state. He was later shifted to Delhi. Police said all the three knew each other since 2016. While Hukmendra and Kritika belong to Jhansi, Manthan is a resident of MP’s Niwari district. As per Hukumendra’s uncle Sanjay Singh, who is a clerk in the same college, both the boys were good friends. Jhansi SSP Dinesh Kumar P said: “The accused and the victims were close friends. They had developed some misunderstanding over relationship issues. Manthan suspected that Hukumendra was spreading some rumours about their relationship.” He added: “The accused had come prepared to shoot both his friends and acted accordingly. We have booked him under murder and attempt-to-murder charges. We have recovered the murder weapon, which||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pg-student-shoots-at-two-classmates-in-jhansi-girl-dies/articleshow/81118687.cms||Arindam Ghosh
February 20, 2021||Bhopal||Roads dug up for water pipeline and sewage make life miserable||Bhopal: The ongoing construction works and laying of sewage and water pipelines has not only worsened the condition of roads in various areas, including Shahpura, Kolar and Ratibad, but has also made lives of residents in these areas miserable. The sewage line is being laid for months on the roads in various areas of Shahpura, including the road from Indus Empire Colony to Rohit Nagar Phase 2 to BDA Colony, Salaiya, and on the road from Salaiya to Gulmohar Colony Road. The roads in the area are dug up and piles of soil and gravel are being stocked on the road. These piles not only block entry to the houses in the locality, but the dust blowing from the debris in the area has made the lives of people difficult. People suffer from asthma-like symptoms due to the dust and it settles on their household articles and vehicles. A number of road accidents have taken place in the area due to poor condition of roads, including a fatal accident which took place four days ago in which a 25-year-old bike-borne youth skidded and lost his life. Veena Jain, a resident of Rohit Nagar Phase 2, told TOI that it has been more than a month that the road in front of her house was dug up. Piles of mud and soil accumulated in front of their main gate, completely blocking entry to their house. “My husband, who is a senior citizen, had to climb up the debris to go out of the house. The situation remained the same for 15 days and we had to park our vehicles on the other side of the road,” she said adding that recently her son skidded on the road due to the mud spread there and sustained injuries. “When I insisted, the sewage line construction workers moved the pile of mud and debris from in front of our house a day before, but still, there seems no chance that they will restore the road soon. I asked them to clear the part where the sewage line has been laid, but they do not listen,” said Veena. A local grocery shopkeeper, Vijay Soni, said that the biggest problem is that the agency laying the sewage line digs up the road, but doesn't restore it before moving ahead. He said that he feels unsafe to drive a bike on the road from near Akriti Ecocity Colony gate on Salaiya Road. People drive in the wrong lanes to avoid bad roads and suddenly come in front from the opposite side. The dust blowing from the road gets accumulated on everything and affects health too.Similarly, Neeraj Gour, a resident of Danish Kunj in Kolar area, said that most of the roads in Kolar were dug up for laying sewage lines, but the restoration work was pending. The agency just filled the gravel and mud in the dug up parts of the roads and they cause problems to vehicle drivers. The road from Suraj Nagar to Neelbad Square in Ratibad is being widened and the construction has been going on at snail’s pace for around a year. The construction agency dug up the road in Barkheri area, but constructed only a single lane. This causes a jam-like situation in the area and makes it accident prone. Ajay Maran, a businessman in the area, said that the slow construction work of the road has made the life of people residing in the area, especially near the main road, miserable. A number of prominent schools and colleges are located in Ratibad and fortunately they were not running in full strength due to the corona pandemic. “Imagine if this road is not constructed before monsoon and the schools and colleges open, then what will happen? Due to the dug up road, dusty winds blow in the area all day long and people are suffering from health problems due to the dust,” said Maran. BMC commissioner, KVS Chaudhary Kolasani, said, “We are repairing roads, but BMC is also working on sewage and water pipeline laying works, so roads are being dug up, too. So, the roads dug up are restored and you have new dug up roads, which shall be restored later on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/roads-dug-up-for-water-pipeline-and-sewage-make-life-miserable/articleshow/81116378.cms||Sudeept Mishra
February 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Nod to amendment for more borrowing||Chandigarh: The Cabinet, on Friday, approved an amendment to avail the benefit of additional borrowing of 2% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in 2020-21. According to the plan, the state will amend Section 4, in Sub-Section (2), Clause (a) of the Punjab Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act, 2003. The Centre has allowed 2% of GSDP, of which 1% will be unconditional and the remaining 1% will be conditional to specific reforms. In view of the Covid pandemic, the Centre had provided relaxation in borrowing limits by increasing additional borrowing limit of upto 2% of GSDP for the year 2020-21 subject to implementation of specific state-level reforms as well as amendment of state’s FRBM legislation for the year 2020-21 to this effect. Of 2%, 0.5% was unconditional and the remaining 1.5% was conditional in respect of reforms including implementation of one nation one ration card system; ease of doing business reforms; urban local body/utility reforms and power sector reforms. The weightage of each reform would be 0.25% of GSDP totalling to 1%. The remaining borrowing limit of 0.50% was to be conditional to an undertaking of at least three out of these reforms. To compensate the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, the Centre had offered two borrowing options-I and II to the states, of which, Punjab chose option-I. Option-I gives permission to states to borrow the final installment of 0.5% (originally intended as a bonus for completing at least three of the four specified reforms) even without meeting pre-conditions. Thus, Punjab has been allowed 1% unconditional additional borrowing limit in place of 0.5% of the 2% additional borrowing limit allowed earlier. The remaining 1% additional borrowing limit shall be conditional to above mentioned reforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nod-to-amendment-for-more-borrowing/articleshow/81116382.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||16 booked on charge of creating ruckus||Pune: The Nigdi police on Thursday registered separate cases against members of two gangs on the charge of creating ruckus in Akurdi late on Wednesday night. Five people sustained injuries in a clash between the gang members over the issue of gaining supremacy over ‘hafta’ (protection money) collection. The criminals have been booked under sections 307 (murder attempt) and 141, 143, 147 (rioting) of the Indian Penal Code. An officer from the Nigdi police said two gangs of criminals, operating in Akurdi, had a dispute over collecting money from the vendors there. The gangs were inactive for the past few months, following preventive action against the kingpins. “The criminals had only recently returned to Akurdi. On Wednesday around 10.30pm, seven men attacked Sahil Jagtap (22) with cement blocks and fled,” the officer said. Around 11pm, nine accomplices of Jagtap attacked four people, including two women with sharp weapons in Bhau Patil chawl area .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/16-booked-on-charge-of-creating-ruckus/articleshow/81117983.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Man kills 15-year-old daughter for shaming him, ends life||COIMBATORE: A 54-year-old man murdered his 15-year-old daughter by slitting her throat with a knife before jumping to death in full public view from the third floor of his apartment at the slum clearance board’s housing unit at Aathikattur near Maniyakaranpalayam in Salem district. The man resorted to the crime in the early hours of Friday after his daughter allegedly shamed him over his unstable mental condition. Edappadi police said Gopal, a vegetable seller, committed the murder when his wife was away in Dharmapuri for agriculture work. “He had been under treatment at the Salem government hospital for mental illness for the past one and a half years,” a police officer said. He said Gopal, who was not working for the past six months, also had a 17-year-old son, who was employed with a bakery at Edappadi. “He was staying at a relative’s house.” On Thursday night, the officer said, Gopal had called up his relatives, saying he had slit his daughter’s throat and murdered her. “But the relatives did not believe him and asked him to go to sleep. Yet, they came to check on them at their slum clearance board’s apartment around 3,30am on Friday and found his daughter Priyanka in a pool of blood. When they questioned him, Gopal said she had called him “mental” and killed her in a fit of rage.” Meanwhile, the officer said, neighbours also gathered at the place. “Around 4am, he jumped off the third floor of the housing unit, killing himself.” When alerted, Edappadi police sub-inspector Rajendran and team sent both the bodies to Salem GH for postmortem. Police have registered a case and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-kills-15-yr-old-daughter-for-shaming-him-ends-life/articleshow/81117981.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||EC issues norms to set up auxiliary polling booths in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Election Commission of India (ECI) has come up with instructions for setting up auxiliary polling booths in the state in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. As many as 15,730 polling booths are being set up additionally as the total number of voters permitted in one booth is only 1,000, which would take the total number of polling booths in the state to 40,771. As per the guidelines, first priority for setting up of the additional booths is in the same building where the main booth is situated. If there is no facility available, the new booth should be set up in the same compound. For this purpose, a temporary facility can be arranged. If there is no sufficient space to erect a temporary facility in the same compound, the facility can be set up within 200 metres of the main booth. While setting up additional booths, first priority should be for the government buildings. If there are no government buildings available within 200m, private buildings can be utilised. But it should be ensured that such buildings have no political links. Before setting up the additional booths, the district collectors should hold talks with the representatives of all the political parties. The design for the additional booths has been provided by the ECI, which will be handed over to the district collectors, chief electoral officer Teeka Ram Meena said. He said that all the facilities, including ramps, power, drinking water and sufficient furniture, should be made available in the additional booths as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ec-issues-norms-to-set-up-auxiliary-polling-booths/articleshow/81116441.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Kozhikode||EC issues norms to set up auxiliary polling booths in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Election Commission of India (ECI) has come up with instructions for setting up auxiliary polling booths in the state in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. As many as 15,730 polling booths are being set up additionally as the total number of voters permitted in one booth is only 1,000, which would take the total number of polling booths in the state to 40,771. As per the guidelines, first priority for setting up of the additional booths is in the same building where the main booth is situated. If there is no facility available, the new booth should be set up in the same compound. For this purpose, a temporary facility can be arranged. If there is no sufficient space to erect a temporary facility in the same compound, the facility can be set up within 200 metres of the main booth. While setting up additional booths, first priority should be for the government buildings. If there are no government buildings available within 200m, private buildings can be utilised. But it should be ensured that such buildings have no political links. Before setting up the additional booths, the district collectors should hold talks with the representatives of all the political parties. The design for the additional booths has been provided by the ECI, which will be handed over to the district collectors, chief electoral officer Teeka Ram Meena said. He said that all the facilities, including ramps, power, drinking water and sufficient furniture, should be made available in the additional booths as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/ec-issues-norms-to-set-up-auxiliary-polling-booths/articleshow/81123001.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab budget to be tabled on March 8||CHANDIGARH: The Congress government plans to unveil its budget for Punjab for 2021-22 on March 8. At the cabinet meeting, chaired by chief minister Amarinder Singh, the proposal for summoning of the 14th session (budget session) of the 15th Punjab Vidhan Sabha from March 1 to 10 was approved on Friday. The budget for financial year 2021-22 will effectively be the last budget of the present government as the state would go to polls next year. It would be closely watched if the ruling party decides to include populist measures despite financial constrains. Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal had promised fiscal consolidation in his first budget of the present term in 2017. The council of ministers has also recommended the dates of the session to Punjab governor V P Singh Badnore, who is authorised to officially summon the state legislature as per Article 174(1) of the Constitution. An official said after the cabinet meeting that the chief minister has been authorised to approve the governor’s address for the session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/state-budget-to-be-tabled-on-march-8/articleshow/81116407.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Another 5 depts to be revamped to create posts||Chandigarh: The Punjab cabinet on Friday approved restructuring of five more departments to create more posts. These include departments of revenue, rehabilitation and disaster management, social security and women and child development, planning, social justice empowerment and minorities and civil aviation. A spokesperson said the decision will lead to creation of 1,875 new posts, with 3,720 existing ones, which had become defunct or irrelevant, to be surrendered. It is in line with the decision to generate jobs and enhance functional efficiency, the spokesperson added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/another-5-depts-to-be-revamped-to-create-posts/articleshow/81116433.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Woman loses Rs 5L in currency exchange con||Mumbai: A security officer with a cruise ship in Australia was duped of Rs 5 lakh after a woman and her aide approached her with a deal to exchange for Rs 5 lakh, Rs 20 lakh INR for 1,475 notes (each worth $20). Martina Gonsalves (28) from Mira Road, realised that she was being duped when she opened the plastic bag and found paper bundles instead of the US currency that was promised, said the police. The incident occurred near the Sakinaka Metro station on February 13, and Gonsalves approached the Sakinaka police. With CCTV footage, the accused were identified as 60-year-old woman and another woman in her mid-twenties. The police are looking for them. — V Narayan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-loses-rs-5l-in-currency-exchange-con/articleshow/81118972.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 20, 2021||Pune||Man falls for online bait, loses Rs 9L to cybercrook||Pune: The Sangvi police on Thursday registered an FIR by a 53-year-old Pimple Gurav resident alleging that he was duped of Rs9 lakh by a cybercrook on the pretext of offering him distributorship of a renowned dairy products’ company. The suspect took money from man between September and December last year but the promised distributorship was never handed over to him, police said. Inspector Ajay Bhosale of the Sangvi police told TOI that the complainant owns an Ayurvedic product-related business. “On September 30, he came across an advertisement on a social media platform by a renowned milk products’ company about its distributorship. When he contacted the provided number, the person on the other end offered him the distributorship, told him to fill up a form and pay Rs50,000 as registration fee,” Bhosale said. The complainant transferred the amount to the given bank account number. After that the suspect demanded Rs1.5 lakh for agreement charges. “On October 3, the complainant transferred the amount but the suspect told the complainant to transfer Rs3 lakh more on the pretext of area charges, which the complainant transferred on November 11,” Bhosale said. Later, the person again contacted the complainant and told him to pay Rs2 lakh for requisite machinery. “Believing him, the complainant on November 25 transferred Rs2 lakh,” Bhosale said. Even after November 25 the man paid Rs2 lakh for various charges as cited by the suspect. “The suspect pursued the complainant for money till December 15, by when the man had already ended up paying Rs9 lakh in total. He, however, stopped responding when the complainant started demanding for his money,” Bhosale said, adding, “We have registered the offence under the sections of the IPC and the Information and Technology Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-falls-for-online-bait-loses-rs-9l-to-cybercrook/articleshow/81117994.cms||Mihir Tanksale
February 20, 2021||Coimbatore||Issue course completion certificate to dental students, MP tells min||Coimbatore: MP P R Natarajan requested Union minister for health & family welfare Harsh Vardhan to take immediate steps to distribute course completion certificate to the students, who had completed Bachelor of Dental Surgery in 2020. As per the BDS academic schedule, students who had joined the course in 2015 had completed the fourth year in September 2019 and obtained the provisional certificate, a letter sent by Nataraj said. “If not for the Covid-19 pandemic, the students would have completed internship last September. But dental colleges were closed in April. Even though the Dental Council of India (DCI) directed the colleges to reopen for students this January, many colleges in Coimbatore started functioning from November 2020. Due to lack of proper guidelines for final year students from DCI, colleges have extended their internship period orally and the students are attending the college,” he said.The MP requested the minister to give suitable instructions to DCI to resolve the issue amicably by issuing completion certificate to the students as a one-time measure, considering the pandemic situation. M Raja of Ramanathapuram, father of a dental student, said his ward had taken up NEET examination to join MDS and the result was announced on December 31. “It would be better if we could get the course completion certificate before the counselling dates are announced as one could not get admission in postgraduate course without the course completion certificate. Also, students could not register in DCI and obtain license to start practice without the certificate,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/issue-course-completion-certificate-to-dental-students-mp-tells-min/articleshow/81117985.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||Youth affected by show of might by criminals: Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said here on Saturday that show of strength by criminals not only has an adverse impact on society, but also creates a misleading impression on the youth. Pawar’s statement comes close on the heels of gangster Gajanan, alias Gaja Marne and his supporters, travelling in a cavalcade along the Mumbai-Pune expressway after Marne’s release on Monday evening from the Taloja jail. The deputy chief minister, however, did not name anyone. He also said senior police officers need to ensure that the image of the police force do not take a beating in the wake of incidents like policemen running away on coming across thieves (as had happened in the Chatushrungi area recently) and instructed them to play a significant role in instilling confidence in the minds of people. Pawar stressed the need to step up night patrolling, nakabadi operations at regular intervals to reduce crimes and convince housing societies to install CCTVs for better surveillance. He said that the government has launched recruitment drive to fill pending vacancies in the state police force and promised to look into issues relating to improvement of infrastructure at police station level and construction of housing societies with more floor space index for policemen. The Pune police returned stolen property, collectively valued at Rs1.25 crore, to respective owners at a function held at the Shivajinagar police headquarters. ‘Truth soon about girl’s death’ Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the Pune police will take action in the mysterious death of a 22-year-old woman if investigation reveals involvement of any person. “The police are conducting an inquiry and the truth will come out soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-affected-by-show-of-might-by-criminals-dy-cm/articleshow/81118016.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 20, 2021||Salem||Man who raised slogans against govt arrested||Coimbatore: The Salem rural police have arrested a Maoist sympathiser from Madurai for waging or attempting to wage a war against the Government of India. The arrested person, R Suresh, 45, of Indira Nagar in Madurai, is accused of raising slogans against the Union government during the funeral of Maoist Manivasagam at Theevattipatti police station limits in November 2019. He was booked under sections 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by the public servant), 121 (waging or attempting to wage war or abetting waging of war against the Government of India), 121 A (conspiracy to commit offences punishable by section 121) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 10, 13, 15, 18 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. Suresh was brought to the Theevattipatti police station in Salem on Friday and was remanded in judicial custody. The Thunderbolt team of the Kerala police had killed four Maoists including Manivasagam on October 28, 2019. The Madras high court, which granted bail for Manivasagam’s wife and sister to attend final rites, had ordered that those who attend the funeral should not raise slogans against the government. However, 15 Maoist sympathisers raised slogans against the Union government. The Theevattipatti police registered a case against 15 Maoist sympathisers and arrested 11 of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-who-raised-slogans-against-govt-arrested/articleshow/81118007.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Coimbatore||Vaccine as cause of one of two babies’ death ruled out||Coimbatore: Health department officials say that the possibility of pentavalent and rotavirus vaccine as the cause of death of one of the two two-year-old babies in the district has been ruled out.City health officer Dr S Raja said that the first child’s autopsy report stated that breathing trouble and subsequent ‘pneumonia’ were the causes of his death. “We will never know the cause of the second child’s death as parents didn’t allow for the autopsy and the body has been buried,” he added. “An allergic or anaphylactic reaction usually occurs within half an hour of administering a drug or vaccine, which did not occur in both cases, because they completed half an hour of observation at the PHCs,” he added.Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to temporarily hold usage of the batches of vials from which these two babies were vaccinated. It has asked all primary health centres to send back vaccine vials from the above batches.On district collector K Rajamani’s order, primary health centres were told to identify pentavalent and rotavirus vaccine vials belonging to the batches, administered to the two babies, and keep them aside. “We have told them to stop administering those batches specifically until the complete investigation is done,” deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said. In Coimbatore Corporation alone, 101 vials of both the vaccines were kept aside. “A technical team consisting of deputy director of public health, joint director of medical services, district epidemiologist, WHO representative, CMCH dean among others will complete the investigation in 60 days,” he added.Rejecting the possibility of the vaccine dose being contaminated or faulty, the deputy director, also the chief investigator of these deaths, said 18 other children vaccinated from the same vial at the same centres reported no adverse-effects following immunization even after 48 hours of vaccination. “We also administered the same vaccine batches to more than 7,000 children across the district over the last month,” Dr Ramesh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vaccine-as-cause-of-one-of-two-babies-death-ruled-out/articleshow/81118014.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Coimbatore||Air fest held to mark Swarnim Vijay Varsh||Coimbatore: The Air Force station at Sulur on the outskirts of the city hosted Air Fest 2021 as a part of the Swarnim Vijay Varsh - the 50th anniversary of the India-Pakistan war of 1971, also known as the Bangladesh liberation war - celebration on Friday. School and college students witnessed the event, which commenced with spectacular aerobatic display.The first event was by indigenously developed light combat aircraft Tejas, followed by an eye-catching operational display of the 32 transport aircraft and Mi-17 V5 helicopters. The show concluded with world famous teams of Suryakiran and Sarang displaying daredevil manoeuvres, involving split second reactions and extreme mastery. Various aircraft with their armament and equipment were also displayed. Stalls were set to encourage the youth to serve the nation by joining the Indian Air Force.Air commodore Samir J Pendse VSM VM, Air officer commanding of Air Force station, Sulur said, “We are very proud of our heritage and the active participation of two of our units in the 1971 war. The only Param Vir Chakra recipient of Indian Air Force, Flying Officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhom, is from the squadron located at Sulur. An-21 Squadron, presently at Sulur, was a key participant in the historic Tangail Airdrop of 1971, which proved vital in the defeat of Pakistan, and also flew General Niazi from Dacca to Kolkata after the 1971 surrender.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/air-fest-held-to-mark-swarnim-vijay-varsh/articleshow/81118001.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Kochi||EC issues norms to set up auxiliary polling booths in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Election Commission of India (ECI) has come up with instructions for setting up auxiliary polling booths in the state in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. As many as 15,730 polling booths are being set up additionally as the total number of voters permitted in one booth is only 1,000, which would take the total number of polling booths in the state to 40,771. As per the guidelines, first priority for setting up of the additional booths is in the same building where the main booth is situated. If there is no facility available, the new booth should be set up in the same compound. For this purpose, a temporary facility can be arranged. If there is no sufficient space to erect a temporary facility in the same compound, the facility can be set up within 200 metres of the main booth. While setting up additional booths, first priority should be for the government buildings. If there are no government buildings available within 200m, private buildings can be utilised. But it should be ensured that such buildings have no political links. Before setting up the additional booths, the district collectors should hold talks with the representatives of all the political parties. The design for the additional booths has been provided by the ECI, which will be handed over to the district collectors, chief electoral officer Teeka Ram Meena said. He said that all the facilities, including ramps, power, drinking water and sufficient furniture, should be made available in the additional booths as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ec-issues-norms-to-set-up-auxiliary-polling-booths/articleshow/81123002.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ludhiana||‘New guidelines of BIS make certification process easy’||Ludhiana: Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) has introduced several new guidelines, which, according to the national standards body, are going to make the compliance easier for businessmen and would also bring more transparency and improve the systems as well. City businessmen are upbeat over the changes and the view that these would encourage more people from industry to apply and get the BIS certification easily. Previously, the process was considered cumbersome. Senior officials of BIS have sought feedback and suggestions from the businessmen on these changes. Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, said, “BIS has upgraded its IT systems, enabling real time mobile app-based surveillance inspection report filing. Necessary provisions have also been made in the dashboards on the licenses end as well. Now, the top management at BIS headquarters can also review real time progress of things happening at the field level. Moreover, the inspecting personnel will be required to submit reports in the real time on the day of visit. The discrepancy cum advisory report as required would also be issued digitally to the dashboard of the licensee.” Kairpal also added, “According to the information available with us, several additional features are being provided at licensee end for online updating of details like manufacturing machinery, test equipment, production process, raw materials , any change in the management /quality control incharge, responding to discrepancies online through dashboard, preparation of factory test report of samples testing witnessed by the inspecting personnel during the visit also to be ensured through dashboard of licensee.” According to Sukhwinder Singh, executive member of Ludhiana Business Forums, “The changes by BIS are welcome and we are hoping that by inculcating these there would be huge revamp in the system of registration, compliance and will also make the tasks easier for the applicants. BIS has also engaged five agencies, including TUV SUD South Asia, TUV India Private Limited, Quality Austria Central Asia Private Limited, Bureau Veritas (India) Private Limited and RITES Limited. This is being done to strengthen the surveillance system of product certification scheme. These agencies would undertake factory inspection visits on behalf of BIS and the inspection process will be made more faster. These all changes put together will let the businessmen overcome the hurdles which were being faced by them earlier to overcome the problems being faced by them to get BIS licenses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/new-guidelines-of-bis-make-certification-process-easy/articleshow/81116456.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Food delivery exec on bike fails to notice snapped wire, electrocuted||Hyderabad: A 42-year-old food delivery executive was electrocuted at Shahinayatgunj on Thursday night when he accidentally came in contact with a snapped electric wire. The victim was Mohammed Mustafuddin (42) from Nawab Sahab Kunta area in Jahanuma. The mishap occurred at 12.30 am on Friday when Mustafuddin was returning home from the Mangalhat area. “It was raining and Mustafuddin, who was riding the bike, did not notice a snapped live wire in the rainwater. As soon as his bike came in contact with the snapped wire, Mustafuddin suffered a severe jolt and he fell from the two-wheeler,” Shahinayatgunj inspector Y Ajay Kumar said. Locals who saw the incident immediately alerted the police and the TSSPDCL officials. The power supply for the snapped line was cut off and police shifted the victim to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. “Mustafuddin is survived by his wife and two sons. When the accident occurred, he was returning home from work,” SI Y Naresh said. Based on the complaint of the victim’s family members a case was registered under section 174 (suspicious death) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). “Based on the details gathered during the investigation, if required, the section of the case will be altered,” the SI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/food-delivery-exec-on-bike-fails-to-notice-snapped-wire-electrocuted/articleshow/81118061.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Bhopal||4 big cities under watch as active cases decline in MP||Bhopal: Health department officials are keeping a close watch by mapping the trend of active cases. Across Madhya Pradesh, active cases have declined in the six weeks of the new year. However, health experts are concerned about an upward trajectory of active Covid-19 cases in the four big cities — Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur and Gwalior — in the last two weeks.On January 1, active cases in MP stood at 9,222. In the next six weeks, active cases of Covid-19 reduced by 80%. The total number of active cases reported on Thursday was 1,909. Epidemiologists are looking another trend. It is the percentage of active cases. Around two dozen districts have not reported Covid-19 cases in double digits in the past week or so. In the last 18 days, the number of active cases in Indore — which, on Thursday, had 435 cases — has increased from 14% to 22%. In other words, active cases might alter the recovery factor and indicate an increase in infections.Bhopal has most number of active cases. However, in the past two weeks, the numbers have come down. At the beginning of February, the state capital had 800 active cases. Eighteen days later, it had 526. Bhopal accounted for 27% of MP’s active cases on Thursday.In sheer numbers, like other cities, Jabalpur’s active cases have reduced by 50%, since January 1. However, in January first week, it accounted for 5% of the state’s active cases. In percentage terms, with 141 active cases on Thursday, it accounted for 7.3% of active cases in MP. Gwalior accounted for 1.4% of MP’s active cases.A comparison of active cases with total cases, daily addition to active cases with recovery presents a predictive scenario to for preventive action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/4-big-cities-under-watch-as-active-cases-decline-in-mp/articleshow/81116459.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||Pune: Five gang members abuse & shove policemen, under arrest||PUNE: The police on Thursday arrested five criminals on the police record, all members of the Andekar gang, for abusing and shoving two policemen in an inebriated condition at Lamantanda Vasti in Pashan. A magisterial court later ordered the remand of one of the arrested suspects, Shivam Andekar (25) in police custody till February 22 and sent the remaining four, Rahul Khetre (40), Sairaj Kakade (23) and Sameer Tambe (31), and Sadrul Dake (28) to the Yerawada prison under magisterial custody remand. Senior inspector of the Chatushrungi police station Anil Shewale said, “Assistant inspector Vishal Pawar and his team were patrolling in Pashan at around 3am when they spotted a recklessly driven car and asked it to halt. The suspects were angered and got into a dispute with the police team. They abused and misbehaved with Pawar and his colleague. After the dispute between them became heated, the suspects pushed and shoved the policemen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-gang-members-abuse-shove-policemen-under-arrest/articleshow/81118032.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ludhiana||Parents, girl booked for hiding mental illness from in-laws||Ludhiana: The police have booked a couple hailing from Himachal Pradesh and their daughter for solemnising the latter’s marriage by concealing her mental illness from her husband and his family. An FIR has been lodged at Division No. 5 police station against Vinod Kumar Goyal, a resident of Parwanoo, his wife Kavita Goyal and their daughter after a 14-month-long investigation. In his complaint to the police, Sanjiv Goyal of Sarabha Nagar has stated that his son Sahil Goyal was married to the accused’s daughter on April 24, 2016. Before their marriage, the girl’s family did not let them and Sahil meet their daughter, claiming that she was too shy. But, soon after the marriage, his daughter allegedly started assaulting his son. In a fit of anger, she would often break household items. Later, when they took her to various doctors and psychiatrists, they told them that she had been suffering from illness since before the marriage, which her parents did not disclose. According to the complainant, as they raised the question of the girl’s mental illness with her parents, they implicated him in a false case of dowry harassment in 2017, which was cancelled by police in 2018 after investigation. Investigation officer ASI Hardev Singh said an FIR under IPC sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) has been lodged against the accused, but they have not been arrested so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/parents-girl-booked-for-hiding-mental-illness-from-in-laws/articleshow/81116470.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ludhiana||Man booked on rape, extortion charges||Ludhiana: The police have booked a person for allegedly raping a woman, who runs an NGO, after promising to help her and later blackmailing her using her video. The accused has been identified as Mandeep Singh of Bassian Bet area of the district. In her complaint to the chief minister and then Ludhiana (rural) SSP on August 28 last year, the woman said she works for an NGO dedicated to social causes. On July 6 last year, the accused for the first time sent her a message on Facebook. Then he started making phone calls and sending text messages to her, and she finally responded on Facebook. “He said he wanted to help my NGO and had an intention to do some social work in Punjab. He also claimed that he would arrange a meeting with the chief minister,” she claimed, adding that he tried to give an impression that the CM was like his family member that he also had close links with several MLAs and top police officers. On July 16, 2020, she went to meet the accused first time, along with her father. Subsequently, he told her that he had arranged a meeting with the CM and asked her to come to his place to go to meet him. However, when she reached his place, after pretending to make several phone calls, he said the meeting had been postponed and now it would happen around 9pm. “I was worried as the accused was totally stranger to me… As we waited, he talked about himself and boasted about himself, claiming proximity with the who’s who in power. After some time, he said the meeting was cancelled and would be held the next day,” she claimed. According to her, the accused then said he did not like meeting politicians, as they were not trustworthy, and also convinced her against meeting the CM. Thereafter, he suddenly proposed to her, but she said she would talk to her parents first. The woman further said after some time, the accused started talking to her frequently over phone and they became good friends. He managed to gain her trust and would every now and then ask her to marry him. She alleged that the accused later raped her, and added that he also extorted money by threatening that he had a video of her in intimate position, which he would post on social platforms if she did not pay him. Based on the complaint, the police have booked the accused under sections 376 (rape), 420 (cheating), 384 (extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. Dakha police station SHO inspector Prem Singh said the accused has a criminal past and is yet to be arrested. Various police officials said the accused has no links with the CM or any other politician. The political adviser to chief minister, Sandeep Sandhu, said he is neither aware of the case, nor he has ever heard the name of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-booked-on-rape-extortion-charges/articleshow/81116466.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Sudden rain lashes parts of city||Hyderabad: Sudden downpour triggered by a cyclonic circulation over coastal Andhra Pradesh caught people unawares across the city on Friday. The untimely rains brought down the maximum temperature to 27.8 degree Celsius, which is five degree Celsius below normal. The sudden rainfall that commenced during wee hours of Friday continued throughout the day, bringing back the winter chills. As per the Telangana State Development Planning Society, areas such as Golconda, Asifnagar, Khairatabad, Moulali, Asmangad, Malakpet among others received rainfall of up to 10 mm during wee hours of Friday. In the day time up to 7 pm, Patigadda received highest rainfall of 21.3 mm followed by 19.8 mm at Rein Bazar and 19.3 mm at Monda Market. “By around 12.30 am, light showers started in our area. I was surprised as nobody expects rains during peak winter season. I had started turning on the air conditioner in the past few days. But the rain brought some relief by bringing down the mercury levels,” said P Vinay, a resident of Sainikpuri. Inundation and power disruptions were reported in some parts of the city such as Nampally, Attapur, Rajendranagar, Old City among others. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad attributed the rainfall to cyclonic circulations over coastal Andhra Pradesh and central Maharashtra and its neighbourhood. “Under the influence of upper air cyclonic circulations, thunderstorm activities occurred in north and central parts of Telangana. We expect one or two spells of rains to continue at isolated places. Mercury levels are set to rise over the next few days as dry weather conditions will make a comeback in the region,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, IMD, Hyderabad. Hailstorm was recorded in few districts such as Mahabubabad, Nizamabad, Mulugu, Komaram Bheem, thereby damaging the standing crop. Highest rainfall of 54 mm was recorded in Warangal rural district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sudden-rain-lashes-parts-of-city/articleshow/81118080.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Bhopal||297 fresh Covid-19 cases in state as count nears 2.59L||Bhopal: 297 people were diagnosed with Covid-19, across Madhya Pradesh on Friday. Since the pandemic began, 2,58,871 people have been diagnosed with the infection. Two deaths were attributed to Covid-19 on Friday. Deaths were reported from Gwalior and Damoh, according to MP health department bulletin. MP Covid-19death toll increased 3,846.A total of 250 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the count of recoveries in Madhya Pradesh to 2,53,071. With 126 new cases, Indore where tally went up to 58,490 while that of Bhopal rose to 43,530 with addition of 68 Covid-19cases. Only two districts reported double digit increase, Bhopal and Betul. Betul reported 10 new cases of the infection. Indore has so far reported 927 deaths and Bhopal 618. Bhopal is now left with 522 active coronavirus cases while Indore has 483 such cases.With 14613 new tests, the total number of samples tested for coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh has crossed 56.47 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/297-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-state-as-count-nears-2-59l/articleshow/81116471.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Lack of jobs Cong’s focus in MLC polls||Hyderabad: Congress will expose both TRS and BJP governments in the state and at the Centre during graduates constituency MLC elections by highlighting how they have failed to give promised jobs to the youth and neglected welfare of the employees. A meeting was convened on an online app by TPCC president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Friday with the contesting candidates to discuss strategy to win the two MLC seats.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lack-of-jobs-congs-focus-in-mlc-polls/articleshow/81118084.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Hotel manager, 3 others nabbed for cloning cards of customers||Mumbai: A gang of four, including a manager of a hotel in Andheri, has been arrested for cloning credit and debit cards of customers who visited the hotel. The accused hotel manager, Yashwant Gupta, would secretly swipe the debit or credit cards of customers on a skimmer machine to extract the magnetic codes and then share the details with his accomplices, the other three arrested accused — Azzruddin Ansari, Istiaq Ahmed Khan and Faiz Choudhary, a history-sheeter. Police inspector Nandkumar Gopale said, “Officials from a private bank had complained that many of their customers using their credit and debit cards were duped of their money even though they had not shared their One Time Password (OTP) with anyone.” He added, “After receiving such complaints, our team found a common link that many of the customers who visited this particular hotel in Andheri and used their credit or debit cards were duped. Based on this information we picked up a suspect, the hotel manager.” During interrogation, Gupta admitted to being a part of the crime and also named his accomplices. Inspector Asha Kore added that the accused, Gupta, also used to observe and remember the four-digit passwords keyed in by the customers. He would then pass on the magnetic codes extracted in the skimmer machine and the passwords to his aides, who would make duplicate cards based on the details and siphon off the money from the accounts of the duped customers. It was found that 22 credit and debit cards of a private bank were used for the fraud, said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hotel-manager-3-others-nabbed-for-cloning-cards-of-customers/articleshow/81118984.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 20, 2021||Pune||Velhe panchayat samiti chairman gets vaccine; Pune ZP committee to investigate||PUNE: The Pune ZP has set up a two-member panel to look into reports of a panchayat samiti member receiving the vaccine during Thursday’s drive in Velhe village. A photo of Velhe panchayat samiti chairman Dinkar Sarpale getting the shot was circulated on social media. The panel would visit the vaccination centre on Saturday, examine the records and submit a report the same day. As per reports, Sarpale — an elected representative — received the vaccine that is currently restricted to frontline and healthcare workers, and officers and workers of Panchayat Raj institutions. “We will take a decision once we get the report,” Pune ZP CEO Ayush Prasad said. “When I reached the centre on Thursday morning, one container of vials was opened, but there were not enough frontline or healthcare workers. Once the beneficiaries present got the shot, the rest would have gone to waste,” Sarpale told TOI. A beneficiary’s name is confirmed only through CoWIN app. Tehsil health officer Ambadas Deokar said on Friday that Sarpale and four other members were mistakently enrolled. “A data-entry operator said he was assumed Sarpale and the other members were beneficiaries and entered their names in the database,” Deokar added. “I was not at the vaccination centre at the time. Sarpale and the other members got confirmation messages and alerts. Our staff vaccinated Sarpale, but I stopped the others from receiving the dose. I have told my staff not to vaccinate other members of the samiti,” Deokar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/velhe-panchayat-samiti-chairman-gets-vaccine-zp-committee-to-investigate/articleshow/81118083.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 20, 2021||Pune||Fog in north Indian cities causes major flight delays at Pune airport||PUNE: Several flights to/from Pune faced delays because of fog and rough weather conditions in north India on Friday. Between 8am and 3pm, roughly 20 flights — arrivals and departures — were delayed by 45 minutes to nearly six hours. Haresh Rakhyani, a flyer, tagged GoAir on Twitter and wrote, “The situation at the Pune airport is very grim. All GoAir flights are delayed.” The airline replied, “We work hard to run an on-time airline; however, unforeseen events challenge us.” A SpiceJet flight from Pune to Delhi, scheduled for an 8.05am take-off, was delayed by two hours and 45 minutes. An Air India flight which was to arrive from Delhi at 8.40am — and leave for Allahabad an hour later — was hit by a four-hour delay. A GoAir flight from Pune to Nagpur (9.55am departure), was delayed by over three hours; an IndiGo flight to Delhi (10.10am take-off), was delayed by five hours and 40 minutes; and a SpiceJet flight to Patna (11.20am departure) was hit by a two-hour delay. Pune airport officials said the delays ran well into the 12pm-3pm window — an IndiGo flight to Allahabad was delayed by 30 minutes; a GoAir flight to Delhi was late by three hours; a Vistara flight to Delhi was delayed by 44 minutes and an IndiGo flight to Nagpur was an hour-and-a-half late. “Delays have a ripple effect and cause a rush at the airport, but we take all steps to ensure Covid-19 norms are not violated,” an airport official said. Airlines posted alerts via their social media handles. “Due to the morning fog in Delhi, flights all across the network are impacted,” IndiGo tweeted. SpiceJet and Vistara posted similar messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fog-in-north-indian-cities-causes-major-flight-delays-at-pune-airport/articleshow/81118066.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Komatireddy’s 120-km padayatra from today||HYDERABAD: Days after Congress MP A Revanth Reddy completed his Rythu Bharosa Yatra, another Congress MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy will now underake a 120-km padayatra from Brahmana Vellemla in Narketpally on Saturday. He is taking up the padayatra in protest against the delay in completing various irrigation projects in the undivided Nalgonda district. The padayatra will last for six days. Komatireddy has written letters to the district SP and the Election Commission of India seeking permission to undertake his padayatra.  “I am starting the 120-km padayatra since the project has been pending for the last few years,” he said, adding that he will complete it in six days. He said he would take part in the padayatra in a peaceful manner and requested the farmers to attend in large numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/komatireddys-120-km-padayatra-from-today/articleshow/81118076.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Second vaccine dose for health workers from today||BHOPAL: To coincide with national launch, Madhya Pradesh would also start administering its healthcare workers the second shot vaccine against Covid-19 on Saturday. First shot of the vaccine was administered on January 16. The late decision led to hectic revaluation of planned sessions for Saturday. Earlier, health department had planned for second dose of vaccination to be administered two days later, February 22. Respective district health officials had planned second dose vaccination accordingly. However,health department has stuck with its initial announcement, second dose administration to be administered from February 20. It means that Saturday’s session would have first dose for frontline workers, mop round for health workers who have not the first dose, along with second dose of vaccination for healthcare workers. Around 3.33 lakh healthcare workers who have been administered are eligible for the second dose. A total of 6.16 lakh people have been vaccinated in MP. It includes around 2.67 lakh frontline workers. “On Saturday, second dose of vaccination would administered to healthcare workers. Planned vaccination, first shot of vaccination for frontline workers and healthcare workers (mop up round) would also be undertaken simultaneously,” said a senior MP health department official. Around 69000 vaccination shots were planned for Friday. Around 15000 received the dose during the day, in 1999 sessions sites across Madhya Pradesh. 18% of target was achieved on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2nd-vac-dose-for-health-workers-from-today/articleshow/81116467.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Coimbatore||Officials take bribe for farm loan wavier, arrested||COIMBATORE: Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) sleuths arrested a deputy registrar and a sub-registrar with the cooperative department on Friday night for accepting a bribe of Rs 1.25 lakh from the secretary of Dhalavaipalayam Primary Agriculture Credit Society in connection with farm loan wavier. An investigation officer said Sivaji, secretary, Dhalavaipalayam Primary Agriculture Credit Society, had approached them when Selvaraja, 41, deputy registrar of cooperative department at Mahalingapuram in Pollachi and Arumugam, 36, sub registrar at Anaimalai threatened to issue summons to him and not to wave agricultural loans of 17 members of the society if he didn’t pay a bribe of Rs 1.25 lakh. In his compliant, Sivaji said this was when the joint registrar of cooperative societies had cleared the loan related files for the waiver based on the recent state government announcement. The DVAC sleuths laid a trap to nab the officials and gave Sivaji chemical coated currency notes to be handed over to Arumugam at the office of the deputy registrar on Friday 7.15pm. The DVAC sleuths, who were in plain clothes, watched him hand over the bribe amount to the official and caught them while accepting the same. The arrested duo would be produced before the special court for DVAC cases in the city on Saturday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/officials-take-bribe-for-farm-loan-wavier-arrested/articleshow/81118070.cms||---
February 20, 2021||India||Covid-19: Daily cases cross 14k, highest in 27 days||NEW DELHI: Daily Covid-19 cases in India rose to a 27-day high on Friday, crossing the 14,000 mark for the first time since January 23, as the sharp surge in infections continued in Maharashtra while states such as Madhya Pradesh and Punjab also recorded an uptick in cases. India recorded at least 14,059 fresh infections on Friday, the highest in 27 days. Live updates: Coronavirus pandemicWhile 18,000-plus cases were reported on January 28, these included more than 6,000 “backlog” cases in Chhattisgarh. Maharashtra reported 6,112 new cases, the highest daily count in 84 days in the state. Read AlsoIndia's dramatic fall in virus cases leaves experts stumpedWhen the coronavirus pandemic took hold in India, there were fears it would sink the fragile health system of the world's second-most populous country. Infections climbed dramatically for months and at one point India looked like it might overtake the United States as the country with the highestCases in Mumbai surged to a 78-day high of 823 infections, while Pune district logged 1,005, Amravati 755 and Nagpur 752. The state had recorded 5,427 new cases on Thursday and 4,787 on Wednesday. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageCases were also spiking in at least two other states, although the numbers there were much lower than in Maharashtra. Punjab registered 385 new cases on Friday, the highest in the state since December 23, when 488 infections were recorded. In MP, daily cases touched a 28-day high of 297. Read AlsoMasks, distancing, demography: The mystery behind India's declining Covid casesOn September 16 last year, India reported a record 97,894 coronavirus cases. Nearly four-and-half months later, on Feb 2, India registered 8,635 new cases. The drop in Covid numbers assumes significance as several countries are experiencing a second and in some cases even third wave of Covid-19MP had last recorded a higher count on January 22, when 347 new infections were detected. Cases in both Punjab and MP have been rising over the past week or so. India also recorded 102 deaths from the virus on Friday, the highest daily toll in seven days. Maharashtra reported the highest 44 deaths, followed by Kerala (15), Punjab (8) and Tamil Nadu (7). Watch Alarming! Daily Covid-19 cases cross 14k mark, highest in 27 days in India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/daily-cases-cross-14k-highest-in-27-days/articleshow/81119543.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
February 20, 2021||Bhopal||Oil price hike: People’s anger boils over||Bhopal: As prices of regular petrol inch towards Rs 100 per litre mark, unease among all sections is palpable. Silence of the government amid spiralling prices of petrol and diesel is only adding to the despair. Petrol was sold for Rs 98.18 per litre on Friday and diesel, for Rs 88.82 per litre. Students, salaried classes, businessmen, homemakers, industrial workers, farmers, transporters, professionals — everyone is feeling the pinch. “I would usually fill Rs 100 worth petrol in my scooter and it would last be three-four days, but now, petrol worth Rs 100 lasts only one day,” said Prachi Tiwari, a college student. Rohit, an office assistant at a private firm, said, “I have to go to the bank, clients and do a lot of outside work too. I am spending Rs 100 daily on petrol. My salary is Rs 9,000; I am married and have a child. I don't know how I will run my family. It’s not petrol alone; I repay the loan that I took for buying a scooter with my salary and you can see, everything has become so costly after the lockdown.” President of MP Petrol Pump Owners’ Association, Ajay Singh, said, “I still hope that either the state or the Union government will blink soon and reduce tax on petrol and diesel,” he said. Indian consumers did not get the benefit of falling international prices of oil last year. Now, recovering crude prices are pushing petrol prices further up. If taxes remain where they are, relief for the end consumer may be some time away. Century Saga In State: At this juncture, hope of fuel prices decreasing remains a distant dream for most people. For now, petrol’s Rs 100 a litre story is echoing in many more districts of Madhya Pradesh. The district where petrol rates are going to touch the triple digit mark any minute now is Shahdol where it was retailed at Rs 99.91 on Friday, just 9 paisa short of a century. Anuppur, the neighbouring district of Shahdol was one of the first in the country where the petrol prices touched Rs 100 a litre mark three days ago on Wednesday. Petrol crossed Rs 99 a litre mark at many places on Friday. The premium quality of power petrol has already crossed Rs 100 price and in places like Chhindwara, it was retailed at Rs 103 a litre on Friday. As the Congress called for a bandh on Friday, its party leader Kunal Choudhary said, “The government has turned a blind eye to the plight of the people. When petrol and diesel costs go up, they have a cascading effect on the whole economy, leading to inflation.” He said that at least the state government should lower tax on petrol to give some relief as hinted by the finance minister some time ago. “ It seemed his statement was incorrect”, the MLA said. The state collects about Rs 27.75 on every litre of petrol sold in Madhya Pradesh, including a cess of Rs 4.50 while the state collects about Rs 18.75 per litre on diesel including Rs 3 as cess.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/oil-price-hike-peoples-anger-boils-over/articleshow/81116475.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ludhiana||4 held for planning dacoity, weapons seized||Ludhiana: The police have busted a gang of burglars with the arrest of four men, who allegedly were preparing for dacoity in a vacant plot of Sahnewal. The police have also recovered Italy-made pistol with two magazines and 9 live cartridges, one revolver 32 bore with 5 live cartridges, one air pistol, one sharp edged weapon and two motorcycles from their possession. The arrested accused have been identified as Ravi Kumar of Khanna, Dilraj Singh of Sahnewal, Lakhwinder Singh of Sahnewal, Harpreet Singh of Koomkalan area. Joint commissioner of police (rural) Sachin Gupta said the police arrested the accused when they were hatching the conspiracy to execute dacoity. The accused have been involved in burglaries. They used to barge into houses and on gunpoint would execute burglaries. According to the official, the accused confessed to have executed at least 20 burglaries in the past two years. However, in most of the cases people did not lodge complaints out of fear. The accused were more active in village areas. In the morning time, accused of doing recce to trace the houses and at night would execute crime. Two weapons and live cartridges have also been recovered from the accused. Further Gupta added Harpreet has three theft cases and a NDPS case registered against him. All accused are drug addicts and indulge in crimes to meet their need for drugs. A fresh case has been registered against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-held-for-planning-dacoity-weapons-seized/articleshow/81116476.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Will get stricter if Covid-19 norms ignored: Ajit Pawar||Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said in Pune on Friday that the state government would be forced to take strict measures if people continue to ignore Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing in public places. “It has been observed that many people are not wearing face masks, nor are they maintaining social distancing at public places. This has by and large contributed to the rise in Covid-19 cases, particularly after February 1,” Pawar said at a function organised by Pune police to return seized stolen properties to their owners. He referred to state home minister Anil Deshmukh and health minister Rajesh Tope getting infected by the virus and said, “People, too, have a huge responsibility towards ensuring precautionary measures to contain spread of the virus.” Pawar pointed out that the local administration in Amravati and Akola in Vidarbha region had to impose lockdown-like restrictions, and if people don’t adhere to precautionary measures the state would be left with little option, but to take stricter measures. A review meeting of authorities from Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune (rural) will be held soon to chalk out an action plan to contain spread of the virus, he said. Pawar said, “Many people were getting infected and the recovery rate was relatively less. Ever since the outbreak of the pandemic, many government and police officials and personnel died because of the virus. We have taken a decision to give financial assistance of Rs50 lakh and job to the kin of deceased policemen.” He lauded efforts of state police in enforcing lockdown restrictions when the pandemic was at its peak despite facing criticism from people that they were being lathicharged. He also praised doctors, nurses, health workers and others working for the cause of Covid-19 infected patients. He appealed to people to take care of themselves and their family and help the district administration contain the spread of Covid. The government will be forced to take strict measures to discipline them if they do not adhere to the guidelines relating to Covid-19, Pawar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/will-get-stricter-if-covid-19-norms-ignored-ajit-pawar/articleshow/81116714.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Help desk for transgenders||Hyderabad: Cyberabad police have decided to set up a dedicated help desk for members of transgender community at the commissionerate office to address their grievances. Cyberabad CP V C Sajjanar decided to set up the help desk on the request of activist Sunitha Krishnan, after an interaction with 150 representatives of transgender community on Friday.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/help-desk-for-transgenders/articleshow/81118085.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Prepare SOP to probe bank fraud cases: HC orders states, Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Finding lacunae in the investigation into bank frauds cases , the Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the police chiefs of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh to put together a standard operating procedure (SOP) and circulate within three months. Observing that substantial number of such cases of bank frauds in Punjab and Haryana involve execution of mortgage deeds on the basis of forged revenue records or omission/deletion of the relevant entries regarding the earlier encumbrances, the court has directed the chief secretaries of both the states and home secretary of Chandigarh to examine the matter and issue appropriate instructions. “Instructions regarding production of the original record by the concerned revenue official at the time of registration of the mortgage deed and immediate sanctioning of mutation on the basis of such mortgage deeds. The requisite instructions be issued within three months,” says the HC. While issuing the directions, the HC observed that the bank frauds, if not diligently prevented, promptly detected, properly investigated, vigilantly prosecuted and sternly punished, could have potentially debilitating effect on confidence in the banking system and may damage the integrity and stability of the economy. The chief secretaries and the director generals of police (DGPs) Punjab and Haryana and home secretary and DGP of Chandigarh have been directed to send compliance reports to HC immediately on expiry of the period of the three months, along with copies of the instructions issued and SOPs prepared. Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi has passed these orders while observing lacunas in police investigation in probing the matters related to bank frauds in the states of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh. Expanding the scope of the matter, the HC had sought replies from both the states and UT on the issue. During the hearing of the case, the court found that there was delay in investigation of bank fraud cases. In Punjab, out of 151 cases of bank frauds, investigation is pending in 67 cases for more than one year. In the state of Haryana out of 223 cases of bank frauds, investigation is pending in 190 cases for one year or more than one year. In UT Chandigarh out of 18 cases of Bank frauds, investigation is pending in 16 cases for more than one year. “Delay in investigation of such cases not only enables the offenders to tamper with/destroy the evidence but also adversely affects the credibility and efficacy of the system for administration of criminal justice as the offenders roam free enjoying the fruits of the crime. Lack of prompt and proper investigation warrants court intervention in investigation to prevent abuse of process and secure the ends of justice,” observed the court on delay in investigation of these cases. Surge in bank fraud casesDuring the hearing the matter, the HC also mentioned the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) annual report-2019-20, according to which the total number of frauds involving Rs1,00,000 and above reported by the banks and financial institution shot up by 28% by volume and 159% by value during 2019-20 despite tightening the supervision and vigilance. While there were 6,799 fraud involving Rs71,543 crore in 2018-19, the number of frauds jumped to 8,707 involving Rs1,85,655 crore in 2019-20. Public sector banks topped the list with 4,413 cases involving Rs1,48,400 crore while the private banks reported 3,066 cases involving Rs34,211 crore. Observations“A fraudster not only needs to be vigilantly prosecuted or sternly punished for the frauds committed with the banks but must also be disqualified for taking loan in future from other banks till re-payment of the loan taken earlier so that such person does not cheat the banks one after the other. The Reserve Bank of India and the banks have to take all such steps in this regard as may be required. The taxpayer and the investors cannot be made to suffer for lapses on the part of the officers/officials of the concerned instrumentalities of the State or concerned Banks,” HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/prepare-sop-for-probing-bank-frauds-hc-orders-states-ut/articleshow/81116472.cms||Ajay Sura
February 20, 2021||Ludhiana||Dense fog engulfs city, visibility drops to zero||Ludhiana: Amid continuing foggy weather conditions in the city, visibility dropped to zero on Friday morning, and going by the Met department’s prediction, Ludhiana is likely to witness foggy weather for a few days more. The dense fog in the morning partially dissipated towards the noon, but a hazy weather continued through the day. According to the Met officials, the visibility in Ludhiana at 8.30am was less than 50 metre, with the minimum of zero visibility. As the sun came out, the visibility improved to less than 200 metre by 11.30am and further to 1,500-2,000 meters by 2.30pm. A Met department official said dense fog is expected for two more days, especially in the morning hours. However, the weather is likely to remain dry for the next five days, and both day and night temperatures are expected to increase. The city on Friday recorded — degrees Celsius maximum temperature, which was — degrees more than normal for this time of the year. On Thursday, the day temperature was 24.8 degrees, 3 degrees above normal. The minimum (night) temperature in city on Friday was 9.9 degrees Celsius, which was 1 degree more than normal and 0.7 degree less than the previous night. The Met department has predicted the day temperature to increase to 27 degrees Celsius by Monday and the night temperature is likely to go up to 12 degrees Celsius. Meanwhile, dense fog in the morning caused inconvenience to the city commuters. “It was very tough to drive in the morning, especially near the canal, as my home is in South City area through which Sidhwan canal runs. It took me around double the normal time to reach my workplace,” said Abhishek, a businessman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dense-fog-engulfs-city-visibility-drops-to-zero/articleshow/81116473.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records single-day highest spike in 58 days||CHANDIGARH: Punjab on Friday recorded 385 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in almost two months, while eight more patients succumbed to the virus. Punjab had reported 488 cases on December 23. So far, the virus has infected 1,77,759 people and claimed 5,740 lives. A total of 214 patients were discharged after recovering. Of total deaths reported in the last 24 hours, two people died in Kapurthala and one each in Amritsar, Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Mansa and Nawanshahr. Nawanshahr reported the highest of 101 cases, while 65 people were tested positive in Ludhiana, 49 in Jalandhar, 33 in Patiala, 36 in Hoshiarpur, 30 in Mohali, 17 in Kapurthala, 16 in Amritsar, 15 in Gurdaspur, seven each in Ropar and Sangrur, six in Bathinda, five each in Muktsar and Fatehgarh Sahib and one each in Pathankot, Tarn Taran and Faridkot. At the same time, 3,730 health and frontline workers were vaccinated on Friday, as part of the ongoing drive across the state. So far, 1,19,798 eligible beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the state. Total Summary till Date Total suspected cases | 4813220 Total patients tested positive | 177759 Cured | 169216 Total deaths | 5740 Active cases | 2803 COVID-19 Vaccinated on the day (Healthcare + Frontline Workers) | 3730 Total COVID-19 Vaccinated (Healthcare + Frontline Workers) | 119798||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-records-single-day-highest-spike-in-58-days/articleshow/81116474.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||Retd colonel awaits refund 19 days after unauthorized Rs 1k FASTag debit||Pune: Shankar Salkar, a retired Army colonel, has been trying for more than a fortnight to reverse an unauthorized debit from his FASTag wallet. In the time since more than Rs1,000 was deducted from his wallet “illegally”, Salkar said his FASTag account was blacklisted as the balance had dipped below zero, and that all attempts to find a resolution have proved fruitless. Notably, the unauthorized debit occurred on January 31, more than two weeks before FASTag became mandatory. “I travelled in my car from Pune to Lonavla on January 24 and Rs203 was debited from my FASTag at the Talegaon toll plaza on the Pune-Mumbai expressway. The same amount was debited during my return trip the following day,” the Salunke VhaVihar resident told TOI on Friday. On January 31, when Salkar was home, he received an SMS alert stating Rs1,173 was debited from his FASTag account for the same trip. “I was confused. I called a toll-free number (1033) and the agent took down my details and gave me a complaint number. I was also given a WhatsApp number on which to send photos of my vehicle and the RC. It has been 19 days and the problem has yet to be resolved,” Salkar added.“What if I had Rs11,000 in my FASTag wallet? Our only point of contact is the toll-free number 1033 and whenever I call, they listen and tell me not to worry,” Salkar said. MSRDC, responsible for the toll plazas on the expressway, said it would look into the issue. “MSRDC will help everyone facing issues after a proper investigation,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retd-colonel-awaits-refund-19-days-after-unauthorized-rs-1k-fastag-debit/articleshow/81118088.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 20, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CPM moots mediation with protesters||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The CPM state secretariat on Friday directed chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to initiate mediation with the protesting PSC rank holders’ associations and settle the issue amicably at the earliest. The available secretariat that met here concluded that the ongoing protest and the high-voltage media coverage has started affecting the reputation of the LDF government. With the assembly election on the threshold, CPM is worried that the good work of the government will be eclipsed by the wave of protest. Though the secretariat is learnt to have directed the CM to depute a minister for the mediation, sources said the CM preferred initial talks between officials and protesters. Last week, political secretary to the CM, Puthalath Dineshan, had a meeting with last grade service rank holders’ association leaders and during which a compromise formula was discussed. However, the negotiation couldn’t proceed further as the rank holders were unwilling to make a few compromises which the CMO suggested. It is learnt that the discussion would be taken forward from there. The CPM leadership is of the view that negotiation with last grade service rank holders would give the government a breakthrough though members of a few other rank holders, including the expired CPO list, are continuing their agitation in front of the secretariat. The CPM will also launch a campaign in the grassroots level to publicise the real position in PSC recruitment case. The fact that the LDF government appointed more youth and created more posts will be highlighted during the campaign, which will also explain the nuances of PSC recruitment so that the misunderstanding that all who figure in the list will get the job is cleared. The protest by LGS rank holders completed 25 days on Friday. Representatives of LGS rank holders led by Laya Rajesh met governor Arif Mohammed Khan and submitted a representation seeking his intervention in the issue. They were accompanied by BJP leader Sobha Surendran who concluded her 48-hour solidarity hunger strike on Friday. The governor promised them that he would refer the matter to the chief minister. Youth Congress leaders and MLAs Shafi Parambil and K S Sabarinadhan are continuing their hunger strike. “If the government is for an unconditional talk with protesters, we welcome that move. We will decide on whether to withdraw our protest after knowing the progress of discussion,” Parambil said. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said the decision of CPM to initiate mediation with protesters was a move that lacked sincerity. “From the beginning, the CPM and the government were humiliating the protesters. Now, they are changing tactics as they realized that popular sentiments is against them,” said Ramachandran. “The indifferent and adamant stand of the chief minister has worsened the situation,” he alleged. On Friday too, the protesters tried innovative ways to garner attention. CPO rank holders set up a makeshift fish stall at the protest venue and sold fish in a symbolic gesture. Winners of medals in national games who are on a strike seeking appointments to the promised jobs performed a somersault protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-moots-mediation-with-protesters/articleshow/81116512.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Chandigarh||93 new Covid cases, 6,443 get vaccine shot in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: As many as 6,443 people, health care workers, and frontline warriors were given vaccine jabs on Friday, even as 93 new Covid-19 cases and 94 recoveries were recorded during the day. While 4,593 health care workers were given the second dosage of vaccine, 1,850 health care workers and frontline workers from the police and sanitation departments were administered the first dose. Except for Gurugram, Mahendragarh, Kaithal, and Charkhi Dadri districts, vaccination sessions were planned in all the other 18 districts in the state. Gurugram reported most cases (22), followed by Panchkula (15), Karnal, and Kurukshetra (12 each), while the remaining 18 districts reported less than 10 cases. Rewari, Sirsa, Mahendragarh, Palwal, Jhajjar and Charkhi Dadri districts reported zero cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/93-new-covid-cases-6443-get-vax-shot-in-hry/articleshow/81116487.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||45 fresh cases, 56 recoveries||Panaji: On Friday, Goa reported 45 fresh cases, 56 recoveries and one death, pushing the tally of Covid active cases to 497 and mortality count to 788. The state’s case mortality rate was at 2.75 % and recovery rate at 97.60 %. In the past 24 hours, 31 patients were home isolated and 24 had to be hospitalised. Porvorim primary health centre and Panaji urban health registered a marginal rise in new infections, but their tallies remained below the 50-mark. Margao urban health centre also witnessed a rise, but it was marginal, and its case tally was 44, while that of Ponda was 37. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/45-fresh-cases-56-recoveries/articleshow/81118116.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||CCTVs help rescue abducted boy from Maharashtra||HYDERABAD: Abids police went through footage of hundreds of CCTV cameras in Telangana and Maharashtra to locate and rescue a three-year-old boy kidnapped on February 8. On February 9, M Shiva Kumar, a migrant worker from Bidar lodged a complaint alleging a person who befriended them a few days ago by offering them a job in Mumbai had kidnapped his son, Rudramani. The boy was playing near Gandhi Bhavan metro station on February 8. “Shiva Kumar along with his wife and three children lived on the footpath,” Hyderabad CP Anjani Kumar said. Police identified the suspect taking the boy towards Afzulgunj through CCTV camera footage at the metro station. On February 9 morning, they boarded a bus to the Secunderabad railway station, from there they boarded Danapur Express and got down at Sevagram Railway Station in Maharashtra. “They went to the Wardha railway station, boarded Vidharbha Express train, then got down at Akola Railway Station at 9.15pm on February 9. The accused boarded a bus at Akola and got down at Malegaon,” joint commissioner P Vishwa Prasad said. On February 10, they went to his native place, Amanwadi in an auto. “With help of Malegaon police, CCTV images were circulated among villagers near Melagaon. A woman identified the boy and alerted her brother, a soldier in Rajasthan, who alerted cops. On February 18, the child was rescued. The accused, Shyam Bheem Rao Solanki, 22, was arrested,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cctvs-help-rescue-abducted-boy-from-maha/articleshow/81118114.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Cardinal limits congregations to 50||The Archbishop of Bombay, Oswald Cardinal Gracias, has instructed priests to restrict congregations to 50 and ensure that people wear masks and maintain social distancing. It comes in the wake of a fresh civic circular which adds that women marshals will be deployed alongside male marshals to punish violators. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cardinal-limits-congregations-to-50/articleshow/81116718.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Inspection to check weight of schoolbags draws flak||PUNE: The state education department is preparing to conduct an inspection in schools to check the weight of school bags of the students. The department's move has drawn flak from all corners considering the low attendance especially in urban areas where the problem is more prevalent. Educators, who said the inspection was ill-timed, pointed at the absence of enough students in the classrooms, fewer hours of teaching and also limited number of classes functioning now. It would give misleading figures, they added. They said the work that should have been completed in December 2019 was left pending and now the department has woken up to present the report when the classrooms are empty. Director of the State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT), Dinkar Temkar, said the state had adopted some changes in the school books in order to reduce the weight of school bag that students carry everyday. “The books were combined and some other measures were undertaken. However, the impact assessment of the changes adopted was to be submitted to the state government but it is still pending. We will have to undertake the exercise once again in the coming days," he added. The SCERT has already submitted a report to the Union government regarding a survey conducted in every taluka of a district to record the weight of schoolbags in five schools. The data was reported to the government, said Temkar. The state government had announced a policy to control the weight of school bags in 2014 and stated the the weight should not exceed 10% of the student's weight. The state government had formed groups headed by senior officers in the education department to conduct the impact assessment and the report was to be submitted by December 2019 which was further extended to January 2020 still the inspection report was not submitted and later the lockdown was imposed. State education commissioner, Vishal Solanki, said they will be considering some model schools and distributing the integrated textbook system. “Its impact and effect to control the schoolbags’ weight would be assessed soon," he said. The HRD ministry, in a communication last November, had told education secretaries of all the states and Union Territories to adopt the schoolbag policy 2020 from standards I to XII. The policy recommends following the universally accepted ratio where the weight for schoolbags is 10% of the bodyweight of the students.  Temkar, one of the six members on the experts’ committee that formulated the policy, had said a survey of stakeholders helped draw up the recommendations. The policy also suggested ways to mend the timetable and other aspects in a day for a lightweight school bag. The committee was constituted after the Madras high court order in 2018 on framing a policy to reduce the weight of schoolbags. The experts were from CBSE, JNV and NCERT, with a member from Telangana, and Temkar representing Maharashtra. Both states already have a schoolbag policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/inspection-to-check-weight-of-schoolbags-draws-flak/articleshow/81118120.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab schools timing to change from Monday||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab education department had changed the timings of government, aided and private schools in the state with effect from February 22. Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla said that from Monday, the timings of primary schools would be from 9am to 3pm and those of middle/high/senior secondary schools from 9am 3.20pm. The cabinet minister said that as it was time for final revision before the annual examinations, the department has decided to change the school timings following the persistent demand of parents and teachers. “Before the reopening of schools, classes were being conducted online, which minimised physical interaction between teachers and students. Pre-board examinations are being held in the schools and special focus will be given on students after reviewing their performance,” Singla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-schools-timing-to-change-from-mon/articleshow/81116510.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Bhopal||CM performs Narmada puja at Amarkantak, plants sapling||Bhopal: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday performed puja of Narmada river at its origin in the temple town of Amarkantak along with his wife Sadhna Singh on the second day of "Narmada Janmotsav". He wished for progress, prosperity and well-being of the people of the state. During the "Narmada Janmotsav", Chouhan performed pujan of 108 girls followed by "Kanya Bhoj". Chouhan also served food to the girls at "Kanya Bhoj". The chief minister and his wife, also attended the "bhandara" organised by Maa Narmada temple on the second day of the "Narmada Janmotsav". Chouhan also honoured sadhus and saints on the occasion with shawl and shriphal. Food, civil supplies and consumer protection minister, Bisahulal Singh, former Union minister, Uma Bharti, MP Himadri Singh and district panchayat president, Roopmati Singh were also present on the occasion. Meanwhile, Chouhan and wife planted a sapling in Shubhdhara area of Amarkantak in Anuppur district. The chief minister said that tree plantation is a noble work which everyone should do. All people should contribute towards the protection and conservation of nature by saving trees. He urged the people to plant saplings and also protect them. Chouhan further said that he has decided to plant one sapling every day on the occasion of "Narmada Jayanti" in Amarkantak. He planted Rudraksha and Sal trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-performs-narmada-puja-at-amarkantak-plants-sapling/articleshow/81116548.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Congress alleges graft in Rs 5k-crore fishing MoU with US firm||KOLLAM: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala on Friday accused the state government of signing a Rs 5,000-crore deep-sea fishing agreement with US-based EMCC International Pvt Ltd.A memorandum of understanding was signed between the company and the industries department at the global investors’ meeting, ‘Ascent 2020’, held in Kochi for upgradation and promotion of deep-sea fishing in the state, Chennithala said. As per the MoU, 400 state-of-the-art deep-sea trawlers and five mother vessels would be manufactured and made available for fishing in the state. Demanding a comprehensive inquiry, the opposition leader said all political parties were opposed to foreign trawlers on Kerala’s coast. Fisherfolk and CPM have also opposed such moves in the past, he said. Chennithala alleged large-scale corruption behind the Pinarayi Vijayan government’s move. “This is despite several studies pointing to the depletion of fish resources along our coast. Moreover, we cannot say the US-based company would limit its activities to deep-sea fishing alone,” he said. The Congress leader said the government had not discussed the issue in LDF or with opposition or fisherfolk. It was on the basis of the meeting fisheries minister J Mercykutty Amma had with EMCC, in April 2018, that an amendment was made to the fisheries policy in 2019, he said. EMCC had written to industries minister E P Jayarajan last week reminding that the MoU was signed on the basis of a clause in paragraph 2.9 of the fisheries policy. The clause was included on the basis of the fisheries minister’s meeting with EMCC representatives in New York, Chennithala alleged. As per the clause, fishing vessels will be encouraged to shift pressure for fishing to the continental slope area from continental shelf area. As per the agreement, 400 deep-sea fishing vessels, each costing Rs 2 crore, and five mother vessels worth Rs 74 crore would be manufactured here. To facilitate these vessels, harbouring facilities are to be enhanced. As per the understanding, the company is to be allotted four acres of land in Pallippuram to start a fish-processing unit, he said. Fisheries minister Mercykutty Amma termed the allegation as baseless. “I had visited New York in 2018 to attend a meeting with UN officials.” She also demanded an apology from the opposition leader for triggering a needless controversy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cong-alleges-graft-in-rs-5k-cr-fishing-mou-with-us-firm/articleshow/81116561.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Chandigarh||ED attaches Rs 281 crore assets in case tied to Bhupinder Singh Hooda||NEW DELHI: In a Gurugram land grab and money laundering case worth over Rs 1,500 crore, the Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday attached properties worth over Rs 281 crore. The total attachment in the case, in which former Congress CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda is one of the accused, has crossed Rs 390 crore. Three chargesheets have also been filed in the case so far. The land scam in Manesar, Gurgaon is related to an acquisition order issued by the Haryana government in 2005 when Hooda was the CM. The notification was issued for acquisition of 912 acres for setting up a model industrial township in Manesar and other villages in Gurugram district. “A large number of land owners, in haste, had to sell about 400 acres of their land at throwaway price to private builders and thereby caused a wrongful loss of Rs 1,500 crore to the land owners of village Manesar, Naurangpur and Lakhnoula in Gurugram,” a senior ED official said. The agency claimed that the land was later “freed from compulsory acquisition by the state government as a result of conspiracy by politicians, bureaucrats and private builders” causing huge loss to the landowners and exchequer. A prosecution complaint (chargesheet) and two supplementary chargesheets have already been filed by the agency in this case where it has accused private builders of making wrongful gain by conspiring with public servants. It accused the then political establishment of collusion with the builders for the release of land and fraudulently issuing licences. Most of the land was purchased by a group of companies controlled by Atul Bansal, according to ED. “After obtaining licences, Bansal had fraudulently sold the licenced/unlicensed land and licences to the private developers, thus making huge profit,” ED had claimed. In the fresh order, ED has attached Bansal’s stakes in Dove Infrastructure Pvt Ltd worth Rs 109 crore; Business Bay Project of Seriatim Land & Housing Pvt Ltd worth Rs 78 crore; flats and FDR; Rs 25.53 crore refunds from HSIIDC and 20 acres of land and 20 flats in Frontier Home Developers worth about Rs 52 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ed-attaches-properties-worth-rs-281cr-in-case-where-hooda-is-one-of-the-accused/articleshow/81116551.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||Mega vax drive for HCWs today||Panaji: The directorate of health services on Saturday will conduct a mega-round of vaccination for CoWin registered beneficiaries. Healthcare workers (HCWs) attached to public health institutes and private bodies, and those who have registered under the CoWin portal but have not received the vaccine till date, will be able to get inoculated at the nearest peripheral health unit, a health official said. The district hospitals, sub district hospitals, community health centres, primary health centres and urban health centres will conduct vaccinations from 9am till 5pm. The HCWs can know their status of Covid registration as well as their vaccination session site closest to them by dialling the toll free number 104, the official said. Till Friday, 10,700 HCWs and 4,446 frontline workers (FLW) have been vaccinated. In Goa, though over 18,000 HCWs workers registered on the portal, many did not turn up for vaccination Health services aims to complete administering the second dose to HCWs by March 12. Vaccination of FLW have also been rather slow due to reluctance on their part even as over 16,000 registered to receive shots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mega-vax-drive-for-hcws-today/articleshow/81118144.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Incubation centre for start-ups planned in state: CM||Mumbai: To boost start-ups in the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said an incubation centre has been planned. He was speaking at the annual Nasscom Technology Leadership Forum via video-conferencing. The state is determined to make Mumbai a fintech hub in Asia, he said. “We are planning a large incubation centre with Nasscom near Mumbai,” Thackeray said. He said the pandemic helped us adopt technology faster and to go forward on the same path, and the state was drafting an IT/ITes (IT-enabled services) promotion policy for 2021, which will focus on creating the right ecosystem for technology companies, incentives for innovation and research and development. He said in five years the state received Rs 65,000 crore in investments from IT companies, which helped create 8.5 lakh jobs in the state. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/incubation-centre-for-start-ups-planned-in-state-cm/articleshow/81116721.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 50% districts see no fresh infection||JAIPUR: The number of Covid-19 infections dipped on Friday when only 93 new cases from all over the state witnessed. One death has been reported from Rajsamand which took total number of deaths to 2,784 in state. Almost 50% of the districts have got no fresh infections. Authorities of the health department stated that in next couple of days they are expecting the active cases to be below 1,000 in the state. In Jaipur, only 25 new cases of Covid-19 were reported. “There has been a continuous dip in the number of active patients especially those who are under hospitalisation. We now have 265 active patients out of which almost 10% are only hospitalised,” said a senior officer of CMHO, Jaipur office. Except Jaipur, majority of the places in the state witnessed below 10 cases, while some of them have got zero new infections. “The districts including Alwar, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Bundi, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhunjhunu, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Sikar, Sirohi and Tonk have not witnessed any fresh infections on Friday,” said an officer with the health department. With the fresh 93 cases the total number of cases in the state are 3,19,363, but continued dip in the active cases and hospitalisation has relieved the doctors and para medical staff tirelessly working at various hospitals in the state for past 10 months. Senior doctors who are part of the core team of Covid treatment at SMS Hospital stated that the number of patients with severe symptoms have almost vanished in past one fortnight. “There is a very less percentage of patients who are been given remdesivir or even oxygen therapy. It is a good sign,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS medical college. However, authorities stated that despite the dipping trend people should not ignore social distancing, hand washing and wearing of masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/50-districts-see-no-fresh-infection/articleshow/81116574.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||Registrations open for hackathon||Pune: The Embassy of Sweden, the Consulate General of Sweden in Mumbai, and the Swedish Institute have invited participation from candidates for the 42-hour digital Sweden-India Mobility Hackathon: Changing the way we move to be conducted from February 26 to 28. The mission of the hackathon is to design, test and execute ideas for the future with a particular focus on mobility. Candidates can register for free on https://hack.sweden.se/mobility-hack/ The registration will be open till February 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/registrations-open-for-hackathon/articleshow/81118173.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Kolkata||A month’s time to file JEE application||Kolkata: The West Bengal Joint Entrance Examinations (WBJEE) board will allow candidates an entire month to apply for the engineering entrance exams this year. The application process, which will be completely online, will start from February 23 and continue to March 23, offering ample time to applicants and making it easier for them during the pandemic. The WBJEE is scheduled to be on July 11. In other years, candidates get two to three weeks for application. This year’s extra time would take care of any technical glitch or a system slowdown due to rush of applications, an official said. “This year, the entire application process will be online. Candidates will get one whole month to apply so that all those interested can fill up the form and not miss out due to any technical glitch,” said an official of the WBJEE board. The applicants will also get the opportunity to correct any error in their applications between March 24 and March 26. Admit cards will be available online from July 7. “This is a move, which will help students. On several occasions, the system crashes due to rush of applications. Sometimes, technical glitches appear. Since there will be no offline application option this year, it is good that the board is giving a month’s time to fill and submit the forms,” said the head of a private engineering college in the city. Last year, more than 75,000 candidates appeared for the joint entrance examination and among them, almost 72,000 made it to the list. The examination was conducted on February 2 last year. In the past few years, the board had been wrapping up the examination by the beginning of April. But this year, it was decided to conduct it in July, keeping the pandemic in mind. The announcement to hold the examination in July had taken academics and students by surprise. The delay in conducting the entrance test, they felt, would push back the 2021-22 academic session in tech colleges and universities across the state. Some teachers said this was the first time in the past 10 years that the WBJEE was being held so late. The board had also considered the option of conducting the examination online but did not go ahead with the plan because of the tech divide and online infrastructure needed to carry out an exam involving thousands of students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-months-time-to-file-jee-application/articleshow/81116566.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 20, 2021||Goa||Delimitation, reservation done to suit ruling party, say former babus||Margao: “By resorting to blatant manipulation while carrying out the delimitation and reservation of wards for the elections to the 11 municipal councils and the city corporation, the ruling party has almost already won the elections. Election now remains a mere formality. This isn’t democracy, and thus it’s a very serious matter.” The terse remarks, coming as they do from a former senior bureaucrat who handled important portfolios suggests that the government, in a bid to have unbridled control over the civic bodies, paid scant respect to norms of fairness while carrying out the delimitation and reservation exercise. While the high court of Bombay at Goa is likely to pronounce its verdict on the bunch of petitions challenging the legality of the exercise early next week, the former bureaucrat, on the condition of anonymity, said that, apart from legal and political implications of the case, the issue raised pertinent philosophical questions as well. “What kind of polity are we shaping ourselves into? By knowing that it has won the elections in an unfair manner, no political party can claim a high moral ground. One derives happiness from accomplishing something only by adhering to all laid down rules, else it’s a miserable situation one lands in.” Elvis Gomes, a former civil services officer in the Goa government, who later entered politics, said that this time the “manipulation” of the delimitation and reservation exercise has been carried out in the “most brazen” manner. A similar exercise during the 2015 civic polls was done under Gomes’s watch, who was then the director of municipal administration (DMA). “This time it has been completely one-sided. It’s done in a pick-and-choose manner,” Gomes said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant has defended the exercise, saying that the process has been carried out by DMA as per rules and not to favour anyone. “It has not been done as per anybody’s convenience or for our party only,” Sawant told reporters recently. Six councillors of different municipal bodies in independent petitions have challenged the exercise and the notification order which was issued earlier this month. The petitions stated that the exercise hasn’t been done in accordance with the rotation policy normally followed in reserving wards for OBC, SC, ST and for women. The crux of the matter lies in the government’s obvious attempts at circumventing the court directions that notification for delimitation and reservation should be issued by the appropriate authorities at least three weeks prior to the date of notification of election schedule. “The delimitation and reservation was already notified on July 7, 2020; and thus there was no reason to do the exercise again. It’s clear the manipulations have been done out of political considerations and not as per law,” said Gomes. Savio Coutinho, former chairperson of Margao Municipal Council, who is among those aggrieved by the amendments, said that the move was aimed at preventing any new aspirants who could pose a threat to the authority of the legislators from entering the election arena. “How can it be termed a fair election when a candidate is unable to know his voters until the notification for delimitation is announced? How is he supposed to prepare for the elections when there is uncertainty over reservation of wards?” said Coutinho, advocating that the notification for delimitation and reservation be issued at least a year before the scheduled election. The 2nd Law Commission headed by Ramakant Khalap, in December 2011, had recommended that the power of fixation and reservation of wards be vested with the State Election Commission to ensure fairness of polls to local self-government bodies. The government has failed to act on the recommendations. Gomes is of the view that the State Election Commission should take over the function, “But, the person heading the commission shouldn’t be a puppet in the hands of the government,” he said. The former bureaucrat (who preferred anonymity, referred to earlier) warned of the dangers that could lie ahead for democracy if corrective measures aren’t taken to arrest the “deterioration.” “This could lead us from democracy to corporate business,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/delimitation-reservation-done-to-suit-ruling-party-say-former-babus/articleshow/81118186.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
February 20, 2021||Jaipur||JMC Greater lists fines for violating civic rules||JAIPUR: Any person throwing garbage on road will now have to pay a fine ranging between Rs 100 and Rs 5,000 daily. According to the orders issued on Friday by the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), various fines can now be imposed on public under different violations. Failure to segregate waste can invite a fine of Rs 200. JMC Greater commissioner Yagyamitra Singh Dev issued the orders on Friday under the Solid Waste Management Rules, in which all the deputy commissioners have been directed to challan 10 people daily in their respective zones and send penalty information to deputy commissioner, health. This has been done to instil fear in public for throwing garbage on streets or else they will have to pay a huge amount in the form of fine. Rashmi Kankariya, health officer at JMC Greater said, “The state government had made these bylaws on April 12, 2019, to recover the penalty amount against the culprits for violating the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 in the urban body areas, but they were not implemented. Now, the Greater commissioner has imposed the fines with proper instructions. This will be helpful in making people cautious.” The corporation commissioner has issued instructions to all the deputy commissioners of the zones that penalty amount should be collected from the violators of the bylaws made under the waste management rules. The chief cleaning inspector, ward sanitary inspector, junior engineer and revenue instructions have also been given task to co-operate in this process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-greater-lists-fines-for-violating-civic-rules/articleshow/81116565.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Pachmarhi Shivratri fair gets nod, sparks fear of Covid spread||Even as Covid infections are again on the rise in the region, Madhya Pradesh is gearing up for a major congregation at Pachmarhi next door at the 10-day Mahashivratri fair from March 2 to 12. The event is expected to attract a lakh pilgrims, with a majority of them coming from Nagpur and other nearby areas. The event had been called off last year as the pandemic had begun by that time. Even as concerns are being raised over spread of infections in Vidarbha, officials in Madhya Pradesh hope that Pachmarhi will remain safe from Covid as it has been so far. The likelihood of infections is not being ruled out, but the officials says it will be prevented by following strict guidelines. The hill station already has a high number of tourists coming in, they said. The fair is an annual event held before the Mahashivratri festival at Pachmarhi, some 250km from Nagpur. The hill station is not only a favourite tourist spot for those in Nagpur, but also a well frequented pilgrim site during such events. Despite corona concerns, the locals are looking forward to the fair. The local economy depends on the tourist influx. Pachmarhi has been much safer from corona as compared to other pockets. So far, not more than 150-200 positive cases have been found in the town, said an official in the district administration. Pachmarhi comes under Hoshangabad district of Madhya Pradesh. Officials say the event was part of the general reopening measures, which also allow religious congregations to happen with enough precautions. “We expect an influx of around a lakh persons over the 10 days. The decision to hold the fair was taken in a meeting held by the district’s crisis management committee,” said an official at Pipariya, the tehsil which has jurisdiction over Pachmarhi. There has been a huge influx of tourists, specially from Maharashtra, since September but this has not led to any spurt in infections. Even during the fair enough precaution will be taken, said the officer. “The pilgrims will be scanned at the entry. Visitors will also have to wear masks and carry their own sanitizers. All the guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs will be followed,” said an official at Hoshangabad. “The locals want such events to be held so that it brings business to hotels and others engaged in the hospitality business,” said Gopal Kabra, an elected member of the cantonment board. The hill station is already full of tourists, he also reiterated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pachmarhi-shivratri-fair-gets-nod-sparks-fear-of-covid-spread/articleshow/81116569.cms||Shishir Arya
February 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Mahapanchayats in Haryana & Punjab reducing numbers at protest sites||HISAR: The number of farmers on the border is decreasing due to ‘kisan mahapanchayats’ being organised, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni said on Friday. Such mahapanchayat would not be held in Haryana and Punjab any more as farmers of both the states were already aware of the issues, he told mediapersons in Uklana town of Hisar. Charuni had come to Barwala’s Guru Ravidas hostel to attend a mahapanchayat of scheduled castes and backward classes. He made a similar appeal while addressing a gathering in Kurukshetra. He said mahapanchayats were not needed in Haryana and such events would now be held in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and other states. The movement would continue till the government withdrew the three agriculture marketing laws, he added. On Rakesh Tikait’s statement that farmers would burn their standing crops if needed to continue the agitation, Charuni said his meaning would have been that the farmer would not sell his crop this time. He called the ‘rail roko’ protest a success. He accused the Prime Minister of misleading farmers by saying that he was just a call away. Earlier, he expressed his gratitude for the announcement of supporting the farmers in the mahapanchayat of scheduled castes (SC) and backward classes (BC) here. He called upon all the members of the farmer outfits to put a photo of Bhim Rao Ambedkar in their homes and members of the SC and BC should put a picture of the peasant leader Sir Chhotu Ram in their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mahapanchayats-in-haryana-punjab-reducing-numbers-at-protest-sites-charuni/articleshow/81116564.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||Polytechnic diploma aspirants wait for DTE’s admission plan||Pune: Candidates aspiring to take admission in the part-time technical polytechnic courses are a disappointed lot because the Directorate of Technical Education has not yet allowed the government polytechnic colleges to announce the admission notification for the 2020-21 academic year. Hemant, who works in a company in Khadki, said he was hoping to take admission this year in the part-time diploma course in civil engineering.“While regular diploma classes are held in the morning hours, the part-time diploma classes are held in the evening. This helps people who are working, complete the course, without leaving their jobs. I completed my ITI course 10 years ago and wanted to complete my diploma as it helps in getting better jobs. But the college has not yet come up with an admission schedule.”An official from one of the colleges said, “The All India Council for Technical Education changed the rules for this academic year for the part-time diploma courses. Now, we need to have at least 50% regular faculty teaching these students and for this, some changes are needed. This requires funding and all these matters need approval from DTE. Our college had sent a proposal long ago but there has been no reply. Till the time the government gives permission, we cannot start the courses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/polytechnic-diploma-aspirants-wait-for-dtes-admission-plan/articleshow/81118155.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||‘Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai colleges may not reopen soon’||MUMBAI: Colleges in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai are unlikely to get a go-ahead from the local municipal bodies to reopen their campuses after the recent surge in Covid cases, said principals. The BMC was expected to give a feedback to Mumbai University by this weekend. While most colleges are now comfortable with the online process, many were keen to hold a few practical sessions, especially for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students. “The government should have allowed colleges to only conduct a few important practicals... It would have been easier to manage smaller batches of students in labs. With Covid cases rising now, the BMC is unlikely to give permission,” said a principal. Another principal said they are hoping things would normalise by June, so they could start the new academic year afresh. “We will have to conduct a few bridge courses next year to bring students on a par with their class levels,” she said. Though the college sanitised the campus last week, they now believe that the entire term will continue to be in the online mode. “We have conducted one full term online and we can do so with this term too. Almost 40% of the syllabus is already completed in the new term. The only problem will be with the practicals of science students from the graduating batches. But it is an unprecedented situation. Last year’s batch too graduated by giving an MCQ (multiple-choice questions) based test,” said a teacher. A university official said they are yet to get a feedback from BMC. In regions under the university’s jurisdiction where colleges have reopened—Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Thane rural—attendance has not been very encouraging in the first few days, said the official. “The state has anyway relaxed the attendance criteria,” he added. Colleges and universities in the state were allowed to reopen on February 15 by following UGC guidelines. While in Mumbai, the BMC had asked MU to delay reopening till February 22, in Thane, the local administration has delayed it till further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-thane-navi-mum-colleges-may-not-reopen-soon/articleshow/81118242.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Rats nibble farmer’s body in mortuary||ROHTAK: The district health authorities have formed an inquiry committee on the case of a 70-year-old farmer’s body being gnawed at by rats at the mortuary of the civil hospital in Haryana’s Sonipat. Rajinder Kumar, 70, was a resident of Baiyanpur village in Sonipat and died at Singhu border on Wednesday during farm protest. Rajender’s body was kept at the mortuary on Wednesday night before postmortem but his family found injury marks on his neck, legs and other body parts the next morning. Rajinder’s nephew Dinesh Kumar said his uncle had been actively participating in the farm agitation for the last 80 days. He developed chest pain at the Singhu border and collapsed soon after, he said. “He was rushed to government hospital, but had died by the time he reached there. The doctors kept the body in the mortuary before conducting postmortem the next day,” he said. “There were rodent bite marks all over the body,” he added. Sonipat principal medical officer Jai Bhagwan said a team of three doctors is inquiring into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rats-nibble-farmers-body-kept-at-mortuary-in-sonipat/articleshow/81116570.cms||Sat Singh
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Residents stall tree-trimming at Aarey by power discom||MUMBAI: Tata Power Company stayed trimming of trees at Aarey Colony following complaints by local residents. Tabrez Sayyed, a resident, said the company was carrying out heavy trimming of trees around transmission towers at Ambawadi, near Tapeshwar Mandir, on Friday. “When I asked workers why they were cutting entire branches, they said it would otherwise cause sparks. I asked them to show permission for trimming, but they showed a letter they had written to S ward. When I asked why no tree officer was present, they said the person was around, but there was no one. I alerted members of Aarey Conservation Group, who filed a complaint,” said Sayyed. Sayyed alleged it was excessive trimming so only stumps were left. “Earlier, you could see only one transmission tower. Now, you can see all three,” he said. Activists said there was a Supreme Court stay on cutting of trees at Aarey Colony. Tata Power said it refrains from being associated with such activities. “We conduct tree-trimming along Right of Way of our transmission lines, to maintain adequate clearances from power conductors, as per safety norms, and also for safety of citizens. It is a standard practice followed over the years, and this year too, we obtained prerequisite permission from competent authorities. With valid permissions, we were carrying out tree-trimming, which was immediately stopped after a complaint was made. Work is on hold.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/power-discom-stops-trimming-of-trees-after-complaints-at-aarey/articleshow/81116724.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ludhiana||Salon owner arrested with intoxicating pills||Ludhiana: The police arrested a drug peddler after 4,020 intoxicating pills were recovered from him on Friday.Raj Kumar, 46, a resident of Gopal Nagar, Haibowal Kalan, was nabbed from a checkpost in Division 5 area on a tip-off.Additional deputy commissioner of police-III Sameer Verma said, “The 4,020 pills were found in his car. Raj is a hairdresser and owns a salon on DMC Road. He would fix drug deals and make deliveries at his salon. Jagraon police had arrested Raj and his accomplices, Bobby Sharma and Dheeraj Kumar, both residents of Haibowal, with intoxicating pills in July 2019. While Dheeraj and Bobby are still in jail, Raj got bail in March 2020.” After coming out of jail, he again started peddling drugs. “Raj procured intoxicating pills from a person in Kila Mohalla, Ludhiana. We are trying to trace him. Raj and his aides have been into drug trade for the past four years,” he added.A case has been registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/salon-owner-arrested-with-intoxicating-pills/articleshow/81115346.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Chennai||Chennai Metro floats tenders for 10km underground line||CHENNAI: In six years, commuting across bustling areas like T Nagar, Kodambakkam and Mylapore is expected to be a breeze, without getting stuck in traffic snarls. Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) has floated two tenders for a 10km long underground corridor from Lighthouse on the Marina to Kodambakkam. It has now floated 17 separate tenders to build the 118.9km phase-2, which is expected to be ready by 2026, in its effort to prevent delays and construct faster. Construction of the elevated corridor from Kodambakkam to Poonamallee is expected to be taken up first this year, covering many developing suburban localities and IT hubs that are otherwise poorly linked by public transport. In the last two tenders for phase-2, bids were invited for constructing twin tunnels over 5.15km with underground stations at Lighthouse, Kutchery Road, Alwarpet and Bharathidasan Road. The second tender was to build twin tunnels and underground stations over 4.8km at Kodambakkam Flyover, Kodambakkam, Panagal Park, Nandanam and Boat Club. The two lines are part of the 26km corridor-4 from Lighthouse to Poonamallee linking central areas like Marina, Mylapore, Kodambakkam, Nandanam, T Nagar, Vadapalani, Saligramam as well as IT hubs at Porur and suburban localities up to Poonamallee. “When smaller stretches are awarded to companies for construction, they could finish the line within the deadline. Also, if there is an issue completing one stretch due to a contractor, it will not affect other stretches handled by different contractors,” an official said. In phase-1, construction was halted on Anna Salai after a contractor abandoned work citing financial crisis and poor soil investigation and a tunnel boring machine was stuck near Government Estate Station for months as the station was not ready. This time, CMRL has also made several changes for faster construction including reducing size of stations by more than 25%, changing some underground routes to elevated and acquiring more government land that could reduce project cost and prevent delay in construction. “Contractors are also allowed to conduct their own soil investigation before they begin construction,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-floats-tenders-for-10km-underground-line/articleshow/81116584.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan govt will focus on 2nd shot from today||JAIPUR: Health department officials on Friday stated that the drive of giving the first shot of vaccine to the health workers and frontline workers has ended and from Saturday onwards the focus would be fully shifted for the second dose. On Friday, 3,561 health workers got their second dose, while 33,245 turned up for the first dose. Till Friday, the total number of those who got the first shot were 7,80,556. Authorities stated that from Saturday, the focus would be fully on the administering of the second dose of Covid-19 vaccines including Covishield and Covaxin. “On Saturday, we won’t be entertaining those coming for the first dose as it has completed. The focus would be fully on the second dose. So far in the second dose, we are getting a good response from those who had got vaccine on January 16 and afterwards,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, nodal officer, vaccination, Rajasthan. He added that so far no adverse events have been reported in the second dose of vaccine. “Since no adverse events are reported the fear of getting vaccinated is gradually fading away. We have so far got more number of health workers reporting for getting the second dose,” he added. Meanwhile, for the first dose the maximum number of health workers turned up at Nagaur where 4,693 appeared while 232 was the lowest from Jaisalmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/govt-will-focus-on-2nd-shot-from-today/articleshow/81123681.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt will focus on 2nd shot from today||JAIPUR: Health department officials on Friday stated that the drive of giving the first shot of vaccine to the health workers and frontline workers has ended and from Saturday onwards the focus would be fully shifted for the second dose. On Friday, 3,561 health workers got their second dose, while 33,245 turned up for the first dose. Till Friday, the total number of those who got the first shot were 7,80,556. Authorities stated that from Saturday, the focus would be fully on the administering of the second dose of Covid-19 vaccines including Covishield and Covaxin. “On Saturday, we won’t be entertaining those coming for the first dose as it has completed. The focus would be fully on the second dose. So far in the second dose, we are getting a good response from those who had got vaccine on January 16 and afterwards,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, nodal officer, vaccination, Rajasthan. He added that so far no adverse events have been reported in the second dose of vaccine. “Since no adverse events are reported the fear of getting vaccinated is gradually fading away. We have so far got more number of health workers reporting for getting the second dose,” he added. Meanwhile, for the first dose the maximum number of health workers turned up at Nagaur where 4,693 appeared while 232 was the lowest from Jaisalmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-will-focus-on-2nd-shot-from-today/articleshow/81116583.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||Goa: Farmers oppose survey for link road to Mopa airport, detained||PERNEM: Farmers from Pernem were taken into police custody for obstructing survey work at the site of the link road to Mopa international airport. Farmers from Mopa and adjoining villages have been opposing the government plans to acquire additional land for the link road to the airport. Tension rent the air when government officials started conducting land survey at Dadachiwadi, in Pernem. The farmers stopped the officials and shouted slogans against the government. They were taken into custody to Pernem police station in a police bus. “Farmers’ land has been acquired at a very minimal rate of Rs 35 per sqm. Former chief minister Manohar Parrikar had promised to increase the rate by three times to Rs 105 per sqm, which is also too less. The government has acquired the land three times more than what is required. The government will transfer that land to gaming zone and five-star hotels at Rs 25,000 per sqm and more,” local politician Abhay Sawant said. He said that peacefully protesting farmers were taken into four buses to Pernem and Mapusa police stations. Locals are of the opinion that the government has already acquired land for the airport and there is no need for more land acquisition. More than 80 lakh sqm land has already been acquired for the airport and work is being undertaken by the GMR group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/farmers-oppose-survey-for-link-road-to-mopa-airport-detained/articleshow/81118216.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||Deshpande is new VC of ADYPU||Pune: Eminent academician and educator Hrridaysh Deshpande has been appointed as vice-chancellor of Ajeenkya DY Patil University. A statement from the university said with more than 27 years of experience, Deshpande comes with the global expertise in innovation, design thinking, setting up of institutions, strategic planning, strategic alliances, and education management. Deshpande said the university will continue its focus on academic excellence. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deshpande-is-new-vc-of-adypu/articleshow/81118187.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Amritsar||Will stand by protesting farmers: Agri labourers||Bathinda: Agricultural labourers have decided to participate in the Kisan Mazdoor rally to be organised jointly by farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) and labourer organisation Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union (PKMU) in Barnala on February 21. The event has been termed as “mahapanchayat.” Labourers assembled in large numbers at Lambi on Friday to mobilise public support for the rally. Addressing the gathering, PKMU general secretary Lachman Sewewala said the farm laws introduced by the Central government will not only become a tool to snatch the land of farmers, but they will also end the public distribution system and destroy employment of agricultural labourers. Therefore, he said, labourers need to struggle to get these laws repealed. He urged agricultural labourers to participate in the rally with their families. He alleged that panchayati, shamlat and government lands will be grabbed by corporate houses and privileges of agricultural labourers like one third share in common village land and 5 marla residential plots will be wiped out. Denouncing the statement of PM Narendra Modi, labelling farmers as “andolanjivi,” he alleged that the Modi government is a traitor which is surrendering food security of the country to corporate houses and playing divisive politics with the masses. He alleged the Electricity Bill 2020 is a huge step towards privatisation of electricity and will take services like low cost electricity and subsidy of 200 units out of the reach of labourers. Women labour leaders Gurmail Kaur and Krishna Devi alleged that atrocities against Dalits are increasing, as is evident from the case of Nodeep Kaur. They also demanded release of Nodeep Kaur and Disha Ravi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/will-stand-by-protesting-farmers-agri-labourers/articleshow/81116578.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Core doctors’ team begins study on efficacy of Covid vaccines||JAIPUR: Senior doctors of the core team, who are treating Covid-19 patients, are studying the effects of corona vaccines by conducting antibodies test on those people who have already received two doses. The preliminary study shows satisfactory results. Many of those beneficiaries have developed large amount of antibodies after they got vaccinated. SMS Medical College principal and controller Dr Sudhir Bhandari, who heads the core team, said, “We categorised it into two parts. The first category is of those who got Covid-19 and later got the first dose. Second were those who never got corona infection, but got vaccinated. Those who got Covid-19 and got first dose have shown good amount of antibodies formation after 14 days and 28 days. However, those who were never been infected got moderate amount of antibodies,” he said. Bhandari added that he himself got infected and vaccinated. “I got 100% formation of antibodies after 14 days since vaccination,” he added. Now, to extend the study further doctors are aiming at doing the antibody test of those who will complete their second dose as well. SMS Medical College head of department (microbiology) Dr Nitiya Vyas said, “After the completion of second dose of vaccination, we will continue the antibody test of people including health workers, frontline workers and others who got vaccinated on monthly basis. This would tell us how long the antibodies will last after vaccination,” said. Besides, the doctors have also planned to have regular antibody test of those who got Covid-19 infection but so far not vaccinated. “There are many who are yet to be vaccinated and they won’t be able to get vaccine for next three months. In this group, we have also done our antibody test and found that in young patients the antibodies were in moderate to higher amount which is very satisfactory,” Vyas added. Amid rumours about ill-effects of vaccines, core team of the SMS Medical College stated that no major adverse events are seen among the patients. “They are getting antibodies formed. We have to see how long they last,” said a senior doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/core-docs-team-begins-study-on-efficacy-of-covid-vaccines/articleshow/81116591.cms||Ashish Mehta
February 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Teen abducted, sold and raped in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 17-year-old girl from Naroda area of city was allegedly raped by a man from Juhapura regarding which a complaint was filed with Sarkhej police on Friday. The case of rape has been registered after another team of city police recovered the girl from abductors and it was revealed in her medical examination that she was eight-week pregnant. According to police, she was raped by a man from Juhapura, Shahrukh Pathan, 28, and not by the alleged abductors to whom she was allegedly sold. Police offices said that the victim had met the accused – an autorickshaw driver around a year ago, during which she was allegedly raped by him. Around a fortnight ago, she met a woman from Shaherkotda who lured her with money and sold her to a man from Rajasthan identified as Suresh Prajapati. The woman from Shaherkotda along with three other aides sold her to Prajapati around 13 days back after which the victim’s sister filed a police complaint. Shaherkotda police officers said that the accused in abduction case had taken the girl to Valsad from where they were taking her back to Ahmedabad. When they reached near Ramol toll booth on Friday morning, the girl giving an excuse of attending natural call fled from there. Later, she called up her sister and Shaherkotda police began an investigation. As she was found pregnant, autorickshaw driver was booked under rape charges and Pocso Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teen-abducted-sold-and-raped/articleshow/81117140.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||GFP condemns move to arrest Mopa farmers||Panaji: Goa Forward Party condemned Goa Police and the state government for arresting farmers and villagers in Pernem on Friday while they were peacefully protesting against the acquisition of additional land for a road that will connect the under-construction international airport at Mopa to the national highway. “We condemn the unwarranted arrest of Pernem villagers who peacefully protested the demarcation of land in Mopa being done without their consent,” said GFP president Vijai Sardesai. “We demand the immediate release of all arrested. Goa is a democracy not a police state! Remind the Goa chief minister if he has forgotten it.” On Friday, surveyors began demarcating land for the four-lane road with heavy police protection. Protesting farmers were detained, dragged into buses and taken to Mapusa and Anjuna police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-condemns-move-to-arrest-mopa-farmers/articleshow/81118246.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 450 houses issued notices for letting sewage into lakes||CHENNAI: The Kancheepuram Municipality commissioner in the last two months has issued notices to 450 houses for discharging sewage into nearby water bodies and started collecting a fine of Rs 500 from each of them. Truckers have been warned that they will be penalised Rs 25,000 if they were found dumping waste into Vaiyavur and Nathapettai lakes 40km from Tambaram. These two lakes, which are spread over 600 acres together, attracted hundreds of migratory birds like black-winged stilt, little cormorant and egret during 2020 monsoon season. So, National Green Tribunal (NGT) wanted authorities to check if these two lakes can be converted into a bird sanctuary. A joint-committee was constituted to look into local news reports which claimed that the lakes were used by locals to dump garbage and dispose sewage. The Tamil Nadu public works department (PWD), which maintains these lakes, told that sewage from the entire Kancheepuram municipal limit was treated and released into Nathapettai which is adjacent to Vaiyavur. Besides this, 450 houses in the vicinity illegally discharge waste into the lake. Therefore, it has high levels of chemicals and is unfit for drinking purpose. Water samples were collected and sent to labs for studying contamination levels. Results are awaited. Also there is not a single standing tree inside these man-made lakes to support nesting of water birds but for a handful of them on the periphery to support perching. Based on these inputs submitted by Kancheepuram collector, the joint-committee told the tribunal that it was recommended to convert the lakes into bird sanctuaries. However, the local authorities had installed mesh filters to prevent plastic waste from entering the lake and steps are taken to remove 50 encroachments identified in the lake area. On hearing this, the tribunal directed them to take necessary steps soon and formulate a separate action plan to resolve the issue of untreated sewage being discharged into lake. So far, only 30 out of the 450 houses have been provided underground sewer connections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/450-houses-issued-notices-for-letting-sewage-into-lakes/articleshow/81116601.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 20, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers mob JJP office, force Dushyant rep to leave Uchana||Jind: Representatives of Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala had to leave the party office in Uchana town of Jind district on Friday after farmers reached the spot to show him black flags. It led to heated arguments between the two groups, following which senior farm leaders and police had to intervene to prevent the situation from turning ugly. Farmers, who are protesting against the Centre’s agri-marketing laws, and khaps of Jind district have announced a social boycott of JJP leader and Uchana MLA Dushyant and banned his entry in Bangar area villages for supporting the BJP, which enacted the three farm laws. When they came to know that Jagdish Sihag, a representative of Dushyant, had reached the JJP office to meet party workers, they converged on the spot in tractor trolleys to show him black flags. As there were heated arguments, more farmers rushed to the spot, forcing Sihag to leave the office along with other persons. However, farmers staged a dharna, alleging manhandling and misbehaviour by the JJP office-bearers. They relented only after senior farm leaders reached the spot and pacified them, saying they should not give in to the government’s evil design of turning their peaceful agitation violent. Khera khap president Satbir Pahalwan later told mediapersons that despite knowing the fact that farmers had announced boycott of BJP-JJP and every such leader who is supporting the BJP government, Dushyant should not have sent his representative to Uchana. “We urge Dushyant to not try and disturb our peaceful agitation. We are deeply saddened by the death of several farmers during the ongoing agitation and won’t allow any leader to hold any programme until the laws are repealed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-mob-jjp-office-force-dushyant-rep-to-leave-uchana/articleshow/81116588.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man from Uttar Pradesh unites with family after 12 years||AHMEDABAD: Ramsagar, 32, a native of Raipura village near Chitrakoot-Karwi in Uttar Pradesh, met his nephews after 12 long years when they reached Ahmedabad on Friday and united with the farmer at Hospital for Mental Health (HMH) near Delhi Darwaza. Arpan Nayak, psychiatric social worker at the hospital, said that it’s the first instance of a man getting united with his family after a decade during the pandemic for the institution. “He was spotted by the locals near BRTS Bus Stand at Delhi Darwaza on December 21 last year,” he said. “He underwent treatment at the hospital, and upon questioning narrated name of his village, though he could not recollect names of relatives or other details.” The officials got in touch with Raipura police station, after which they got to know that Ramsagar was reported missing in 2009. “He belongs to a family of farmers. His elder brother also had psychological health issues. Ramsagar had earlier left home three times, but he was found from the vicinity. The family searched for him across the country, but to no avail. Four years ago, they even inquired at a few locations in Surat, but they could not find him,” said Nayak. Officials said that Ramsagar would require medications and counselling for some time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-from-uttar-pradesh-unites-with-family-after-12-years/articleshow/81116893.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||BJP complains to police chief on Shiv Sena’s ‘threat’||MUMBAI: A delegation of BJP leaders led by city BJP chief Mangal Prabhat Lodha and leader of Opposition in legislative council Praveen Darekar met police commissioner Parambir Singh over Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav’s alleged threat to BJP corporator Vinod Mishra to “finish him off”. BJP urged Singh to direct police to register an FIR against Jadhav. Mishra was part of the delegation. The Sena-BJP war of words over misuse of corporator funds by Jadhav intensified on Monday as BJP alleged that Jadhav abused Mishra and threatened to finish him off on a WhatsApp chat as he raised the issue of corruption and irregularities in purchases by Jadhav’s funds in his constituency (Byculla). Jadhav claimed the chat transcripts circulated by BJP were fake. “Just because we raised the issue of corruption and irregularities on misuse of funds, he threatened and abused me on WhatsApp. He said he would finish me or finish himself. We urge chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to look into his conduct and brutal corruption he is promoting,” Mishra said. “Police must take immediate action against Jadhav. If no action is taken we will move court. It has been four days since Mishra submitted a written complaint to police but no FIR has been registered. BJP is against blatant loot of public money in BMC. They are threatening BJP as we are exposing the loot,” Darekar said. “BJP is playing its role as a vigilant guardian of transparency in BMC, so ruling parties are trying to threaten us. BJP will give them a befitting reply,” Lodha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-complains-to-police-chief-on-senas-threat/articleshow/81116726.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||State tells local authorities to increase contact-tracing||Poor contact-tracing has been one of the major reasons for rise in Covid-19 cases in the state, health officials said in Pune. State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas told collectors and commissioners to trace 20-30 contacts per case and increase testing such that the positivity rate drops below 10% and, subsequently, below 5%. “Divisional commissioners and collectors have been directed to ensure there is no lax approach in contact-tracing. We issued directions to local authorities that all contacts need to be traced,” he said. State health director Archana Patil said they have issued directions and local authorities have to ready their plan. “The authorities have to find ways to track immediate contacts to begin early treatment. The state has been lagging in contact-tracing, with most districts not even tracing more than 10 contacts,” he said. A recently recovered Covid patient, under home isolation, told TOI that while he had tested positive, his family and close relatives were not tracked. “The seriousness of tracking has slowed down,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-tells-local-authorities-to-increase-contact-tracing/articleshow/81116731.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 20, 2021||Goa||Accident at Siridao leads to massive traffic snarl||Panaji: A three-vehicle pile-up at Siridao, where a truck rammed into goods vehicle, caused traffic to back up for over a kilometre along the Agasaim-Bambolim stretch on Friday afternoon. Goa Police personnel had a harrowing time clearing the traffic, which led to several people missing important commitments. According to Goa Police, three vehicles proceeding to Margao were involved in the accident. A truck rammed into a mini-goods carrier which in turn banged into a four-wheeler. The massive logjam saw vehicles lined up right up to the 2 Signal Training Centre at Bambolim. Passengers and commuters were seen getting out of their vehicles and walking about as authorities struggled to remove the damaged vehicles. The ongoing construction of the cable-stayed Zuari bridge and its approach ramps has already slowed down vehicular traffic and narrowed the width of the roads. The accident threw vehicular traffic out of gear, which included several tourist taxis heading for Dabolim airport. It took more than 30 minutes for the police to remove the three vehicles involved in the accident. Frustrated commuters took to social media to complain about being stuck for over an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/accident-at-siridao-leads-to-massive-traffic-snarl/articleshow/81118226.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Insurance agent’ dupes retired PSPCL employee of Rs 7.68 lakh||Ludhiana: Pretending to be an insurance agent, a fraudster has duped a retired PSPCL employee of Rs 7.68 lakh. The accused made the victim pay the amount for an insurance policy, assuring that it will get him a return of Rs 19.76 lakh in just two years.The police have registered a case based on the complaint of Narinder Singh of Janakpuri area, who retired from the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) as a junior engineer in 2017. The complainant stated that he had invested in some insurance policies earlier, which were to mature in 2014. Same year, he started receiving calls from different numbers from the accused, who claimed to be from an insurance company. The accused suggested that he invest in a policy, which would him get triple the invested amount. Finally, he agreed and invested Rs 7.68 lakh in the hope of getting Rs 19.76 lakh in 2016.Narinder Singh said in May 2016, he did receive a cheque of Rs 19.76 lakh via post, but it got dishonoured. When he contacted the accused, he said he had left that branch and asked to visit the office in Delhi. But, when the victim went looking for the Delhi office of the company, he found there was no such office at the given address.Narinder Singh then tried to approach the accused again, but the latter did not answer his calls, following which he lodged a complaint with the police.ASI Lakhwinder Masih, investigating officer from Sarabha Nagar police station, said during the investigation, the police have identified the accused as Rakesh Kumar of Noida, and his accomplices Manju Sharma and Nagendra Singh of Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh. A case has been registered against them under IPC sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy). Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/insurance-agent-dupes-retired-pspcl-employee-of-rs-7-68-lakh/articleshow/81115357.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara man falls into tantrik’s trap||VADODARA: A resident of Akota area has registered a complaint against a tantrik at Gotri police station for threatening and cheating him of 21.13 lakh over the last few months. Siddharth Sharma told police that the accused Gopal alias Rajesh Shastri, a resident of Madhya Pradesh, has been threatening to harm his family.  Sharma, who works for a private firm, had gone to Ujjain in December last year. After visiting a temple, when Sharma was returning to the hotel in an auto, the driver Dinesh Solanki offered to take him to a man who will help him flourish with some rituals. Sharma then went to meet Shastri in Ujjain and did some rituals before paying Rs 31,000 to the accused. Later, Shastri, Solanki and two other men accompanied Sharma to the city and visited his house. Shastri took another Rs 30,000 from Sharma for performing some rituals. Police said that Shastri left that day but soon Sharma began getting calls from the Shastri. He threatened to finish off Sharma’s family and demanded money repeatedly over the last two months. Sharma transferred Rs 21.13 lakh online before approaching the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-man-falls-into-tantriks-trap/articleshow/81116594.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Vidarbha Institute of Science & Humanities gets autonomy||NAGPUR: The Government Vidarbha Institute of Science and Humanities, formerly known as Vidarbha Mahavidyalaya, has been granted autonomy for 10 years by University Grants Commission (UGC). Dr Vasant Baburao Helavi Reddy, director of the institute, said it is the only government institute under state Higher Education Department to get such autonomy. The autonomy will allow the institute to design its own courses and syllabus, conduct its own exams and evaluate the papers. The degrees will, however, be awarded by Sant Gadge Baba Amravati University, Reddy said. The institute had applied for autonomy through the university on November 30, 2019, and a UGC team was to visit it in February last year. Due to the pandemic that visit had been put off. The committee finally visited the institute January 15 and 16. “The autonomy was granted upon the committee’s recommendation,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-inst-of-science-humanities-gets-autonomy/articleshow/81116614.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Chennai||Anna University makes unique ID must for faculty||CHENNAI: Several engineering colleges have sacked many faculty members due to Covid-19 and Anna University has tightened rules to prevent colleges from showing fake faculty members for getting affiliation from the university. Along with Aadhaar and PAN card, it has made it mandatory for colleges to give All India Council for Technical Education's (AICTE) unique ID for each faculty member while seeking affiliation. The 10-digit ID number has been allotted to more than five lakh faculty members in nearly 11,000 institutions across the country. “The database will not accept the ID number for more than one faculty member. Further, each ID will have a photo, name, department and college name,” an official from Anna University said. If the admissions are poor, the colleges will hire temporary faculty members during the inspection by the universities. Some used to show the same faculty member in different colleges. To avoid such practices, the university made Aadhaar card and PAN number mandatory. The university has invited online applications for affiliation for the year 2021-22. Of 537 engineering colleges and stand alone colleges in the state, there are around 60,000 faculty members working last year. Due to the pandemic, the colleges could not pay their faculty members and many sacked senior faculty members. The university has also received some complaints from the faculty members about non-payment of salary and job loss from the faculty members. Professors from engineering colleges said it is not possible for colleges with poor admissions to maintain a faculty-student ratio as they sent away many faculty members. "The faculty-students ratio calculated not by the enrollment but by the sanctioned strength. So, the colleges should maintain the same faculty members even if there are no admissions. It leads to some colleges hiring temporary faculty members," a professor from an engineering college said. Some principals felt that the move would reduce the fake faculty members to an extent. “The unique ID number would minimise fake faculty members but it cannot completely eradicate it as there are many postgraduates and engineers who lost jobs and might be used during inspection,” said M A Maluk Mohammed, director and correspondent of MAM College of Engineering and Technology in Trichy. “Colleges need quality faculty members to improve admissions,” he added. Another principal said there are more recommendations to hire faculty members than for admissions this year due to job loss. “Earlier, we used to have recommendations for admissions. With only a few colleges hiring, we received hundreds of applications and many recommendations for faculty positions,” a principal of a city engineering college said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anna-univ-makes-unique-id-must-for-faculty/articleshow/81116646.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Bhopal||Hoshangabad will be renamed Narmadapuram, says MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Hoshangabad district will now be known as Narmadapuram, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Friday evening at the ‘Narmada Jayanti’ programme at Sethani Ghat in Hoshangabad. This region is steeped in history and dotted with temples. It was named ‘Hoshangabad’ after the 15th Century sultan of Malwa, Hoshang Shah, and there have been sporadic demands to have it renamed. In 2008, when the administrative division was set up, Chouhan named it Narmadapuram. On Friday, on the banks of the holy river, the CM asked a massive crowd: “What should Hoshangabad be called?” Most shouted ‘Narmadapur’. Chouhan said: “Some time ago, the demand arose and we named the division Narmadapuram though Delhi didn’t agree (UPA was in power then). Now, Dilli-wale will also agree.” Towns on Narmada won’t be turned into cement jungles: CMA massive crowd had turned up to hear the CM at Sethani Ghat on Friday. Chouhan asked them: “What should Hoshangabad be called?” Some cried ‘Narmadapur’ and others ‘Narmada Nagar’. The CM said: “Some time ago, the demand arose and we named the division Narmadapuram though Delhi didn’t agree. Now, Dilliwale will also agree.” “The Madhya Pradesh government will send a unanimous proposal to rename Hoshangabad Narmadapuram,” he announced, as the crowd cheered. Chouhan said that towns situated on the banks of Narmada would be allowed to develop in tune with nature, and they won’t be allowed to become ‘cement-concrete jungle’. Narmada water will be kept pure, he said. He asked the Hoshangabad municipal body to complete sewage work rapidly and said that the district hospital will be upgraded to a superspeciality hospital. Chouhan warned the Hoshangabad SP that he would face action if he doesn’t act against anti-social elements and the sand mafia. Intensifying the crackdown on chit fund firms, Chouhan said FIRs aren’t enough and their property must be auctioned to recover money deposited by gullible investors. The administration must ensure severe punishment to those committing crimes against girls and women, Chouhan said. The CM performed ‘Kanya Pujan’ in the beginning of the programme. He and wife Sadhna Singh performed Narmada Aarti. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/hoshangabad-will-be-renamed-narmadapuram-says-shivraj/articleshow/81116659.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Bengaluru||Maternity leave law common for all staff: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: The Karnataka HC has said the 26-week maternity benefit, which came into force through an amendment to the Maternity Benefit Act in 2017, does not classify or qualify a mother to be a government servant, temporary employee, employee on contract or an employee on daily wages. The HC made the observation while coming to the rescue of BS Rajeshwari, who was contracted to work as project information officer in the directorate of municipal administration. Directorate told to reinstate employee, pay her 50% wagesRajeshwari had approached the court after she was denied maternity leave and terminated from service on the ground of absence from work in August 2019. The court directed the directorate to immediately reinstate the employee in the same post, pay her 50% of wages from day of termination to that of reinstatement, besides giving her Rs 25,000 in cost, which will be recovered from the officer who issued the termination notice. Justice M Nagaprasanna said despite Rajeshwari’s requests to consider her case on humanitarian and legal grounds — both before and after delivery of her child on July 23, 2019 at Bhadravati, Shivamogga district — the authorities failed to consider the position of law. The judge described her plight thus: “I chose motherhood, the state chose to terminate me. The pendulum of (her) fate swung from the buoyance of hope to despair.” The judge said men who hold such offices “become insensitive to the (the kind of) issues alleged in the petition. It would become ‘power in the wrong hands’.” Rajeshwari was hired on annual contract in November 2009 for a pay of Rs 17,000 and Rs 2,000 as monthly travel allowance. Latest renewal of contract allowed her to work till March 31, 2020. The employee sought to proceed on leave on June11,2019.Instead,she received a notice on June 25, 2019, asking her to report to duty since maternal benefits were not mentioned in the contract and office work was seriously hampered by her absence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/maternity-leave-law-common-for-all-staff-hc/articleshow/81119755.cms||P Vasanth Kumar
February 20, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: PFI activist says ‘do not pay for Ram temple’, booked||BENGALURU/MANGALURU: Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday that a case has been filed against Anis Ahmed, general secretary of Popular Front of India (PFI), after he allegedly asked Muslims not to offer donations for the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. “The statement is not only irresponsible but also anti-national, aimed at creating divisions among people,” Bommai said. At a rally in Ullal on Wednesday, Ahmed reportedly urged Muslim businessmen and shopkeepers not to give a single penny for the temple construction in Ayodhya. “It is not Ram Mandir. It is an RSS Mandir. Just boycott them like you boycotted the NRC (National Register of Citizens),” he reportedly said. On Thursday, Mangaluru police filed two FIRs against PFI activists on charges of trying to create enmity among communities through their speeches at the same rally. “I will instruct Ullal police to take cognizance of the whole matter and initiate action,” Bommai added. PFI trying to divide people, its statements childish: JoshiThey were booked for violation of conditions in carrying out the rally and sloganeering which may result in communal disturbance. One FIR names six people and other other seven,” Mangaluru city police commissioner N Shashi Kumar said. The home minister said the mandir is being built following a Supreme Court verdict. “He (Ahmed) has spoken badly about the RSS which is the most patriotic organisation,” Bommai told reporters in Bengaluru. Echoing Bommai, Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said PFI is trying to divide people when “Lord Ram belongs to people of all communities in India”. He said the dispute had been resolved by the Supreme Court and the temple trust is functioning according to those guidelines. “People all over the country are liberally donating for the Ram Mandir. Hindus and Muslims are peace-loving and working together for strengthening the social fabric. Statements by PFI leaders are childish and there are no takers for their remarks,” Joshi said in Dharwad. Revenue minister R Ashoka and BJP general secretary CT Ravi had earlier advocated a ban on PFI, calling it a terrorist organisation. The remarks came after two PFI members were held in Uttar Pradesh with explosives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pfi-gen-secy-booked-for-anti-national-speech-min/articleshow/81119759.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mangaluru||Karnataka: PFI activist says ‘do not pay for Ram temple’, booked||BENGALURU/MANGALURU: Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday that a case has been filed against Anis Ahmed, general secretary of Popular Front of India (PFI), after he allegedly asked Muslims not to offer donations for the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. “The statement is not only irresponsible but also anti-national, aimed at creating divisions among people,” Bommai said. At a rally in Ullal on Wednesday, Ahmed reportedly urged Muslim businessmen and shopkeepers not to give a single penny for the temple construction in Ayodhya. “It is not Ram Mandir. It is an RSS Mandir. Just boycott them like you boycotted the NRC (National Register of Citizens),” he reportedly said. On Thursday, Mangaluru police filed two FIRs against PFI activists on charges of trying to create enmity among communities through their speeches at the same rally. “I will instruct Ullal police to take cognizance of the whole matter and initiate action,” Bommai added. PFI trying to divide people, its statements childish: JoshiThey were booked for violation of conditions in carrying out the rally and sloganeering which may result in communal disturbance. One FIR names six people and other other seven,” Mangaluru city police commissioner N Shashi Kumar said. The home minister said the mandir is being built following a Supreme Court verdict. “He (Ahmed) has spoken badly about the RSS which is the most patriotic organisation,” Bommai told reporters in Bengaluru. Echoing Bommai, Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said PFI is trying to divide people when “Lord Ram belongs to people of all communities in India”. He said the dispute had been resolved by the Supreme Court and the temple trust is functioning according to those guidelines. “People all over the country are liberally donating for the Ram Mandir. Hindus and Muslims are peace-loving and working together for strengthening the social fabric. Statements by PFI leaders are childish and there are no takers for their remarks,” Joshi said in Dharwad. Revenue minister R Ashoka and BJP general secretary CT Ravi had earlier advocated a ban on PFI, calling it a terrorist organisation. The remarks came after two PFI members were held in Uttar Pradesh with explosives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pfi-gen-secy-booked-for-anti-national-speech-min/articleshow/81120159.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||No foreign variant found yet in Amravati, Yavatmal: Maharashtra govt||MUMBAI: The state health department on Friday clarified that no foreign variant of the novel coronavirus has so far been found in the emerging Covid hotspots of Amravati and Yavatmal in Maharashtra. A detailed report with a second round of genome sequencing is likely next week, said state officials. The state government has started a special surveillance in which random Covid-19 positive samples are sent for genomic sequencing to ascertain the mutations and variants in circulation in various areas. “The number of coronavirus patients has been on the rise since last week in some districts of the states like Amravati, Yavatmal, Satara and Pune. Every effort is being made to find out the reasons for this increase,” said a statement released by the public health department. The study will also ascertain whether there is any change in the genetic make-up of the coronavirus in the areas. The initial genome sequencing was done in BJ Medical College, Pune, that showed that four samples from Amravati had E484Q mutation, while four samples from Yavatmal had the N4400K mutation that is associated with Andhra Pradesh. Twelve samples from Pune have also been tested in this medical college, but didn’t show any “change in the genetic sequence.” The sudden surge in cases set off alarm bells that various variants from the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil could have made their way to Maharashtra. However, a senior health official denied this. “None of the mutations we have isolated in the samples tested at BJ Medical College show a link. They are mutations that we have seen before in other Indian states as well,” he said. Dr Gautam Banshali, a member of the state task force on Covid, said that throughout 2020, there was a three-month gap between the trends in Europe and India. “We have to use every precaution and bring the surge under control at the earliest,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-foreign-variant-found-yet-in-amravati-yavatmal-govt/articleshow/81118310.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||‘Link road will not affect houses, structures’||Panaji: Following the protest s at Mopa regarding the land acquisition for the link road to Mopa airport, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that no houses or structures will be affected. Reacting to statements that the government is going ahead with the road work which was not earlier proposed, Sawant said, “The people have some misunderstanding. It is the technical agency that has finalised the road.” Sawant said he had held two meetings with the Mopa protesters. “I have told them that we will resolve previous issues. Now they are getting three times the amount for land acquisition. It is barren land. Even the state will go out of its way and make a provision to provide 50% share to tenants who have lost their land to the Mopa project,” he said. The chief minister also said that government will take care of their employment. “If somebody is losing property, and if it is possible to divert the road, the government will do it,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/link-road-will-not-affect-houses-structures/articleshow/81118288.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Goa||Goan-origin Ligia Noronha is asst secy gen, head of UNEP’s New York office||Panaji: Economist Ligia Noronha, who traces roots to Goa, has been appointed assistant secretary general and head of the New York office of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). The announcement was made by United Nations secretary general, Antonio Guterres. Noronha will succeed Satya Tripathi. President, Goa Chamber of commerce and industry, Manoj Caculo welcomed Noronha’s appointment. “She has already done tremendous work at UNEP on several environment-related issues, and this elevation is a well-deserved recognition of her valuable work spanning over two decades on climate change and its impact on environment and health,” he said. “Ms Noronha is the latest in the list of some illustrious women like Usha Rao Monari, Gita Sabharwal and Anita Bhatia, who have been appointed to prestigious positions on several UN bodies. This reflects the growing respect for Indian women on the global arena,” he said. An economist with over three decades of international experience in the field of sustainable development, Noronha worked as director of UNEP’s Economy Division based in Nairobi in 2014. During this time, she led UNEP’s work on climate mitigation and energy transitions, on inclusive green economies, sustainable consumption and production, as well as on trade and sustainable finance and the nexus of environment, pollution and health. Noronha worked at The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) at New Delhi as executive director (research coordination) and as director of the division on resources, regulation and global security. She also served as secretary of the Asian Energy institute and coordinator of the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Partnerships (REEEP), South Asia and worked with the International Development Research Centre (IDRC), Canada on ecosystem approaches to human health. She also served on various boards, expert panels and advisory committees on ecosystems, natural resources and minerals and metals and served inter alia on the national security advisory board of the government of India on matters relating to resources, energy and climate security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-origin-ligia-noronha-is-asst-secy-gen-head-of-uneps-new-york-office/articleshow/81236940.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court grants bail to man who planned to kill neta’s kin||MUMBAI: Holding that no efforts were made by the prosecution to show that past two offences were committed as a member of an organised crime syndicate, Bombay high court on February 17 granted bail to a man booked now under MCOCA for plotting to kill a corporator’s kin in Virar in 2016. Justice P D Naik noted that unlawful activity alleged against the accused in a previous chargesheet “should have nexus” with commission of an organized crime to be attract MCOCA. HC said the law mandates “continuing unlawful activity” is a pre-requisite before MCOCA can be invoked and such “unlawful activity” also has to be as part of an organized crime syndicate. HC said police had not shown a nexus between past and present crimes. ‘Businessman’ Girish Nayar (31) from Virar had filed for bail in 2018. He had been arrested in a 2016 case for offences under Arms Act and the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). Under MCOCA it is tough to secure bail as the court has to be satisfied there is no prima facie case. The prosecutor said in October 2016, a Virar constable received a tip-off that four persons were in a car carrying weapons and had plans to “eliminate a person called ‘Garbari’ Arun Patil, kin of a local corporator”. The constable said he overheard them but they fled as someone was keeping a watch. Police opened the car they left behind and found weapons in it. Someone told police who the car belonged to. Police, HC noted, “surprisingly’’ had his number and called him, but he said he had sold it and the new owner said he had rented it out a fortnight prior to the stakeout, but with his spare key it was opened and “swords, knives with 10 inch blades and iron rods, chilli powder and mobile handset… were seized’’. Nayar’s was arrested in December 7, 2016. His lawyer Abhay Apte said the case against him was “concocted’’ and questioned prior sanction to prosecute his client as it does now disclose more than one prior chargesheet against him for being the member of a crime syndicate. The prosecutor opposed bail, saying he may commit a similar offence if released. HC said on February 17 that the accused was in custody since October 2016 and the trial was not likely to commence in “reasonable time’’ and granted him bail of Rs50,000 with one or more surety, with several conditions, to ensure his presence for the trial. MCOCA Act says two or more chargesheets are required alleging offence punishable with three years’ imprisonment or more and allege “unlawful activity either undertaken singly or jointly by the accused as a member of an organized crime syndicate or on behalf of such syndicate’’. HC too, after analyzing the chargesheet in the MCOCA case, noted that apart from listing 14 criminal antecedents, nothing was placed to show which of these cases was considered to invoke MCOCA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-grants-bail-to-man-who-planned-to-kill-netas-kin/articleshow/81116732.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 20, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata's New Town on India’s ‘cycle city’ shortlist||KOLKATA: New Town has been shortlisted as one of the top 25 cities out of nearly 100 cities in India for cycling by ‘India Cycle4Change Challenge’, an initiative of the smart cities mission under the ministry of housing and urban affairs. Hidco officials said the initiative had started last year when various cities were asked to participate in project reports on their existing cycling infrastructure and plans for near future to develop cycling as an environment-friendly mode of transport. “We sent a project report on our initiatives to develop cycling in New Town that we want to make the cycle capital of Bengal. This is one step forward to that goal and we are very happy,” said Hidco chairman-cum-managing director, Debashis Sen. The shortlisted 25 cities will be called for giving further presentation and then a top ten ranking will be made. The city that will come out first will be awarded with a prize money, said the officials. Initiated a year ago, ‘India Cycles4Change Challenge’ has been introduced to inspire and support different cities across the country for fast implementation of cycling-friendly initiatives as a sustainable mode of transport, keeping in mind the pandemic. Total 107 cities registered for taking part in the initiative. The Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) is the knowledge partner of the Smart Cities Mission to conduct the initiative and guide the participating cities to develop cycling infrastructure like bicycle lanes, cycle-friendly roads, community cycle rental schemes and cycle training programmes. Hidco and NKDA have been working on several initiatives to develop cycling in New Town. The authorities have already set up 17km dedicated cycle tracks across the township and re-introduced the public cycle sharing scheme with 100 app-based bicycles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-on-indias-cycle-city-shortlist/articleshow/81116668.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MVA likely to scrap direct benefit transfer scheme for tribal students||MUMBAI: The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is likely to reverse the erstwhile Fadnavis government’s decision of implementing direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme and restore the contract system for supply of daily household items and stationery for tribal students living in ashram schools and hostels. Also instead of paying a food allowance to tribal students, canteens may be back in hostels. The MVA government has appointed a six-member committee, led by former minister Padmakar Valvi, to review the DBT system. The committee is expected to submit its report by the month end. TimesViewThe direct benefit transfer system prevents leakage or loss to beneficiaries, a problem that was insurmountable till technology arrived. The plan to undo it is baffling as that would put disadvantaged groups again at the mercy of contractors and officials. Tribal communities in remote and interior areas of the state must be empowered. A rollback would also be an injustice to the taxpayer.An official said the government was “finding it difficult to continue with the DBT scheme in a few cases due to some technical errors” and also due to beneficiary-related issues like maintaining minimum balance in students’ bank accounts. Tribal development minister K C Padvi told TOI that not all items would be supplied by contractors if the system is scrapped. “There are advantages and disadvantages of the DBT scheme. Most of the complaints are about removing canteens from hostels,” Padvi said, adding that a final decision will be taken based on the committee report findings. Incidentally, in July 2018, during the monsoon session at Nagpur, Padvi along with other legislators belonging to the tribal community, sat on the Vidhan Bhavan staircase in protest demanding to revoke the DBT system in the tribal development department. To curb corrupt practices in the contract system, in 2018, the Fadnavis government had implemented the scheme to transfer money directly to tribal students’ accounts as food allowance and to buy household items like soap and toothpaste, and stationery like textbooks, notebooks, school uniforms. Opposing the setting up of the panel, opposition leader in the state legislative council Pravin Darekar said: “If tribal students get funds through DBT without any hassle, why does the MVA want to change the system? DBT is the best way to curb corruption and middlemen commission.” Darekar said he will raise the issue in the upcoming budget session scheduled to commence March 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mva-likely-to-scrap-direct-benefit-transfer-scheme-for-tribal-students/articleshow/81119068.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 20, 2021||Ludhiana||Contacts of schoolchildren resist testing: Health dept officials||Ludhiana: With school students testing positive for Covid-19, the health department officials are facing resistance in collecting samples of their contacts, especially of children.According to the health department data, from the second fortnight of January, about 35 teachers and 75 students, mostly of government schools in the district, have tested positive. On January 23, a teacher of a government school had died of the disease.A senior health department official involved in sampling process said, “We faced resistance in collecting samples at Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Chaunta; GSSS, Sekhewal; GSSS, Ghalib Kalan, and a school in the city. Parents of students have apprehensions about testing and so, they oppose it.”“After a teacher or a student tests positive, it is the standard operating procedure (SOP) to collect samples in their school to check the disease spread. But resistance of their contacts affects our fight against the pandemic. We, along with healthcare workers, then rope in school authorities and prominent persons of the area to encourage the students’ parents for testing,” the officer added. The authorities of Government Senior Secondary School, Chaunta, whose 30 students were recently confirmed to have contracted novel coronavirus, had to dispel rumours to encourage parents. Chaunta school principal Roma Rani said, “There were misconceptions among parents that sampling led to Covid. We had to clear their doubts and motivate them to get their kids tested. About 30 to 40 students, whose samples are yet to be collected, will go to Community Health Centre in Koom Kalan for giving their samples.” Officials said, “Samples of most of the 747 students of the school have been collected. A teacher of the school had tested positive on February 7 and before that, 30 students and two employees.”A parent of a student at the school said, “Instead of putting the lives of students at risk by opening schools during the pandemic, the government should have promoted them. It is not easy to implement Covid-19 guidelines.”“There are apprehensions about sampling among parents. The government must run campaigns to dispel misconceptions,” said a parent of another student. Meanwhile, the samples collected by the department on a daily basis are far less than the target it set the previous year. The department officials said in September last year, they had even collected 5,200 samples in a day, but now the number was below 3,000.Over 75 kids catch infectionThe number of students who have tested positive in about a month has crossed 75-mark. Since the second fortnight of January, 35 teachers of government schools have contracted the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/contacts-of-schoolchildren-resist-testing-health-dept-officials/articleshow/81115390.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 20, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||KSRTC-SWIFT comes into force||T’PURAM: Government has issued orders constituting KSRTC-SWIFT, the company that was carved out of the corporation to effectively operate its long-distance buses and services under its intelligent central control centre. The income from the new company, after operational expenses and repayment of all loans extended to KSRTC by Kerala infrastructure investment fund board (KIIFB), will be utilized for employee welfare activities. Government has also set up five temporary posts of senior managers in the new company and KSRTC CMD has been entrusted with the task of cooperating with the company. While the paid up capital of the new firm is Rs 1 crore, the cabinet has sanctioned Rs 16 crore for its initial expenses. The company will include an eight-member director board with professionals, who will manage the company. KSRTC CMD will also be the ex-officio CMD of the new firm. KSRTC-SWIFT will be an independent company though its functioning will depend on the functions of KSRTC. For utilizing KSRTC’s facilities, the new company will make payments. The services of KSRTC that will be utilized by the new company include buses, bus routes and bus depots. The maintenance of buses and services offered to employees at depots are also among them. Agreements will be signed between KSRTC and the new firm in this regard. The new company has been set up for 10 years. All empanelled employees, whose services have ended in KSRTC, will be rehabilitated in the new company. All appointments in the new company will be temporary, they will not be regularized. All new buses, purchased using the loans from KIIFB, will be operated under the new company. In addition to new long-distance services, current long-distance services operated by KSRTC will be transferred to the new company in a phased manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksrtc-swift-comes-into-force/articleshow/81116673.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||Goa meets power reforms, gets to borrow Rs 44 crore more||PANAJI: Goa is among the five states that successfully met the Union power ministry’s target to reduce aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses and undertake power reforms. As an incentive for meeting the Centre’s reforms, the state government has been granted permission to borrow an additional Rs 44 crore. Together, Goa, Bihar, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, have been granted permission to borrow Rs 2,094 crore. Reduction in AT&C losses, and average cost of supply and average revenue realisation (ACS-ARR) gap are two of the three reforms in the power sector stipulated by the department of expenditure, ministry of finance. “Goa has brought down the AT&C losses to 11.2% against the target of 13.5%,” the ministry of finance said in a statement. The Rs 44 crore of additional borrowing granted to Goa is aside from the Rs 446 crore additional borrowing permitted to Goa for achieving urban local body reforms and for implementing the one-nation-one-ration card system. The incentive offered to states that undertake power reforms are part of the additional borrowing ceiling being granted in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Union ministry of finance has given states permission to borrow an amount equivalent of 0.05% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) for meeting the target set for the state for reduction in AT&C losses and an additional 0.05% of GSDP for crossing the ACS-ARR gap target. Last November, Goa electricity department was conferred with the GCloud and Data Centre Award 2020 for successful implementation of various IT projects. Goa bagged the award for undertaking power reforms and for introducing digital initiatives such as Bharat Bill Payment System, online services and other initiatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-meets-power-reforms-gets-to-borrow-rs-44cr-more/articleshow/81118279.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Over 6,000 engineering, 5,500 polytechnic seats vacant in Nagpur division||NAGPUR: When over 27,000 candidates applied for around 17,000 engineering seats in the region before the Centralized Admissions Process (CAP) commenced in December, it was expected that all colleges would be full this year. However, after the end of CAP last month, over 6,000 seats remained vacant in 44 engineering colleges in the division. This is despite the fact that a couple of colleges closed down while many shut some branches where they failed to get students over the years like information technology (IT). Statistics provided by the joint director of technical education’s office, 11,041 candidates confirmed their admissions in CAP conducted by the State CET Cell against availability of 17,289 seats. Also, 5,919 polytechnic seats weren’t filled up after the CAP. Only BPharm and MCA courses received good response with only 128 and 47 seats remaining vacant. With this, the decade-old trend of vacant seats continued this year as well. Joint director of technical education M Daigavane told TOI that both engineering and polytechnic vacancies have reduced in comparison to previous years. “This year, about 65% admissions were confirmed in engineering and 60% in diploma courses. This ratio is much better than the last few years. It’s because many private colleges have either closed down or significantly reduced their intake capacity in view of poor response.” According to him, a majority of government institutions have hardly any vacancy as aspirants were more inclined towards them. “Only private colleges are suffering from vacancies. However, the polytechnics, which were on the brink of closure last year due to extremely poor response, received a booster dose this year. There's a 20% rise in admissions in comparison to last year. At places like Chandrapur, where there’s no government polytechnic, private ones are full.” Crediting technical education director Abhay Wagh for starting the school connect programme, Daigavane said due to it a good number of students were attracted towards the polytechnic courses and admissions had increased. Last year, 16,049 aspirants had registered for CAP for 18,240 seats engineering seats in 47 colleges, but only 10,874 confirmed admissions, leaving 9,342 seats vacant. This year, the total seats were reduced to 17,289 in 44 institutions under Nagpur and Gondwana universities. Even the Covid-19 pandemic is believed to have led students to opt for local colleges rather than moving to Mumbai and Pune, which resulted in a slight increase in admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-6k-engg-5-5k-poly-seats-vacant-in-ngp-division/articleshow/81116709.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 20, 2021||Ludhiana||Schoolkids among 65 new Covid cases||Ludhiana: As many as 65 residents of Ludhiana tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. It is the highest single-day spike in the past some months.The day also saw a patient from outside Ludhiana succumbing to the virus at a hospital here.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the district toll tally stood at 1,016 and that of outsiders has increased to 492.To date, 6,44,151 persons have been tested.Of the 65 new positive cases, six were from flu corner, 22 contacts of positive patients, 24 from OPD, 12 through tracing process and one pre-operative case. The cases included two schoolchildren, one from a private school in Samrala and another from Chaunta village. Eighteen outsiders too tested positive here.The local health department officials said the district case count was 26,553 and that of outsiders 4,096.So far, 25,138 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.67% of the total cases.There are 396 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/schoolkids-among-65-new-covid-cases/articleshow/81115399.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Govt to roll out scheme to prevent women from going to forest to collect fodder||Nainital: The Uttarakhand government is planning to bring a scheme to provide cheap fodder to help the women involved in animal rearing. The government has said that the scheme will especially benefit the women who have to go forests to collect fodder and are prone to animal attacks. The announcement was made by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday while he was speaking at the foundation-laying ceremony of the Uttarakhand Open University. Rawat said that the scheme is being deliberated at the official level and that it will be rolled out soon. The CM also took stock of the several development works in the region ranging from agriculture to poultry as well as tourism and irrigation. Speaking about the proposed airstrip in Almora’s Chaukhutiya, Rawat said that it will soon be operational. “The airstrip at Chaukhutiya is important for both tourism and the nation’s security in the border areas. Therefore, the government is working to make this airstrip operational at the earliest and the Kumaon Commissioner Arvind Hyanki has been directed to take necessary steps in this regard,” Rawat said. Meanwhile, the officials informed CM Rawat that the work on the Jamrani dam project is also in its final stages as most of the issues raised by the ADB have been sorted out and a report is being prepared on the rest of the points. The officials further said that the government needs over 350 acres of land to rehabilitate the people affected by the dam while adding that around 280 acres of land have been identified and that the project will start soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-to-roll-out-scheme-to-prevent-women-from-going-to-forest-to-collect-fodder/articleshow/81115403.cms||Prashant Jha
February 20, 2021||Goa||‘Work fast tracked, six hospitals to be unveiled by Sept’||Panaji: The state government on Friday decided to fast track the completion of six hospitals, including the super speciality block at Goa Medical College (GMC), and get them ready for commissioning them by September. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the state government has already taken a loan from Nabard (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development) to complete the hospitals, and added that the cardiac unit at the South Goa district hospital will be on line with the one at GMC. He told reporters that chief minister Pramod Sawant had held a review meeting to fast track the completion of all six medical facilities, including the South Goa district hospital, GMC’s super specialty wing, and the hospitals at Curchorem, Cansaulim, Chicalim and Tuem. Appointment of consultants for these hospitals is in process, he said. “Consultants will be appointed to advise us on how to operate these hospitals as they are big facilities,” Rane said. Stating that all measures are being taken to ensure that healthcare facilities are available for all the people, he said, “People have to travel outside the state for treatment under certain specialisations. We want the super speciality to have these facilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/work-fast-tracked-six-hospitals-to-be-unveiled-by-sept/articleshow/81118312.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ludhiana||Probe ordered into woman delivering twins in park||Ludhiana: A day after a woman delivered twin babies in a park at the Civil Hospital, the health department has ordered a probe into the circumstances that forced the woman to deliver there.According to the 30-year-old woman, Uma Devi of Dhuri Line, she had come to the hospital two days ago with mild pain in stomach and wanted to take treatment for the same. But, she did not know that the delivery would happen so soon, else she would have gone home after taking medicines.Uma said she went looking for her husband, who had gone out, but she could not find him. As she sat in the park waiting for his return, she gave birth to the twins there only.Uma’s husband Santosh alleged that when he took his wife for the check-up, initially no one was listening to him. Later, after investigation, the hospital authorities asked him to go to some other hospital to get her heart tests done. He added that soon after, his wife delivered the babies in the park.A person, who claimed to be present at the hospital at that time, said a woman sitting in the park covered the place where Uma was sitting with dupattas and helped her deliver the twins. Meanwhile, the health authorities have said the matter is being inquired. Senior medical officer (SMO) of Civil Hospital Dr Hatinder Kaur said they are investigating into the circumstances that led to the woman delivering in the hospital park. She said they would probe why the guard allowed the patient to go out of the hospital. The SMO, however, said the patient did not have any labour pain. After the doctors checked her and got her ECG done, they suspected some issue with it and advised her to get electrocardiography done at CMCH, as this procedure is done in the Civil Hospital only twice a week.“The doctor on duty tried to arrange an ambulance and was attending to other patients when she went outside on her own looking for her husband and delivered there,” said the officer. She added that the woman has been admitted in the hospital and is undergoing treatment. Another health department official said, “She had anaemia and jaundice and she had precipitated labour. She delivered babies weighing just over 900 grams each. The babies were referred to PGI, but the father brought them back against medical advice. Since we have an MoU with CMCH, we have referred them to that hospital where they will be treated free of cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/probe-ordered-into-woman-delivering-twins-in-park/articleshow/81115396.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Kolkata||Urban living lab plan for social experiments in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Bengal Chamber is keen to collaborate with Denmark Embassy to set up an urban regeneration lab in Kolkata on the lines of India’s first urban living lab in Panaji, Goa, to conduct social experiments and chalk out alternative ways to plan interventions and address urban challenges in the city. Urban labs became popular in Europe in the late 1990s and helped bring about urban regeneration in cities like Barcelona, Helsinki and Manchester. “Urban living lab is a bottom-up approach to planning and implementation instead of the highly centralised top-down development planning that we have now. This will help address local issues and ground-level challenges. The Chamber would like to engage with the Embassy of Denmark in India for learning and best practices in this area and is willing to take up exchange programmes on resource efficiency and other related capacity building with the embassy to facilitate this mission,” Bengal Chamber president, Deb A Mukherjee, said. Urban living labs are “early experimentation gardens” embedded in neighbourhoods and cities, in which residents, governments, private actors and knowledge institutions interact to design, test and fine-tune social and technical interventions in real-time. This collaborative arrangement marks a shift from incumbent efforts based on government-industry partnerships. At its heart is the idea that urban sites can provide a learning arena within which the co-creation of new ideas and solutions can be pursued. “There has been a growing uptake of the living lab method for participatory urban initiatives since, focusing on four key functions: experimentation; engagement; co-creation; and learning to help reverse the degeneration of urban settlements and bring about urban regeneration,” pointed out Denmark ambassador to India Freddy Svane. Through testing and fine-tuning, urban lab experiments provide insights into the solutions that are likely to work in a particular context and be supported by societal actors. These experiments are embedded in real places at manageable scales. For instance, the Climate Adaptation Living Lab is focused on improving the climate adaptability of Copenhagen; the Smarter Labs project aims to develop low-carbon mobility solutions for Bellinzona, Brussels, Graz and Maastricht.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/urban-living-lab-plan-for-social-experiments-in-kol/articleshow/81116680.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Ad firms to lose licence over hacking of SoBo trees to ‘clear view for hoardings’||MUMBAI: BMC has decided to revoke the licences of two advertising companies for allegedly deploying men to hack trees to clear the view for their hoardings in Girgaon and Malabar Hill earlier this month. BMC has moved a proposal to revoke their hoarding licences. Officials said their licences would be revoked after they are issued showcause notices. This will be the first instance where advertising companies would lose their licences for hacking trees to clear the view for hoardings. BMC’s D Ward has moved a proposal to cancel the licences of Orion Advertisers for its hoardings at Girgaon Chowpatty’s Tambe Chowk and that of Selvel Publicity at Malabar Hill near Jindal Mansion. Earlier this month, police had arrested Atul Ashar, CEO of Orion Advertisers, for the illegal hacking of a banyan at Girgaon. Ashar was later released on bail. Rumi Filly Marawala, general manager of Selvel Publicity, was arrested for hacking a tree at Malabar Hill near Jindal Mansion. Police had also arrested four others who had posed as BMC workers and hacked trees. “Police informed us that as per their investigation, the trees were hacked to clear the view for hoardings and those persons acted on the instructions of the advertising companies. So we have moved a proposal to revoke their licences for these hoarding locations to the deputy municipal commissioner (special) after following the due procedure,” said Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner, D Ward. Officials said hacking trees to clear the view for hoardings was in violation of the licence conditions. Selvel Publicity did not respond to an email from TOI and Ashar did not reply to a query on the issue. “The trees were cut to clear the view for the hoardings that belonged to these firms on their instruction. The persons who were cutting the trees were doing so at the instance of these advertising companies. We have verified their call detail records (CDR). In fact, the companies also made payments to the hackers by bank transfers and cheques,” said Rajeev Sawant, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Gamdevi division. “With regards to the illegal hacking of the Banyan tree at Marine Drive, the accused, identified from CCTV footage have been arrested by the Mumbai Police. Further investigations are on and we will come down strongly on these culprits. The kingpins behind this act won’t be spared. I commend the Mumbai Police and BMC for the swift action. But this is also a strong message that the guilty won’t be spared for such acts,” tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray had tweeted last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ad-firms-to-lose-licence-over-hacking-of-sobo-trees-to-clear-view-for-hoardings/articleshow/81115414.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 20, 2021||Goa||Vigilance dept begins task to find new Lokayukta||Panaji: After the state government notified the amendment to the Goa Lokayukta Act on Thursday which empowered the state to appoint a retired high court judge as Lokayukta, the directorate of vigilance on Friday started the process of appointing a new Lokayukta. A senior official said that since the state can now appoint retired high court judges as Lokayukta, the file has been moved for the government’s decision whether to write to the high court to seek names of retired judges or to outline the steps to appoint a new Lokayukta. After the government failed to get consent to appoint a Supreme Court judge or a retired chief justice of the high court, the state amended the act so that a retired high court judge could be appointed as Lokayukta. Stung by several indictments by the Lokayukta in cases involving corruption by public functionaries, the government amended the act to severely dilute the powers of the institution. The amendments have omitted provisions enabling complaints against public functionaries on allegations of nepotism, lack of integrity, mal-administration and improper or corrupt motive. As per the notification, the Upa-Lokayukta could be any person of eminence in public life. The Upa-Lokayukta must be one of “impeccable integrity and outstanding ability having special knowledge and expertise of not less than twenty years in matters relating to anti-corruption policy or public administration, finance, including insurance and banking or law management.” Recently, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the government will approach the Supreme Court to seek names of judges to select a new Lokayukta. The government had also approached the high court seeking an extension after being unable to find retired Supreme Court judges or retired high court chief justices willing to move to Goa to take up the post. Last month, the high court of Bombay at Goa granted the state government an extension of two months to appoint a new Lokayukta. The term of the previous Lokayukta P K Misra ended on September 17. There are at least 75 cases pending before the office of the Goa Lokayukta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vigilance-dept-begins-task-to-find-new-lokayukta/articleshow/81118339.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||State wants early vax for 50+ and those with co-morbidities||Spurred by a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra will approach the Union health ministry for permission to start the third phase of vaccination—targeting 50-plus people and younger with diseases—before March, said state technical advisor Dr Subhash Salunkhe on Friday. “In Maharashtra and Kerala where there is an increase in cases in pockets, the Union government should not wait till March. It must start vaccination of those above 50 years and those with co-morbidities earlier so that the situation can be in control. When we have a primary tool for prevention and vaccine companies have assured us of adequate production, the Union government should act fast,” Salunkhe, who was in Amravati assessing the situation, told TOI. There is a spurt in cases in pockets of Marathwada and Vidarbha.On the one hand there is vaccine hesitancy among health and frontline workers, while on the other hand senior citizens and people with co-morbidities are willing to take the vaccine. However, the Centre is in the process of framing guidelines for the IT platform and waiting for a formal announcement, he said.We will seek Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention immediately before things get out of hand. While the Centre may develop the IT platform for rolling out the third phase, states that are seeing a rise and especially hotspots should immediately start vaccination for the elderly,” he added.He said the Centre was responsible for poor planning and for its “inappropriate public health strategy”.Salunkhe added that the transmission rate is tremendously high in Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal, and the situation needs immediate intervention. “While restriction of movement is in place, vaccination should also be initiated for the elderly here,” he said.Central health officials said guidelines are ready for the 50 plus population and those with co-morbidities, and they are wanting for the first two priority population to be covered as early as possible. “We are following a set process and vaccination would start soon for those above 50 and those with co-morbidities,” V K Paul, NITI Aayog member (health), said, adding that the vaccine cannot be distributed as yet in the market as it is marked for the priority population.Task force member and public health expert Giridhara R Babu too called for vaccinating of the 50 plus population in high risk states first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-wants-early-vax-for-50-and-those-with-co-morbidities/articleshow/81118342.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 38 assistant Economics professors recruited, will be posted in remote areas||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday congratulated 38 newly-recruited assistant professors of Economics. They will be given postings in the hills of Uttarakhand. The CM said that the appointment of these assistant professors would help students in far-flung areas and higher reaches of the Himalayan state. Higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat called it an effort to provide the required strength of faculty members in degree colleges. Post recruitment, the assistant professors would be posted in far-flung and remote areas of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/38-assistant-economics-professors-recruited-will-be-posted-in-remote-areas/articleshow/81115407.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 20, 2021||Ludhiana||NRI held over hosiery trader’s ‘drug overdose’ death||Ludhiana: A day after the death of hosiery trader Rahul Jain at a hotel in Bhadaur House here, the police have arrested a Non-resident Indian (NRI) Sandeep Singh in this connection. It is alleged that Sandeep injected some drug to Rahul, following which he died of suspected drug overdose.According to the police, Sandeep and Rahul had met via social media for the first time on February 4. Besides Sandeep, the police also suspect involvement of another person in the case, who is seen with Sandeeep in the CCTV footage of the hotel. Jyoti Jain of New Kitchlu Nagar, wife of the deceased, has stated that her husband had left the house on February 16, saying that he is going to pay his obeisance at Mata Chintpurni temple in Himachal Pradesh with his gym friends. But, on February 18, her nephew Vineet Jain informed her about the death of her husband in a hotel room.Sub-inspector Harjit Singh, SHO of Division No. 1 police station, said during the investigation, the police found that on February 17, Sandeep had left the hotel asking the hotel staff not to disturb Rahul. Next day, Rahul was found dead in the hotel room. The police have recovered syringes, a lighter and some cigarette packets from the room.The SHO said the police managed to trace Sandeep, who confessed that he had met Rahul via social media on February 4 and met for the first time in person on February 5 and had an overnight stay at the same hotel. During their stay, they had consumed drugs. Sandeep said on February 16, they again came to the hotel and he mistakenly gave overdose of a drug to Rahul, due to which he died. The arrested accused has been booked under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC and efforts are on to trace the other man captured in the CCTV.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/nri-held-over-hosiery-traders-drug-overdose-death/articleshow/81115405.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Kolkata||Union education minister visits RKM inst, discusses new courses||KOLKATA: Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal visited Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Educational and Research Institute, a deemed university at Belur Math, and discussed the new programmes linking medicine with biotechnology and AI. The minister spoke to monks and faculty as well as interacted with students on blended modes. The pro-chancellor, Swami Atmapriyananda, briefed him on the courses in biotechnology that have started at RKM Narendrapur, an off-campus centre of the institute. The centre has recently given an annual grant to launch a school of biological sciences under which PG and research programmes have started in medical biotechnology and agricultural biotechnology. “We are running them in association with RKM Seva Pratisthan. The aim is to find solutions to diseases. Pokhriyal was happy with our approach,” he said.  Yoga, Indology and heritage studies are also taught here. “We have been assured of the Centre’s cooperation,” said the pro-chancellor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/union-edu-min-visits-rkm-inst-discusses-new-courses/articleshow/81116738.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Chief Minister holds review meeting on development projects in Tehri||DEHRADUN: Out of the 204 projects announced for Tehri district, a total of 125 have been completed and the work is under progress in the remaining projects. In a review meeting of development projects announced by the CM, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat directed officials to speed up the road-related project. Agriculture minister Subodh Uniyal along with MLAs Shaktilal Shah, Vinod Kandari, Vijay Singh Panwar, and Dhan Singh Negi attended the review meeting. CM Rawat directed the tourism officials to ensure a parking slot at Muni-Ki-Reti, which is a major tourist destination. Out of the 36 CM announcements for Narendra Nagar assembly constituency, 19 have been completed. And 23 out of the 32 announcements for Ghansali have been completed. Similarly, 16 out of the 32 announced projects at Pratap Nagar have been completed. In Tehri assembly constituency, 21 out of the 34 announced projects have been completed. In Devprayag, 19 out of the 29 projects are over and authorities have completed 27 out of the 41 announced projects in Dhanaulti assembly constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-holds-review-meeting-on-development-projects-in-tehri/articleshow/81115417.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 20, 2021||Kolkata||Hospital-acquired infection deaths under med panel lens||Kolkata: Death due to hospital-acquired infection is now under the scanner of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC). On Friday, the health panel asked two hospitals to pay a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to the kin of two deceased. “The commission has asked BM Birla Heart Research Centre and RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences to pay Rs 2 lakh each to Mita Ghosh and Meghdoot Saha, respectively, whose family members died during treatment due to hospital-acquired infection,” said Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairman WBCERC. Madhyamgram resident Madhumita Ghosh’s husband was admitted to the Alipore hospital on August 29, 2019 where he underwent a bypass surgery five days later. The patient died on September 11. In the second case, patient Satyananaran Saha underwent a brain surgery in the Mukundapur hospital on November 21, 2019 and died on December 9. The two families had knocked on the doors of the commission earlier after the death. The commission on Friday told Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata to pay Rs 1 lakh compensation to the son of a patient who alleged that his father was not even given primary treatment when the patient was taken to the hospital on April 10 last year. “The hospital said its was a case of cardiac issues and it did not have the facilities. But we felt doctors there should have at least given the primary care and tried to save the patient,” said Banerjee. Lila Hospital Berhampore was directed to pay Rs 3 lakh to the husband of a 30-year-old woman who died after childbirth. The commission found that the doctors did not even diagnose the complications that the woman suffered after the C-section. The health panel ordered RKM Seva Pratishthan to pay Rs 25,000 for not taking care of the bed sore a patient had developed while KPC Medical College was told to pay Rs one lakh as an interim compensation again for not treating bed sore of another patient. Arogya Nursing Home in Shyambazar was told to refund Rs 64,000 to a Covid patient as the health commission found the hospital overcharging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hospital-acquired-infection-deaths-under-med-panel-lens/articleshow/81116720.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||‘Danger’ on Mumbai-Pune expressway: 66 mishaps on 3km ghat stretch in 3 years||NAVI MUMBAI: A 3km stretch of the ghat section on Mumbai-Pune expressway has seen 66 mishaps between January 2018 and February 2021. These mishaps led to 21 deaths and left 39 seriously injured. The ‘black spot’ area falls in Dheku village in Khalapur. Drivers often violate the 50km speed limit on the slope area, causing mishaps. The entire E-way ghat section stretches over 15 km. The accident-prone stretch has slopes with four curves along the stretch. Data from Raigad district police shows 10 deaths took place in 2019, five in 2020 and six so far in 2021. “Of late, the black spot zone has reported mishaps every alternate day... Highway traffic police hardly do night surveillance,” said superintendent of police (highway traffic) Sanjay Barkund. Assistant inspector Jagdish Pardesi said the permitted speed limit in the ghat section is 50 km. “On an average, 300 cases of speed violation are recorded in a day. The 3km stretch of Dheku village is the most dangerous,” he said. Deputy regional transport officer Anil Patil said drivers must exercise utmost care on the ghat section. Rumblers, blinkers, reflectors and signages are being placed in this section, said an MSRDCengineer. “Suggestions are invited to reduce mishaps,” said the engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/danger-on-e-way-66-mishaps-on-3km-ghat-stretch-in-3-yrs/articleshow/81095574.cms||Umesh K Parida
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Builders bloom as Telangana crawls on RERA rule||HYDERABAD: Has the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA) been given a quiet burial in Telangana? At least that’s what a quick scan of Union ministry of housing’s latest records indicate. Over four years after being introduced, Telangana stands out as the only major state in India that still does not have a permanent regulatory authority, an appellate tribunal (both are interim) or an adjudicating officer – all important offices listed under the RERA Act. Predictably, the state has not disposed of a single case pertaining to RERA till date, the data shows. Across India, 61,880 complaints have been disposed of by RERA authorities until February 6 this year. This weak monitoring system, industry insiders claim, has resulted in RERA guidelines being flouted extensively in the state. They allege that several property dealers are resorting to pre-launch sale of homes and land parcels even before they apply for a RERA registration number. The offers are being extended even on prominent projects coming up in Kondapur, Chandanagar, Financial District, L B Nagar among other areas. Many of these projects are being promoted on social media platforms without a RERA number, sources add. As per the RERA Act, no promoter can advertise, market, book or sell any plot, apartment or building, without registering it with the authority. “They are luring customers with pre-launch offers that are often 30% to 40% lower than the launch price. To avoid a paper trail, many are signing MoUs with customers – assurance to buy the property once the RERA registration is completed – instead of accepting cheques,” said a leading realtor. RERA officials say they are unable to act as no complaint has been registered with them. “People only forward some messages with these violations but do not provide any details about the promoters or share contact numbers. In such cases, it becomes difficult for us to track them. If complaints are lodged, we will take action,” said K Vidyadhar, secretary, TS-RERA, refraining from commenting on the lack of a permanent RERA authority in the state. Multiple attempts to reach Telangana chief secretary, Somesh Kumar, failed. He is the chairman of TS-RERA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/builders-bloom-as-t-crawls-on-rera-rule/articleshow/81119092.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
February 20, 2021||Patna||Matric social science paper leaked in Jamui, cancelled||PATNA: The Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) cancelled the matriculation social science paper examination held on Friday following paper leak in Jamui district. The examinations was held in the first shift, in which altogether 8,46,504 students appeared. The re-examination for the paper will now be held on March 8. The BSEB said in a statement issued late Friday evening that it was found in the preliminary investigation that question paper was leaked through WhatsApp by a contractual staff of the Jhajha branch of State Bank of India (SBI). Three persons, including Vikas and two other SBI staff of Jhajha branch were arrested. It has been found during police investigation that Vikas had sent the question paper through WhatsApp to one of his relatives, who appeared in the exam. The BSEB stated that following the information of question paper leak, the board asked the Jamui district magistrate and SP to verify the matter. They, in their joint investigation report, stated that the question paper was taken out from the SBI’s Jhajha branch before the examination in the morning and circulated through WhatsApp after taking its photographs. The BSEB further stated that apart from Vikas, callousness of three other SBI staff of Jhajha branch has been indicated and their role in paper leak was being verified. The DM and SP have furnished their initial probe reports in the matter to the BSEB, following which the board ordered to lodge an FIR. Further investigation is being done by the police in the matter. BSEB chairman Anand Kishore said any individual found involved in the matter should be arrested as per respective legal procedure and strict action be taken against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/matric-social-science-paper-leaked-in-jamui-cancelled/articleshow/81116099.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 20, 2021||Madurai||Govt depts cannot decline service citing difficulties: HC||Madurai: No governmental authority can decline to render service to the citizens by citing difficulties, the Madras high court has observed, and directed the Tangedco authorities to provide electricity connection to a farmer’s agricultural land in Virudhunagar district.The court was hearing a petition filed by A Mayirulan, who sought Tangedco to provide electricity service connection under tariff 3A1 to his agricultural land situated at Pattakulam Sallipatti village in Srivilliputhur taluk.Justice G R Swaminathan said the petitioner initially wanted provision of electricity supply under the free scheme. When he approached the authorities, he was informed that he could as well apply under tariff 3A1. The petitioner accepted the said suggestion and applied on that basis.The judge said that even though the petitioner was ready to comply with all the formalities, the authorities did not provide him the electricity supply connection. When the petitioner wanted to know the reason, he was informed that since the work of providing electricity supply would be difficult and tough, they were not in a position to take up the petitioner’s application for consideration. Questioning the same, the petitioner had approached the HC Madurai bench by filing this present petition.“I must express my surprise over the stand taken by the then executive engineer. No governmental authority can decline to render service to the citizen by citing difficulties. In fact, we are expected to walk the extra mile, so that the citizens will be able to reap the benefits of the scheme announced by the government,” observed the judge.The judge said that when the case was taken up for hearing, the standing counsel appearing for Tangedco informed the court that the present executive engineer is ready to do the needful, so as to redress the grievance of the petitioner. The judge said that the petitioner is also ready to comply with the usual formalities.Recording the submissions, the judge gave the direction to Tangedco to complete the exercise within a period of 10 weeks and disposed of the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-depts-cannot-decline-service-citing-difficulties-hc/articleshow/81118361.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||MSC scam: After EOW’s clean chit, Ajit cleared in dept probe||Mumbai: Six months after the Economic Offences Wing granted him a clean chit in the MSC Bank scam, the departmental probe too has absolved deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and 64 others of all charges of irregularities. In response to a public interest litigation, the Bombay high court had asked the EOW to probe the alleged Rs 25,000 crore scam in the MSC Bank. First in September 2020 and then in its report submitted to the high court on November 27, 2020, the EOW submitted that no wrongful loss had been caused to the bank. In May 2011, following critical observations of the Reserve Bank of India and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, the then chief minister Prithrivaj Chavan had superseded the board of directors, including Ajit Pawar, Hasan Mushrif and Vijay Singh Mohite Patil. Most of the directors at that time belonged to the Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena. The RBI and Nabard had found that there was blatant violation of guidelines prescribed by these financial institutions and loans were disbursed to 24 cooperative sugar factories without verification and without ascertaining their capacity to refund the loans. Most of the beneficiaries belonged to the Congress and NCP. It was found that while loans were disbursed from 2005 to 2011, most of the units had defaulted on repayment of the loan amounts. As per the provisions of the Cooperative Societies Act, the probe was then entrusted to an official of the rank of additional registrar of cooperative societies. According to rules, the probe must be completed within six months. When the official failed to submit the report, the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis first promulgated an ordinance and then amended the law to provide for completion of probe in the MSC Nank scam. Ajit Pawar had taken the view that it would be wrong to blame him since he did not attend even a single meeting for disbursal of loans. According to reports, after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took over the reins of the state, the probe was entrusted to a retired judge in February 2020. The judge submitted his report to the cooperation commissioner Anil Kawade, who did not respond to TOI’s messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/msc-scam-after-eows-clean-chit-ajit-cleared-in-dept-probe/articleshow/81119128.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Madurai||Fisherman held by SL, dies of Covid||Tuticorin: A 60-year-old fisherman from Tuticorin district who was arrested by the Sri Lankan navy in the first week of January for smuggling turmeric and spices to the island nation and was detained in prison, has died of Covid-19. The fishermen had been identified as Lurthu. His wife and two daughters have submitted a petition to the Tuticorin district collector to bring back the fisherman’s body to India. One of his daughters, Kavitha, 39, said that her parents lived in Annai Theresa Meenavar Colony in Tuticorin. She told TOI that he went fishing with three others from Therespuram on January 3. A day later, they received information from the police that he was arrested by the Lankan navy on charges of smuggling turmeric to that country. Though they heard about his death on February 15, it could not be authenticated till Friday till the district administration confirmed it. Lurthu’s wife Mariyapapa, 60, daughters Kavitha and Malli Lalitha, 41, submitted the petition to collector K Senthil Raj to bring his body back. Communication from the ministry of foreign affairs, Sri Lanka, stated that the man lodged in the Negombo prison died in the Homagama hospital. Officials said that there was difficulty in identifying him as they only received sketchy information on his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fisherman-held-by-sl-dies-of-covid/articleshow/81118392.cms||M K Ananth
February 20, 2021||Madurai||HC pulls up finance dept official for contempt of court||Madurai: Taking a serious view of non-compliance with a court order to reimburse medical expenses to a government employee, Madras high court has sought an explanation from the secretary to government, finance (salaries) department, S Krishnan, as to why he should not be punished for his wilful disobedience of the orders of the court.The court was hearing a contempt petition filed by S Dhanalakshmi, who was working as BT Assistant in a corporation middle school in Madurai and is covered under the new health insurance scheme. The petitioner had undergone surgery in February 2018 and paid Rs 1,22,454 towards medical expenses.The district-level empowered committee sent a proposal in September 2019 to disburse the medical expenses to the petitioner. Since, the amount was not reimbursed, Dhanalakshmi moved the HC Madurai bench and the court in its order in November 2019, had directed the secretary to disburse the eligible amount as per the Tamil Nadu Medical Attendance Rules.Since the earlier order was not complied with, the petitioner filed the present contempt petition.Justice M S Ramesh said that in order to give an opportunity to the contemnor, the court had directed the government advocate to get instructions by an order during March 2020. Thereafter, the contempt petition was adjourned on seven occasions. Ultimately, when the matter was listed on January 7, 2021, it was submitted that the authorities had not chosen to instruct the government pleader’s office.The judge said that the court has issued statutory notice for the secretary’s personal appearance on February 18. However, the secretary did not appear before the court. On the other hand, the additional government pleader produced a copy of GO dated January 19, 2021 and submitted that the earlier order of the court dated has been complied with.The judge said that GO reads to the effect that the petitioner may not be entitled for the claim made by her on certain heads and had ultimately derived the eligible amount at Rs 2,570.The judge observed that on a prima facie view, the contemnor has wilfully disobeyed the order on two counts - not complying with the statutory notice which was issued for his appearance, and not complying with the earlier order of this court and instead re-appraised and arriving at contrary conclusions with regard to the petitioner’s entitlement.“All these callous and careless attitude in dealing with the order of the high court shows the utter disregard the contemnor has, to the sanctity of law,” observed the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-pulls-up-finance-dept-official-for-contempt-of-court/articleshow/81118370.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases below 500 in U’khand||Dehradun: The active cases of coronavirus went down below 500 in Uttarakhand on Friday with 68 more people recovering from Covid-19 infection. With 26 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, the tally of the virus shot up to 97,031. Among the new cases, 16 people were found to be infected in Dehradun, followed by seven in Nainital, and one each in Haridwar, Chamoli, and Udham Singh Nagar districts. “Two coronavirus-related fatalities were also recorded in Dehradun and Haridwar. The toll is now 1,686,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-below-500-in-ukhand/articleshow/81115424.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 20, 2021||Kolkata||IIM effort for better campus net connectivity||Kolkata: Since the time students came back to the campus in almost full strength — in mid-January — IIM Calcutta has been holding talks with BSNL, the main service provider on the campus, for better services so that online studies ca happen seamlessly. It’s a unique situation where students and many faculty are on campus. Though some faculty live outside, classes are happening online and hence there is huge pressure on the existing network capacity. “For the past one month, we have been negotiating with the BSNL, our service provider, to improve quality of services on campus. The problem is more with the quality of services we are getting from them rather than the capacity,” said Soumyakanti Chakrabarti, a faculty member who heads the library and computer services committee, that is looking after the upgradation. A letter from students’ council about lack of stable internet connectivity in hostel rooms, lack of IT infrastructure in classrooms has reached the director of the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iim-effort-for-better-campus-net-connectivity/articleshow/81116788.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Madurai||Police book parents for baby girl’s death||Madurai: Police have filed a murder case against the parents of a seven-day-old female infant at Usilampatti, a place notorious for female infanticide, after the postmortem report revealed she had died of suffocation. There were also signs of violence inflicted on the baby, the third daughter of Chinnasamy and C Sivapriyanka of K Paraipatti. The mother had alleged that her infant, born on February 12, had gone to sleep at 2 pm on Wednesday but not woken up till 5 pm. They took her to the Usilampatti government hospital at 9 pm after Chinnasamy returned from work. She was declared brought dead on arrival. Based on a complaint, Uthapanaickanur police registered a case of suspicious death under CrPC section 174 and an inquiry was under way. However, sources at the Government Hospital said the post-mortem examination showed abrasions on the baby’s cheeks, nose and mouth, indicating suffocation. A contusion was also found on the left side of the head. The infant’s stomach was empty, which may be a result of it not being fed for at least a day. Additional superintendent of police (ADSP) S Vanitha said they had altered the cases against the parents to Sec 302 of IPC and that there were clear signs of violence used on the infant’s face. The grandmother’s role was also suspected and inquiry was on in this direction. The couple’s elder daughter aged seven is a polio victim and their second child is two and a half years old. The father, mother and grandmother are expected to be arrested in connection with this suspected case of female infanticide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-book-parents-for-baby-girls-death/articleshow/81118402.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Madurai||Will drop cases against anti-CAA protesters: Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||TENKASI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday announced that cases registered against those who protested against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act 2019 (CAA) and those booked for violation of Covid-19 lockdown norms will be dropped considering the “wellbeing of the common man”. Palaniswami chose to make these announcements during his campaign at Kadayanallur in the district where Muslim population is high. The CM said that around 1,500 cases were registered against anti-CAA protesters after the act was passed in Lok Sabha on December 4 and Rajya Sabha on December 11, 2019. Apart from protests, processions were taken out and effigies as well as copies of CAA burned. Except for those booked for rioting, violence and preventing police from discharging their duty, all other cases are being dropped. Palaniswami added that around 10 lakh cases were registered against those who violated the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939, and Epidemic Diseases, 1937, during the lockdown from March 25 last year, for spreading rumours about Covid-19 and misinformation. Action has been dropped in all cases except specific ones involving rioting, fraudulent modes to obtain e-pass and preventing police from discharging their duty. The government will consider dropping pending cases against Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant (KKNPP) protesters under the legal ambit. This he said in response to a representation made to him in person by villagers of Idinthakarai, Kudankulam and Kuthenkuly on Thursday night seeking withdrawal of the cases. Palaniswami earned a round of applause when he stopped his speech twice during the van campaign at Kadayanallur to give way for ambulances and also to make way for an autorickshaw. The CM sought to counter DMK president M K Stalin’s allegations that the crop loan waiver will benefit AIADMK more, by saying that it was the DMK functionaries who stood to benefit the most as they possessed large farm holdings. “In Madurai, nearly Rs 7 lakh loan obtained by former DMK Rajya Sabha MP Agniraj’s wife, son and son-in-law has been waived,” he said. Stating that DMK representatives had obtained more loans from cooperative societies across the state and are the biggest beneficiaries, he added that “all those who benefited should cast their votes for AIADMK because I waived the loan.” Palaniswami also addressed women at Puliyangudi and representatives of the party’s youth, IT and women’s wing at Sankarankovil in Tenkasi district. Wrapping up his three-day campaign in the southern region covering Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi from Wednesday, he flew back to Chennai from Tuticorin later in the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-drops-cases-against-caa-protesters/articleshow/81118432.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Fresh Covid scare as 33 test positive after Karimnagar funeral||HYDERABAD: In what could set alarm bells ringing over a possible fresh spike in Covid-19 cases in Telangana, 33 persons in Rekurthi village of Karimnagar district tested positive after they attended the funeral of a cancer patient. Officials confirmed that Covid-19 guidelines such as social distancing and wearing masks were not followed at the funeral. Worried officials swung into action and sent all those who attended the funeral into home quarantine. They have also decided to test all 1,600 residents of Rekurthi, which is the nearest village to Karimnagar town. After a villager approached local health officials complaining about loss of smell and taste, the authorities found out he had attended the funeral and tracked down others. Telangana has been recording less than 200 cases for the past fortnight. Officials are hoping that the surge in Rekurthi is a one-off incident and not the beginning of a new wave. District medical and health officer Dr G Sujatha said they began testing from Thursday. She said the cancer patient had died on February 9 and over 150 people belonging to five families had attended the funeral. Karimnagar had hit the national headlines in March last year when eight Indonesians camped in the district had tested positive for the virus. Karimnagar was made the first containment zone in the entire state at the time. What was more alarming in the latest instance was the high positivity rate of the total tested samples of 132. The rate stood close to 20%. The officials have so far found 26 contacts of those who tested positive. Two of the tested people were first contacts of those who attended the funeral. “None of the infected persons has been hospitalised. All of them have been kept in home isolation,” a senior health official said. Officials said some of the contacts were reluctant to go for testing and they had to be persuaded by a team of doctors. This is also the first instance where so many people have been infected with Covid-19 ever since the pandemic started receding in the state. “In the next few days, we will undertake a survey in Rekurthi village for severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) symptoms to rule out any possibility of fresh Covid-19 threat,” Dr Sujatha said. Soon after the district saw a surge in positive cases last year, the officials resorted to several steps like establishing containment zones and quarantine facilities to bring the pandemic situation under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fresh-covid-scare-as-33-test-positive-after-karimnagar-funeral/articleshow/81119129.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Four cops including SI suspended for demanding bribe from truck driver in Uttarakhand||RUDRAPUR: Accused of demanding bribe from a truck driver, four policemen — including the in-charge of Darau police outpost in Kichha town of Udham Singh Nagar district — were suspended by the SSP Daleep Singh Kunwar. The cops allegedly demanded bribe from the driver of a wood-laden truck on February 16. A departmental probe was conducted and the charges were established. The accused cops are — incharge Ramesh Chandra Belwal and constables Gorakhnath, Ravindra, and Manoj.  According to TOI sources in the department, the action was taken after BJP leader Ashok Raghuvanshi complained to the SSP that the cops asked for the bribe amount from the driver of his truck when he was carrying logs of wood in the vehicle. Despite all the legal documents, the cops threatened to impound the truck if the bribe was not paid, the sources added.  “We will not tolerate any corruption in our department and such incidents will be considered a serious offence. We have suspended the accused and a departmental inquiry has also been initiated,” said SSP Kunwar. Earlier on February 16, SSP Kunwar had sent five cops packing to police lines over dereliction of duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-cops-including-si-suspended-for-demanding-bribe-from-truck-driver/articleshow/81115439.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||1 dead, 4 injured in two accidents||Worli resident Rahul Dhanane (21) died and four others were hurt in two mishaps on Pune expressway on Thursday. He was in an SUV driven by a friend, Siddhesh Patil (30), when it hit a trailer at Rasayani at 6 am. In the other mishap, a truck hit an ST bus at Khopoli around 3.30 am. Three people on the bus were hurt as it hit a luxury bus. The truck fell sideways. —George Mendonca||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1-dead-4-injured-in-two-accidents/articleshow/81095677.cms||George Mendonca
February 20, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: School bus owners stare at mounting losses||KOLKATA: Over a thousand school bus owners from Kolkata and surroundings are staring at mounting losses with diesel prices hitting at an all-time high and most guardians refusing to pay the dues that have piled up since March last year. The bus owners claimed while several parents did not even contact them, others asked for a concession in fees, given their wards were taking the bus to school only a couple of days now. Several bus owners have now decided to appeal to West Bengal Contract Carriage Owners’ and Operators’ Association to let them tweak their services till middle school reopens. Himadri Ganguly, general secretary of the association, said most schoolbuses have been plying with an average of three to of seven students. “The number of students matters to make ends meet. With diesel prices rising, our business model is at stake. Over 50% parents are not even contacting us lest we ask them to pay up the arrears since March. For a school at Gariahat, we carried three students on one bus and four on another. To another girls’ school in Bhowanipore, we ferried four students. Unless the scene improves soon, we might have to leave it to owners for the next step,” said Ganguly, who met the transport secretary on Monday, pleading that government concessions be provided at the earliest. “We want the government to notify the six-month road tax penalty waiver announced in the state budget. We have also asked for adjustment for those who have paid road tax between January and March,” he said. Dilip Saha (74), proprietor of Saha Travels who operates across nine schools from Behala, said he had never felt such financial strain. “I ferried 500 students till last year. So far, 150 contacted me. On Monday, I spent Rs 1,300 on diesel to ferry two kids from Thakurpukur to Park Street,” he said. Robin Patra from Howrah said a parent wanted to pay on a daily basis. Arupam Dutta of Poolcar Owners’ Welfare Association pointed out the response had been muted. “Many parents are making their own arrangements,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/school-bus-owners-stare-at-mounting-losses/articleshow/81116812.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 20, 2021||Trichy||38 cases in south Tamil Nadu, 43 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The number of fresh cases in the southern districts continued to drop for the sixth day in a row on Friday when it recorded 38 Covid-19 cases even as the central districts recorded a mild increase in number of fresh cases.  The lone death in the southern region was of an 84-year-old woman from Kanyakumari district while two more deaths were recorded in the central districts. With 10 fresh cases, Kanyakumari recorded the highest in south TN, followed by Madurai (6), Tirunelveli (5), Dindigul (3), Virudhunagar (3), Ramanathapuram (3), Tenkasi (3), Theni (2), Tuticorin (2) and Sivaganga (1). The number of active cases in the region dropped to 421. The woman who died had tested positive on Tuesday and was admitted to a private hospital in Nagercoil on Wednesday night with complaints of fever, loose stools and vomiting for five days. She had difficulty in breathing for a day before she died on Thursday. The central region comprising eight districts registered 43 cases, up by nine from Thursday’s count. The highest number of 12 cases was reported by Thanjavur followed by Trichy with 11 and Tiruvarur 10. Nagappattinam, Karur and Ariyalur registered three cases each while Pudukottai restricted its fresh cases to one. Perambalur reported no fresh cases. The number of active cases in the region stood at 362 with Thanjavur having 101 and Perambalur the lowest of six. So far, 75,533 patients have recovered in the region. The death toll of the region touched 954 with Pudukottai and Tiruvarur recording one casualty each. A 63-year-old man from Pudukottai died due to Covid-19 pneumonia at a private hospital in Chennai on February 17. The other was an 83-year-old man from Tiruvarur, also on February 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/38-cases-in-south-tn-43-in-central-districts/articleshow/81121854.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||After Carnival, Goa govt gives nod to Shigmo parades||PANAJI: Days after the Carnival parades, the state government has decided to go ahead with Shigmo celebrations, but this year, it will be limited to Panaji, Mapusa and Ponda. While the Panaji and Mapusa parades will be on April 3 and 4, the Ponda date will be decided later. Traditionally, the festival begins with the Ponda parade. Shigmo, a state festival, has its parades sponsored by the government. Tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar chaired a meeting on Friday that was held to finalise dates for the Shigmo parades. “The festival will start with Ponda,” he said. “The date of the parade in Ponda was not decided due to lack of clarity as to on which date the festival begins.” Ajgaonkar said that Carnival and Shigmo are state festivals and they attract tourists both domestic and international. “Due to Covid, we have decided to restrict the celebration to three towns. I appeal to people to be part of Shigmo, but to take precautions. Wearing masks and maintaining social distancing will be a must,” he said. The government was criticised for holding the and it was feared that the mass gathering of people would spread the infection, which has been under control since December, 2020. Justifying the government’s decision, the tourism minister said the state would be left behind if it were to cancel the festivals. Originally, Shigmo parades were to be held only in Mapusa and Ponda, but Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate spoke to chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday and insisted that the Shigmo parade be held in the capital as well. “After the Panaji MLA spoke to the CM, it was decided that Panaji too will have a parade,” CCP mayor Uday Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-carnival-govt-nod-to-shigmo-parades/articleshow/81118445.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Delhi||Over 1,800 arrests in riots cases as police go beyond traditional tools||New Delhi: The investigation into the riots that took place in northeast Delhi in February last year used technological and scientific probe tools, police commissioner S N Shrivastava disclosed on Friday. Altogether, 1,818 people have been arrested in 400 cases so far, the police chief said. In all, Delhi Police filed 755 FIRs related to the riots that killed 53 people and injured around 600 others. Given the sensitivity and the complexity of the case, Delhi Police went beyond the existing probe tools like CDR (call details record) analysis, etc, and applied a technique called IPDR (Internet Protocol Details Records) analysis, used by police forces in the western countries. This involves, among others, the study of internet traffic from smartphones to establish communications between two entities through VOIP calls. This proved handy for the investigators because many of those accused of conspiracy were communicating through calls and chats on platforms like WhatsApp and Telegram. Shrivastava revealed, “We did not just use facial recognition software, but also facial reconstruction programs to identify burnt bodies by superimposition of skulls on the photograph of victims.” Police took the help of technology to follow the money trail too, a source told TOI. A software called Fund Flow Analysis was used to identify patterns in the transactions carried out by the accused and establish the circulation of funds for the purpose of organising and funding the riots. An interesting technique was used to corroborate rioters’ identities. Many in the mob had sought ownership details of vehicles they planned to torch by sending text messages to the national e-Vahan number. “The phone numbers from which the messages were sent in the crucial hours of riot-hit days were obtained from the government database to nail the rioters,” said a police source. The police also used geolocation analysis to extract details from Google Maps installed on an accused’s phones to establish the individual’s movements on a particular day. These techniques are also being used in other riot cases being probed by the SITs in the Crime Branch. Elaborating on the use of video analytics and facial recognition, Shrivastava said CCTV footage and video recordings were obtained from multiple sources, including CCTV cameras installed on roads, video recordings from smart phones, video footage requisitioned from news channels. These were analysed with the help of video analytic tools and facial recognition software. “The photographs were matched with several databases, among them Delhi Police’s criminal dossiers,” said Shrivastava. “This helped identify 2,655 individuals, which greatly facilitated initiation of legal action after corroboration with other supporting evidence.” The facial reconstruction technology helped identify bodies charred beyond recognition. This was of use specifically in the case of murder of one Shahbaz from Karawal Nagar. The data recovered from the mobile handsets seized from the accused people and those deleted helped gather evidence against them after the cops ran mobile phone forensics, cloning and other scientific analytical methods on them. Several self-incriminating digital proofs, such as recorded conversations and videos, were recovered from the handsets and used during the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-1800-arrests-in-riots-cases-as-police-go-beyond-traditional-tools/articleshow/81118477.cms||Raj Shekhar
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Detecting mutations in a few samples normal, says expert||Pune: Detecting one or two SARS-CoV-2 variants with mutations in a few samples is normal, considering that viruses mutate all the time, Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) that heads genomic surveillance consortium in India, told TOI on Friday. “Significance should not be attached to the detection of these mutations until there is a statistically valid number on the basis of which one can say the rise in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra is due to a typical variant undergoing mutation. If the variant genome causes statistically significant rise in new cases (which are not linked with the previously circulating versions of SARS-CoV-2), then it can be said that the current increase in affected districts is because of the variant with E484Q mutation,” Dr Singh said. The expert was speaking about genomic sequencing of four patients’ samples from Amravati showing unique mutations, including E484Q. He said NCDC had sought from the state government representative samples from 14 districts, including Pune and Mumbai, for genome sequencing. - Neha Madaan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/detecting-mutations-in-a-few-samples-normal-says-expert/articleshow/81118449.cms||Neha Madaan
February 20, 2021||Madurai||Sattur fireworks unit blast toll rises to 21||Madurai: The death toll in the firecracker unit blast near Sattur in Virudhunagar district rose to 21 on Friday morning. P Mala, 30, of Pandhal village near Sattur, who was undergoing treatment in the burns ward of the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai, died at 7am on Friday. The blast happened at Sri Mariammal Fireworks at near Achankulam on February 12, killing nine people on the spot and injuring 43 others. The death toll climbed to 17 the same night and 19 the next morning. Another injured man died in GRH on February 14. Meanwhile, the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) in an advisory meeting on Friday asked fireworks manufacturers in Sivakasi not to engage or permit people aged below 18 years, disabled and those in an inebriated condition in hazardous activities and to avoid employing pregnant women and those aged about 70 years. PESO deputy chief controller of explosives, K Sundaresan said that an advisory on pellet manufacturing was released as pellets were the major causative of the tragedy. They also discussed with the manufacturers on the measures that could be taken to prevent illegal leasing of the licenced working sheds as most major accidents have taken place at such places. Manufacturing should not be done without the presence of a licensed foreman and mobile phones should not be used in the hazardous area. The permitted manpower and explosive limit should not be exceeded. Pellet making should not be left halfway through and they should be dried properly as improper drying is dangerous. Pellets shall not be dragged or thrown. Representatives of the Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers Association, The Indian Fireworks Manufacturers Association and South Indian fireworks manufacturers association participated in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sattur-fireworks-unit-blast-toll-rises-to-21/articleshow/81118452.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Kolkata||UGC circular on ‘cow exam’, int’l seminars draws ire||Kolkata: Two notifications to university vice-chancellors by the University Grants Commission (UGC) — one on the promotion of an examination on the cow and the other on the need to seek the external affairs ministry’s permission to invite international participants to an online conference, seminar or training programme — have raised the hackles among academics and drawn the ire of Bengal’s education minister. Reacting to the directive on the online exam on economic, scientific, environmental, health, agricultural and spiritual relevance of the indigenous cow on February 25, minister Partha Chatterjee said the focus needed to be on improving the teaching-learning process. “We do not need to pay any heed to these absurd circulars. This will not be implemented here,” he said. The online Kamdhenu Gau Vigyan Prachar Prasar Examination is scheduled on February 25. Parthiba Basu, president of the Calcutta University Teachers Association and professor of Zoology in CU, said: “If a student can generate ideas and write on the cow, they can do so on other animals as well. I am questioning the establishment of a government agency that entirely focuses on conducting research on one animal”. He was also critical of another advisory that required universities to seek clearance from MEA to organise online international conferences. Basu felt the requirement was absolutely unnecessary and smacked of red-tape that would hinder exchange of ideas among academics across the world. Partha Pratim Biswas, professor of construction engineering at Jadavpur University who has been a part of several foreign and global seminars, even during the pandemic, said national and international conferences are held to exchange research output and deliberate on future topics for research. “Inside campuses, it is essential to allow free thinking and exchange of views. If views become prejudiced, then it can cause a barrier to the progress of research and innovation. The conditional approach does not work in academics,” he said. Pointing to the need for mutual trust between the government and academia, Biswas cited that all funded institutes had representations from government and were thus aware of the researches. “If the trust is broken, how can we build an Atmanirbhar Bharat?” he asked. Another senior teacher of Presidency University said that during the pandemic, universities and teachers have been able to benefit from talks by international speakers. The circular is restrictive, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ugc-circular-on-cow-exam-intl-seminars-draws-ire/articleshow/81116838.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Madurai||38 cases in south Tamil Nadu, 43 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The number of fresh cases in the southern districts continued to drop for the sixth day in a row on Friday when it recorded 38 Covid-19 cases even as the central districts recorded a mild increase in number of fresh cases.  The lone death in the southern region was of an 84-year-old woman from Kanyakumari district while two more deaths were recorded in the central districts. With 10 fresh cases, Kanyakumari recorded the highest in south TN, followed by Madurai (6), Tirunelveli (5), Dindigul (3), Virudhunagar (3), Ramanathapuram (3), Tenkasi (3), Theni (2), Tuticorin (2) and Sivaganga (1). The number of active cases in the region dropped to 421. The woman who died had tested positive on Tuesday and was admitted to a private hospital in Nagercoil on Wednesday night with complaints of fever, loose stools and vomiting for five days. She had difficulty in breathing for a day before she died on Thursday. The central region comprising eight districts registered 43 cases, up by nine from Thursday’s count. The highest number of 12 cases was reported by Thanjavur followed by Trichy with 11 and Tiruvarur 10. Nagappattinam, Karur and Ariyalur registered three cases each while Pudukottai restricted its fresh cases to one. Perambalur reported no fresh cases. The number of active cases in the region stood at 362 with Thanjavur having 101 and Perambalur the lowest of six. So far, 75,533 patients have recovered in the region. The death toll of the region touched 954 with Pudukottai and Tiruvarur recording one casualty each. A 63-year-old man from Pudukottai died due to Covid-19 pneumonia at a private hospital in Chennai on February 17. The other was an 83-year-old man from Tiruvarur, also on February 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/38-cases-in-south-tn-43-in-central-districts/articleshow/81118443.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Madurai||Kudankulam: Govt to consider withdrawing remaining cases||Tenkasi: Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday said that the state government will consider dropping the pending cases against Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant (KKNPP) protesters. He made this announcement while campaigning at Kadayanallur in Tenkasi district following a representation made to him by villagers of Idinthakarai, Kudankulam and Kuthenkuly in Radhapuram assembly segment seeking withdrawal of the cases.Stating that the government has already withdrawn many cases against the KKNPP protesters, Palaniswami said, “Some are pending before the court and some are in the FIR stage. The government will sympathetically consider their request to drop the remaining cases under the legal ambit.”Welcoming the CM’s statement, founder of People’s Movement Against Nuclear Energy (PMANE), S P Udayakumar, who had submitted the petition, assured cooperation to the police and judicial authorities for talks and consultation for withdrawal of the cases.The representation to withdraw the 105 cases from 2011 to 2014 was made to the CM when he was camping at Courtallam late on Thursday night. “We urged the CM to withdrawal the cases on a par with the withdrawal of cases against the jallikattu protesters that he had announced recently. Pendency of these cases have badly affected the villagers socio-economically and will continue to affect them till they are closed,” Udayakumar told TOI.The petition stated that people from these villages were engaged in a democratic protest against the dangerous nuclear power plant, for which more than 350 cases were registered against 2.27 lakh people.On October 9, 2014, the state government issued a GO No 756 that 213 of those cases had been closed. Action was dropped on 31 more cases following the directions of the Madras high court. It leaves 105 cases pending of which 37 cases have been chargesheeted in Valliyoor court and 68 are still in the FIR stage.“Most of these 244 cases that have been closed are petty offences such as unlawful assembly. The ones that are pending include 40 that are the serious ones such as sedition and waging war on the state,” the activist said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kudankulam-govt-to-consider-withdrawing-remaining-cases/articleshow/81118459.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||MSC Bank scam: Anna Hazare submits protest plea in court against ‘closure report’||MUMBAI: Eighty-four-year-old activist Anna Hazare has submitted a protest plea in the special Anti-Corruption Bureau court against the EOW closure report in the alleged Rs 25,000 crore MSC Bank scam case. The plea claimed that since the majority of directors of the bank belong to NCP, it appeared that the investigating officer had acted under political pressure. “Great prejudice shall be caused to him and lakhs of poor farmers in case the closure report is accepted, particularly when the complaint filed by him touching the same issue is under enquiry,” the plea said. Explaining his locus in the case, Hazare’s plea said he had approached the Bombay high court in a criminal public interest litigation to highlight the matter and had made several attempts to lodge an FIR with city police. He said that in his complaint to cops, he had highlighted the illegal sale and privatisation of sugar factories “under the aegis” of NCP chief Sharad Pawar and deputy CM Ajit Pawar. The plea, submitted through advocate Satish B Talekar on Thursday, said the EOW should have also recorded Hazare’s statement before submitting a report claiming no offence was made out. He said he had provided better particulars showing the nexus of Sharad Pawar and other political bigwigs in the scam. The plea claimed Sharad Pawar was given a clean chit even before investigations were completed and in the absence of his statement. It said the bank had followed only 5 out of 11 principles directed by the RBI and no details were sought by the investigating officer on this. The plea claimed there have been several illegalities committed by the investigating officer and the closure report is a fraud on the judicial process. It said the report is based on 315 witness statements, out of which 32 are investigating officers and assistant investigating officers, 40 are panch witnesses, 242 are farmers, bank employees, politicians and complainants, et cetera. “None of the accused have been investigated from the perspective of being accused persons, rather as witnesses with a planned attempt at filing a closure report. Not a single arrest was made despite serious allegations and the magnitude of the scam, clearly owing to the influential political persons involved,” the plea said. The matter will come up for hearing on Saturday. In earlier hearings protest petitions opposing the closure report were submitted by the original complainant, businessman Surinder Mohan Arora and two other members of the sugar factories which were allegedly illegally sold by MSC Bank, Shalinitai Patil (87), ex-MLA and widow of state CM Vasantdada Patil, and former NCP member Manik Jadhav. In November 2020, the court rejected ED’s plea to intervene and oppose the closure report. The ED is probing the money laundering angle in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/anna-submits-protest-plea-in-court-against-closure-report/articleshow/81119142.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 20, 2021||Madurai||Kin of nine fishers jailed in Iran seek govt help||Kanyakumari: The families of nine Indian fishermen have once again sought the intervention of the government to facilitate their release as they have been languishing in an Iranian prison for the past 13 months. The men working in Kuwait were detained on charges of entering Iran waters in January last year. The men - Albert Ravi, 38, Godwin John Weldon, 40, Arockia Ligin, 24, Joseph Besky, 50, Jesudas, 27, Daynas, 40, Sahaya Vijay, 22, Michaeal Adimai, 45, and Velington, 36, - hail from Kanyakumari district. P Justin Antony of International Fishermen Development Trust on Friday said that they made a representation to the Kanyakumari district collector and also written to the Prime Minister, chief minister, external affairs minister, Indian ambassadors to Iran and Kuwait for speedy release and return of the fishermen. He said that the men went fishing from Fahaheel in Kuwait in three boats owned by their Kuwait employer Olith on January 15, 2020. Detained by Iran authorities in the deep sea on charges of entering their waters on January 17, 2020, they were lodged in the Bushehr prison in Iran. Ligin’s mother A Carmel Rani, 47, said that her son is the only earning member of the family. “He worked in Kuwait for two years and came home in 2019 before returning,” she said. The 24-year-old last texted his family before going for fishing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kin-of-nine-fishers-jailed-in-iran-seek-govt-help/articleshow/81118457.cms||M K Ananth
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Nandurbar’s institutional quarantine model works||Nandurbar district administration has found a way to rein in the spread of Covid — it has made institutional quarantine mandatory for all Covid positive cases, regardless of the level of infection. Even mild and asymptomatic cases are kept under watch in state-run facilities, and the administration plans to continue with this strategy for at least another month. It decided on this approach last month after the district reported a high positivity rate. Since then, the situation has improved. District civil surgeon Raghunath Bhoye said, “The decision is yielding good results. Our positivity rate dipped to 5.2%.” The government had expressed concern about the around 27% positivity rate last month and had told the administration to take steps to bring it down. The administration found that some asymptomatic patients, advised home isolation, were visiting public places. District collector Rajendra Bharud then announced mandatory institutional quarantine for all infected patients. “This helped us prevent spread of the virus. Our daily positive cases are 15-20 on daily tests of over 300 now,” said Bhoye. Ranjan Dasgupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nandurbars-institutional-quarantine-model-works/articleshow/81118473.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Health dept to set up 1000-bed Covid-19 Care Centre for Kumbh in Doon||Dehradun: With Kumbh around the corner, the Uttarakhand health department is planning to set up a 1000-bed Covid-19 Care Centre (CCC) at the Rajiv Gandhi cricket stadium in Dehradun where patients were being kept when the virus spread was at its peak in the state capital. Talking to TOI, chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Anoop Dimri said that the Covid-19 Care Centre in Raipur has 200 beds at present. “We built this CCC in July when Covid-19 cases were on a high in the state capital. The centre was in use till December but no one is currently admitted here as we barely have 22 active cases,” said Dr Dimri. According to the health department officials, the CCC has already been extended to 600 beds and preparations are being made to ensure that it can be converted into a 1000-bed facility when required. The private hospitals have also been asked to save beds for Covid-19 patients ahead of the Kumbh. Also, Max Hospital has been asked to arrange 160 CCC beds while the Mahant Indresh and Himalyan Jolly Grant hospitals will have around 900 beds saved for Covid-19 patients. Synergy and Kailash hospitals have also been asked to save beds for coronavirus cases in the wake of Kumbh. The department is also taking sanctions of more doctors and paramedics at the CCC that currently has 20 healthcare workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/health-dept-to-set-up-1000-bed-covid-19-care-centre-for-kumbh-in-doon/articleshow/81115451.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 20, 2021||Madurai||33 species of winged visitors spotted in Madurai city colleges||Madurai: Over 33 species of birds have been spotted by the students and faculty of various colleges in Madurai and the public in a campus bird count program held between February 12 to 15, this year.Secretary of the Green Club of the American College, M Rajesh said that students and the public had participated in the three-day event, in five colleges in the city including the American College, Sri Meenakshi Govt college for women, Yadava college, among others.All of them were thrilled to know the names and colours of the birds which they sighted, as a closer look showed that each bird had exotic features. The birds sighted by them included paradise flycatcher, asian brown flycatcher, coppersmith barbet, Spotted owlet among others.Participants used the eBird mobile app to upload their sightings. Rajesh said that these events could also go a long way in the conservation of these birds. Sri Meenakshi college in the heart of the city, was home to 15 species of birds, including red vented bulbul, kingfisher, spotted owlet, asian koel according to Dr Jothi Sam coordinator of the Niche club.Yadava college also documented 30 species of birds on their campus including jacobin cuckoo, green bee eater, white throated kingfisher, heron and egrets. NMSS Vellaichamy Nadar college and Sourashtra college also arranged bird count for their students. Students documented bee eater, peacock as well as water birds grebe, cormorant, egret, palm swift, barn swallow, ashy prinia among others. More than 33 bird species were documented and they uploaded the bird details on ebird.org website.Meanwhile, field guide titled ‘Introduction to Birds of Ramanathapuram district’ was released by the forest department here on Friday. The book was released by the wildlife warden of Ramanathapuram A S Marimuthu and district forest officer P Arun Kumar, and was received by anti-poaching watchers of the department.The book has 672 colour photographs of various birds showing them in different angles with their plumage to aid identification. Detailed texts on identification characters, behaviour, food and habitat of the birds have been explained in simple Tamil. The book also has species comparative study for closely resembling birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/33-species-of-winged-visitors-spotted-in-madurai-city-colleges/articleshow/81118462.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||Monitoring Maharashtra's Covid situation: Goa Health minister Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: In view of the new strain of Covid in Maharashtra, health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday said that the Goa government is closely monitoring the situation and will implement strict measures if the need arises. He, however, ruled out a lockdown for Goa With Maharashtra contemplating closing its border due to the new Covid-19 strain, Rane said, “We will discuss the matter with the chief minister. We have to study the situation in Maharashtra before taking a decision on whether we will also have to become strict as far as Goa is concerned.” “We have to be practical and not necessarily do what Maharashtra has done to Goa. Maharashtra suddenly asked everyone entering the state for a Covid test report, but we did not place a similar demand” he said. Lockdowns are a thing of the past: RaneLet’s watch how the situation unfolds over the next five days.” The health minister also said that there would be no lockdown in the state. “Lockdowns are a thing of the past. It was for the situation then when there was a spike. Things are different now. It is localised. Let us see how it goes and then act,” Rane said. At present, the state has 497 active Covid-19 cases, while 788 persons have succumbed to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monitoring-mrashtra-covid-situation-rane/articleshow/81118471.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC upholds civic poll schedule, says no mala fide in it||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday rejected a petition filed by two Congress leaders from Anand district, challenging the civic election schedule, in which the counting of votes for municipal corporations has been kept ahead of the second phase of voting. Rejecting the argument that declaring the results of the first phase would likely influence voters in the second phase, the bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora delivered an exhaustive judgment discussing how various factors influence a voter’s rational choice in Indian society and such a decision by the election commission should be the least influential factor in this direction. The judges said, “We are of the view that a citizen should not be considered so weak in his thought process that his mind would get influenced in some way or the other with the declaration of the result of one part of the election first.” The court later discussed various influencing factors in the Indian democratic set up and listed 10 such factors by citing an essay by political scientist Biraj Hazarika, ‘Voting Behaviour in India and Its Determinants’. The court also said that factors influencing the mind of the voter depend on the strata of the society from which the voter hails. “A poor voter may get influenced by any corrupt practice like money or a pair of new clothes, etc. For such a voter, the election is the only glorious day as he may rest contented with the same for the next five years even if he has to suffer with respect to the other basic and essential amenities,” the court said and added, “It is just not possible for the State Election Commission to keep all such things in mind when it comes to ensuring free and fair elections.” After discussing various factors influencing voters in making a rational choice, the court further observed, “…how does one expect the Chief Election Commissioner to control the thought process or the mind of the voters.” It said that CEC’s duty is to ensure that no political party or candidate indulge in corrupt practices and influence the mind of the voters. “But, it is very difficult to take the view that the results of elections to corporations may influence the mind of the voters in the second part of the election, i.e. panchayats and municipalities, and therefore, with a view to ensure free and fair elections, the date of counting and declaration of the results of the election should be uniform,” the court opined. But in the same breath it said, “It is possible, and to a certain extent quiet obvious, that the result of one part of the election may have its own influence on the second part of the election, but that by itself would not be sufficient to say that the election is not free and fair. It all depends on the individual voters and how they look at it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-upholds-civic-poll-schedule-says-no-mala-fide-in-it/articleshow/81116851.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Madurai||Man dies by suicide after murdering paramour||Dindigul: A 31-year-old man died by suicide after murdering his 38-year-old paramour by hitting her with a stone on Friday. The duo was identified as V Suresh, 31, a photographer of Kurumbapatti and P Rathidevi, 38, of Sirunayakanpatti a temporary staff in the Nilakottai panchayat union office. According to police, preliminary inquiries revealed that Rathidevi was married to another man and had two children. She developed an affair with Suresh about five years ago. Suresh got married a little more than two years ago but his wife got separated from him in four days and was living with her parents. Meanwhile, there was some friction between Suresh and Rathidevi. On Friday, they decided to resolve the issues and Suresh took her to Vaigai dam. A quarrel broke between them when they reached a secluded place at Veriyappanaickenpatti near Batlagundu, and he attacked her on her head with a stone. While she fell down unconscious, he fled the place. Passersby, who saw the woman rushed her to the hospital, but she died on the way. The Batlagundu police was on the lookout for Suresh when they received information that he was found unconscious near a canal at Kurumbapatti – about 20km away from where he murdered Rathidevi. Suresh, who consumed liquor laced with poison was rushed to the Dindigul government hospital, where he was declared dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-dies-by-suicide-after-murdering-paramour/articleshow/81118475.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Madurai||Will quit if charges proved: Min||Madurai: State minister for cooperatives Sellur K Raju on Friday said that he is ready to quit public life if corruption charges made against him by DMK leader M K Stalin, are proved. Raju was reacting to Stalin’s comments at the ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin’ campaign in Madurai on Wednesday, where he alleged largescale corruption in the smart city programme in Madurai by local ministers Sellur K Raju and R B Udhayakumar “I am ready to leave public life if the charges are proved. There is no possibility of corruption in the smart city programme,” Raju said while speaking to reporters in Madurai on Friday, after distributing welfare measures to the tune of Rs 2.55 crore, including 2G data cards to 8,980 students at a cost of Rs 9.69 lakh. The minister said that Stalin should visit Sellur sometime soon, where works were underway to make the entire area beautiful with parks. The minister said that the uninterrupted power supply that the people of the state were now enjoying was proof of the performance of the AIADMK government, which was also providing 100 units of free power to each house. Taking a dig at Stalin, he said: “Even the opposition leader enjoys this benefit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/will-quit-if-charges-proved-min/articleshow/81118480.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Madurai||Change in train services for Nellai and Tuticorin doubling||Madurai: Railways has announced change in pattern of train services in 11 routes to facilitate doubling work between Tirunelveli - Gangaikondan and Kovilpatti - Kadambur sections. In a statement, the Madurai railway division said that train Nos. 02627/02628 Trichy - Trivandrum - Trichy specials will be fully cancelled from February 19 to 28.Train Nos. 02631/02632 Chennai - Tirunelveli - Chennai Nellai specials will be cancelled between Tirunelveli and Madurai from February 24 to 28. Train Nos. 06321/06322 Nagercoil - Coimbatore - Nagercoil specials will be cancelled between Nagercoil and Madurai from February 24 to 28.Train Nos. 07235/07236 Bengaluru - Nagercoil - Bengaluru specials will be cancelled between Virudhunagar and Nagercoil from February 23 to 27 and February 24 to 28 respectively. Train Nos. 02667/02668 Nagercoil - Coimbatore - Nagercoil specials will be cancelled between Nagercoil and Madurai from February 26 to 28 and February 25 to 27, respectively.Train No. 06236 Mysuru - Tuticorin special on February 27 and train No. 06235 Tuticorin - Mysuru special on February 28 will be cancelled between Madurai and Tuticorin. Train No. 06071 Dadar - Tirunelveli on February 25 will be cancelled between Virudhunagar and Tirunelveli.Train No. 06127 Chennai - Guruvayur special on February 24, 25, 26 and 28 will be diverted through Virudhunagar, Rajapalayam, Tenkasi, Ambasamudram, Tirunelveli - instead of the normal route through viz. Virudunagar, Vanchi Maniyachi and Tirunelveli. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/change-in-train-services-for-nellai-and-tuticorin-doubling/articleshow/81118494.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||70 people participated in 3-day Ganga Kayaking Festival at Rishikesh||DEHRADUN: The three-day Ganga Kayaking Festival at Rishikesh -- which saw participants from across the country -- ended on Friday. Organised by B Adventure Sports Society in collaboration with Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB), over 70 people attended and participated in events such as boater cross and peddler boat competitions. Manish Rawat won the men's Boatar Cross competition, while Suman Tamang of Nepal and Sunil Singh bagged the second and third places, respectively. In the women's section of Boatar Cross competition, Naina Adhikari stood first. Sanjay Rana was awarded the best Indian Paddler in male category and Naina Adhikari became the best female in the same category. Amar, Arjun Thapa, Ankit and Rahul secured the first, second, third and fourth places respectively in the beginner category of Ganga Kayak Festival. Congratulating the winners, tourism secretary Dilip Javalkar said UTDB is constantly striving to promote adventure sports in the state. “The Ganga Kayak Festival is held every year at the international level, but this year, due to Covid-19 pandemic, this competition was organized at the national level. We hope that in the coming years, Ganga Kayak competition and other adventure activities will be organized at an international level,” he added. Meanwhile, UTDB, in collaboration with Discovery Channel, is all set to present a new two-part film titled ‘Explore Uttarakhand’. The aim of these films is to provide the audience a chance to engage through stunning visuals of Uttarakhand. The film is all set to premiere on Saturday on Discovery Channel and explores the spiritual yoga destinations and the adrenaline-packed adventure sports that go on in the snow covered mountains of the state. “The episodes on ‘Adventure Tourism’ and ‘Yoga and Wellness Tourism’ will be aired on Discovery SD, Discovery HD World, and TLC from 7 pm onwards and on Turbo IND, D Tamil from 8pm onwards. The repeat telecast for both the movies will be aired on February 27 and 28th from 7pm and 8pm onwards,” said Dilip Jawalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/70-people-participated-in-3-day-ganga-kayaking-festival-at-rishikesh/articleshow/81115460.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Madurai||MKU invites applications for research project||Madurai: Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) has invited applications for the posts of junior research fellow (JRF) and project associate (PA) to work on a research project sponsored by the science and engineering research board (SERB), New Delhi in the bio-inorganic chemistry laboratory of MKU. The last date for applying is March 4. The project on ‘Bioinspired Copper and Nickel Complexes for Activation and Conversion of CO₂into C1-Feedstock’ is sanctioned for three years. The fellowship will provide Rs 31,000 monthly for three years, as well as house rent allowance (HRA) and medical allowance (MA). The required minimum qualification for applying for the JRF position is a master’s degree, MSc Chemistry with CSIR-NET/GATE qualification, while for PA position, MSc Chemistry degree (consolidated) with first class is needed. Interested candidates can apply with brief bio-data including all academic and contact details to Dr R Mayil Murugan, assistant professor, department of physical chemistry, School of Chemistry, MKU. The applicants will be shortlisted by an entrance examination. Only shortlisted candidates will be called for the interview the same day. Emails can be sent to mayilmurugan.chem@mkuniversity.ac.in for any further queries or details of application process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-invites-applications-for-research-project/articleshow/81118514.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Sonu Sood to support family of man who died in Chamoli disaster||DEHRADUN: After helping several people during the Covid-19 lockdown, Bollywood actor Sonu Sood has now stepped in to support the family of a 45-year-old man who lost his life in the Chamoli disaster. The actor on Friday confirmed the decision to support the four daughters of Alam Singh Pundir, who was among those working on the NTPC hydropower project site at Tapovan, when the flash floods hit on February 7. Pundir worked as an electrician at the hydropower project, and his body was among the first to be brought out from the tunnel, where he was trapped along with over 30 others. The eldest of the four girls is 14 years old while the others are aged 11, 8 and 2 years. The family lives in a small village, Dogi Patti, located on the outskirts of Tehri Garhwal district. Pundir was working inside the tunnel when the flash flood took place. After the plight of the family was highlighted on various social media platforms, it caught the attention of the actor who will be helping the girls receive an education and get married. A total of 62 bodies and 27 body parts have been recovered so far from the disaster site while 143 people are still missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sonu-sood-to-support-family-of-man-who-died-in-chamoli-disaster/articleshow/81115500.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Will go to Rajkot and vote if doctors permit: CM Vijay Rupani||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani, who has tested Covid-19 positive and is admitted at the UN Mehta hospital in the city, has expressed his desire to visit his home town Rajkot where he is registered as a voter, and exercise his franchise in the municipal corporation election on Sunday. Rupani said that he will do so only if doctors permit him. According to sources, the CM has recovered almost completely from the infection and is expected to be discharged from hospital late on Friday (February 19) or on Saturday (February 20). However, according the state government’s Covid-19 protocol, he will have to isolate himself for a few more days even if he is discharged from the hospital. When contacted, the CM said, “I have fully recovered and do not have any symptoms. I am keen to go to Rajkot for voting. However, I will strictly follow guidelines and advice of doctors. If they will permit me, I will go to Rajkot and cast my vote by adhering to all prescribed guidelines by the State Election Commission.” He added that he feels fine and expects to be discharged in a day or two. Rupani fainted and collapsed at an election rally last Sunday in Vadodara. He was admitted to the UN Mehta Hospital, where his Covid-19 test turned positive. On Thursday, Rupani, in a video statement, appealed people to vote in large numbers for the BJP. According to the SEC’s Covid-19 guidelines, a candidate or voter who has tested positive for Covid-19, can cast his or her vote at the respective polling booth. However, the person will have to wear a PPE kit and a face mask. Moreover, Covid-19 positive voters will be allowed to vote only after 6pm on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/will-go-to-rajkot-and-vote-if-doctors-permit-rupani/articleshow/81116929.cms||Kapil Dave
February 20, 2021||Madurai||Dentists adapt to new normal using tech, protocol changes||Madurai: Dentists across Madurai city have overcome challenges over the months amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic to quickly adapt to the new normal with use of technology and changes in protocol. “During the pandemic, at least until September, only emergency procedures were allowed to be performed. Even then, many patients were hesitant and most dentists offered only telephonic consultations. However, now things are almost back to normal,” said Dr N Gururaj, president, Indian dental association (IDA), Madurai. One of the major risks of Covid-19 that dentists faced was the exposure to aerosol. However, dentists said that they have always been used to being exposed to aerosols and are used to using masks, face shields and gloves for their procedures. “We used to require patients to take Covid-19 tests before performing procedures last year but now we are treating around 70-100 outpatients and performing around 40-50 procedures in a day without any tests with safety measures in place,” said Dr Jibreel Oysul, consultant, dental and maxilla-facial surgery, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre. Equipment like extra-oral aerosol suction machine, UV disinfection lamps, air purifiers, and even PPE kits etc., were all measures, which were not as popularly in use in India previously, but had to be deployed to ensure better Covid-19 safety in dental care. “The cost of treatment has gone up by around 10% and it is not going to come down. These safety measures and technology are going to continue to be in place in the future,” said Dr Rajanna Mohan, dentist, Aadhan Dental Care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dentists-adapt-to-new-normal-using-tech-protocol-changes/articleshow/81118507.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
February 20, 2021||Madurai||Less time, insufficient writing practice make board exam tougher for Class X||Madurai: With hardly few months of offline classes to prepare for the board exams, the schedule for which is to be announced soon, Class X students and teachers are struggling with the short preparation time and lack of proper writing practice. “Reduction of syllabus helps. But there is still a lot to cover. Also, students have completely lost the practice of writing three-hour-long exams. Even if a student studies well, they have to be able to write it in the exam within the given time, which takes practice,” said the headmaster of a government high school. In private schools as well, the concerns over writing are no different as students have been giving online exams, which are of shorter duration and often with mostly multiple-choice questions. “The loss of offline classes this year for schools will be hurting Class X students more because it is also their first time writing a board exam of any kind. They have also not done any significant practical work. Further, with no exams conducted last year, we don’t know what kind of questions to expect, especially with a new syllabus that is hardly a year old,” said T Uma, a Class X science teacher. Teachers said that while students should not have much of an issue securing pass marks in the board exams, scoring high marks may be more difficult than usual. R Nandhini, a Class X student from a private matriculation school said that students are facing unfair burden and pressure this time simply because they are ‘unlucky’. “Usually students get 10 months to study and prepare but now we are getting hardly three months of physical classes, including time for preparation for practical work,” she added. Class X students had around 40-45% of syllabus reduced in most subjects. “What gives hope is that minimum learning materials and question banks are available which will be effective for students to secure the minimal marks. It remains to be seen whether students would be able to score as high with just these three months of offline learning,” said Selvan Arputharaj, a biology teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/less-time-insufficient-writing-practice-make-board-exam-tougher-for-class-x/articleshow/81118518.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
February 20, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Covid warriors await their dues||CHENNAI: Many frontline warriors, including doctors, nurses, policemen and civic officials, who succumbed to Covid-19, and several others who were infected by the virus are still waiting for the ex-gratia promised by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami when cases began to peak. Senior officials, government employees’ unions and doctors’ associations say ambiguities in government orders have stymied the process and despite several representations, there are no formal clarifications issued by the government. On April 4 last year, when healthcare workers refused to turn up for work fearing Covid-19 infection, the revenue department announced that all government employees dealing with prevention, management or treatment activities will be given an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh in addition to free treatment at government or private hospitals. According to Greater Chennai Corporation statistics, only 51 of the 118 frontline workers who tested positive until May 31 have received Rs 2 lakh. Until now more than 1,000 employees of the civic body have tested positive. While they were all eligible for free treatment, said an official, they may not be eligible for the ex gratia as the order was valid until May 31. The order was not reviewed after the set deadline. “There has been no response to our representations. Many applications are still pending,” said P Srinivasan, general secretary of Corporation Workers’ Red Flag Union. “While applications of contract employees weren’t processed, some others on permanent rolls did not even get their medical reimbursement,” he said. Vardharajan S, a 41-year-old sanitary worker, and permanent employee of the Greater Chennai Corporation, was admitted to a private hospital in Porur in April. “I was told my treatment will be covered under the employees insurance, but it was not. I paid Rs 1.9 lakh for treatment. Neither did I get a refund for treatment nor the ex gratia,” he said. Several policemen, health workers and revenue department staff who were infected between April and May are yet to get ex gratia. According to the home department, nearly 10,000, including 2,700 from Chennai, tested positive for Covid-19. On April 22, a press release from the state government said the CM has increased the solatium for frontline warriors in government service from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 50 lakh and promised jobs for kin of Covid-19 victims. The relief referred to the central government insurance of Rs 50 lakh to family of the deceased. Four months later, a revenue department order, on August 5, cleared solatium of Rs 25 lakh to 28 legal heirs of Covid-19 victims from government service. “There were many problems with this order,” said Indian Medical Association national president Dr J A Jayalal. “First, it did not clarify how the amount was reduced to Rs 25 lakh. The reference in the GO quotes the chief minister’s press statement, which promised Rs 50 lakh,” he said. Until now, of the 120 applications of Covid-19 victims sent to the revenue department, families of 37 people – including eight of 12 workers from corporation and 21 of 32 policemen -- have received Rs 25 lakh from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. “On several occasions private hospitals were asked to fight the pandemic with the government, but none of the private doctors’ families were given Rs 25 lakh from CM’s relief fund. More than 80 doctors have succumbed to Covid-19. Families of private doctors have been told to apply for the Centre’s insurance scheme,” he said. “Our demand is that all healthcare providers should be given Rs 50 lakh from the Centre and Rs 25 lakh from state,” he said. Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project director A Sivagnanam said 14 healthcare workers in the state have received the Rs 50 lakh from the Centre and seven more applications are pending. “Many were turned down because they found that applicants were not eligible. All doctors who died should have been on Covid duty. Some deceased doctors’ applications were rejected because weren’t even practising,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-warriors-await-their-dues/articleshow/81116921.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||90 city samples sent for testing||Mumbai: The BMC has sent 90 Covid-19 positive samples from the city for genome sequencing to check for the presence of mutations associated with the variants in the UK, Brazil and South Africa. “We sent 90 samples to the National Centre for Disease Control on Tuesday,” said AMC Suresh Kakani on Friday. These samples were sent from Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri where international travellers who test positive are admitted, he said. The BMC will also start sending 5% of the daily positive samples to Pune’s National Institute of Virology (NIV) for genome sequencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/90-city-samples-sent-for-testing/articleshow/81118521.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||90% of new Covid cases from bldgs but most mild or asymptomatic||Mumbai: It is “building residents” who are driving the new surge in Covid-19 cases in the city, say BMC officials. If 328 cases were recorded in the city on February 1, the daily caseload increased 66% to 823 on Friday. “Almost 90% of the new cases come from buildings,” BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani told TOI on Friday. He, though, said most of them are either asymptomatic or have a very mild form of the disease. The profile of Covid-19 patients in the early days of the pandemic in 2020 was mainly people hailing from the densely population slums of Dharavi and Worli. Experts say the city’s slums and slum-like areas saw a rapid spread in early 2020 that led to herd immunity (a situation in which the majority have developed resistance to a microbe), at least in certain pockets of the city. Dr Rahul Pandit, who is a member of the state government task force on Covid-19, said the new cases are among people who took precautions and stayed home last year. “With the city opening up almost completely, they began venturing out and got infected,” said Dr Pandit. Another task force member, Dr Gautam Banushali, concurred, saying the new patients hail from middle- and upper-middle-class families. Most of the fresh patients don’t need hospitalisation. “Most of our hospital beds are still free. Even if people need hospitalisation, they don’t need ICU care,” added Dr Banushali, who is attached to Bombay Hospital. BMC additional commissioner Kakani said the majority of new patients opt for home isolation and treatment. “We hence haven’t yet felt the need to revive our quarantine centres, but we have instructed all ward officers to identify a quarantine centre,” added Kakani. Although cases have more than doubled in the past 20 days, they are way below the city’s worst daily count of over 2,500 in September. “Only 20% of the beds in our jumbo or field hospitals are occupied. There are many vacant beds if the need arises,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/90-of-new-covid-cases-from-bldgs-but-most-mild-or-asymptomatic/articleshow/81115510.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 20, 2021||Chennai||DVAC slaps assets case against ex-VC of Bharathiar univ||Chennai: Five-and-a-half years after he demitted office as vice-chancellor of Bharathiar University in Coimbatore, James Pitchai was booked for disproportionate assets by Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption on Wednesday. According to the FIR registered by the Tirupur deputy superintendent of police of DVAC, Pitchai and his family members had amassed Rs 6.17 crore during his three-year term at the helm of the university, which was 135% of their income during the period. Checks by DVAC found that along with his family members, Pitchai had bought properties and land in Chennai, Madurai and Kodaikanal which were disproportionate to his known sources of income. DVAC’s case sheets show that Pitchai entered government service in December 1978 as an assistant professor in the department of agriculture at the TN Agriculture University in Coimbatore. He was elevated as associate professor 10 years later and another decade later became a professor. Pitchai was appointed dean in November 2009 in TNAU and became the vice-chancellor of Bharathiar University on September 21, 2012. His tenure ended on September 20, 2015. DVAC said Pitchai’s wife is a doctor who runs a hospital and they have a daughter and a son, both doctors and working in the same hospital. DVAC’s check period for calculating disproportionate assets was Pitchai’s tenure as vice-chancellor. Assets at the start of check period were Rs 3.21crore and assets acquired in his and family members’ names were worth Rs 8.75 crore at the end of the check period. The family earned Rs 4.57 crore in the three years and incurred expenditure of Rs 5.2 crore. The assets disproportionate to their known sources of income was found to be Rs 6.17 crore, DVAC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dvac-slaps-assets-case-against-ex-vc-of-bharathiar-univ/articleshow/81116943.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Aurangabad||12 among 14 held for stealing diesel from fuel stns in 3 states||Aurangabad: The local crime branch (LCB) of the Aurangabad rural police arrested 14 people, including 12 dacoits and criminals on record, from the toll plaza on national highway 52 for running an inter-state gang of diesel thieves operating in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat.A driver and and a truck owner are also among those who have been arrested as they would frequently purchase stolen diesel at throwaway price from the members of this gang. The police have seized four trucks, about 45 cans of diesel and several mobile phones.While announcing a prize money of Rs 35,000 for the LCB, superintendent of police Mokshada Patil said, “The accused would use small-size portable handpumps —that neither made noise, nor required any power supply —for lifting diesel from the underground tanks of the targeted fuel stations. With the arrest of this gang, we have detected 36 offences registered against them.” LCB inspector Bhagwat Phunde said, “The gang is led by Rama Panya Pawar, a criminal on police record from Osmanabad district who has several cases of dacoity, robbery and other serious offences registered against him.” Currently, Rama is in to trading and transporting of sand, which he sources from Tapi river in Gujarat and sells it in Osmanabad district.The gang members have confessed to their involvement in the three dozen cases compared to the 56 cases registered against them in the three states.Police said the same gang stole diesel worth over Rs 3 lakh from a petrol pump in the Chitegaon area in Aurangabad city on February 16. Accordingly, a theft case was registered at Chikalthana police station. While carrying out the probe, the LCB got a tip- off about the movement of the suspects. They laid a trap and subsequently nabbed them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/12-among-14-held-for-stealing-diesel-from-fuel-stns-in-3-states/articleshow/81114688.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 20, 2021||Pune||Uday Samant directs Pune University to clear roadblocks for autonomous colleges||PUNE: Many of the 20 autonomous colleges in the city have complained to the higher and technical education minister Uday Samant that they have been facing many problems in getting courses approved by Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). On Thursday, at a grievance redressal forum, presided over by Samant, a group of colleges raised their grievances regarding the roadblocks they face when it comes to getting the university’s approval. Samant then pulled up the SPPU officials and told them not to cause “unnecessary hindrances” for autonomous colleges. S K Jain, president of Shikshan Prasarak Mandali, said the university should not act as a licensing agency and instead give eligibility to students if the course is designed as per norms of the University Grants Commission (UGC). “It is the prerogative of autonomous colleges to start courses which are timely and important. While we just need to inform the university about starting a course, the university instead tells us to submit the application and wait for the government approval which is not right. If we have followed all the norms while designing the course, then eligibility should be given,” he said. As per the University Grants Commission guidelines, the autonomous colleges have the right to design their own degree courses as per the UGC framework and then inform the affiliating university about these courses. “When we design a course, the Board of Studies makes the curriculum as per UGC guidelines and then it is passed in the academic council. This proposal is then sent to the university which told us to get permission from the government, without which they refused to accept the ‘eligibility’ of the students who will take admission to this course. Without the ‘eligibility’, the students will not be recognised by the university which means they would not be given the final degree certificate from the university,” Gajanan Ekbote, head of the Progressive Education Society, said. He added that they will be re-submitting the proposals in a week to the university so that the courses can be started in the next academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/samant-directs-pune-varsity-to-clear-roadblocks-for-autonomous-colleges/articleshow/81116965.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Aurangabad||2 bankers among 3 held for loan fraud||Aurangabad: Three people, including a sales manager and credit manager of a private limited finance company, have been booked by the city police on charges of cheating, criminal breach of trust and forgery after they allegedly helped a customer obtain a loan of over Rs 31 lakh through fraudulent means.According to police, an internal probe by the financial institute revealed the role of the two bankers who went ahead to sanction the loan amount even though they were not authorised to do so.Kranti Chowk police station’s senior inspector Ganpat Darade said the finance company is into providing home loans and the customer in November 2018 had applied for getting the home loan.During initial scrutiny the customer was informed that he was ineligible for getting the loan amount. However, the sales manager as well as the credit manager connived with the customer and helped him bag the loan that was passed in December 2018. In addition to this another file of over Rs 65,000 was passed by the suspect bankers.As per agreed norm, the customer was expected to pay an instalment of about Rs 27,000 per month but he kept on defaulting. Few months ago, the case was tagged as non-performing asset (NPA) and referred to the Risk Control Officer of the financial institute. During the probe he found that the loan was sanctioned for a piece of plot sizing 120 sqft by fraudulently showing it to be of 300 sqft. Further investigation also found that the valuation report was found to be forged and someone else was found to be residing on the address mentioned by the suspect customer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-bankers-among-3-held-for-loan-fraud/articleshow/81114698.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 20, 2021||Chennai||Agents roll out red carpet for foreign tourists||Chennai: Travel agents in the city are gearing up to attract inbound tourists from abroad as the Centre has said it is planning to issue e-visas to travelers from countries with ‘air bubble’ agreement. This is expected to boost tourist arrivals from April or May. Chennai is bound to benefit as a gateway airport as it does not have strict restrictions such as those imposed by Mumbai on international travellers. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said at a virtual India Tourism Mart-2021 the country has “already started issuing medical visas and is planning to soon restart e-tourist visas and schedule International flights in a phased manner.” It will be done “on a reciprocal basis, first with those countries with whom we have an air bubble agreement” the minister had said. India has air bubble agreements with 23 countries including Canada, France, Germany, Japan, Maldives, the Netherlands, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, UAE, UK, and the US. Travel and tour companies have started to discuss with their counterparts abroad to promote trips as soon as issuing of visas begins. Sri Lanka is opening its destinations to foreign travellers and people from Thailand, Singapore and the Middle East are ready to travel for leisure. J Sethuraman of Travel XS said: “This is a good sign. In the past few weeks, we have been getting requests from abroad about the possibility of starting tours to India. They want to know when to start marketing India and for that they want to know the date of resumption of scheduled flights and issue of visas.” Sethuraman said budget travellers who are willing to take risks will be the first to arrive, usually in July-August. “The rest of the tourists will start coming from October. The government should ensure that the regulations should be in sync with the regulations in Europe and other source markets. They are talking about a vaccine passport. We should also be ready with such things.” The move to start issuing e-visas for tourists is a good beginning but the government should give a date, Sethuraman said. “That will help airlines fix schedules, travel companies to start marketing, travellers to start planning. All this will take at least 120 days.” Basheer Ahmed of Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI) said the move would benefit Chennai as tourists from Europe may prefer to land at an airport where restrictions are fewer. “People will start arriving usually by June or July. The government should also consider flights between southeast Asian countries from where the city gets a lot of traffic during summer and the following months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/agents-roll-out-red-carpet-for-foreign-tourists/articleshow/81116969.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Karnaprayag-Rishikesh rail project: Tribunal directs compensation for all those affected; authorities to take Centre’s opinion on it||Dehradun: The Land Acquisition Tribunal, while hearing the case of the construction of 125-kilometre-long Karnaprayag-Rishikesh rail track, has directed the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) to compensate all those impacted due to the project. The RVNL — which had earlier approved Rs 496 crore as compensation for the affected landowners — has now been asked by the tribunal to also compensate the tenants, labourers and the artisans impacted due to the rail project. Earlier, RNVL — which is tasked with the construction of the Karnaprayag-Rishikesh rail line — had identified the owners, whose land was acquired for the project for the disbursement of allotted funds. However, the recent order maintains that the compensation should not only be given to landowners but also those who were dependent on it for livelihood. The Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Rehabilitation Act of 2013 extensively defines the details of affected families and compensation to be provided. In addition to the land owners, the tenants, labourers and the artisans working in the affected areas for a period of three years prior to the acquisition need to be provided the compensation. Out of the total compensation amount of Rs 496 crore to be disbursed, Rs 229 crore was sanctioned for Tehri, Rs 148 crore for Chamoli, Rs 93 crore for Rudraprayag, and Rs 26 crore for Pauri. Several people had challenged the compensation decided by the administration in the tribunal. If the provisions of the Act are implemented, the compensation amount would go up further. Sources pointed out that the issue was discussed in a recent meeting between the state officials and chief secretary Om Prakash following which, a decision was made to take up the issue with the Centre and seek its guidance. The work on the 125.2-km-long Rishikesh-Karnaprayag rail line — to be constructed at a cost of Rs 16,216 crore — has already started. Under the project, 12 railway stations, 17 tunnels (105.47-km-long), 98.54 km long escape tunnels, and a total of 218-km-long tunnels will be constructed. A total of 16 important bridges of 2,835 metres will also be built. According to officials, the Virbhadra-New Rishikesh line will start by 2019-20, the New Rishikesh-Devprayag line by 2023-24, and the Devprayag-Karanprayag railway line by 2024-25. The 12 railway stations on the route include Yognagri Rishikesh, Virabhadra, Shivpuri, Byassi, Devprayag, Meetha, Srinagar, Dhari Devi, Rudraprayag, Gholtir, Gauchar and Karnaprayag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/karnaprayag-rishikesh-rail-project-tribunal-directs-compensation-for-all-those-affected-authorities-to-take-centres-opinion-on-it/articleshow/81115508.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Leopard mauls woman to death, forest dept to capture big cat||Nainital: A 45-year-old woman was mauled to death by a leopard in the Kapri village of PIthoragarh just a few kilometers from the district headquarters. The accident took place on Thursday evening when the woman, identified as Kalawati Devi, had gone out into the forest to collect fodder. Devi left the house around 5 pm but when she didn’t return for several hours, her family members and villagers started looking for her. “The woman’s shoes were found a few kilometres from the house and then her cap a few meters away. When the locals went further into the forest, they found her body. However the locals found her head a few paces away,” said Didihat range officer, Pooran Singh Deopa. The official added that they suspect that the leopard was hiding in the bushes. “We believe that the leopard tried to drag her into the forest and that’s how her head was separated from the body,” he said. The forest department officials have now said that they will install a cage near the village and shooters may also be called to hunt the leopard. “We have also sent the body for postmortem and the family will be compensated as well. For the safety of locals we are also trying to catch the leopard,” the official said. Meanwhile, the residents of Joshikhola village in Almora district have also complained that several leopards were spotted near the government inter college. Locals fear that the leopards can attack school-going children after which the forest department has now said that it will start the process to capture the leopards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-mauls-woman-to-death-forest-dept-to-capture-big-cat/articleshow/81115513.cms||Prashant Jha
February 20, 2021||Chennai||Covid killed young doc who died in quarantine, govt told||Chennai: Three months after Dr N Logesh Kumar, a 24-year-old postgraduate student of Madras Medical College, died in a hotel room where he had quarantined himself after Covid-19 duty, the directorate of medical education has declared that forensic, histopathology and radiology reports indicate that he had died due to Covid-19. The directorate, which is in charge of administering all government medical colleges, sent a formal report to the government to record Covid as the cause of his death and process applications to get ex gratia for his family. Logesh Kumar was taken to Government Royapettah Hospital where he was declared ‘brought dead’. Police said they suspected suicide or food poisoning and his body was sent to the mortuary for postmortem. The postmortem was completed yet, until Friday, the cause of death was not disclosed. Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital dean Dr E Theranirajan had asked directors of pathology, radiology and forensic medicine to submit their opinions. The opinions were sent to the Directorate of Medical Education. On Friday, the directorate concluded Covid as the cause of death. “There were no internal or external injuries in his body and there were no traces of poison. Radiology reports showed bilateral pneumonia with lower right lobe consolidation. It is suggestive of Covid-19. An expert team concluded that it must be death due to Covid-19,” said director of medical education Dr R Narayanababu. “We have forwarded the report to the government. We will also start the process to get his family ex-gratia,” he said. In the past three months, several government doctors’ associations had urged the state to declare Covid-19 as cause of death. “He was quarantined only after he worked in the Covid ward. We were told he had symptoms, but his RTPCR results turned negative. But all other clinical parameters indicated Covid-19,” said Federation of Government Doctors Association convener Dr A Ramalingam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-killed-young-doc-who-died-in-quarantine-govt-told/articleshow/81116964.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Man kills girl, mother after family rejects marriage offer||Navi Mumbai: A 26-year-old labourer from Dapoli village of Panvel taluka stabbed a woman and her 18-year-old daughter to death on Friday morning. Prakash More, who is a neighbour of the victims, slit the mother’s throat and stabbed her 18-year-old daughter multiple times. More was enraged after his proposal to marry the daughter was rejected by her parents.  “The victims have been identified as Surekha Balkhande (37) and Sujata Balkhande (18),” said DCP (Zone-2) Shivraj Patil. More’s wife had passed away in October last year. When More’s proposal was rejected by Sujat’s parents, he threatened to commit suicide. Earlier, More had attempted suicide after his wife’s death but was stopped by the locals. More’s proposal was rejected again by the Hingoli villagers, where both families hail from and More again threatened to end his life. After returning to Panvel from Hingoli, More forcibly entered Balkhande’s house, quarrelled with Sujata’s father and assaulted him. Sujata’s father went to complain to the landlord along with his minor daughter, leaving behind his wife, Sujata and two minor sons. More took out a knife and killed the duo and escaped. “Several police teams have been formed to track all possible escape routes,” added Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-kills-girl-mother-after-family-rejects-marriage-offer/articleshow/81119212.cms||George Mendonca
February 20, 2021||Rajkot||Showroom owner in Rajkot starts bootlegging to recover losses||RAJKOT: After Surat cops caught two garment traders earlier this month for turning into bootleggers to tide over their humongous losses owing to the pandemic-induced lockdown, an owner of a home appliances showroom in Surendranagar too was arrested on Thursday evening along with his son for similar offences under the Prohibition Act. The father-son duo was caught selling Indian Made Foriegn Liquor (IMFL), which they claimed was to offset the losses they had incurred in their legit business and overcome the financial crisis. According to police, 95 liquor bottles worth Rs 47,500 and 134 beer bottles worth Rs 13,400 seized from the residence of Narendra Solanki (56) on bus stand road. Solanki, who was a well-known trader in the city running his appliances showroom for nearly four decades now in the main market area, got involved in selling liquor along with his son and had ordered the liquor consignent through one Bharat Koli of Surendrangar from Silvassa which arrived in an SUV around 10 days ago . “The father and son were doing good business in the showroom but after they hit a recession due to the lockdown, they had to divert to the illicit liquor business.” “The father and son were doing good business but stated that they diverted to illicit liquor business owing to financial crisis from the lockdown,” said Himanshu Doshi, DySP, Surrendrangar. In the Surat case, accused Kalpesh Makwana, 30, and Ghanshyam Shiyal, 27, had stored the contraband worth Rs 29,880 in their shop located in Bhagwati Shopping Centre. They too had found bootlegging more lucrative an avenue in face of their almost non-existent garment trade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/businessman-starts-bootlegging-to-recover-losses/articleshow/81115910.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Nadiad man cheated of Rs two lakh with fake Dubai job promise||VADODARA/ ANAND: Two persons including one from Vadodara and another from Surat were nabbed by the special operation group (SOG), Anand for duping a Nadiad resident after promising him work permit for Dubai. Anand police had received a missive from the ministry of external affairs, Mumbai regarding a complaint made by Nadiad resident Wasim Malek. In his plaint, Malek accused Jaydeep Patel, owner of J P International, a firm on Anand-Bhalej Road, of cheating him by promising him work permit from a Dubai-based firm by the name of Olive E-business LLC. “According to the complainant, Malek was first promised a work permit but at the last moment, he was sent on tourist visa. The accused and his Dubai-based accomplice claimed that the work permit could not be issued because of ICA approval. After landing in the emirate, the complainant realised that he was cheated,” said police sub inspector K G Chaudhary. Malek was cheated of Rs 1.7 lakh. The cops have seized two laptops, 10 cell phones, 19 passports along with Rs 2.43 lakh cash from office of Patel, a Vadodara resident, who along with Surat resident Ravi Bhaskar has been arrested. Bhaskar assisted Patel in office work. Cops suspect more such gullible people have duped promising them work permits by the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nadiad-man-cheated-of-rs-2l-with-fake-dubai-job-promise/articleshow/81116620.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||India host to 7,569 corona mutants: Study||HYDERABAD: The novel coronavirus is perhaps the first infectious organism in recent times to form thousands of its variants across the globe. In India alone over 7,569 coronavirus variants have been analysed since the pandemic virus was first recognised in Wuhan. This is despite the fact that not enough samples are sequenced by scientists in the country. Read AlsoCovid-19: Can our vaccine fight new strains? India to testThe efficacy of the two Indian vaccines currently in use — Covishield and Covaxin — is likely to be tested against the Brazil and South Africa variants soon, scientists have said. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had announced on Tuesday that Pune-based National Institute of VirologyAccording to a research publication by a team of scientists from city-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), there are 7,569 variants in circulation in the country. Live updates: Coronavirus updatesCCMB scientists alone have far provided an analysis of over 5,000 coronavirus variants and how they have evolved. “The novel variants that are worrying many countries globally have been identified with only a low prevalence in India so far. These include variants with immune-escape E484K mutation and the N501Y mutation with higher transmission rate. However, their apparent low prevalence might be simply because not enough sequencing has been done. More coronavirus genomes need to be sequenced across the country to accurately identify the emergence of these and other new variants,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, director, CCMB. Read AlsoSouth Africa, Brazil mutated Covid strains have reached IndiaThe South African and Brazilian mutant strains of coronavirus have entered the country, apart from the UK variant reported in 187 people so far. Four persons were detected with the South Africa variant of SARS-CoV-2 in India in January, while one tested positive for the Brazil variant in the firstMishra, who is also corresponding author on the study, said a few novel variants are spreading more in some states. “We now have emerging evidence that N440K is spreading a lot more in southern states. Closer surveillance is needed to understand its spread properly,” he said. Beginning with one variant about a year ago, the novel coronavirus has turned into numerous variants. For instance, a variant, A3i, had mutations that were predicted to make its spread slower. The study confirms that it was overtaken by the globally prevalent A2a variant, carrying the D614G mutation, by June 2020. The A2a variant has remained in global dominance for the major part of last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/india-has-7569-coronavirus-variants-in-circulation-ccmb/articleshow/81116985.cms||Syed Akbar
February 20, 2021||Aurangabad||2 doctors test positive weeks after first dose||Aurangabad: Two senior private medical practitioners from Aurangabad city have tested positive for Covid-19, a few weeks after receiving their first dose of the vaccine. It should come as a reminder for everyone that vaccines don’t work overnight and following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is essential even after vaccination. Moreover, the medical fraternity is a high-risk group due to their contact with possible Covid-19 patients, experts said. A doctor and a community health worker from Mumbai, and five doctors from Nagpur, all of whom had received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, have developed the infection recently. Dr Randeep Guleria of AIIMS Delhi has said that there will always be incidences where some people will develop the infection despite the vaccine. However, it will be mild or asymptomatic illness and it will not require hospitalisation or ICU care. “Even after you get the second dose, wearing a mask is important. Not to just protect yourself, but to protect your near and dear ones,” he said. Aurangabad health authorities said that the two doctors detected with Covid-19 are currently under observation, and despite their age, in stable condition. Both showed mild symptoms of the infection. As per the health department records, one of the doctors got vaccinated in the last week of January, while the other got vaccinated in the first week of this month. It was after they independently noticed symptoms and tests were carried out earlier this week that confirmed the Covid-19 infection. Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s health officer Neeta Padalkar said, “Both the doctors, who have tested positive, are done with the first of the two doses of vaccine. Getting both the doses prevents a person from falling seriously ill. We believe that taking of this vaccine has ensured that the infection did not take a toll on their health and there has not been serious illness.” Padalkar said at though both these doctors have comorbidities, apart from being in the older age group, they have got just mild symptoms. “It is a sign that post vaccination, their immunity has considerably developed,” she said. According to the WHO, a good immune response kicks in within about two weeks of the first dose. And the second dose then boosts that immune response. According to Serum Institute of India, that manufactures the Covishield vaccine, people may get “protective immune response four weeks after the second dose”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-doctors-test-positive-weeks-after-first-dose/articleshow/81114711.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 20, 2021||Delhi||DPCC finds 16 restaurants violating anti-pollution norms||New Delhi: Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has taken action against 16 restaurants for either not installing oil grease traps in the washing area or failing to install effluent treatment plants (ETPs). According to DPCC officials, their teams inspected 22 restaurants from February 1 to 15 and of these, 16 were found to be violating anti-pollution norms. “We have served show-cause notices to 15 restaurants for flouting anti-pollution norms. We have also served a closure notice to one restaurant for failing to comply with the norms. An environmental compensation of over Rs 9.8 lakh has been proposed on 15 defaulting units and of these, penalty of Rs 2 lakh has been imposed,” said a senior official. Officials said most of the units against which action has been taken mainly lacked proper installation of ETPs and oil grease traps. A few of the defaulting restaurants also failed to maintain ETP logbook properly and did not comply with rules of waste segregation. Some restaurants failed to produce valid consent, which should have been applied for renewal at least three months prior to the date of expiry. “Of these 15 restaurants, some of them were found to be using charcoal ovens. If any eatery is using tandoor, it should use cleaner fuels like LPG and PNG,” said an official. Earlier in January, 24 restaurants were found to be violating anti-pollution norms in the capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dpcc-finds-16-restaurants-violating-anti-pollution-norms/articleshow/81117025.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Now, Marpu extended to youth battlling drug addiction||Visakhapatnam: Over 150 youngsters who have been identified as drug addicts will be brought under the ambit of Vizag police’s Marpu initiative in a bid to counsel and prepare them for a better future. The initiative was introduced to rehabilitate history-sheeters but now has been extended to drug addicts. City police chief Manish Kumar Sinha said they have observed youngsters who were addicted to drugs are also indulging in other crimes. “In an attempt to wean such youngsters off of drugs, other illegal activities and give them a chance to integrate with mainstream life, we have started Marpu,” he said adding that a counselling centre, with one member each from social welfare, police and health departments, has been set up in the city. The officers will be assisted by a counsellor or psychologist. Central crime station ACP D Sravan Kumar told TOI that the committee has been sitting at the Swarna Bharti Indoor Stadium every Monday for the past few weeks. “So far, the committee has counselled over 35 youngsters in the company of their parents. We have been on the job to identify addicts through various sources and it is a continuous process,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-marpu-extended-to-youth-battlling-drug-addiction/articleshow/81115409.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 20, 2021||Pune||SPPU set to develop arts and culture e-content||Pune: Savitribai Phule Pune University’s e-Content Development & Learning Innovation Centre (e-CDLIC) will produce structured video-content giving basic information of traditional knowledge, arts and culture. The Indian Council of Cultural Relations and the university will sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on Thursday to help bring basic knowledge of Indian art and culture, epics, wildlife, temple architecture, folk art and tradition, yoga, Indian cuisine, festivals, traditional dances on one platform. Apoorva Palkar, director of innovation, incubation and linkages at SPPU, said this will be a single platform to get information about all kinds of art forms and Indian culture from authentic sources. “Foreigners want to know about a dance form or learn Indian classical music but they may not know what it entails and from where to get knowledge about it. This platform will be the answer.,” Palkar said. “There will be a 30-45 minute video about all the subjects followed by links to reading material and other information along with an assessment quiz to better understand the subject. So if you want to learn dance, this platform will give links with information about various schools of dance,” said Palkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-set-to-develop-arts-and-culture-e-content/articleshow/81116999.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 20, 2021||Visakhapatnam||South AP & R’seema receive untimely rain||Visakhapatnam: A bout of heavy, unseasonal rainfall lashed several parts of south coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseem region. Zarugumilli in Prakasam district received highest rainfall in state with 97mm precipitation (from 8.31 am to 7pm on Friday), followed by Kondapi (62 mm) in the same district. Many areas of Anantapur, Chittoor, Nellore, Kadapa, Guntur and Kurnool received moderate to heavy rainfall. According to sources, the rain has damaged crops such as red gram, maize, other standing and commercial crops, creating more problems for farmers. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) state director S Stella, the unseasonal rainfall was a resulted from the presence of a cyclonic circulation over coastal Andhra Pradesh and neighbouring areas. Apart from this, a trough in the low-level easterlies over south-west Bay of Bengal, adjoining the Sri Lankan coast to north Tamil Nadu and adjacent to south coastal AP, was observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/south-ap-rseema-receive-untimely-rain/articleshow/81115431.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Delhi||95% of rape cases solved, conviction rate at 23%||NEW DELHI: The year 2020 was comparatively safer for women with cases of rape, molestation and kidnapping witnessing a decline compared with the previous year. Cases of sexual assault on minors also saw a dip, crime data showed. Police were quick in making arrests and nabbing the culprits, 95% of rape cases were solved. The conviction rate in 2019 was 23% compared with 28% across the country. In all, 1,699 rape cases were registered in 2020 compared with 2,168 cases in 2019. Similarly, cases registered under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act also declined. In 2019, 109 cases under Pocso Act were reported compared with 65 last year and 90% of the cases were solved. The conviction rate of such cases was 68%, higher than the all India rate of 35%. Several measures were taken to curb crime against women and a round-the-clock women’s desk was set up at all police stations. Apart from this, there were strict instructions to register FIRs even if there were jurisdiction issues. A zero FIR was registered and later transferred to the respective state or city. Only 1.8% strangers were involved in rape cases compared with 2.2% in 2019 and 3.6% in 2016. The maximum number of rape cases, around 70%, were committed by family, friends, known people and acquaintances, 14% by relatives and 12% by neighbours. Women officers were appointed for investigation of sexual offence cases, examination of scene of crime by the district crime team and advance crime team for collection of scientific evidence. Apart from this, psychological, legal and medical aid was granted by crisis intervention centres having representation from police, doctors, Delhi Commission for Women and Delhi State Legal Services Authority. One of the major reasons for a good conviction rate was improved DNA and chemical examination facilities. Reports in rape and Pocso cases were filed within 60 days in 2020 and 78% of cases were chargesheeted within the stipulated time. Hotspots and dark stretches were identified and CCTV cameras installed there. The most affected police stations were Bindapur, Dwarka North and South, Sagarpur, New Usmanpur, Sultanpuri, Nihal Vihar, Prem Nagar, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/95-of-rape-cases-solved-conviction-rate-at-23/articleshow/81118564.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Amaravati||APCO to train weavers in new designs, aims bigger market share||AMARAVATI: In an attempt to take bigger space in growing fabric market, the state handloom cooperative society (APCO) has set its focus on creating new designs by following latest global fashion trends. APCO will go aggressive to popularise its brands across all platforms. APCO has already signed an MoU with online market stores Amazon, Flipkart and other apparel sellers. APCO is also opening branded stores in APSRTC bus stations. APCO will hold training and orientation sessions for weavers to make them switch to new trends and designs. “We are readying our members to follow latest global trends and fashions so that we take bigger share in the market. We will also make all efforts to catch young customers without confining to traditional buyers alone,” said APCO chairman Chillapalli Mohan Rao. Mohan Rao said they have readied a blueprint to train weavers from all recognised primary cooperative societies from the state. “We will also constitute an experts’ committee to advise and render assistance to member societies in preparation of design development, product diversification and qualitative improvement as may be necessary in the products produced by the member-societies to be in tune with the consumer tastes and market demand,” Mohan Rao said. The APCO chairman said that CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is fully backing their measures as he is committed to protection of the handloom sector and the heritage of the state. APCO is setting the stage to provide a level playing field to enable weavers to compete in the market. Handloom workers have also started weaving fine varieties of dress materials and clothes for men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/apco-to-train-weavers-in-new-designs-aims-bigger-mkt-share/articleshow/81115401.cms||Samdani MN
February 20, 2021||Visakhapatnam||GVMC begins prep for upcoming civic election||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has started making arrangements for the municipal polls to be held on March 10. Over 17.5 lakh voters would exercise their franchise to decide the fate of hundreds of contestants. The officials have notified 1,712 polling stations, with one station dedicated to a maximum of 1,200 voters. About 10,600 personnel will be utilised for the  process. After the first stage randomisation of polling personnel, second-level randomisation would cover formation of polling teams — one presiding officer, one assistant presiding officer and three other polling personnel for each station. The GVMC has identified 204 routes for distribution of election material and bringing the same back to the counting centres from 1,712 polling stations. As many as 15 nodal officers will be appointed for various election duties such as model code of conduct enforcers, polling personnel, training, material procurement among others. Flying squads and static surveillance teams will oversee the enforcement of model code of conduct in the city while zonal officers will be responsible for election proceedings in their respective zones. City police had earlier identified nearly 510 sensitive and hypersensitive polling stations in the city. The deployment of personnel will depend on the nature of the polling stations. For instance, one head constable and four constables will guard hypersensitive stations while at sensitive stations, one head constable and two constables would be assigned to each station. A constable and a home guard would oversee the process at normal stations. Ballot papers will be printed in Visakhapatnam following the withdrawal of the candidatures. As many as 1,361 candidates submitted their nominations for the GVMC municipal polls. Following scrutiny, done on March 14 last year — when the process was halted in the wake of Covid-19 — officials rejected papers of 99 candidates, keeping 1,262 candidates in fray. It is estimated that over 50% candidates would withdraw their nominations during the withdrawal process which would begin on March 2. According to GVMC officials, four candidates, who filed their nomination, died in the last one year. The officials informed that they would forward the details of the deceased candidates to the state election commission and would adhere to the instructions of the commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-begins-prep-for-upcoming-civic-election/articleshow/81115337.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 20, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Education department introduces changes in pattern for Class 10 exams||VISAKHAPATNAM: After reducing the Class 10 exam papers from 11 to 7 for the 2021 public exams in view of the pandemic, the school education department has made changes in the examination pattern. There will be a total of 33 questions in 100-mark question papers, including 12 objective-type questions, eight very short answer questions, eight short answer questions and five essay questions. While the objective questions carry one mark each, the very short answer questions comprises two marks each. Eight marks would be awarded for each essay question and four marks for each short answer. Duration of the examination is 150 minutes. The revised exam pattern and reduction in number of papers would be applicable only for SSC public examinations and advanced supplementary examinations for 2021. Exams for general science would be conducted as usual in two parts - paper-I (physical science) and paper –II (biological science) – even this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/edu-dept-introduces-changes-in-pattern-for-class-10-exams/articleshow/81115441.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Surat||Covid warriors’ kin still awaiting promised aid||Surat: Kin of at least 20 frontline warriors of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) who lost their lives to Covid-19 in line of duty are yet to be compensated as had been promised by the state and central governments. Those employees involved in health services were assured Rs 50 lakh compensation, while those in other civic services were assured Rs 25 lakh in case of death by the government. According to the government circular, warriors were assured of being compensated if they lost their lives in the initial six months soon after Covid-19 outbreak in the city. During the peak of the pandemic in the city, the civic body had also cancelled leaves of all its employees. “My 56-year-old father continued to work even in the most risky period. He died on July 30, 2020 due to Covid-19. We should be paid the promised compensation of Rs 25 lakh so that the family can now survive the tough times,” said Hozaifa Patel, son of Inayat, a beldar. Junior engineer Bharat Gandhi (47) died on July 12, battling the dreaded disease for 24 days. “My father did not take leave for even a single day during the peak of Covid-19. He did not have any other diseases too. He lost his life while working but now we are having to wait for the compensation,” said Abhay, Gandhi’s son. Iqbal Shaikh, leader of Surat Sudhrai Kamdar Mandal told TOI, “The promised compensation is to be paid out of the insurance money. And yet, the government is delaying the payment for several months now. This is a mockery of the sacrifice of the families who lost their loved ones while performing their duties.” Shaikh further said that the union had made a representation to the SMC authorities. “Out of the total 24 SMC employees who died due to Covid-19 last year, only four received compensation,” he added. “No one is denied compensation. The proposals are under process. A few have already been paid the promised compensation and others too will be paid,” said Kamlesh Naik, assistant commissioner, SMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-warriors-kin-still-awaiting-promised-aid/articleshow/81116141.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 20, 2021||Vijayawada||Maritime board to promote exports from AP||Guntur: AP maritime board deputy chief executive officer, Lt Cdr BM Ravindranath Reddy, has said they will take measures to promote exports from the state. The board will facilitate the industries and traders to handle more business by creating proper infrastructure and ecosystem, he said, adding that dry ports are also playing a big role in handling decent turnovers of exports and imports from the state. Reddy, who visited inland container depot (ICD) of SC railway on the outskirts of Guntur city, said ICDs, which are known as dry ports, play a very important role in the global supply chain and are very helpful to exporters and importers situated far from sea ports. “Our aim is to generate and facilitate more trade from the state to improve the economy. Services at ICDs should also be extended to the industries in Rayalaseema as the region is away from the sea port,” said Reddy. He asked the ICD officials to ready a plan to extend services to the industrial clients from the areas that were not in the vicinity of sea ports. Reddy said the maritime board and statewould extend full support to any such proposal if readied by ICD. He also inspected facilities and infrastructure available at the terminal. He said the board has set its focus on increasing volume of business from agriculture, marine products along with industrial commodities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/maritime-board-to-promote-exports-from-ap/articleshow/81115359.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Vijayawada||Teacher dies days after vaccination in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Days after being administered the Covid-19 vaccine, a 58-year-old anganwadi teacher died after developing fever in Kadapa’s Pulivendula town. The deceased was identified as T Narayanamma, a resident of Ahobilapuram area. According to family members, Narayanamma was received the vaccine around 15 days back at a local government hospital. A day after that, she developed fever and admitted to private hospital where doctors ascertained the cause as typhoid. Sources said she was then shifted to RIMS hospital in Kadapa and eventually sent home despite her fever not reducing on Thursday night. Within an hour of her return, she succumbed. Her family alleged ‘vaccine failure’ behind her death. CITU workers staged a protest, demanding Rs 50 lakh compensation and a government job to one of her family members under compassionate grounds. This comes after the government had announced a Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia to a village volunteer who had succumbed to complications following her vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/teacher-dies-days-after-vaccination/articleshow/81115450.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Magnitude 4 earthquake jolts Pithoragarh||PITHORAGARH: An earthquake of magnitude 4.0 struck Munsyari, Dharchula and Didihat tehsils of Pithoragarh district on Friday. No loss of life or property was reported till the time of filing this report. As a precautionary measure, locals in Nachano, Munsyari, Askot, Thal, Jauljibi, Pangala came out of their houses immediately after the tremors. According to the district disaster management office, Pithoragarh, the jolts were felt at 4.40 pm and the epicentre was Ghandhura region of Didihat tehsil. The temblor had a depth of 8 km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/magnitude-4-earthquake-jolts-pithoragarh/articleshow/81115572.cms||Prem Punetha
February 20, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Absconding MNS office bearer, 2 aides held for vandalizing MSEDCL’s Nerul office||The Nerul police have arrested an MNS office bearer Naresh Kumbhar and two aides for vandalizing the MSEDCL’s Nerul office on Wednesday. Meanwhile, MSEDCL chief engineer has directed the staff to undertake a drive to recover full power bill due from 7,556 defaulters. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/absconding-mns-office-bearer-2-aides-held-for-vandalizing-msedcls-nerul-office/articleshow/81096726.cms||George Mendonca
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Pocso court rejects bail plea of man accised of molesting minor||Mumbai: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act court on Thursday rejected the bail plea of a 21-year-old man, one of the five, accused of sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl. While this accused was her ‘boyfriend’ who had allegedly maligned her character on his social media, she was allegedly forced to get sexually involved by with the other accused at the behest of a 19-year-old female friend who blackmailed her with nude and compromising pictures for over a year.Unable to take the trauma, the survivor attempted suicide last month after which the matter came to light. The accused including the female friend are in jail. Refusing to grant bail to the accused, the court said that while his name was not mentioned in the FIR, at the time of the minor’s medical examination she revealed that she was sexually involved with him. “Considering victim’s mental trauma and heinous nature of offence, I do not find this is fit case for consideration of bail,” the court said.The survivor said that the first instance of sexual assault took place in September 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pocso-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-man-accised-of-molesting-minor/articleshow/81119222.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Rishiganga project’s previous owner was hit by boulder, died on day he was to inaugurate trial run of unit||DEHRADUN: Ludhiana-based businessman Rakesh Mehra had been looking forward to the day — August 15, 2011 — when a unit of the hydropower plant that he had purchased in the Garhwal Himalayas would start trial operations.  The 13.2 MW plant, built on the Rishiganga river, was finally nearing completion almost six years after Mehra had bought it. However, before the inauguration could happen, tragedy struck. A stray boulder tumbled from the mountains above the project site and struck Mehra dead. Curiously, nobody else was affected. The businessman, who used to run a paint factory in Ludhiana, was the only casualty among the others standing by in close proximity. Local villagers had then termed the incident nothing short of ‘a divine warning’ that the flow of the river should not be hampered by such projects. This is not the only "warning" that came. Rishiganga hydel project, which was the first to have been hit by the flash floods of Feb 7, has been plagued by problems since its inception in 1998 when a Kolkata-based group was given land to construct the hydel plant in the para-glacial zone of Niti Valley. The project didn’t see daylight for several years. In 2005, it was bought over by Ludhiana-based Mehra who was killed on the project site. The site was then struck by repeated floods and tremors in 2008, 2010, 2013 and 2016. In 2016, it was completely washed away. Nevertheless, another company from Delhi, Ritwik Group took up the project in 2017 and completed it in 2020 but even before it could start operations, the project was totally washed away again. Villagers of the area say that the “mishaps are nothing but repeated warnings.” “I was in Class IX when the land for the hydropower plant was purchased by outsiders in 1998. Ever since, we have seen one disaster after the other. Today, the situation is such that people of our village Raini are afraid of staying the night in the village in case a disaster catches us unaware,” said Sohan Singh Rana, whose grandmother Gaura Devi was among the pioneers of the Chipko movement to save trees which gained worldwide recognition in the 1970s. Kalawati Devi, 70, who had accompanied Gaura Devi in the Chipko movement, added,“This land is being converted into a shallow place by mining and tree cutting and mountain blasting. These natural disasters are a result of all this. They were bound to happen.” The locals also believe that Kaali Devi, the deity they worship, is showing her displeasure through these disasters. “Our goddess Kaali, who safeguards the valley, is repeatedly sending us signals. Mother Nature is not happy here,” Dinesh Chandra, an elderly villager from Raini, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rishiganga-projects-previous-owner-was-hit-by-boulder-died-on-day-he-was-to-inaugurate-trial-run-of-unit/articleshow/81115647.cms||Shivani Azad
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Restrictions on weddings, gatherings more important than shutting shops in Nagpur: Experts||NAGPUR: After the collectors in all 11 districts of Vidarbha announced lockdown like restrictions on Thursday, many people expressed surprise the authorities were focusing on marriages and gatherings, and not on shopping, markets and complete lockdowns. Experts told TOI that the spurt in infections is happening due to careless behaviour at gatherings, weddings and various functions. Stopping commercial activities, markets, offices and business activities is not required, said doctors. “Hardly anyone is seen wearing a mask at weddings. Hundreds of people are inside air-conditioned halls without masks or social distancing. This is a certain recipe for disaster,” said veteran pulmonologist Dr Ravindra Sarnaik, who is also member of Covid task force. Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde termed marriages as ‘most risky transmission modality’. “Shops or markets are different. There is 1-to-1 or 1-to-3 interaction in market place. Marriages are like hundreds of people in indoor gathering,” he said. “Inter-state travel for marriage functions is also common. People gather from different cities, states and travel together in one minibus or car. This mixing one of the reasons why a mutation from Andhra Pradesh was brought to Yavatmal,” said Dr Mahesh Shah. Doctors in Covid hospitals have specifically mentioned that a majority of patients coming in last 10 days have history of attending wedding functions somewhere. “While weddings are predominant; many patients have history of attending small, non-professional gatherings and events like birthday parties, family occasions, community gathering and rallies,” said a doctor from a leading private hospital in Nagpur. The city has more than 5,600 active corona patients currently. In Akola, the local administration has permitted movement of public transport and allowed highway fuel stations and roadside dhabas to function, but imposed 50-guest limit in weddings. In Yavatmal too, collector M Devendra Singh has made it clear that the restrictions are on public gathering events and not on usual business. In Nagpur, organizers have to take permission of assistant municipal commissioner to host a wedding function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/restrictions-on-weddings-gatherings-more-imp-than-shutting-shops-experts/articleshow/81117030.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 20, 2021||Pune||Yoga in your society for better mental and physical health||Pune: An effective way to deal with the anxiety and stress of the ongoing pandemic is through yoga. Prescribed by doctors as a great way to boost immunity and build strength, practising the correct yoga poses on a daily basis can help you improve mental and physical health.The Times of India, in partnership with the Yoga Institute, Mumbai, has launched the Yoga At Your Doorstep campaign, as a part of which a series of yoga sessions will be conducted at housing societies every Sunday for the benefit of their residents.Senior citizens and children are encouraged to participate in these sessions, which will be organized within the premises of their own housing societies.This Sunday, February 21, the session will be organized from 7am to 8am at Stargaze Cooperative Housing Society in Bavdhan.No prior registration is required. Residents can come directly to attend the session on their premises. A letter will be put up on the notice board of the society and WhatsApp messages will be sent on residents’ groups to encourage them to participate in this fun and educational session.There will be a Times of India kiosk located in the venue to offer offline registrations for the newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/yoga-in-your-society-for-better-mental-and-physical-health/articleshow/81117000.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Five wards see over 50% rise in cases; limited travel, gatherings advised||MUMBAI: As many as five civic wards reported more than 50% rise in Covid-19 cases in the second week of February compared with the first week of the month. The sharpest spike of 91% in Covid-19 cases was reported from A Ward, which covers parts of Colaba, Cuffe Parade and Churchgate. The other wards that have reported more than a 50% rise in cases are R-North (Dahisar and Borivli) at 62%, E (Byculla and Mumbai Central) 58%, F-South (Parel and Sewri) 52% and M-East (Govandi) 51%.  A Ward’s civic officials said many of the cases have been reported from the naval premises and Nariman Point. “In a commercial building at Nariman Point, two persons tested positive initially. Later, following more tests, the number rose to 22. The building canteen was then shut and a sanitisation programme undertaken,” said an official. Colaba corporator Makrand Narwekar blamed the surge on citizens lowering their guard. “We almost felt the virus had been chased away and people were going about without wearing face masks or using sanitisers. The rise in cases is a reminder that Covid-19 has not gone anywhere,” said Narwekar, adding it is essential that the authorities ramp up the vaccination drive. In E Ward, which covers Byculla and Mumbai Central and has witnessed a 58% rise in cases, corporator Rais Shaikh said they held a meeting with BMC officials over the spike. “All must avoid unnecessary travel and large gatherings if the viral chain is to be broken. I plan to write to housing societies that members must wear face masks from the time they enter an elevator.” In Sewri and Parel under F-South Ward, corporator Sachin Padwal said a decision has been taken to sanitise community toilets repeatedly. Former corporator Abhishek Ghosalkar from Shiv Sena said several cases in Dahisar are from the same families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-wards-see-over-50-rise-in-cases-limited-travel-gatherings-advised/articleshow/81116465.cms||Richa Pinto
February 20, 2021||Delhi||CISF constable saves Metro passenger||New Delhi: CISF personnel at the Indraprastha metro station were quick to react after a male passenger was seen fainting on one of the platforms. They rushed to the spot and performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) on him, following which he regained consciousness. The man’s life was possibly saved, said CISF. The passenger was later shifted to GB Pant Hospital where his condition is stable. The incident occurred on Thursday around 7.40 pm when a male passenger, later identified as Javed Ali (45), deboarded at the metro station before suddenly collapsing at the platform. While observing the CCTVs, constable Anil Gunja of CISF spotted the person becoming unconscious. He alerted his senior staff before himself rushing to the spot. Upon reaching the platform, Gunja found the man not breathing properly. He immediately started performing CPR, following which the man regained consciousness. “The man was a resident of Uttam Nagar. The shift in-charge of the CISF and station controllers also reached the spot. Subsequently, DMRP and an ambulance were called. Thereafter, he was sent to GB Pant Hospital for further medical assistance,” said a senior CISF official. CISF personnel are taught how to perform CPR as part of their training before deployment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cisf-constable-saves-metro-passenger/articleshow/81117085.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Aurangabad||Majalgaon deputy collector, driver land in ACB dragnet||Aurangabad: The Jalna unit of anti-corruption bureau (ACB), in a late night crackdown, arrested Majalgaon revenue division’s sub-divisional magistrate and his driver for demanding and accepting Rs 65,000 from a sand trader. The suspects have been identified as Shrikant Gaikwad (28) and his driver Laxman Kale (30). The duo was produced before the local court in Beed following which they have been remanded to three-day police custody. Gaikwad hails from Pandharpur in Pune district and holds the record of being one of the youngest officers to crack the state public service commission exams and become a deputy collector. Superintendent of police (ACB) Rahul Khade said, “The complainant is a sand trader whose vehicle was seized by the Majalgaon deputy collector’s office. Money was demanded for releasing the vehicle and the trader-cum-transporter was unwilling to pay the bribe. Hence, he reached out to us.” The complainant informed the ACB that Gaikwad has been allegedly demanding a sum of Rs 1 lakh for releasing his vehicle and for allowing him to continue transporting sand. Not taking any chance, the complaint was referred to Jalna unit of the ACB. After negotiations the bribe amount was at Rs 65,000 and for paying the money the complainant was asked to come to Sambhaji Chowk. Later, Kale reached the spot on behalf of Gaikwad and accepted the amount. Soon after arresting Kale, a team reached Gaikwad’s house and arrested him too. An offence under relevant sections of Prevention of Corruption Act was registered around midnight at Majalgaon police station of Beed district. A day earlier, a block development officer also landed in ACB’s trap for demanding and accepting bribe from a farmer in Beed district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/majalgaon-deputy-collector-driver-land-in-acb-dragnet/articleshow/81114718.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: To sabotage exam at school, girl faked Covid-surge news||AHMEDABAD: A week ago, a purported “news report” went viral, suggesting that 13 students of Udgam School had tested positive for Covid after Class XII students were called to the school for practicals. An investigation by the school has revealed that the fake news was the handiwork of a Class XI student who was not prepared for offline exams. So when it was learnt that the school authorities had sought permission from the Ahmedabad City District Education Office to conduct the final exams offline, the girl panicked. “The girl created a fake news item, fabricated and photoshopped, and circulated it across the school’s groups,” trustee of Udgam School for Children, Manan Choksi said. “The parents of the student in question approached us and consented to any action being taken against her. But we have decided not to file any police complaint against the young girl, who has now expressed remorse for her act.” The school authorities spent a tense period tracing the author of the fabricated news item. Officials said they first checked with all the students who had attended school before the post was circulated to ascertain if there were any Covid cases. “When no student was found to be down with Covid, we traced the origin of the post,” said Choksi. “After a lot of calls and after sifting through social media groups, we reached the girl who is a Class XI science student.” The girl reportedly told her parents and school authorities that she was not prepared for offline exams and had decided to put out a fake post to discourage authorities from conducting the exams on the campus. Exam phobia real, experts say Ahmedabad: City-based psychiatrists have noted an upward trend when it comes to students complaining about the lack of concentration and examination phobia. Dr Hansal Bhachech, a city-based psychiatrist, said that some students could not comprehend everything in online classes, but could not communicate that fact to teachers. “Thus, the supposed lack of preparation is pointed at the pandemic. The phobia means that the student believes he or she will not be able to perform according to expectations,” he said. “Some students have also shown a genuine phobia about the pandemic itself as they did not wish to join the classes or take exams offline.” Dr Nehal Shah, another city-based psychiatrist, said that anxiety is often manifested as body ache, headache, or fatigue. “We are now seeing students of Class X with such symptoms and believe that the number might rise,” he said. “The lack of concentration is another issue with which students and parents approach experts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/to-sabotage-exam-at-school-girl-faked-covid-surge-news/articleshow/81117066.cms||Bharat Yagnik
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Another Maharashtra minister tests Covid positive||MUMBAI: Minister of state for water resources and education Bacchu Kadu said he has tested positive for Covid for a second time. He had earlier tested positive in September 2020. “I am currently in isolation. Those who came in my contact get themselves tested.” Kadu tweeted on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/another-minister-tests-positive/articleshow/81118570.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Loudspeakers fall silent as campaigning ends in cities||Ahmedabad: Campaigning for elections in six cities drew to a close on Friday evening with voting scheduled on Sunday, February 21. Counting of votes for the elections to be held in Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Vadodara, Surat, Bhavnagar and Jamnagar will be taken up on February 23.The BJP’s civic poll campaign revolved around the “development card”, while the Congress, which has not tasted success in municipal corporations for over a decade, raised issues of fuel price hike and lack of amenities in cities.While CM Vijay Rupani has been confined to a hospital bed after testing positive for Covid-19, other top leaders including state BJP president C R Paatil, GPCC president Amit Chavda, MoS, home Pradipsinh Jadeja, leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani and others hit the roads on Friday, holding roadshows with their supporters.Paatil led a 22km long roadshow from Naroda to Khadia, while other BJP leaders took part in similar roadshows in other cities. Paatil said, “People are in our favour because of our track record and good governance.”In Vadodara, Amit Chavda and his supporters took part in a rally, carrying placards criticizing the Union and state government for rise in fuel and LPG prices, bad roads, contaminated water and lack of other amenities in cities. Paresh Dhanani led a rally in Jamnagar.“People living in cities are reeling under price rise, rampant corruption and unemployment. They are not getting clean water despite paying high taxes under BJP rule. I am sure people will vote for change this time,” Chavda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/loudspeakers-fall-silent-as-campaigning-ends-in-cities/articleshow/81117093.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Aurangabad||2 women robbed of gold chains||Aurangabad: Amid heavy police bandobast for Shiv Jayanti celebrations, unidentified bike-borne people robbed two women of their gold chains, totally weighing over 100 gram, on Friday. At around 8.30 am, Shakuntala Sethi (74), following her routine, went to the Jain temple in Raja Bazaar area of the city. When she was in the Kirana Chawdi area, two unidentified suspects riding a bike snatched her gold chain weighing 95 gram. Before the woman could react, the suspects had already fled. Later her son alerted the police, following which a team led by City Chowk inspector Sambhaji Pawar and crime branch team led by inspector Avinash Aghav rushed to the spot. A case has been registered with the City Chowk police station About an hour before this incident, a 53-year old Sunanda Patil, a resident of N-11, Hudco in New Aurangabad, was robbed of a part of her gold chain by bike-borne suspects. As Patil stepped out to sweep the front of her house, one of the chain snatchers reached out to her and tried to pull her chain. Reacting to it, the woman held her chain but the suspects managed to take a part of it, which weighed around seven gram. Later, an offence against unidentified suspects was registered with the Cidco police station. On Thursday, a 60-year old woman was robbed by unidentified suspects on the pretext of giving her a lift on the AS Club to Link Road. She was robbed of a gold chain and a pair of earrings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-women-robbed-of-gold-chains/articleshow/81114726.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Pregnant woman from Tehri airlifted to AIIMS-Rishikesh||DEHRADUN: A seven-month pregnant woman from Tehri was airlifted to AIIMS-Rishikesh on the direction of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. The patient needed immediate medical care and was not in a condition to reach hospital via road. The woman, Mehzabi Quechua, from Mauli village of Tehri Garhwal was advised to visit AIIMS-Rishikesh for delivery due to certain complications. After getting to know about her medical condition, the CM asked the district administration to arrange an air ambulance that was readily made available to the woman who reached AIIMS in minutes. A road journey would have taken six-to-seven hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pregnant-woman-airlifted-to-aiims-rishikesh/articleshow/81115692.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Dr Reddy’s kicks off process to seek EUA for Sputnik V||HYDERABAD: Dr Reddy's Laboratories has initiated the process for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) approval with the Indian drug regulator Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for Russian Covid-19 vaccine candidate Sputnik V. Dr Reddy’s will be presenting the safety profile of the phase 2 study conducted in India and interim data of the vaccine candidate’s phase 3 study, which is expected to be completed by February 21, 2021, it said on Friday. Sputnik V is currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trials on 1,500 volunteers in India as part of a bridging study to the larger global phase 3 study. The phase 2 study was conducted on 100 subjects in India. The human adenoviral vector-based Russian vaccine uses two vectors – adenovirus 26 (Ad26) and adenovirus 5 (Ad5) – that are administered 21 days apart. Sputnik V demonstrated an efficacy rate of 91.6% in the interim analysis of the phase 3 clinical trial, which included data on 19,866 volunteers in Russia who received two doses of the vaccine, as per the trials results published in The Lancet. The vaccine maintained a consistent efficacy at 91.8% even among the 2,144 volunteers aged over 60 years, it said. “Initiation of the EUA process will be a critical step forward for us in ensuring speedy access to the Sputnik V vaccine in India,” said Dr Reddy’s Laboratories co-chairman and managing director G V Prasad. Dr Reddy’s had joined hands with Russian sovereign wealth fund Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) in September 2020 for conducting clinical trials and distributing Sputnik V in India. Sputnik V, developed by Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, was the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine to be registered on human adenoviral vector programme on August 11, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dr-reddys-kicks-off-process-to-seek-eua-for-sputnik-v/articleshow/81117097.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
February 20, 2021||Delhi||Rank & file: 2020 saw Delhi Police make rapid e-strides||NEW DELHI: 2020 was a year of technology for Delhi Police. From starting the use of e-beat books to launching an integrated complaint management system (ICMS) and the full implementation of the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and System (CCTNS), it was a year when the cops took to technology in a big way. Police commissioner S N Shrivastava started making changes at the grassroots level soon after assuming charge. Among his first acts was to stop the system of morning diaries, which consumed a lot of manhours and engaged a sizeable number of policemen in ferrying files and letters. With the system going online, not only were there time and cost savings, but easier and interactive communication too. Under ICMS, people are able to file and monitor their complaint at a click and also rate police’s resolution of their cases. Even the complaints sent by posts or submitted as documents are being digitised and uploaded on the new system and are accessible to people from Delhi Police's website. The e-beat book is set to change ground policing, with beat officers gaining access while on the move to a criminal database, including photographs of suspects. Local crime hotspots in the beat area are available on the beat officers’ devices and the team can plan their crime control strategy accordingly. Information on the release/bail of suspects, bad characters of area and tasks like servant and tenant verification will be done on tablets being provided to policemen. The initiative is set to benefit 1,752 beat officers, 822 division officers and 178 SHOs across Delhi. Another important initiative, spurred by Covid-19 pandemic, is communication through video conferencing. Impressed with the results, the cops undertook a large-scale adoption under the e-Varta project, avoiding unnecessary travel and increasing productivity. Earlier, senior officers in distant areas spent almost the full day commuting to and from Delhi Police Headquarters two-three times a week for meetings. This is no longer necessary. The technology drive isn’t over. For 2021, the effort is on implementing the Interoperable Criminal Justice System (ICJS), which integrates police, court, prison and the forensic science laboratories. Police have already started filing final reports through this automated system. Since last July, 48,838 case files have been made available through the portal. Once fully evolved, ICJS will generate quality criminal intelligence and also help build an information base using the police court and prison data. Shrivastava described it as an advanced analytical module to generate intelligence about a criminal by drawing up linkages through parameters like jail visitor details, mobile numbers and jail mates. The e-office initiative envisions a paperless office environment. The internal grading system will go off files through the e-sparrow system, while the licensing unit will go fully digital, with even the licence fee payable online. Tracking missing children has seen a significant initiative of out-of-turn promotions for quantifiable performance. This initiative got the Delhi Police personnel from all units, not just the missing person squad or anti-human trafficking unit, showing extraordinary zeal in pursuing such cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rank-file-2020-saw-delhi-police-make-rapid-e-strides/articleshow/81118581.cms||Raj Shekhar
February 20, 2021||Aurangabad||Counselling centre opens for cop families||Aurangabad: Considering the Covid outbreak and the lockdown increasing the stress level and conflict among families, Rakesh Kalasagar, the superintendent of police, Hingol, has started a dedicated counselling centre for the families of police personnel. This centre is open for police families outside the district, which is a first of its kind initiative in the state. Kalasagar told TOI, “During the lockdown period, like other frontline workers, our police personnel and their families underwent tremendous mental stress and we have noticed a surge in friction among family members, prompting us to take steps to address the issue.” The officer said many times, police personnel and their families fearing embarrassment, do not reach out to family counselling centres, so the decision to open the counselling services for the police families was taken. As per the arrangements made, a portion of the recently established Bharosa cell, which is meant to cater to similar needs of the citizens, has been reserved for the police families. The visitors will get legal aid through two legal advisors, comprising a retired district judge and a senior lawyer from the district. Apart from this, trained family counsellors, women and child protection officers, medical aid are some of the key services that are provided. Training has been imparted to 46 police personnel including counsellors and advocates. Training has been imparted on legal aspects of family disputes, steps in scientific counselling, psychological aspect of family, disputes so that our teams deployed at the cell becomes more sensitive while handling, said Nanded range DIGP Nisar Tamboli. The officer said in the disputes involving police families, the most common fear and allegation are that the police personnel may have used his or her influence to tilt the matter in their favour. “By opening up our cell’s services for the police families, it will rule out the possibility of any such allegation or suspicion, said Tamboli. For providing a child-friendly and women-friendly environment in the surrounding, Hingoli police even established individual cabins for each expert and resource people, open space area for counselling, waiting area, feeding room among others||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/counselling-centre-opens-for-cop-families/articleshow/81114725.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||No masks + No physical distancing + No sanitizers = Spike in Covid-19 cases||NAGPUR: It isn’t over, till it’s over. But Nagpurians seem to have developed disdain for this belief, especially at a time when the coronavirus pandemic continues to affect people in the Orange City. The rise in cases is a testimony of the people’s abject disregard to the Covid guidelines. Most of the commercial areas in Nagpur are full of hundreds and thousands of people. Shopkeepers and a vast majority blatantly are being found ignoring even basic guidelines such as wearing masks in public, maintaining Covid distance and avoiding crowd in a shop or an eatery. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B expressed concern over the spike in the cases and said if people including shoppers and shopkeepers continue to ignore the guidelines, the civic administration will have no other option but to reintroduce weekend lockdowns. He appealed to people to adhere to restrictions while venturing out. Nag Vidarbha Chambers of Commerce (NVCC) president Ashwin Mehadia said most shopkeepers in the city have become lackadaisical in their approach towards Covid-19. “On Friday, we held a virtual meeting of representatives of 150 traders’ associations and issued instructions about strict adherence of the safety guidelines,” he said and added that the NVCC hopes traders will extend full support to the NMC to contain the spread of Coronavirus. TOI visited Jaripatka, Kamal Chowk, Pachpaoli market, Mominpura, Gandhibagh, Itwari, Golibar Chowk, Mahal (Kelibagh road), Khamla, Pratap Nagar, Sakkardara, Gokulpeth etc and witnessed huge crowds ignoring even the basic advisory to maintain one metre distance and put on face masks. Sitabuldi main road too was full of hawkers and none of them were spotted following restrictions. In Jaripatka, which comes under the constituency of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja, hardly any shopkeeper adhered to the Covid-19 guidelines. Shoppers and shopkeepers without masks, no sanitisers kept outside shops and no thermal checks are being done in most parts of the city’s commercial establishments. TOI also didn’t find any civic cop from Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s nuisance detection squad (NSD) in any of the bustling commercial areas taking action against citizens without masks and maintaining no Covid distancing. Instead TOI spotted them penalizing motorists without masks at various places including the busy Samvidhan Square. A senior NMC official said that on an average the civic cops were penalizing around 200 people venturing out without face masks. So far, the NDS team has penalized over 32,707 citizens and collected Rs1.47 crore fine, the official said. Residents said that the NDS team is finding soft targets instead of visiting commercial areas which might have become superspreaders. The situation in the city's market places are just like normal times. Markets are crowded as usual with high footfalls with lack of adequate sanitation amenities and poor hygiene conditions. To prevent the risk of transmission of Covid, it is crucial that the government agencies ensure strict implementation of the guidelines. The large-scale celebration of Shivaji Jayanti would add fuel to the spike in the cases as people from various political parties in the city were found celebrating the day without masks and no Covid distancing. TOI even spotted political leaders like Bandu Raut attending the celebration in Mahal area without mask. The BJP Yuva Morcha organized as many as 108 celebrations of Shivaji Jayanti across central Nagpur. BJP city president Pravin Datke had asked the Yuva Morcha to celebrate Shivaji Jayanti across all squares in the city. No wonder, if the situation remains the same, in no time, the entire city will resemble a containment zone, feels a resident of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-masks-no-physical-distancing-no-sanitizers-spike-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/81117078.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Voter has the right to know details of candidates: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday observed that the voter has the “elementary” and “natural” right to know the full particulars of a candidate who is to represent him in the  and it is the duty of the returning officer to check and compel the candidate to furnish full information. The bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora made the observations while dealing with a petition filed by a candidate of Ward No 28 in the Jamnagar Municipal Corporation, Narendrasinh Chauhan. He has sought cancellation of nomination by one of his rival candidates on the ground that he did not mention about criminal cases against him in his affidavit and hence he stands disqualified to contest the election. The high court took note of the veracity of Chauhan’s claims, “In the case on hand, prima facie it seems that the returning officer did not bother to check the affidavit and the information furnished in the affidavit." However, the court turned down Chauhan’s plea with observation that he was late in raising the issue, and that he can now file an election petition after completion of the poll process. On the issue of voter’s right to know, the HC cited a Supreme Court’s order and said, “The citizens are supposed to have the necessary information at the time of filing of the nomination paper and for that purpose, the Returning Officer can very well compel a candidate to furnish the relevant information. Filing of affidavit with blank particulars will render the affidavit nugatory. It is the duty of the Returning Officer to check whether the information required is fully furnished at the time of filing of affidavit with the nomination paper since such information is very vital for giving effect to the “right to know” of the citizens.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/voter-has-the-right-to-know-details-of-candidates-hc/articleshow/81117109.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||T sees 165 new cases, 1 death||Hyderabad: A total of 165 new Covid-19 infections and one death were recorded in Telangana on Friday, taking the overall toll to 1,623. At present, 1,715 patients are under treatment, but the recovery rate in the state has now touched 98.87%. Meanwhile, the data released by the director of public health and family welfare states that Narayanpet and Jogulamba Gadwal districts in Telangana have recorded the lowest number of new cases in the past seven days. While Jogulamba Gadwal district recorded two cases, Narayanpet recorded only one case in the entire week. On the other hand, GHMC limits saw 35 new cases followed by 19 new cases in Medchal Malkajgiri district and 13 new cases in Rangareddy district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-165-new-cases-1-death/articleshow/81117108.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Plumber falls to death from fifth floor of building||Mumbai: A 32-year-old man died after falling from the fifth floor while doing plumbing work at Marigold Society at Thakur village in Kandivli (East) on February 17. The incident occurred at around 4.15 pm when the deceased, Abid Ali Shaikh, was seated on a wooden plank that was suspended from outside the building, broke and he plummeted. The Samta Nagar police arrested the contractor M B Trilochand for negligence and not following safety measures. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/plumber-falls-to-death-from-fifth-floor-of-building/articleshow/81119228.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Over 3,600 health workers give vaccine 2nd dose a miss on Fri||Hyderabad: Health workers continued to give the second dose of the covid vaccine a miss on Friday with as many as 3,640 workers in Telangana not showing up. A similar trend was observed on Thursday when 3,520 beneficiaries did not take the second dose. Experiencing side effects and adverse reactions after the first dose and reports of people with comorbidities allegedly dying after taking the vaccine are being touted as the reasons that are making healthcare workers reconsider the second dose. “Some of my colleagues are hesitant to take the second dose because a couple of doctors in our healthcare centre suffered adverse reactions after they were administered the first dose of the vaccine. One of the healthcare workers had to be rushed to the emergency care after her blood pressure increased and was vomiting continuously. Those who saw her being rushed to hospital are now in two minds about taking the second dose,” said a healthcare worker, under condition of anonymity. “An unprecedented global effort has been invested into controlling the unwelcome visitor in our lives. While the fear of side-effects is natural, one needs to understand that these minor reactions are the immune system’s response to the vaccine. As responsible healthcare providers, we must lead by example,” said Dr P Raghu Ram, director, KIMS Ushalakshmi Centre for Breast Disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-3600-health-workers-give-vaccine-2nd-dose-a-miss-on-fri/articleshow/81117106.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Lucknow||Injured footballer gets CM’s help for treatment||Lucknow: The surgery of national level football player, Sajan Gupta (22) from Gorakhpur, was conducted successfully at KGMU on Friday. The operation was performed free of cost on the direction of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath Hailing from a poor family, Gupta got injured during a match in Kushinagar recently. Since then he was being treated at different hospitals with little success and later admitted to the BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur from where he was referred to KGMU on February 18. The case was highlighted by the local media in Gorakhpur. Some Gorakhpur residents had also started crowdfunding through social media to help Sajan. However, when the CM came to know about it, he immediately issued direction for his free treatment. The CM office also told KGMU to take up the case on priority basis. “The football player sustained a perineal region injury that had damaged his intestine. He is in ICU but stable,” said Dr Sandip Tiwari, head of the trauma surgery department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/injured-footballer-gets-cms-help-for-treatment/articleshow/81118576.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||NCP MP Supriya Sule demands SIT probe into BJP MLA Ganesh Naik’s ‘don’ claims||NAVI MUMBAI: Without naming BJP MLA Ganesh Naik, who had recently claimed at a political gathering in Turbhe that “international dons across the world know who Ganesh Naik is,” NCP MP Supriya Sule on Friday said she will demand an SIT inquiry into the statement. Sule claimed the statement, made by “a public representative,” is a national security issue. She was addressing a gathering of NCP workers in Navi Mumbai as part of preparations for the forthcoming NMMC elections. Naik, BJP’s Airoli MLA, had addressed a gathering in Turbhe, where a local former corporator defected from BJP to Shiv Sena. Naik had said, “International dons know who Ganesh Naik is” and told the gathering not to be afraid of local goons and that people could call him even in the middle of night in case of trouble and he would help them. Sule said, “I will write a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah stating that if an MLA in Maharashtra proclaims at a public gathering that he has contacts with international dons, an SIT inquiry must be immediately ordered. Also, in keeping with the favourite word ‘transparency’ uttered by Devendra Fadnavis, citizens of Maharashtra need an answer to this in a transparent manner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sule-demands-sit-probe-into-ganesh-naiks-don-claims/articleshow/81118587.cms||George Mendonca
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||HDIL promoter Wadhawan gets bail in 3 cases||Mumbai: HDIL promoter Sarang Wadhwan has been granted bail in three cases the Economic Offences Wing is probing against him. The bail was granted to him on a sum of Rs 5 lakh. He will, however, continue to remain in jail as he is yet to get bail in the money laundering case. Wadhwanhas been in jail since his arrest in October 2019. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hdil-promoter-wadhawan-gets-bail-in-3-cases/articleshow/81096755.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||LIC employees not exempt from civic poll duties, HC says||Ahmedabad: The employees of the Life Insurance Corporation Ltd (LIC) will have to render election duty as the Gujarat high court on Friday refused to stay the State Election Commission’s (SEC) order requisitioning their services for poll duty. The court, however, has admitted LIC’s petition challenging the SEC’s powers to order LIC to deploy its employees in the civic elections. The HC will hear this issue further on April 28. LIC has claimed that although its employees fall within the ambit of Section 159 of the Representation of People Act and they can be deployed for poll duty for the Parliament and state assembly elections, but SEC does not have jurisdiction to requisition their services. During the hearing, LIC proposed to spare 20% of its staff for poll duty, but the high court found the proposal “unreasonable”. It said that this would disrupt smooth functioning of the election at the last moment and this cannot be allowed. The Election Commission told the court that total 4.19 crore voters are to cast their votes in civic elections and it required 2.85 lakh polling staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lic-employees-not-exempt-from-civic-poll-duties-hc-says/articleshow/81117117.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Govt schemes only for some special people’||Hyderabad: TRS MLA Muthireddy Yadagiri Reddy representing Jangaon constituency created a flutter on Friday by claiming that state government schemes would be extended to only those recommended by TRS workers. “TRS workers are working for the party for 20 years and pensions, house sites and other schemes would be given to people based on their recommendations,” the MLA said while taking part in a party membership drive programme along with Mahabubabad MP M Kavitha at Jangaon. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-schemes-only-for-some-special-people/articleshow/81117120.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra wants early vaccine for 50+ and those with co-morbidities||MUMBAI: Spurred by a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra will approach the Union health ministry for permission to start the third phase of vaccination—targeting 50-plus people and younger with diseases—before March, state technical advisor Dr Subhash Salunkhe said on Friday. “In Maharashtra and Kerala where there is an increase in cases in pockets, the Union government should not wait till March. It must start vaccination of those above 50 years and those with co-morbidities earlier so that the situation can be in control. When we have a primary tool for prevention and vaccine companies have assured us of adequate production, the Union government should act fast,” Salunkhe, who was in Amravati assessing the situation, told TOI. There is a spurt in cases in pockets of Marathwada and Vidarbha. On the one hand there is vaccine hesitancy among health and frontline workers, while on the other hand senior citizens and people with co-morbidities are willing to take the vaccine. However, the Centre is in the process of framing guidelines for the IT platform and waiting for a formal announcement, he said. Turnout drops from 48,000 to 15,000 on holiday“We will seek Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention immediately before things get out of hand. While the Centre may develop the IT platform for rolling out the third phase, states that are seeing a rise and especially hotspots should immediately start vaccination for the elderly,” he added. He said the Centre was responsible for poor planning and for its “inappropriate public health strategy”. Salunkhe added that the transmission rate is tremendously high in Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal, and the situation needs immediate intervention. “While restriction of movement is in place, vaccination should also be initiated for the elderly here,” he said. Central health officials said guidelines are ready for the 50 plus population and those with co-morbidities, and they are wanting for the first two priority population to be covered as early as possible. “We are following a set process and vaccination would start soon for those above 50 and those with co-morbidities,” V K Paul, NITI Aayog member (health), said, adding that the vaccine cannot be distributed as yet in the market as it is marked for the priority population. Task force member and public health expert Giridhara R Babu too called for vaccinating of the 50 plus population in high risk states first. Meanwhile, the state turnout for vaccination dipped drastically on Friday due to the Shiv Jayanti public holiday that resulted in many districts not carrying out the drive, said state health director Dr Archana Patil. From 48,003 (the highest daily turnout ever) on Thursday, the turnout on Friday was only 14,880. Of these, healthcare workers made up for 7,229 and frontline workers for 7,661 Even in Mumbai, where over 100% of the intended people took the Covid-19 on Thursday, the turnout was lower at 77%. “While 10,300 healthcare and frontline workers were targeting, only 7,920 got the shot,’’ said a BMC health official. More frontline workers (6,255) as against healthcare workers (1,665) took the shot on Friday. BMC has managed to complete vaccination of 1 lakh healthcare workers and 50,000 frontline workers so far. It has a target of 4 lakh healthcare and frontline workers. The third phase in Mumbai will cover 30 lakh people. The state has so far given 8.54 lakh shots, including 6.25 lakh healthcare workers and 2.3 lakh frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-wants-early-vax-for-50-and-those-with-co-morbidities/articleshow/81119233.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Christian graveyard loses Covid tag, activists protest||Hyderabad: Christian leaders and activists are up in arms about the cancellation of allotment for an exclusive Christian graveyard for Covid-19 victims by Ranga Reddy district authorities. The GHMC informed district authorities that they couldn’t maintain the Christian graveyard. In response, Christian associations and activists have filed a PIL in high court against cancellation. The graveyard is in Kurmalaguda of Balapur mandal in Serilingampally zone. Citing a letter by the GHMC zonal commissioner which speaks about certain “developments” and “sensitivity” of the issue, Ranga Reddy district collector Amoy Kumar in the cancellation orders, said, “the above land is not taken into physical possession nor put to utilisation for intended purpose and requested cancellation (sic). In these circumstances, allotment orders were cancelled.” Sources said locals were opposed to the graveyard being near their houses. Jerusalem Mathiah, petitioner in HC, said, “We have already buried several bodies and it is incorrect to say that it is not utilised. Deaths are still happening due to Covid-19 and there is no place to bury bodies.” The writ petition is pending in court. From the past few days activists have been staging protests at the graveyard and demanded the cancellation order be withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/christian-graveyard-loses-covid-tag-activists-protest/articleshow/81117112.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cop dies hitch-hiking, his family to get Rs 65 lakh||MUMBAI: The family of a 48-year-old head constable who died in an accident after the van he had hitched a ride in turned turtle will get a compensation of around Rs 65 lakh, the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal has ruled. The tribunal said while the constable, Gautam More, was a “gratuitous passenger” and not covered under insurance policy, the van owner will have to pay the sum. The accident took place in 2013. The tribunal said New India Assurance Co Ltd can disburse the amount to his widow and children and recover it from the van owner, Ravikant Dubey. It added that in the interim, Dubey would have to furnish security for the entire sum. The insurance company had contended that since he was a gratuitous passenger, his family was not entitled to compensation. Tribunal says cop died due to van driver’s negligenceThe tribunal said, “The insurer proved that the offending vehicle owner had committed breach of terms and conditions of policy. As the deceased travelling in the offending vehicle was gratuitous passenger at the time of accident...the insurer is liable to pay compensation and recover it from the vehicle owner.” While 40% of the compensation amount will be paid to More’s wife Rajni, the rest will be divided equally among his three children. More’s 80-yearold mother died during pendancy of the claim. According to the claim submitted to the tribunal in July 2013, around 5.30am on May 7, 2013, Gautam was on his way from Belapur to his house in Koparkhairane after taking a lift from the van driver. His family alleged that the vehicle was speeding and tried to overtake a State Transport bus near CBD Belapur, resulting in the driver losing control and the van turning turtle. More, who was earning a monthly salary of around Rs 30,280, sustained serious head injuries and was rushed to hospital where he was declared dead. An FIR was registered against the van driver. The tribunal relied on the FIR to rule that the vehicle had turned turtle due to the rash and negligent act of its driver, which resulted in the victim’s death. Fixing final liability on the van owner, it said, “In fact, as per documents, no conveyance amount has been given by the deceased to the offending vehicle driver. Thus, it is crystal clear that he was a gratuitous passenger in the vehicle while the insurance is private car liability only policy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/family-of-cop-killed-in-mishap-after-hitching-a-ride-to-get-rs-65l/articleshow/81119236.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 20, 2021||Nashik||Thief’s bid to break ATM fails||Nashik: A criminal made entered an automated teller machine (ATM) kiosk of a cooperative bank in the Ambad area while the guard was asleep early on Friday morning, but failed to steal any cash. There was over Rs 5 lakh in the machine. Police said they have identified the burglar from the footage captured by the CCTV camera inside the ATM and have launched a hunt for him. “The footage of the theft attempt went viral and the burglar has been identified. He is a resident of Ozar and will be arrested soon,” said police. Senior police inspector Kumar Chaudhary of the Indiranagar police station said the thief entered the ATM kiosk near Bhujbal Farm around 1am and was inside it for more than one-and-a-half hours. “The thief tried various tricks to break open the ATM, but failed to succeed and left the scene empty-handed. The security guard was sleeping outside.” Police said the burglar did not use any tool to break open the ATM. Sometime later, when the security guard entered the kiosk and saw the ATM tampered with, he called police. Police immediately went to the spot and conducted a panchama.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/thiefs-bid-to-break-atm-fails/articleshow/81114744.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Min inspects new Parl building construction||Hyderabad: Roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy along with officials and representatives of Shapoorji Pallonji, the agency which is constructing Telangana’s new integrated secretariat complex, on Friday inspected the red stone used in the construction of new Parliament building in Delhi. The team led by the minister also inspected the architecture, fountains, halls and other features and facilities, including various stones used for flooring, pillars and other parts in the Parliament building and also Rashtrapati Bhavan. Officials said there is a proposal to use the red stone in some parts of the new secretariat being built especially on the elevation of the new complex. The team also inspected the north and south blocks of Parliament and its huge halls. Later, the minister met Union road transport and highways secretary A Giridhar and urged him to sanction new national highways for Telangana and sanction of funds for the Regional Ring Road (RRR) project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-inspects-new-parl-building-construction/articleshow/81117116.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||One student Covid positive||Hyderabad: A day after 26 students from Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society’s (TSWREIS) near Journalist Colony, Gowlidoddi, fell ill, hospital authorities collected samples for Covid-19 test. The students, all boys, aged between 11 and 18 years, arrived with symptoms of fever, vomiting, stomach pain and loose stools. “Looking at the timeline of sudden simultaneous onset, the provisional diagnosis was acute gastroenteritis. Covid-19 tests were also conducted for all of them, and one student tested positive. They are stable,” a statement from Continental Hospital, Gachibowli, read. Students were preparing for IIT. “We admitted 26 students of whom six have fever. Remaining were admitted for minor symptoms,” Kanchala Rajitha, incharge principal, said. “Fear of outbreak arose after the principal was allegedly Covid-19 positive,” a source said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-student-covid-positive/articleshow/81117118.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||T only major state without permanent RERA authority, shows official data||Hyderabad: Has the Real Estate Regulation And Development (RERA) Act been given a quiet burial in Telangana? At least that’s what a quick scan of the ministry of housing and home affairs’ latest records, indicate. Over four years after being introduced, Telangana stands out as the only major state in India that still does not have a permanent regulatory authority, an appellate tribunal (both are interim) or an adjudicating officer – all important offices listed under the RERA Act, to ensure strict implementation of the rulebook. Predictably, the state has not disposed of a single case pertaining to RERA till date, the data shows. Across India, 61,880 complaints have been disposed of by RERA authorities, until February 6 this year. This weak monitoring system, industry insiders claim, has resulted in RERA guidelines being flouted extensively in the state. They allege, several property dealers are resorting to pre-launch sale of homes and land parcels, even before they apply for a RERA registration number. According to them, these offers are being extended even on prominent projects coming up in Kondapur, Chandanagar, Financial District, L B Nagar among other areas. Many of these projects are even being promoted on social media platforms, without a RERA number, they add. As per the 2016 Act, no promoter can advertise, market, book or sell any plot, apartment or building, without registering it with the RERA authority. “They are luring customers with pre-launch offers that are often 30% to 40% lower than the launch price. To avoid a paper trail, many are signing MoUs with customers – assurance to buy the property once the RERA registration is completed – instead of accepting cheques,” said a leading realtor. RERA officials say they are unable to take action as no complaint has been registered with them. “People only forward some messages with these violations but do not provide any details about the promoters or share contact numbers. In such cases, it becomes difficult for us to track them. If complaints are lodged, we will take action,” said K Vidyadhar, secretary, TS-RERA, refraining from commenting on the lack of a permanent RERA authority in the state. Multiple attempts to reach Telangana chief secretary, Somesh Kumar -- also the chairman of TS-RERA – failed to yield any result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-only-major-state-without-permanent-rera-authority-shows-official-data/articleshow/81117130.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
February 20, 2021||Trichy||Over 136 species recorded during census in Karaivetti bird sanctuary||Trichy: Total 136 inland and water bird species were spotted during the two-day long annual synchronized bird census 2021 on February 17-18 in Karaivetti bird sanctuary of Ariyalur district.Western reef Egret and Woolly-necked stork bird species were recorded for the first time in the last three years in the bird sanctuary. Karaivetti bird sanctuary in Ariyalur district was among the 22 protected areas in the state where bird census was carried out on February 17-18.While synchronised bird census was conducted for the fourth consecutive year in Karaivetti, Western reef Egret bird was spotted for the first time, said conservation scientist A Kumaraguru from the biodiversity conservation foundation (BCF).The Woolly-necked stork with black and white plumage and distinctive white ruffled neck are large birds, which could be as tall as four feet. These birds were declared vulnerable in 2017 after their population started reducing due to poaching.These birds could be found mostly in coastal areas and estuaries. While over 20,000 birds were spotted last year in the sanctuary, this year over 25,000 birds were recorded during the census. This include 4,209 inland birds and 21,395 water birds. Other bird species that were spotted during the census were Glossy ibis, Bar-headed goose, Grey heron and Spoonbill spotted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-136-species-recorded-during-census-in-karaivetti-bird-sanctuary/articleshow/81117185.cms||Sampath Kumar
February 20, 2021||Delhi||Temple’s Back On Central Verge||New Delhi: A makeshift steel frame structure was erected overnight on the central verge of the main road in Chandni Chowk to house the Hanuman temple that was removed in the first week of January in compliance with the order of Delhi High Court. The structure had been removed amid heavy security force deployment after several years of tussle and legal challenges. The new structure, however, is not located at the exact spot that was in the right of way of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project. Both AAP and BJP had blamed each other for removal of the structure and a plea for reconstruction of the temple was pending with LG Anil Baijal. Traders said the construction started around 1.30am after steel bars and sheets were brought in a truck and the idols were placed during the night. The base of a planter bed was used as the platform for the steel structure. Jai Prakash, the mayor of north corporation, tweeted photos of the new temple announcing that he would visit the site later in the day. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, Prakash and other politicians visited the new structure in the afternoon. The mayor said the new structure would not impact traffic movement and no one should have any objection to it. “It is a matter of aastha (devotion). Ideally, the matter should have been resolved at the level of the Delhi government religious committee like other religious structures in Chandni Chowk. If anyone objects to the new structure or raises the matter in court, it will amount to disturbing the atmosphere,” he added. BJP functionaries announced that celebrations would be carried out on Saturday. The priest of the Hanuman temple, Ashok Sharma, claimed that he didn’t know who built the new structure. He was called only at the time of the morning aarti around 4am. “Hanuman baba has shifted here. We were happy at the old site, but we are satisfied with the new one too,” he added, claiming that he had been the temple priest for 42 years. AAP MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak said that lord Ram and Hanuman belonged to everyone and he would also visit the temple on Saturday to pray. Several questions over the development still remain unclear, including the presence of the police tent next to the site and the installation of the Hanuman idol, which was earlier claimed to be in the municipal corporation’s store. Prakash, however, claimed that the Hanuman idol had not been kept in the store. The other idols were still there. Traders claimed that an attempt had been made a day earlier also and the administration should have been alert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/temples-back-on-central-verge/articleshow/81117203.cms||Paras Singh
February 20, 2021||Chennai||No time to prep, many schools not for Class XI board exams||Chennai: Several schools and teachers associations want the board exam for Class XI students cancelled this academic year and a district-level test conducted instead, citing inadequate preparation. While many institutions say they cannot finish the syllabus by holding classes on alternate days and that the current batch is underprepared as it was promoted without exams in Class X, some still wanted board exams held, saying they would improve performance in competitive exams. In 2017-18, the government introduced Class XI board exams to prevent schools teaching Class XII syllabus in both classes. The situation this year is different. “Students continue to raise doubts about portions covered online and we have to repeat so many topics in physical classes,” said V Shanthi, headmistress of Vidyodaya Girls Higher Secondary School in T Nagar. The present batch of Class XI students doesn’t know anything about board exams. “Preparing students for board exams in less than three months will be a tough task,” she said. N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tambaram, said converting the board exam into a district-level common test would reduce the stress and anxiety among children and teachers. With the government’s SOPs limiting each classroom to having 25 students, most schools are conducting classes for Class XII students. Some are facing a shortage of teachers and following a shift system, while others are conducting classes on alternate days. The Tamil Nadu Post-Graduate Teachers Association wants the Class XI board exam cancelled and students promoted based on internal assessment. “Many government schools are conducting classes only three days a week for Class XI students. It is not possible to complete the syllabus within three months,” said state president K P O Suresh. A teacher from a city school said the present Class XI batch does not have any experience of board exams. “Students need preparation like revision tests and model exams after the portions are completed. In the present shift system, it won’t be possible to even complete the syllabus within the next three months,” said a government school headmaster. Some schools say it will be possible to conduct board exams with the reduced syllabus. “If we cancel the exams, the impact will carry on to the next academic year as well,” said B Purushothaman, senior principal of Everwin Group of Schools. A headmaster from a government-aided school said cancellation of exam may lead to private schools turning into NEET coaching centres. A school education department official said it would be difficult to cancel exams at this stage. “The question papers are already being printed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-time-to-prep-many-schools-not-for-class-xi-board-exams/articleshow/81117147.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Khaki wore many hats during lockdown||NEW DELHI: When 2020 turned the corner, Delhi Police found itself engaged in a challenge that pitted its own against an insidious coronavirus. Police had not only to enforce the Covid-19 lockdown, but in doing so had to take care of its personnel. Its duties included policing the streets, securing containment zones, implementing social distancing, distributing food to the stranded and even handing out masks to the needy. At one point of time, Delhi Police was managing around 2,500 containment zones, preventing people from stepping or moving around in the isolated area. To help the residents in such localities, police created WhatsApp groups and facilitated supply of essential items. All the while, the cops traced containment violators using geo-fencing technology and sometimes registered cases against them. Around 31 cops succumbed to Covid and over 2,500 recovered after infection. Unfazed, police commissioner S N Shrivastava launched a plasma donation programme, urging personnel who had recovered to help others undergoing convalescent plasma therapy. The cops are still donating blood and plasma for Covid patients in Delhi. An onerous task for the cops was caring for the stranded migrant labourers across the city. They not only provided meals, but also guided the beleaguered population to the nearest shelters. An even bigger challenge was moving the tens of thousands of migrants to the stations from where they could board special trains back home, all the while ensuring social distancing. Amid all this, the cops also had to maintain law and order and carry out policing. It was a time when going to a crime scene was a hazard, especially if the crime had taken place in a containment zone. Apart from taking the mandatory precautions, police were able to carry out investigations, relying on extensive use of technology for the purpose. Dedicated teams in each district tracked social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook and responded to the posts of people in distress. All police premises and colonies were regularly sanitised and complaints were heard from behind plastic barriers. Technology played a major role and complaints were accepted over video calls or online. Most of the cases registered in 2020 were online without police interface. To motivate the force and their families, police organised wellness seminars and counselling sessions. Over one lakh Ayuraksha kits were distributed to boost the immunity of personnel, and yoga and pranayama camps were made mandatory at the district level. Delhi Police also showed their humane side, and from June 15 last year till February 18 this year, it distributed over four lakh masks to the needy. Among other such exercises, it also reached out to those living alone, especially senior citizens. In a wonderful gesture, the cops made them feel supported amid the isolation by getting them cakes and celebrating their birthdays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/khaki-wore-many-hats-during-lockdown/articleshow/81118625.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Facebook friend lures Mumbai businessman into sex act on call, tries to extort Rs 50,000||MUMBAI: A 23-year-old man, who posed as a girl and made a south Mumbai businessman conduct a sexual act on video and later blackmailed him with it, was arrested by the city police on Thursday. Accused Anup Singh, from Agra, chatted with the businessman as a ‘girl’, recorded the act, and threatened to make the video public if he did not pay up. Singh, an authorized agent of a bank’s customer service centre in Agra, demanded Rs 50,000, said the police. Singh allegedly agreed to take the money in instalmens of Rs 5,000. Officials said they have never heard of a case in the state where extortion is paid in instalments. D B Marg police arrested Singh from Agra. “The businessman, also a loan broker, approached the police to block his and Singh’s Facebook accounts. Police suggested he file an FIR, so the perpetrator could be nabbed,” said a source. Besides booking Singh under sections of the IT Act, the police also invoked sections of extortion. A team, led by inspector Raja Bidkar and comprising officers Rakesh Shinde, Pradeep Patil and Balwant Bharade, was formed to crack the case. “The businessman had received a friend request from a girl on his Facebook account in January. His mobile number was on his page. When he accepted the request, ‘she’ sent him a message saying she had seen his photos on FB and that she was a fan. The businessman received a video call from her, and saw a nude girl on the other side. Her face was not visible in the call. She was engaging in a sexual act. After some time, the businessman got another call from the number. The girl asked him to indulge in the sexual act over the call. He followed her instructions and the caller video recorded his act,” said an officer. Singh then sent the video to the businessman and demanded Rs 50,000 for not making it public. He also sent him a screenshot of the victim’s Facebook friends list and threatened that the video would be sent to all of his friends and relatives, if the demand was not met. Initially, the businessman sent Rs 5,000 via a payment app. “He told the accused that he had no money at the time and asked if he could pay the rest in monthly installments. The accused agreed,” said an officer. Investigators took the accused’s WhatsApp number from the businessman, found his call data record, location and registered name. They contacted the payment app and sought details about the account the money was transferred to, and tracked Singh to Agra. Adivsory: To avoid cons like this, do not accept friend requests on social media from people you do not know. Do not engage in video calls with unknown people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fb-friend-lures-bizman-into-sex-act-on-call-tries-to-extort-rs-50k/articleshow/81118628.cms||Mateen Hafeez
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||City woman harassed by Omani in-laws rescued, returns home||Hyderabad: The Indian embassy in Muscat has rescued an Indian woman from Hyderabad, who was tricked into marriage to a mentally-challenged Oman national, and has helped her return home. Though this has come as a relief to Farheen Begum, a resident of Gazi Banda, she still remains entangled in a knotty problem. The family of Saleem Nasser Al Salim, the man who is allegedly married to Farheen, has refused to heed to the request of the woman for a divorce from Saleem. “The big relief for me at the moment is that I have been able to return to Hyderabad from Oman,” Farheen Begum told TOI. After Farheen Begum’s mother Fatima Begum approached him, MBT leader Amjed Ullah Khan took her issue to the notice of the Union ministry of external affairs. A video in which Farheen Begum explains how her husband was ill-treating her was also brought to the notice of the MEA. Farheen Begum said that at the time of her marriage to Saleem, who came to Hyderabad from Oman on November 10, 2019, she did not know that he was mentally unsound. She said that only after she went to Oman did she realise that the man she was married to was mentally unsound. The Indian embassy in Muscat said that Farheen Begum’s in-laws claimed that Farheen Begum had no problem. A brother of Salim also went to the embassy and said the same thing. “Farheen Begum was not brought to the embassy but on her behalf her husband’s brother came and misguided the embassy officials saying that Farheen Begum did not want to go back to India. But when the embassy got a doubt about the claim, officials asked that Farheen Begum be brought to the embassy. Farheen Begum, who went to the embassy, gave her statement in writing that she wanted to go back to India,” Amjed Ullah Khan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-woman-harassed-by-omani-in-laws-rescued-returns-home/articleshow/81117148.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||RPO enquiry counters to function four more hours||Hyderabad: In a bid to help the applicants, the Regional Passport Office (RPO) has decided to extend the working hours of the public enquiry counters to 3.30 pm on all working days from February 22. As of now, these counters function only between 9.30 am and 11.30 am on working days. All complex and incomplete passport applications submitted at Passport Seva Kendras (PSKs) in Hyderabad — Begumpet, Ameerpet and Tolichowk — and Nizamabad, Passport Seva Laghu Kendra (PSLK) at Karimnagar and 14 Post Office Passport Seva Kendras (POPSKs) are attended at the enquiry counters in passport back office, Regional Passport Office, Secunderabad. From Monday, these counters will function up to 3.30pm. The applicants from other parts of the state are finding it difficult as these counters function only for two hours. “It is observed that applicants travelling from far off places are facing problems in reaching the Regional Passport Officer before the enquiry counters are closed. They had to visit this office again on the next working day. With a view to obviate these hardships being faced by the passport applicants and in order to bring the services more accessible to all the public it has been decided to keep open the enquiry counters from 9.30 am to 3.30 am (with admissable staff lunch time) on all working days with effect from February 22,” says an official release issued on Friday by the Regional Passport Officer, Hyderabad, Dasari Balaiah. “Public can approach this office for any passport related information, submission of pending documents and for redressal of grievances,” the RPO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rpo-enquiry-counters-to-function-four-more-hours/articleshow/81117174.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||MLC polls: 13 nominations filed on Friday||Hyderabad: Thirteen nominations were received on Friday for the biennial elections to Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad graduates’ constituencies scheduled to be held on March 14. Till date 23 nominations have been filed for these two legislative council seats. The last date for filing nominations is February 23. Candidates can file the papers at the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation head office (third floor) between 11am and 3pm. Polling is scheduled between 8am and 4pm on March 14 and results will be declared on March 17. The votes will be counted at the LB Stadium. Former minister and Congress candidate G Chinna Reddy filed his nomination on Friday. “Compared to other days, more number of nominations were received on Friday,” said a GHMC official. “Candidates said that Rathasaptami is considered as an auspicious day for Hindus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlc-polls-13-nominations-filed-on-friday/articleshow/81117196.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||4 held, stolen property seized||Hyderabad: South Zone task force arrested three members of an attention diversion gang and a burglar on Friday. Police recovered Rs 20 lakh worth stolen property. Police arrested burglar Habeeb Mustafa against whom 15 NBWs are pending and three members — Salim Ali (60), Md Sadiq (24) and Qurban Ali (23) — of a Nagpur attention diversion gang. The gang would stay at low-cost lodges near business areas. Ali would pose as a spiritual guru with others as his followers to fool victims, said task force additional DCP G Chakravarthy said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-held-stolen-property-seized/articleshow/81117187.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Chennai||Volunteer claims vax side-effects, asks forRs 5 crore in damages||Chennai: The Madras high court has issued notice to the Centre, Serum Institute of India (SII) and Astra Zeneca UK, among others, on a petition by a Chennai resident who claimed to have suffered serious side-effects after volunteering in the clinical trial of Covishield – the Oxford Astra Zeneca vaccine produced by Pune-based SII. Justice Abdul Qudhoose, admitting the plea, issued notices to Drugs Controller General of India, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research and the others. Further hearing is on March 26. The petitioner, 41-year-old Asif Riaz of Anna Nagar, stated in his petition that he experienced severe side effects after receiving the first dose of the vaccine in its trial phase on October 1, 2020, and was hospitalized for two weeks from October 11, 2020. He sought an interim direction restraining the government from continuing with administering the Covishield vaccine and to direct the authorities to declare the vaccine as unsafe. He also sought a compensation of Rs 5 crore for the sufferings and trauma he and his family went through. An independent business consultant by profession, the petitioner stated that he volunteered for the phase 3 trial of Covishield vaccine and he was given a participant information sheet which mentioned that the vaccine was safe and would induce immune response. Though there was no adverse effects for the first 10 days since vaccination, there were severe side-effects from Day 11, according to the petition. Asif Riaz submitted that he was rushed to Sri Ramachandra Medical College, where he was administered the dose, and that hospital’s discharge summary dated October 26 read he was brought in “in an altered mental state” and “disoriented.” It also stated that Riaz had suffered ‘acute neuro encephalophathy’. Asif contended that his setback in health was due to the test vaccine. “The severe trauma I suffered because of the acute neuro encephalophathy is an extreme side-effect of the test vaccine and it is a ‘serious adverse event’ as defined in the New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules, 2019,” Asif stated in his petition and contended that even after three months, he is still not stable and experiences anxiety, trembling of hands, panic, mood swings and claimed that he also lost out on work because of this. In India, the vaccination drive began on January 16, with Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin being administered to healthcare workers in the initial phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/volunteer-claims-vax-side-effects-asks-forrs-5-crore-in-damages/articleshow/81117188.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Work on Nagpur Metro phase II to begin in mid-2021||NAGPUR: MahaMetro plans to start work on Nagpur Metro phase II in June or July, well before the completion of phase I, which is scheduled in December. Allocation for phase II has been made in the Union Budget for 2021-22 even though it has not been cleared by the cabinet yet. A MahaMetro official said that getting cabinet approval was just a formality. “Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) has already cleared the second phase. It had sent copies of the detailed project report (DPR) to other concerned ministries like finance, road transport, railways, home, environment etc. These ministries sent us some queries. We have prepared the replies and will submit them to MoHUA on Saturday,” he added. MoHUA will then prepare a detailed note for the cabinet and submit the DPR to it for approval. “MoHUA officials have told us that the second phase will get cabinet approval before March 31,” said the official. The official also said that MahaMetro had decided to complete phase II faster than the first phase. “We will secure finance from foreign agencies immediately after the cabinet approval and then float tenders for all four reaches of the second phase. For the first phase, tenders for the four reaches were floated one after another,” he added. Phase II has a length of 43.8 kilometres with 32 stations. The corridors include one from Automotive Square to Kanhan – 13km length and 12 stations. The corridor will cater to the areas like Khasara, Lekha Nagar, Kamptee, and Dragon Palace. Second corridor will be from Mihan to Butibori MIDC ESR – 18.7km length and 10 stations. The corridor will have the catchment area of Jamtha, Dongargaon, Mohgaon, Butibori, Mhada Colony, Indorama Colony. Third corridor is from Prajapati Nagar to Transport Nagar – 5.5km length and 3 stations. The corridor will cater to areas in the vicinity of Ambe Nagar, Kapsi, Transport Nagar and Asoli. The fourth corridor is Lokmanya Nagar to Hingna – 6.6km length and 7 stations. The corridor will pass through Nildoh, Gajanan Nagar, Rajiv Nagar, Lakshmi Nagar, Raipur, and Hingna village, including surrounding MIDC areas. Very little land needs to be acquired for the second phase. “The viaducts will be built on the median of roads and the area of land required to be acquired for the second phase is one-tenth of the first one,” said the official. The cost of phase II is Rs6,708 crore. Contribution of government of India (GoI) and government of Maharashtra (GoM) is Rs998.2 crore each. In addition both will pay Rs197 crore as subordinate debt towards central taxes. The foreign loan component is Rs3,585.60 crore. The remaining amount will be paid by MIDC and Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/work-on-metro-phase-ii-to-begin-in-mid-2021/articleshow/81117217.cms||Ashish Roy
February 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat on guard against Maharashtra mutations||AHMEDABAD: After the threat of different variants of Covid-19, which are reported from the UK, South Africa and Brazil – the first cases of which have already been reported in India – the state health department is also gearing up to check the possible mutation in Maharashtra. According to reports, the new variant causes early pneumonia among the Covid-19 positive patients. If not checked in time, it can lead to higher mortality, cautioned experts. Such cases were reported in places such as Akola, Amravati and Yavatmal in Maharashtra. The Maharashtra health department on Friday however claimed that the genetic make-up of the virus is not found to be different than the existing one and it’s surely not ‘foreign variant.’ Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health & family welfare), told TOI that the department carried out a detailed video conference with district collectors and city commissioners. “The preparation is not just about the new cases in neighbouring state, but overall caution for any variant. The screening of passengers coming to the state by air and road will be intensified. We have also instructed the bordering districts to carry out random testing,” she said, adding that private practitioners will also be roped in to report any unusual symptoms. State health department officials said that the earlier strategy to go after the influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) are again put in place with an eye on the data of 104 and 108 emergency services to find out an possible cases. “Technology such as Itihas software to find those in contact with the confirmed cases will also be put in place,” said a senior official. A meeting with chief district health officers (CDHOs) on the topic was also convened on Thursday, added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-on-guard-against-maharashtra-mutations/articleshow/81117159.cms||Parth Shastri
February 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 120+ Covid patients in private hospitals||AHMEDABAD: The upward trend of Covid-19 cases continued in the city and the state, and also reflected in occupancy of private hospital beds. According to officials of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), on Friday occupancy was 128, the highest for a couple of months. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said that just 10 days ago, the city hospitals had 96 patients, indicating 33% rise. “The number of patients requiring ventilator or ICU care have decreased in the past 10 days, but those who are in high-dependency units (HDU) with oxygen supply have increased,” he said, adding that the pandemic is not over, and the citizens should tread with caution. AHNA officials said most hospitals reported zero Covid-19 patients for a couple of months, and beds available fell to 2,328 from 2,645 in February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/120-patients-in-private-hospitals/articleshow/81117228.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Single-window system for film shootings in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Permissions for film shootings in the state will be given through a single-window system. Applications to use locations for shootings will have to be submitted online on the portals tsfilm.telangana.govin or pass.telangana.gov.in. The Telangana State Film Development Corporation will act as a nodal agency to issue permission. According to a GO issued by the general administration department, prices have also been fixed. Permissions will be given for shooting on premises controlled by various departments including Home, GHMC, HMWSSB, HMDA, Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation, department of heritage and forest. The rates for shooting under GHMC limits have been fixed at Rs 30,000 per day for eight hours and an additional of Rs 4,000 will be charged per extra hour. A caution deposit of Rs 40,000 will have to be paid. At all the major parks, the charges are Rs 15,000 and for shooting in the KBR Park walkway at Jubilee Hills, charges are Rs 10,000. At Durgam Cheruvu, charges will be Rs 20,000 per eight hours. In Jannaram guest house in Adilabad, charges will be Rs 10,000 for four hours. At Qutub Shahi tombs, rates are Rs 15,000 and at Raymonds Oblisk, Malakpet, rate is Rs 15,000. For Sri Ramaligeshwara Swamy temple in Keesaragutta charges are Rs 10,000, Sri Nagoba Temple in Keslapur village in Indravelli mandal of Nirmal, the rate is Rs 10,000. The price is the same for shooting at some other temples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/single-window-system-for-film-shootings-in-telangana/articleshow/81117224.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Trichy||Trusts run by mins accelerate welfare schemes||Trichy: Some of the ministers in the state are attempting to gain goodwill by connecting to rural folks through non-government organisation that are being run under their names. Significant among them are MRV trust by transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar and CVB foundation run by health minister C Vijaya Baskar. CVB foundation focusses mainly on the welfare of rural women, which can also be turned into a potential vote bank. Over the last few months, many elderly people in remote villages of Pudukottai district have got their vision back or corrected. Doorstep medical camp was taken out by CB foundation for senior citizens who could not make multiple visits to the hospitals after the procedure. “I saw many elderly people thanking the health minister for offering their free glasses after eye check-ups in Sittanavasal village near Pudukkottai,” said a close associate of the minister. Not just medical camps, CVB has been helping differently-abled people with equipment that support their livelihood. Similarly, MRV trust was started for planting trees in Karur district as part of Tamil Nadu government’s MGR centenary celebrations in 2018. About 800 youths in the trust claim to have planted 29,000 trees using climate resilient agriculture technique which is a water conserving root zone irrigation technique. The trust has now spread its activities apart from just tree plantation. One of the members of the trust said that they have started funding the education of poor school and college students. Apart from training the youth for government jobs, the trust helped about 3,000 families to get essentials during the lockdown. The trust is also engaged in arranging sponsors for desilting of canals and lighting facilities for grounds and parks in Karur town. People who are part of these organisations term their activities to be apolitical as they say that they desist from using party flag of symbol. However, the pace of work has accelerated in recent months, which is coincidentally near the assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trusts-run-by-mins-accelerate-welfare-schemes/articleshow/81117192.cms||Sampath Kumar
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Water supply in suburbs to reduce, as BMC diverts pipeline||Mumbai: Residents in areas of K west ward (Andheri-west), K east (Jogeshwari) and P south (Goregaon) will have to bear with reduced water supply timings and low pressure in water supply as the BMC has plans to divert the 900mm and 1,200 mm pipeline. The diversion works will begin on February 24 from 5.30 pm will go on till February 25, 4.30 pm. This is being done for errecting of pillars for Mumbai Metro line 6 which is under construction. Areas of K west ward which will be affected are SV road, Amrut Nagar, Gulshan Nagar while in P south are Bimbisar nagar and K east are Majas, Jogeshwari railway station and Prem Nagar. BMC has therefore requested citizens from the concerned areas to store sufficient water and keep the previous day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/water-supply-in-suburbs-to-reduce-as-bmc-diverts-pipeline/articleshow/81118637.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Delhi||Red Fort violence: Cops release photos of 200||New Delhi: Delhi Police has released photographs of 200 people who were allegedly involved in the violence that broke out on Republic Day during the farmers’ tractor parade at Red Fort, officials said on Friday. Police said they have scanned the videos and taken the pictures of people from them. “We have released the pictures and the process of identification (of the people) has been started,” a senior police officer said. Thousands of protesters had clashed with cops during the tractor parade called by farmers’ unions on January 26, to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre’s three farm laws. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some of them even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts. The farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/red-fort-violence-cops-release-photos-of-200/articleshow/81117255.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Chennai||Lights out: Chennai's Perungalathur is a motorist’s nightmare||CHENNAI: City’s southern gateway GST Road has turned a nightmare for motorists as street lights for about 10km on the arterial road, between Perungalathur and Guduvancherry, are not functioning. While the national highway turning dark after sunset is a risk in itself, ongoing work to upgrade it into an eight-lane stretch makes it deadlier. Lighting on the stretch has been irregular for close to eight months and has now completely gone bust. When contacted, officials at the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) told TOI a cable snap was the cause for the issue and said it would be resolved by Monday. The ordeal begins at the Perungalathur grade separator where potholes compound motorists’ miseries and except for the new flyover at Vandalur that is well-lit, the rest of the stretch till Guduvancherry remains dark. Riding two-wheelers is particularly risky as the road’s edges, with expansion work on, aren’t clearly visible, say commuters. V Manivannan, who lives in Tambaram and runs a pharmacy at Guduvancherry, takes the stretch twice a day and says he’s in constant fear while commuting at night. “I ride with help from headlights of heavy vehicles. Drivers can’t spot people crossing the road until it is too close,” he said. “Lights from shops on the highway are a blessing for us.” When contacted, NHAI sources said the problem was prevalent for 100km from Perungalathur to Tindivanam after changes in maintenance. Pawan Kumar, regional officer of Chennai, NHAI, told TOI that three teams have been deputed to resolve the issue caused by disturbed cables. “We will rectify the lighting issues between Perungalathur and Guduvancherry by Monday as one of the teams is already looking into it,” he said. Steps are also being taken to patch up potholes, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lights-out-perungalathur-is-a-motorists-nightmare/articleshow/81117231.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Engineering student held for stalking classmate in Telangana, toy gun recovered||HYDERABAD: An engineering student was booked for stalking on Friday since he was allegedly harassing his female classmate at Jawaharnagar. Police said that the accused and his female friend were in love. But during the lockdown, the girl went to her native place. Her parents observed that she was talking frequently to the accused over phone and they counselled her to stay away from him since they belong to different castes. Following the counselling, the girl started to avoid him by not responding to his phone calls and messages. Recently, when she returned to the city to attend the college after it was reopened, the accused allegedly questioned her about why she was avoiding him. Meanwhile, the girl informed her brother that the accused is in possession of her photos. On Friday, after her brother called the accused to hold discussions, they met in Jawaharnagar limits. Her brother warned the accused to avoid coming in touch with his sister. Meanwhile, her brother’s friend, who was at the spot too, noticed that the accused had a gun. Immediately, police were alerted about the weapon. The accused was thrashed by the locals and the weapon was snatched. After the police reached the spot, they concluded it was a toy gun. Jawaharnagar inspector Madhu Kumar said that based on the complaint given by her brother, a case was registered against the accused on the charge of stalking and intimidation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/engg-student-held-for-stalking-classmate-toy-gun-recovered/articleshow/81117229.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Trichy||Village nurse held for taking bribe||Karur: A 55-year-old village health nurse was caught red handed receiving a bribe of Rs 2,000 for registering a pregnant woman for maternity assistance from the state government on Thursday. The incident happened at the primary health centre at Tharangambadi in the district when Ilamathi, 30, from Chinthamanipatti village came to register herself. Nurse Palaniammal demanded Rs 2,000 bribe to register her name. Following this, Ilampathi approach the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) sleuths in the district. A DVAC team led by inspector Latha asked Ilamathi to give chemically-laced currency notes to Palaniammal, who was then arrested by DVAC sleuths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/village-nurse-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/81117239.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vax numbers dip, ‘saturation’ cited||Ahmedabad: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday, Gujarat inoculated 1,235 persons, the lowest for any day in February. Seven days ago, on February 12, Gujarat had recorded 25,823 vaccinations in 24 hours. Central government data indicated that Gujarat with 80% coverage at fourth highest in India after Bihar (84.7%), Tripura (82.9%) and Odisha (81.8%). Dr Nayan Jani, state immunization officer, said that the drop is primarily due to the high number of beneficiaries already inoculated. “We covered a very large number of healthcare workers and frontline workers already. Those who have not been able to get vaccinated have health conditions or medical issues. Moreover, various categories of frontline workers are being added by the state government. Thus, category-wise vaccination is going well,” he said. Against the registered 11.24 lakh beneficiaries for the first and second phase of vaccination, the state has so far vaccinated 8.09 lakh persons, accounting for 72% overall coverage. The drive is likely to continue till the end of February before the state starts the third phase covering 1 crore people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vax-numbers-dip-saturation-cited/articleshow/81117269.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Trichy||We will win in double digit seats: C T Ravi||Thanjavur: Echoing the recent claims of his party’s state leaders, BJP’s Tamil Nadu in-charge C T Ravi said he is confident of the party winning seats in double digits in the upcoming assembly elections. “Though it is yet to be decided, the discussion (about seat sharing) is going on. We hope to get more seats and win more,” he told reporters at Pattukottai. He said the main intention of BJP was to make NDA retain power in the state. “We are strengthening our party in all the 234 constituencies. We will also wholeheartedly support our NDA partners wherever they contest,” he said. The BJP leader sought to project their party as a “friend of people of Tamil Nadu” and the Congress and DMK as enemies. In this regard, he referred to the ban on jallikattu by the Congress government backed by DMK and its revocation by the BJP-led Union government. He also accused DMK president M K Stalin of ‘cheating’ the people in the name of Dravidianism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/we-will-win-in-double-digit-seats-c-t-ravi/articleshow/81117262.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Interior designer kills self||Hyderabad: A 27-year-old interior designer committed suicide at her house in Gachibowli on Wednesday night. Raidurgam police said, Shirishma married Siddharth, a businessman in December 2016. On Wednesday, Siddharth returned to his flat and found her hanging from the fan. Police said Shirishma might be upset about not having kids. A case was registered under sec 174 of CrPC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/interior-designer-kills-self/articleshow/81117260.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Two killed while crossing rail tracks||Hyderabad: A 38-year-old daily wage worker and his 8-year old relative died when they were hit by an unknown train while crossing railway tracks at Yakutpura on Friday. Cops registered a case. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-killed-while-crossing-rail-tracks/articleshow/81117240.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Trichy||Patients in Trichy get RT-PCR results having QR code||TRICHY: The microbiology department at the KAP Viswanatham Government Medical College Hospital (KAPVGMC), has initiated QR code-equipped RT-PCR results for Covid-19 testing to endorse the genuineness of the report. On Thursday, the department issued the report to a Dubai-bound woman passenger “We are marching ahead to submit the patient’s RT-PCR test result with QR code,” said dean of the hospital K Vanitha in a statement on Thursday night. Interestingly, it was a request from the woman passenger that prompted the department head Dr K Lakshmi and three tech-savvy colleagues from other departments – assistant professors of physiology Dr G Gnanasenthil and Dr MSathish and Dr M Ezhil Nilavan from the microbiology department to deliver the result in few hours. “As soon as we have received the request from the passenger, I conveyed it to the three doctors who have been helping our department with technical support during the Covid-19 pandemic. The three doctors skilled with software technologies have made this possible and we have issued the first QR-coded results last night itself,” Lakshmi told TOI on Friday. The objective of introducing the QR code-enabled result is to help the passengers prove the genuineness of the report to the immigration authorities of the countries where they are travelling to, from India. The immigration officials can scan the QR code which will take them to the portal where they can confirm the genuineness of the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/patients-in-trichy-get-rt-pcr-results-having-qr-code/articleshow/81117296.cms||Gokul Rajendran
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||JNTUH semester exam duration increased to 3 hours||HYDERABAD: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) students will have an additional hour to appear for the odd semester exams scheduled in March/April, 2021 as the university has increased the examination duration to three hours. In view of Covid-19 pandemic, the university had not only changed the examination pattern but had also reduced the exam duration to two hours. “Many students had approached us stating that the time is insufficient to appear for the exam. Keeping in view the issues faced by students, we have decided to increase the exam duration to three hours,” said Kamakshi Prasad, director, evaluation, JNTUH, who held a meeting with all the officers-in-charge of constituent and affiliated colleges on Friday. The same pattern of question paper which had been followed in the previous semester examinations (even semester exams of academic year 2019-20 held in October-November, 2020) due to Covid-19 pandemic conditions shall be followed for all the semester exams commencing from March 8, 2021. “The pattern of question papers shall be five out of eight questions and there shall be no mandatory section in the question paper,” read a letter issued by the university to all the affiliated college principals recently. The semester exams will be held in two sessions (forenoon and afternoon) and on alternative days. “The exams shall be conducted on alternative days to the students. The timings of the forenoon exams shall be preponed by 15 mins (i.e. from 9:45 am) and the afternoon examinations shall be postponed by 15 mins time (from 2:15PM). This rescheduling is done to give sufficient time to the colleges to carry out the sanitization of the examination halls,” read the letter. It was also resolved not to consider attendance based detentions for odd semesters of the academic year 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntuh-semester-exam-duration-increased-to-3-hrs/articleshow/81117286.cms||Preeti Biswas
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Bhandara hospital nurses’ fate to be decided on Monday||NAGPUR: The sessions court in Bhandara is set to hear the anticipatory bail pleas of the two terminated contractual staff nurses of Bhandara district general hospital, Shubhangi Sathawane and Smita Ambildukhe, on Monday while district police too are ready to oppose them vehemently for taking the two into custody for interrogation. An offence was registered on Thursday, 40 days after the incident. Sathawane and Ambildukhe have been slapped with culpable homicide not amounting to murder under 304 (Part II) of the Indian penal code (IPC) for their alleged role behind criminal negligence during duty at the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) of the district hospital leading to the deaths of 10 babies in a devastating fire in the early hours of January 9. The offence against the nurses was registered by sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Arun Wayekar of Sakoli division at Bhandara police station, informed state director general of police Hemant Nagrale. State home minister Anil Deshmukh, sharing his statement through social media, has stated the investigation into the case would be conducted by an officer of SDPO-level. District sources stated there had been a 20-minute lapse which had led to the tragic incident. It’s learnt that the first spark was noticed at 1.19am at the NICU ward. The staff nurses, Ambildukhe and Sathawane, were supposed to be either inside the neonatal intensive care units or at the nursing stations. The nurses are learnt to be not present at the place where they were supposed to be. District sources stated the smoke had started bellowing out of the intensive care units at 1.40am but by then the fire had already gutted down a substantial part of the ward in which the ill-fated babies were present. “The 20-minute lapse had led to the deaths of 10 babies. At least five babies could have been saved out of the 10 if the nurses were more alert,” said a source. It’s also learnt that one of the nurses was engaged in chatting on the phone for over 10-15 minutes when the flames were engulfing the babies inside the NICU. Sources stated that cyber experts have also found out that one of the nurses was busy on Facebook and social media on duty, the time when the incident had taken place. It’s also learnt that Ambildukhe and Sathawane were instrumental in saving some babies too with the help of their colleagues from the flames but after the maximum damage was done. It’s learnt that the police have compiled substantial evidence against the nurses, including technical details of their activities before holding them responsible for the criminal negligence. Earlier, the contracts of the two staff nurses, Sathawane and Ambildukhe, were terminated after the expert committee inquiry reports were tabled before the health department of the state government in January. Civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate was suspended and Addl CS Dr Sunita Badhe and sister-in-charge Jyoti Bharaskar were transferred following the findings of the expert committee. SP Vasant Jadhav said the investigation is going on in the case. “We would oppose the bail pleas of the nurses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bhandara-hospital-nurses-fate-to-be-decided-on-monday/articleshow/81117292.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 20, 2021||Delhi||Unusual Feb fog spell may be due to lack of active western disturbance||New Delhi: Despite temperature in the region hovering above normal for over two weeks now, February has still been witnessing unusually dense to very dense fog across Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and the Pakistani belt along Lahore, Amritsar and Hisar. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday said never has such a dense fog spell – one generally lasting for several hours over a period of 9-10 consecutive days – been witnessed after February 10. “In this season, in February 2021, this spell of dense to very dense fog has occurred when night temperature was two to three degrees Celsius above normal, which is something unique,” said R K Jenamani, senior scientist at IMD. INSAT 3D RGB satellite images captured at 8.45am every day from February 11 to 19, 2021, show a dense fog formation stretching along the northern plains. “The fog duration has lasted over Punjab, especially at Amritsar airport from 7-8 pm till the next morning until around 9am-10.30am. In Delhi also, three-four mornings very dense fog was witnessed. This is unusual in terms of the long spell and the large areas it is keeping under zero visibility,” Jenamani added. IMD officials said the last active western disturbance (WD) that impacted the north-western plains was from February 2 to 6, even causing light rain over Delhi, Haryana and Punjab. “This has caused a stable boundary layer and inversion over these areas at the lower level, along with calm winds, which is collectively causing dense fog to stay for a long period of time,” said Jenamani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unusual-feb-fog-spell-may-be-due-to-lack-of-active-western-disturbance/articleshow/81117312.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Salem||Tamil Nadu active Covid cases down by 25% in a month||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 448 new cases and seven deaths to its Covid registry on Friday, when 20,466 people were vaccinated. Among them, 5,621 who were administered the second dose of the vaccine. The state’s Covid-19 death toll is 12,451, second highest in the country after Maharashtra (51,669). There are 4,147 patients undergoing treatment in TN, almost 25% less compared to January 19. On Friday, two more UK returnees from Madurai tested positive for the virus. So far, 56 returnees and their contacts have tested positive and 48 of them have recovered. Six of the seven who died on Friday had comorbidities. The 467 recoveries logged on Friday pushed TN’s recovery count to 8,30,787 and recovery rate to around 98%. Hotspot Chennai continued to report most new cases (136) and deaths (3). The case fatality rate in the city has been around 1.5% for more than four weeks now. While Tiruvallur (31 new cases) and Kancheepuram (16) have managed to bring down the infection rate, infection rate in Chengalpet (46 cases) remained stable. Coimbatore (49) once again stood second in terms of new cases and fresh cases in the district was higher than recoveries. Erode had 17 fresh cases, Salem 12 and Dharmapuri 3. The western districts did not report any Covid-related death on Friday. Trichy and Madurai had 11 and six new cases. Kallakurichi and Perambalur once again reported zero new cases. As of Friday, TN has vaccinated 3,50,049 people against Covid-19 — 2,82,491 healthcare workers, 40,246 frontline workers and 27,312 police personnel. Though the state, from the 664 sessions held on Friday, had the capacity to vaccinate 1,01,258 people, only 20% of the beneficiaries turned up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-active-covid-cases-down-by-25-in-a-month/articleshow/81123444.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Erode||Tamil Nadu active Covid cases down by 25% in a month||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 448 new cases and seven deaths to its Covid registry on Friday, when 20,466 people were vaccinated. Among them, 5,621 who were administered the second dose of the vaccine. The state’s Covid-19 death toll is 12,451, second highest in the country after Maharashtra (51,669). There are 4,147 patients undergoing treatment in TN, almost 25% less compared to January 19. On Friday, two more UK returnees from Madurai tested positive for the virus. So far, 56 returnees and their contacts have tested positive and 48 of them have recovered. Six of the seven who died on Friday had comorbidities. The 467 recoveries logged on Friday pushed TN’s recovery count to 8,30,787 and recovery rate to around 98%. Hotspot Chennai continued to report most new cases (136) and deaths (3). The case fatality rate in the city has been around 1.5% for more than four weeks now. While Tiruvallur (31 new cases) and Kancheepuram (16) have managed to bring down the infection rate, infection rate in Chengalpet (46 cases) remained stable. Coimbatore (49) once again stood second in terms of new cases and fresh cases in the district was higher than recoveries. Erode had 17 fresh cases, Salem 12 and Dharmapuri 3. The western districts did not report any Covid-related death on Friday. Trichy and Madurai had 11 and six new cases. Kallakurichi and Perambalur once again reported zero new cases. As of Friday, TN has vaccinated 3,50,049 people against Covid-19 — 2,82,491 healthcare workers, 40,246 frontline workers and 27,312 police personnel. Though the state, from the 664 sessions held on Friday, had the capacity to vaccinate 1,01,258 people, only 20% of the beneficiaries turned up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-active-covid-cases-down-by-25-in-a-month/articleshow/81123443.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu active Covid cases down by 25% in a month||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 448 new cases and seven deaths to its Covid registry on Friday, when 20,466 people were vaccinated. Among them, 5,621 who were administered the second dose of the vaccine. The state’s Covid-19 death toll is 12,451, second highest in the country after Maharashtra (51,669). There are 4,147 patients undergoing treatment in TN, almost 25% less compared to January 19. On Friday, two more UK returnees from Madurai tested positive for the virus. So far, 56 returnees and their contacts have tested positive and 48 of them have recovered. Six of the seven who died on Friday had comorbidities. The 467 recoveries logged on Friday pushed TN’s recovery count to 8,30,787 and recovery rate to around 98%. Hotspot Chennai continued to report most new cases (136) and deaths (3). The case fatality rate in the city has been around 1.5% for more than four weeks now. While Tiruvallur (31 new cases) and Kancheepuram (16) have managed to bring down the infection rate, infection rate in Chengalpet (46 cases) remained stable. Coimbatore (49) once again stood second in terms of new cases and fresh cases in the district was higher than recoveries. Erode had 17 fresh cases, Salem 12 and Dharmapuri 3. The western districts did not report any Covid-related death on Friday. Trichy and Madurai had 11 and six new cases. Kallakurichi and Perambalur once again reported zero new cases. As of Friday, TN has vaccinated 3,50,049 people against Covid-19 — 2,82,491 healthcare workers, 40,246 frontline workers and 27,312 police personnel. Though the state, from the 664 sessions held on Friday, had the capacity to vaccinate 1,01,258 people, only 20% of the beneficiaries turned up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-active-covid-cases-down-by-25-in-a-month/articleshow/81117276.cms||---
February 20, 2021||India||Biden’s new immigration bill cheers PIO families||NEW DELHI: The new US Immigration Bill has a lot on offer for families, especially PIOs — be they stuck in a green card backlog, or worried about a child about to “age out”. Its provisions such as an increase in per-country limits or expanding the scope of a lesser-known ‘V’ visa, will help bring family members like siblings together, quicker. The bill prevents a child from aging out of eligibility for a green card if the child was under 21 years when the parent filed the green card application (or applied for labour certification). Till now, once they turned 21, they could no longer continue with their existing H-4 visa, meant for dependents. They either had to opt for an F-1 visa meant for international students or had to self-deport to India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bidens-new-immigration-bill-cheers-pio-families/articleshow/81119920.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Foresters irked as Bazargaon mill yet to vacate forest land||NAGPUR: Forest department officials are unhappy with the slow pace of encroachment removal by a business entity, under the jurisdiction of Kalmeshwar forest range. On January 4, forest officials had directed Bazargaon Paper and Pulp Mill Pvt Ltd to remove encroachments around their establishment within 10 days. Prajyot Palve, assistant conservator of forests (ACF) told TOI that the mill owner has started removing encroachments, but it’s taking longer than expected. “The encroachment is on 1.09 hectare land around the mill. After we sent the notice, encroachments are being removed, but the pace of work is very slow. The mill owners have sought more time as the main boiler of the mill has to be shifted,” said Palve, clarifying that he came to know about this, but has not seen the application. He shared photos from the site where encroachments are being removed by the mill owners. “This issue has been going on for almost three decades. The order we issued in January contains all the details about this land issue right when it first came up in the late ’90s. It has details of judicial process as well and finally we issued this order as per the provisions laid under the law,” said Palve. As per the details mentioned in January 4 order, the encroachment around the mill happened before 1996. Palve said as per the judicial orders, the forest department has the power to act on the issue. “Our order removing the encroachments is in line with this. The mill owner has started compliance, but the pace needs to be picked up,” he added. TOI tried to get in touch with the mill owner, but he did not respond to calls or SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/foresters-irked-as-bazargaon-mill-yet-to-vacate-forest-land/articleshow/81117338.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana HC to resume physical hearings soon||HYDERABAD: The Telangana HC would commence physical hearings in a phased manner from February 22 to March 19. However, the option of virtual hearings will remain functional for some more time. The benches and single judges would function in a rotation manner during this period. Some would hold virtual courts and some would conduct physical hearings. The HC registrar general informed the advocates and general litigants that the standard operating procedure prepared in tune with guidelines issued by the health authorities has to be strictly followed by those preferring to appear before the courts physically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-resume-physical-hearings-soon/articleshow/81117306.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Trichy||2 women go missing in Trichy||Trichy: Two young women, aged 20 and 21 years, have gone missing from Melakalkandarkottai and Bharathidasan Salai areas in Trichy city in the last few days. The 20-year-old woman studying second year BA at a private college in Kattur was a resident of Melakalandarkottai. The woman’s father had dropped her at the college around 10am on February 12. She failed to return home by the usual time of 3pm. The family members searched for her in several places but could not trace her. So, her father lodged a complaint with the Golden Rock police on Thursday. Police have booked a case. The Cantonment police also registered a case about the missing of a 21-year-old woman. She and her 20-year-old sister had gone to a competitive exam coaching centre at Bharathidasan Salai on Thursday. The woman went to the restroom by 11.30am but did not return to the class. Based on a complaint from the sister, police registered a case.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-women-go-missing-in-trichy/articleshow/81117313.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Kidnapped four-year-old rescued from Ahmednagar, accused arrested||AMRAVATI: Acting swiftly under the guidance of commissioner of police Arti Singh, the local police succeeded not only in apprehending the accused but also rescued four-year-old Nayan Mukesh Luniya from the clutches of his kidnappers. The case was solved within 48 hours of the abduction from near his Sharda Nagar residence on Wednesday night. Singh told TOI that the kid has been rescued from the custody of the kidnappers, all of whom have been apprehended. “The police team will reach with Nayan and the accused on Saturday morning,” she said, adding, “We need some more leads from them to establish the motive.” Singh said that Nayan’s uncle had accompanied the police team to Ahmednagar. The cousin sister of Nayan’s grandmother was allegedly involved in the kidnapping. Though the motive is yet to be clearly established, family jealousy is believed to be the reason behind this alleged contract kidnapping, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kidnapped-4-yr-old-rescued-from-ahmednagar-accused-arrested/articleshow/81117315.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||Most new cases in Warje, Hadapsar & Sinhagad Road||PUNE: Certain localities under the civic body’s Hadapsar, Sinhagad Road and Warje civic ward offices have reported maximum Covid-19 cases in the past three days as the daily tally has increased to over 400 in the city limits. Pune Municipal corporation (PMC) authorities said contact tracing has been intensified following the recent spike in Covid-19 cases, while more swab collection units will be started in the affected pockets. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The situation is under control as of now. The health department has been told to keep the infrastructure ready to increase testing and ensure rigorous contact tracing.” PMC data revealed that Hadapsar reported about 90 cases in the past two days, while Warje and Sinhagad Road added about 95 and 85 patients, respectively. The areas under Wanowrie-Ramtekdi, Kasba Peth and Shivajinagar-Ghole Road have reported lowest additions. An official from the PMC’s Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward office said, “We have activated teams for contact tracing of positive patients. The high- and low-risk contacts are being identified and people are being asked to undergo tests. Our teams are also appealing to citizens not to ignore the symptoms. There has been some increase in the daily count. But the cases have been found in sporadic manner without any outbreak so far. We, however, want the citizens to be alert and follow all necessary precautions.” A PMC official said the administration has alerted shopkeepers and vegetable sellers in markets to be more vigilant and ensure use of face cover by all. Sanjeev Wavre, assistant health chief, PMC, said the swab collection centres would start functioning in the next few days. At least four more centres will be functional immediately. More centres will be commenced as per requirement. The PMC is currently operating 17 swab collection centres and the number will increase to 21. Another civic official said there was no need to panic, but precautions have to be followed. “People have to use masks while visiting markets or public places. Also, people should consult a doctor in case of any symptom of the infection,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/most-new-cases-in-warje-hadapsar-sinhagad-rd/articleshow/81118688.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Server snag brake on transport dept||Hyderabad: Online services of the state transport department came to a halt on Friday due to server problems. Mettu Ramesh, a resident of Tarnaka, said, “I have been trying to book a slot for driving licence on the transport department’s website the whole day and I am directed to a page that says, ‘Access is denied’.” Applicant Soumya Raju said, “The department should at least notify the public about this before deciding to stop allowing booking slots.” According to sources, the storage server being used for processing online services has been there since 2000. “It’s been over 20 years. The server can’t take the load,” said a source. A transport department official said, “Plans to procure a new server are being considered and the problem will be fixed soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/server-snag-brake-on-transport-dept/articleshow/81117324.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Trichy||Youth forum clears discarded clothes from Cauvery banks||Trichy: Tamil Nadu Veera Vivekanandar Ilaingar Peravai, a youth forum, on Friday carried out a plogging drive covering the banks of the Cauvery near Amma Mandapam in Srirangam. The forum cleared close to one tonne of waste, mostly discarded clothes.On the recent Thai Amavasai, several devotees had performed rituals to invoke the blessings of forefathers. After completing the rituals, they followed the practice of abandoning the clothes in the river.“Awareness lacks among the people and authorities are not taking the pollution threats seriously. Though the bins were placed at the ghats for people to discard their clothes, the patronage was poor,” VC Ranjith Kumar, coordinator of the youth forum.The recovered waste was sent to scrap dealers for reusing and recycling. The forum urged the Trichy Corporation to resume the plogging drive, following social distancing and other safety measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/youth-forum-clears-discarded-clothes-from-cauvery-banks/articleshow/81117349.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Mohan Babu fined Rs 1L over movie poster||Hyderabad: GHMC’s directorate of enforcement vigilance & disaster management (EV&DM) penalised Tollywood actor Mohan Babu for raising illegal advertisement element. A penalty of Rs 1 lakh was imposed on the actor for putting up advertisement posters of his movies. The elements were put on the walls of the actor’s house located in Film Nagar. The penalty was imposed after an activist reported to the directorate on Twitter. It may be mentioned here that a penalty of Rs 4.35 lakh was imposed on the aide of mayor Vijay Laxmi for the flex banners on February 13. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mohan-babu-fined-rs-1l-over-movie-poster/articleshow/81117350.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Centre will take steps to check fuel price rise: Suresh Prabhu||NAGPUR: The price of petrol and diesel depends on the price of crude oil in the international market and hence, the central government finds it difficult to control the fuel prices. However, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government would take steps to check fuel price rise, said former railway minister Suresh Prabhu. BJP has asked all its top leaders to create awareness about the highlights of the recent budget presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Prabhu was in the city to discuss it with prominent businessmen, industrialists, chartered accountants, etc The BJP leader said that the country imported 70% of crude oil it required. “The central government is forced to levy tax on petrol and diesel to fund infrastructure creation, health, education, etc. However, goods and services tax (GST) is not levied on fuel and state governments also levy their own taxes on it. If fuel prices are to be kept in check then central and state governments would have to work together,” he added. Prabhu stressed that the budget would go a long way in making the country self-reliant. When asked about the fiscal deficit, employment generation, etc, instead of giving a direct answer, he compared India’s situation with that of other countries. The former minister justified BJP’s plan to privatize public sector undertakings (PSUs) by stressing that the economy was strengthened due to the private sector. “Not allowing the private sector to grow is like hoping that a person would win the race when his feet are tied,” he said. Prabhu said that in the recent years, private sector has done better than public enterprises. “Private steel plants have manufactured more steel than Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL). Same is the case with power sector,” he added. When asked to comment on the performance of Uddhav Thackeray led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, the former Shiv Sainik said that if Balasaheb Thackeray was alive he would have answered this question.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/centre-will-take-steps-to-check-fuel-price-rise-prabhu/articleshow/81117344.cms||Ashish Roy
February 20, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Why air inside schools, colleges may be toxic||NEW DELHI: Schools and colleges in the city are at a higher risk of indoor air pollution due to poor ventilation and use of chalk and other items that increase the level of volatile organic compounds. This was revealed in a study released on Friday by IIT Delhi’s Centre of Excellence for Research on Clean Air (CERCA). It added that schools and colleges had PM10 and PM2.5 concentration much beyond WHO standards. The PM2.5 input-output ratio was more than one in all the selected six schools. The baseline survey titled Project MAQUID (Monitoring of Air Quality in Urban Indoors in Delhi) was conducted by IIT-Delhi in association with Society for Indoor Environment and Kaiterra, an air quality instrument company, at 37 sites, including schools, colleges, hospitals, restaurants, residential buildings, shopping malls and cinemas, from October 15, 2019 to January 30, 2020. Monitoring was done 24x7 in most of the selected buildings using air quality monitors. “We want to raise awareness about indoor air quality because people spend more than 90% of their time in indoor environments,” said CERCA founder Arun Duggal. The study mentioned that far less attention was paid to indoor air pollution in urban areas due to the complex nature and types of indoor environments. Multiple sources, such as tobacco smoking, building materials, occupant activities and poorly maintained ventilation systems, can co-exist in urban buildings and make the pollution levels worse. The pollutants of prime concern could be particulate matter, gases, biological aerosols and volatile organic compounds, according to existing studies on different buildings across the world, which can affect the health and well-being of the occupants. It was found that the concentration of both PM10 and PM2.5 was 2-5 times higher than the permissible limits set by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for ambient air quality and 10-15 times higher than the WHO 24-hour average limits. It was also revealed that despite a ban on smoking in public spaces, it was rampant in offices, hospitals and colleges. The level of volatile organic compounds was the highest in hospitals and restaurants due to the rampant use of chemical cleaning agents, floor cleaners and cooking oils. CERCA has called for more education and awareness on the sources and effects of indoor air quality with mitigation solutions. “There needs to be a comprehensive assessment of indoor air quality, including the presence of bacteria and viruses in existing public spaces. Also, national standards or guidelines on indoor air quality should be developed by Union ministry of environment and CPCB based on available scientific knowledge and research studies,” the report stated. Meanwhile, during the webinar in which the report was released, hackers drew obscene images on the screen before the intrusion was removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-air-inside-schools-colleges-may-be-toxic/articleshow/81117346.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 20, 2021||Trichy||To protect bird’s nest, Tamil Nadu farmer leaves crop unharvested||TRICHY: A farmer hailing from a village near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur has earned the appreciation of people for leaving a portion of his paddy field unharvested after spotting the nest and eggs of a sparrow. He went on to strengthen the nest with supportive sticks and harvest the rest of the crops. Watch: A farmer hailing from a village near Kumbakonam in Tamil Nadu leaves a portion of his paddy field unharveste… https://t.co/ST4lkqTyTo— TOIChennai (@TOIChennai) 1613797351000J Ranganathan alias Raghu, 40, had raised paddy on his three-acre land in Sathanur village. As the crops completed their 120-day cycle and were ready for harvest, Ranganathan used a harvester machine to reap the field. As he was moving along with the machine, he spotted a bird nest over the paddy crop at three feet height on a portion of his field. After alerting the harvester operator to stop, Ranganathan checked the nest and found four eggs of a sparrow.  “Since the mother bird may come back to see the chicks once they hatch, I was not interested in moving the nest from the field. We let that portion as it was and harvested the rest of the field,” Ranganathan said. He also propped up four sticks around the crop holding the nest to ensure the nest and eggs did not fall off. Ranganathan added that he did not expect that his act may attract such appreciation. As the farmer shared the incident on social media platforms, villagers and environmental activists appreciated Ranganathan for his humane gesture. Meanwhile, Trichy-based wildlife biologist Q Ashoka Chakkaravarthy said that habitat loss for birds due to rapid urbanisation and felling of trees was the major reason for sparrows to build nest on paddy fields. “Sparrows normally build a nest on trees at a significant height. The paddy field might have been chosen due to low human interference,” Ashoka Chakkaravarthy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-farmer-leaves-crop-unharvested-to-protect-bird-nest/articleshow/81117337.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Delhi||7-member govt team to form action plan on dust pollution||New Delhi: Environment minister Gopal Rai on Friday said a seven-member team has been constituted to formulate a long-term action plan to control dust pollution. Rai held a review meeting with the officials of the environment department and Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to curb pollution levels in Delhi. The team will include members from Delhi Pollution Control Committee, Indian Institutes of Technology and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. “Based on the suggestions of the committee, Delhi government will prepare a long-term action plan to curb dust pollution,” said Rai. The minister added that a meeting will be held in the Delhi Secretariat on March 4 with several environment-related organisations and voluntary institutions, experts and officials concerned. Rai also said that the smog tower being constructed at Connaught Place will be ready by June. “A committee has been constituted to complete and monitor the construction work within the stipulated time,” he added. Municipal corporations and Public Works Department have also been directed to increase the number of anti-smog guns and sprinkling tankers to prevent dust particles.  “The monitoring of the green-war room needs to be strengthened and if any complaint is not disposed of within the stipulated deadline, action will be taken against the authorities concerned,” he said. An action plan will also be prepared on how to deal with pollution from thermal power plants around Delhi. The environment minister reiterated that Delhi government has taken several important steps such as anti-dust campaign, red light on Gaadi off campaign, use of bio-composer, green-war room and Green Delhi app to deal with pollution in the city from November onwards. Delhi government will issue directions on the usage of bio-decomposers to deal with stubble burning, Rai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/7-member-govt-team-to-form-action-plan-on-dust-pollution/articleshow/81117391.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Trichy||Now, surging petrol prices fuel demand for e-vehicles||Trichy: The surge in petrol price, approaching Rs 100 per litre, has resulted in an increase in enquiries for electric vehicles in Trichy city . Showrooms selling battery bikes and scooters have recorded at least a two-fold to three-fold increase in inquiries in the past one month. Earlier, e-vehicles were mostly preferred mostly by environmentally-conscious people. However, the constant surge in petrol price has prompted middle-class families to think about buying these vehicles. Priced between Rs 60,000 and Rs 1 lakh based on parameters such as motor capacity, vehicle speed and body size, e-scooters are recognised as a cost-effective mode of travel. If scooters running on petrol require a litre of petrol priced at Rs 92 to travel a distance of 50-60 km, e-scooter showrooms claimed that the battery that takes four hours to fully charge can make an e-vehicle cover a distance of 100 km in one go. “The batteries in the e-scooters require only 1.5 electricity units to achieve full charge that may cost around Rs 5. Electric scooters are very cost-effective,” Siraj Ahmed, dealer of Evolet electric vehicles, Thennur, said. E-scooters don’t require vehicle registration and driving licence. Ever since the surge in fuel prices became a concern, e-vehicle dealers said that from witnessing only three to five inquiries a day, they are now recording more than 10 daily after February 1. “Demand for e-vehicles has picked up drastically as the surge in petrol cost has made even office-goers consider e-bikes as a viable option to cut travel expenses,” S Saravanan, dealer, Cantonment-based Benling electric vehicles showroom, said. After three years, electric scooters may require a new battery which may cost Rs 20,000 to Rs 30,000. Although battery replacement appears expensive, dealers said that e-vehicles require only less than 30% of the annual maintenance cost of fuel-based scooters since battery-powered scooters have no engine and chain drive, ruling out the need for lubrication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/now-surging-petrol-prices-fuel-demand-for-e-vehicles/articleshow/81117361.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Students not prepared, teachers for board exams delay||NAGPUR: Even though state education board has released the timetable for SSC and HSC, it has been officially marked ‘tentative’. This has prompted many senior academics in Vidarbha to demand postponement of exam start date at leat by a month till May. Ashnarayan Tiwari, principal of Adarsh Vidya Mandhir (Gandhibagh), said there was no way the course can be completed so soon. “Biggest problem is that everyone is assuming that online classes have been going on as planned, hence course completion is not a problem. Do they even realize that almost 70% of the students do not have access to online platforms. Students from Hindi and Marathi medium do not have the financial resources to access regular online classes and nobody is thinking about them,” said Tiwari. He added that many of these students have recently resumed physical classes. “We started in December 14 or 15, so that was their first day of learning. How can you expect children to complete the syllabus and appear in exam by April,” said Tiwari. Ashok Gavhankar, principal of Raosaheb Thawre School and Junior College, said vernacular medium students will suffer. “Our institute is within city limits but the children belong to poor stratum. What chance do they have against someone from an upper middle class background? The latter has been studying online since June and is now at the point of revising the curriculum. Our kids, however, are just getting started,” he said. Madhuri Savarkar, secretary of Nagpur Divisional Board, said what further changes will be seen in timetable is not yet clear. “It’s a tentative schedule, so definitely a final one will come. What changes, if any, happen is something that the competent authorities at board HQ will decide,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/students-not-prepared-teachers-for-board-exams-delay/articleshow/81117384.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 20, 2021||Trichy||‘Banks must offer EMI option’||Trichy: Although there is a surge in interest among the people to go for electric vehicles due to the pressure from fuel price hike, e-vehicle dealers feel that minimal support from financial institutions has come as a dampener for customers. While conventional scooters and bikes get equated monthly instalment (EMI) option from public sector and private banks, the facility is unavailable for e-vehicle buyers. “E-vehicles are exempted from road tax and registration charges but certain people find it difficult to purchase the vehicles in a single instalment. Banks should support e-vehicle buyers by offering exclusive loans and keeping interest rate at lower slabs,” P Subramanian, dealer of Okinawa electric bikes in K K Nagar, said. Dealers opined that interested buyers are availing of only personal loans to purchase electric vehicles. EMI option is being provided only by private financiers that too for existing customers. While a few banks offer loans by ensuring the right for hypothecation of the vehicle, customers said financial support available for electric vehicles is meagre compared to conventional vehicles. “I had the savings to buy an electric scooter costing Rs 90,000 in a single instalment but I find many of my friends backing off hearing the price,” D Ramalingam, a resident of Cantonment, added. Dealers said that a friendly mechanism for people to avail of loans for buying electric scooters will promote the emission-free mode of transport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/banks-must-offer-emi-option/articleshow/81117383.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 14-member team of experts on way to lake formation site||DEHRADUN: A 14-member team of experts from the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC) as well as other expert bodies, along with a seven-member team of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), is expected to inspect the lake near Rishiganga on Sunday. The water body, estimated to be 250 to 300 metre long, formed after the Feb 7 flash floods and has triggered apprehensions of a second deluge. Besides studying the lake, the team will explore ways to create openings so that the water can be discharged in a regulated manner. Thereafter, a report on the findings would be handed over to the chief secretary’s office, sources said. A member of the experts’ team, told TOI, “We have reached Muranda and will stay there for the night. On Saturday morning, we will leave for the lake and take a night halt at Aidar, which is the last base before reaching the spot. On Sunday morning, we will reach the lake, inspect the site and chalk out a plan to create more openings in order to expedite the flow of water without causing ecological damage.” A temporary helipad has been readied by the ITBP at Muranda for better accessibility. Meanwhile, rescue operations continued on the 13th day of the disaster. No bodies or parts were retrieved on Friday. The count remains the same as Thursday's - 61 bodies and 27 human parts found, 143 people still missing. DG ITBP SS Deswal as well as other senior officials visited the affected areas in Raini village and Tapovan on Friday. “DG ITBP took stock of the rescue operations at Raini village and visited the tunnel from where 12 persons had been rescued in initial days of relief efforts. He also did an areal recce of the lake from the higher reaches of Raini,” said Vivek Pandey, PRO, ITBP. On February 17, a team of the ITBP and SDRF had left for the lake. On Wednesday, a team of ITBP had reached the lake and cleared portions near the mouth of the lake to enhance drainage of the water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/team-of-experts-from-wihg-usac-reaches-muranda-to-inspect-lake-on-sunday-morning/articleshow/81115921.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Country’s second territorial jungle safari starts near Bhadravati||NAGPUR: The forest department launched country’s second territorial jungle safari in Chora-Tirwanja circuit in Bhadravati range from Friday. MLA from Warora Pratibha Dhanorkar formally inaugurated the 37km-long safari circuit through Bhadravati forest on the outskirts of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve buffer zone. CCF, Chandrapur, NR Pravin claimed Chandrapur forest department is pioneer in launching the tiger safari in territorial forest. After successfully starting the country’s first territorial forest safari on Karwa circuit in Ballarpur range, the second one has started in Chora-Tirwanja circuit. The move is aimed at management of forest-wildlife through active participation of rural people, establish human-wildlife coexistence, reduce people’s dependence on forest by conserving the green cover sustainably and provide employment to villagers, he said. The safari circuit will be managed by joint forest management committee of Chora village. The area is rich in bio-diversity and wildlife with good number of tigers, leopards, Indian gaur, bears, wildcats, spotted deers, sambars, blue bulls, chausingas, wild dogs, mongooses, wild boars and a variety of plants and birds, as well as colourful butterflies. Initially, private vehicles will be allowed in this safari on an experimental basis. There are plans to give access to registered vehicles in future. Divisional forest officer, Chandrapur division, SV Jagtap, informed that Chora gate is 136km from Nagpur and 46km from Chandrapur. The safari entry fee will be Rs500 and tourist will have to take a guide paying Rs350. The safari timing will be from 6am to 10am and 2pm to 6pm. Six vehicles will be allowed in each of the round during the day. Forest department plans to provide training to local guides as well as making future bookings online at www.mytadoba.org. Plans are in offing to put a large number of e-surveillance cameras along the circuit to monitor and control tourism. One more similar safari is coming up soon on Jogapur road, the forest area under Rajura range, that had witnessed increase in tiger-animal conflict last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/countrys-2nd-territorial-jungle-safari-starts-near-bhadravati/articleshow/81117419.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 20, 2021||Allahabad||Allahabad HC stays arrest of ‘Mirzapur’ directors, writers||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has stayed the arrest of Karan Anshuman, Gurmeet Singh, Puneet Krishna and Vineet Krishna, the directors and writers of web series ‘Mirzapur’, in connection with an FIR lodged against them at Kotwali Dehat police station of Mirzapur district. While Karan Anshuman and Gurmeet Singh are the directors of the first season of web series ‘Mirzapur’, Gurmeet Singh is the director of the second season of the web series. Besides, Karan Anshuman and Vineet Krishna are the writers of the first season and Puneet Krishna is the writer of the second season of Mirzapur. Hearing the writ petition filed by Karan Anshuman, Gurmeet Singh, Puneet Krishna and Vineet Krishan, a division bench comprising Justice Pritinker Diwaker and Justice Deepak Verma issued notice to the state government and the complainant and directed them to file their respective replies in the matter. Earlier, on January 29, 2021, this court had stayed the arrest of producers of the web series, Farhan Akhtar and Ritesh Sidhwani, in pursuance of the FIR registered against them at Kotwali Dehat police station in Mirzapur district. While passing the above directions, the court made it clear that the investigation shall go on and the petitioners shall cooperate in the investigation and non-cooperation on the part of the petitioners may give reasons to the state to file an application seeking vacation of the interim order. The court directed to list this case along with the writ petition relating to producers of the film for the next hearing. The FIR was registered against the makers of ‘Mirzapur’ web series under section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and other sections of IPC and 67-A of Information Technology Act. The main allegation in the FIR is that the makers of the web series are guilty of offences under the above sections by improper and indecent portrayal of the town of Mirzapur. It had hurt the religious, social and regional sentiments of the first informant and is instrumental in advancing ill feelings and animosity. It has been further alleged by the first informant that the web series of such kind must have been produced by such a big production house after due deliberations. It has impacted the society so much that his friends have started calling him ‘Kaaleen Bhaiya’, who is a main protagonist in the said web series. However, the counsel for the petitioners argued that even if all allegations in the FIR are taken to be correct, no offence is made out against the petitioners. There is no allegation that the web series was produced with any deliberate or malicious intention of outraging the religious and social feelings of the citizens of India or to insult the religious and social feelings of the people of any particular class. In other words, the submission is that the web series is a work of fiction and that every act which tantamount to insult or attempts to insult the religious feelings of any class of citizens would not come within the purview of Section 295-A of IPC unless the said act is perpetrated with the deliberate and malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings of that class of citizens. On the other hand, the state counsel submitted that there is specific allegation that the web series has hurt the social and religious feelings of the first informant. He also urged that the web series promotes illicit relationships and incites religious disharmony, which is not permissible. However, while opposing the writ petition, the state counsel was not in a position to dispute the fact that in the earlier case of co-accused, interim protection has already been granted by the court. The court passed this order on February 18 and it came to light on February 19 (Friday).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-stays-arrest-of-mirapur-directors-writers/articleshow/81114844.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Trichy||Villagers block road after man dies in accident||Ariyalur: Alleging reckless driving by trucks, villagers of Velipriringiyam in Ariyalur district staged a road blockade on Friday, after a 31-year-old man died after sustaining injuries in an accident on Thursday night. The deceased, T Karthik, was employed as a casual labourer in a cement factory. Police said that on Thursday night, while returning to his home in Velipiringiyam village, Karthik rammed a roadside palm tree and succumbed to the injuries. However, his relatives claimed that the accident was caused only because of rash driving of trucks heading to cement factories and limestone quarries in the district. They also laid siege to a few trucks demanding compensation. The Ariyalur police assured an inquiry. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/villagers-block-road-after-man-dies-in-accident/articleshow/81117399.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Cheating case against ex-BJP neta over land||Navi Mumbai: A cheating case was registered by the Uran police on Sunday against former NMMC BJP corporator Bharat Jadhav and his spouse for allegedly duping a woman from NRI Seawoods complex in Nerul of Rs 30 lakh in a land deal at Jambulpada in Uran taluka in 2018.  Rajni Sehgal submitted a complaint alleging cheating by Bharat and Kavita Jadhav. Bharat Jadhav said that the compainant’s husband, Jagdeep, was his ex-business partner who is now filing false cases against him. Rajni has stated that the Jadhavs sold the same land to three buyers, including her.—George Mendonca||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cheating-case-against-ex-bjp-neta-over-land/articleshow/81119293.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||NRI who left 40 years ago cheated of property by cousin||Ahmedabad: A 66-year-old retiree, Rashmikant Patel, acting on behalf of his childhood friend who left India in 1980 and has been living in Glendale, California ever since, filed a complaint against his friend’s maternal cousin, Mahesh Dhagat, alleging forgery and cheating.Patel, a resident of Maheccha Society in Isanpur, stated that his friend Chandrakant Dhruv, 65, earlier lived opposite Vadigam in Dariapur, while he lived at Nani Salepari. He stated that Chandrakant came to the city in February 2019 and went to his ancestral property in Dariapur. Chandrakant found that the old tenants were not living in it anymore.Chandrakant's father had in 1973 divided the property in question between himself and his sons. According to Patel’s FIR, Chandrakant’s father had given only the power to collect rent and maintain the building to Dhagat, a resident of Aahit Bungalow near SAL Hospital, Thaltej.In November 2019, Chandrakant returned to the city and applied for documents pertaining to the sale of the property. As government offices were closed due to Covid-19 in 2020, Chandrakant gave Rashmikant Patel power of attorney to deal with this matter. On getting documents from the AMC, they learned that Dhagat had allegedly got a false power of attorney using false signatures of Chandrakant, his brother Suryakant and their father Ratilal Dhruv. He had allegedly then sold Chandrakant's share to the old tenant, Ramesh Dulani, in 1991, for Rs 14,000. The sale documents showed a cheque of Rs 14,000 deposited in Chandrakant's account with the Dariapur branch of Navnirman Co-op Bank. However, Chandrakant had no account with the bank. They soon learned that the shares of all his three brothers, all of whom live abroad, had similarly been sold by Dhagat, and the property was now being used by one Ambalal Hargovandas Patel. From AMC property card documents as well as records in the collector's office pertaining to Disturbed Areas Act permissions for the property sale, it emerged that Dhagat had allegedly used a fraudulent power of attorney from Ratilal Dhruv in February 2004, despite the fact that Ratilal had died in 1994.Dariapur police registered Rashmikant’s FIR against Dhagat on Wednesday, for criminal breach of trust, cheating and forgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nri-who-left-40-years-ago-cheated-of-property-by-cousin/articleshow/81117209.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||UP, U’khand CMs launch digital library of Pauri degree college||Dehradun: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat virtually inaugurated a digital library in Mahayogi Guru Gorakhnath Rajkiya Mahavidyalaya in Bithyani area of Pauri district on Friday. The digital library has been set up by the Union Bank of India under CSR. UP CM Adityanath said that the start of digital library would vastly help students pursuing higher education. He stated that the project reflects the positive approach of CM Rawat. Adityanath said that the library would prove useful for students of other educational institutes as well. Citing the works at Kedarnath and Badrinath, Adityanath said that large-scale development has been carried out in Uttarakhand in the last four years. CM Rawat said that the degree college is important for education in the area. He said that in the age of technology, the digital library would help students of the area greatly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/up-ukhand-cms-launch-digital-library-of-pauri-degree-college/articleshow/81115930.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Two run over by dumper after bike hits Nilgai||RUDRAPUR: Two youths died in a freak accident on Friday as the motorcycle they were riding on collided with a Nilgai after which they fell on the road and a dumper ran over them. The third boy on the motorcycle sustained injuries in the accident. The victims have been identified as Aman Pal (21) and Rohit Singh (16) — both residents of Ratanpura village of Bazpur. According to the police, the three boys were going to Garjiya temple in Nainital district when the accident took place near Banke Bihari stone crusher at Dhaulpuri road. As soon as the bike collided with a Nilgai trying to cross the road, Aman and Rohit fell in the middle of the road while the third pillion rider, Vinod, was thrown to the roadside. Aman and Rohit died on the spot after being hit by a dumper while Vinod was admitted to Bazpur civil hospital with critical injuries. After the accident, the dumper driver fled from the spot with the vehicle. Meanwhile, the police rushed to the spot and also informed the kin of the deceased. However, the kin did not let the police pick up the bodies for the postmortem and demanded the arrest of the dumper driver. Sanjay Pandey, SHO of the Bazpur police station, said, “The villagers and kin of the deceased were later pacified and the bodies have now been sent for postmortem. The driver will soon be arrested.” SHO Pandey added that the forest department officials and veterinary doctor have also been called upon to look after the injured animal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-run-over-by-dumper-after-bike-hits-nilgai/articleshow/81115925.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 20, 2021||Delhi||Garbage truck turns into kids’ park in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A discarded garbage truck lying in the yard for years got a new lease of life with the horticulture department of East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) developing it into a “Mobile Park”. The unique initiative was launched on Friday to help children living in congested unauthorised colonies and slums, where there are no vacant sites or parks, get access to better playing facilities. The first mobile park was inaugurated by deputy CM Manish Sisodia at Delhi Tourism’s Garden Festival at Saket. More such parks would be developed depending on the feedback from people. They would be placed in 14 wards in east Delhi where there are no playing areas or parks. EDMC horticulture director Raghwendra Singh said, “The first-of-its-kind mobile park was made after retrofitting and redesigning an old truck. At least seven types of swings, a small lawn and decorative items have been installed to attract children. Since the park is at a height, we have installed grilles for the safety of children.” The grilles have been extracted from old benches. Even the swings are a combination of old and new ones. “We are planning to redesign four more discarded garbage trucks to create such 30x40 feet parks. We will take the help of councillors to identify roundabouts, intersections and open sites where they can be placed for children to avail of the facility. They can even be placed at municipal schools for a few hours. Two employees will be tasked to ensure the swings, etc do not get damaged,” said an EDMC official. The park has been made for children aged 3-10 years and only 18 of them would be allowed to use it at a time. Parents won’t be allowed to come inside. The idea to develop the park came when EDMC officials were looking for a creative theme for the Garden Festival. “After not finding anything exciting, we visited our yards where old swings and garbage trucks were stationed. We decided to reuse them as waste-to-art. Our staffers, who have skills in welding and electric works, made the first mobile park. We are eagerly waiting to install them in different areas,” said Singh. Municipal wards that don’t have proper playing areas or parks include New Ashok Nagar, Chauhan Bangar, Ghonda, Brahmpuri, Johripur, Saboli, Harsh Vihar, Shiv Vihar, Mustafabad, Karawal Nagar West, Khajuri Khas, Sri Ram Colony and Nehru Vihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/garbage-truck-turns-into-kids-park/articleshow/81117469.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 20, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Police: More terror arrests made in 2020 than previous 3 years combined||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police arrested 32 terrorists last year, six times the number apprehended in 2019, when the capital’s cops had managed just five terrorist arrests. In fact, analysis of the data released by Delhi Police on Friday shows that the Special Cell, the anti-terror unit of Delhi Police, made more arrests in 2020 than it cumulatively did in 2017, 2018 and 2019. Also, not a single terror attack was reported in the city last year, according to the cops. Special cell sleuths said that police commissioner S N Shrivastava had given top priority to anti-terror operations soon after taking charge. Shrivastava had earlier been special commissioner heading Delhi's anti-terror chief for close to four years during which the city police wiped out Indian Mujahideen modules and many other terror outfits. In 2015, Shrivastava was posted to Kashmir as special DG in the Central Reserve Police Force. He was brought back to Delhi Police as the top cop at a troublesome time when the February riots in northeast Delhi had left the city shaken. In 2020, the Special Cell launched a systematic crackdown on Islamic State and its affiliated modules. From busting an ISIS module with its origins in Tamil Nadu and Assam to thwarting the revival of Khalistan separatist modules, the anti-terror unit quickly got down to work and managed to win back its reputation. The Tamil Nadu-based ISIS module was behind the 2014 assassination of Hindu Munnani leader K P Suresh. Last year, the members got parole and escaped to Nepal while killing a cop, SI Wilson, on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border. They were heading to Afghanistan via Pakistan and had to complete one last task, but were nabbed by the Special Cell. Another significant operation was the busting of the IS-affiliated module that planned to carry out an IED blast in the famous Raas Mela in Assam. One of the major operations led to the arrest of Khalistan-linked gangster Sukh Bhikariwal whom the Special Cell tracked to Dubai. Simultaneously, it arrested gunmen who had assassinated a Shaurya Chakra awardee in Punjab on the orders of their Khalistani handlers. It also arrested men who had hoisted the Khalistani flag in Punjab at the instance of the banned outfit, Sikhs for Justice. In October last year, four men from Kashmir who had arrived in Delhi to carry out a terror strike, were arrested. Their kingpin was the brother of Burhan Koka, the slain chief of terror group Unsal Ghazwat-ul Hind. The anti-terror unit has also been probing the conspiracy behind the Delhi riots as a separate case and have arrested several people under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and the sedition law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/more-terror-arrests-made-in-2020-than-previous-3-years-combined/articleshow/81117471.cms||Raj Shekhar
February 20, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata airport to get hi-tech laboratory for Covid-19 test next month||KOLKATA: A state-of-the-art medical laboratory is being set up at Kolkata airport and will be functional by mid-March. The facility will offer three types of Covid tests: Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), TrueNat and Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) and eliminate not just the anxiety of out-bound passengers who have to get tested within a particular timeframe before boarding a flight, it will also ease the concerns of incoming flyers, particularly those who want to be sure that they don’t carry the virus home and unknowingly infect aged or co-morbid family members. “HLL Lifecare Ltd (HLL), a government of India enterprise, is in the process of setting up a Covid testing laboratory at the airport. The various equipment required for the laboratory have already arrived. The facility will be housed at the old domestic terminal next to terminal 2 that is currently in use. The laboratory will be ready by the first week of March, following which it will start operations as soon as it gets the necessary approvals from the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories, the Indian Council of Medical Research and the West Bengal Clinical Establishments (Registration, Regulation And Transparency) Act, 2017,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee said. Speaking to TOI, a senior HLL official said the facility would operate 24 hours a day and have an initial capacity of testing 150 passengers per hour. “We will initially start with a 10-member team at the airport. The manpower may be increased as and when necessary. All kinds of Covid tests will be conducted here at rates that are on par with state government guidelines,” the official said. This is HLL’s first lab in the city. The company operates testing labs at Mumbai and Chennai airport. Demand for setting up an RT-PCR lab facility at the airport has been there for the past several months with flyers repeatedly inquiring on social media whether testing facility is available or not at Kolkata airport. The airport did set up a swab collection centre for RT-PCR test in October last year but the facility was only available to passengers flying in from the UK without a test. Two private companies — Suraksha and Dr Lal’s Path Lab — were listed for the swab collection. But since the suspension of the flight on December 22, the facility has shut down. At present, international passengers bound for countries in the Gulf and Bangladesh require to furnish Covid-19 negative report before being allowed to board the flight. In the domestic sector too, passengers travelling to Andaman & Nicobar Islands, among others, require to undergo the test and furnish the negative report at the check-in desk before being cleared to travel. TOI had on Monday reported how four senior citizens travelling to Port Blair were not allowed to board the flight as their test reports had surpassed the time validity. The SOP issued by A&N administration requires the test to be carried out within 48 hours prior to the flight departure. A few states want it to be conducted within 72 hours prior to departure. The two leading representatives of the travel trade industry — Travel Agents Federation of India and Travel Agents Association of India — have welcomed the initiative, pointing out that with Covid-19 here to stay, the need to get tested for travel within the country and overseas will persist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airport-to-get-hi-tech-laboratory-for-covid-19-test-next-month/articleshow/81115931.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 20, 2021||Kolkata||Car plunges into pond, trapped motorist drowns in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 27-year-old man returning home in a car died after the vehicle plunged into a water body next to the KMC drainage pumping station at Haridevpur on Friday afternoon. He was driving at a break-neck speed and barely missed some evening walkers strolling past the lake. Police said the accident took place around 3.45pm when Sonai Ghosh, a resident of Behala Purba Para Road, rammed into the guardrails around the water body. The vehicle plunged into the water, trapping him inside. The car could finally be pulled out with the help of multiple cranes after almost two hours and by the time Ghosh could be pulled out of the driver’s seat, he had passed away. He was taken to the nearest hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. “We were strolling around the water body when we found the car approaching the lake at a very high speed. It rammed into the railings before it fell into the water. Within moments, the car disappeared into the water and there was no trace of the vehicle,” said Swapna Das, a local resident. Locals said the water in the lake is very deep with a 10-ft muck at the bottom where the car had possibly got stuck, trapping the youth at the driver’s seat. A team of Haridevpur police station reached the spot and called in disaster management team personnel and professional divers who began a search operation shortly after the fall. “The divers located the car stuck in the muck and then attached a crane hook to the car as it was brought out of the water. The driver was unconscious and it seemed he had tried to escape from the rear doors but had failed. Even after the driver was sent to the hospital, DMG personnel continued the search operation for several more minutes to ensure there was no one else in the car with him who may have been able to come out of the car but got trapped in the muck,” said an officer of Kolkata Police. Police have sent the body for post mortem and would run a mechanical test of the car to check what had led to the accident. Locals, however, demanded more protection around the water body, claiming there have been two other similar accidents in the last nine months at the same place. “During Puja as well as in April last year, two cars had fallen into the water body. On both occasions, there were learners on the wheel, practising driving. In both cases, the car occupants could be saved but on Friday, locals could not even trace the car,” said Amit Guha, another local.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/car-plunges-into-pond-trapped-motorist-drowns/articleshow/81115956.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Two pose as recovery agents, dupe 58-year-old of his auto||Mumbai: Two men who claimed to be recovery agents from an auto finance company, were recently arrested for taking a 58-year-old man’s autorickshaw by allegedly claiming that he had not cleared the equated monthly instalments (EMIs), despite being no such EMI pending pending. The duo, Ashirwad Verma (28) and Mukesh Solanki (38), posed as customers and booked victim Pradip Dhanwate’s auto and took the vehicle when he came to pick them up. After taking the rickshaw, they parked it in private parking at Versova instead of handing it over to the finance company and alerting the police. — V Narayan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-pose-as-recovery-agents-dupe-58-year-old-of-his-auto/articleshow/81119312.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 20, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two crematoriums may shed Covid tag as number of deaths falls||KOLKATA: With Covid deaths dropping sharply in Kolkata in 2021, the KMC has decided to normalize operations in the city’s crematoriums that had been requisitioned for cremation of Covid victims. Sources in the KMC health department said a decision has been taken to take the Covid tag off the old complex of Nimtolla burning ghat and Birjunala burning ghat in Garden Reach. An official maintained that the civic body will wait for some more days before deciding to take the Covid tag off Dhapa crematorium. Sources in the KMC electrical department said the department will send a proposal to the civic body’s health department to reuse the Dhapa crematorium for cremation of unclaimed bodies. A KMC health department official said since a couple of new furnaces were constructed at Dhapa during the height of the pandemic, one of them could now be used for cremation of dead strays. KMC had started construction of such a facility at Dhapa dumping ground one-and-a-half years ago, but work stalled following the Covid outbreak. Even four months ago, the scene was different at Dhapa. “Till August, we were under pressure of cremating over 30 bodies a day. Then there was a backlog since we had no infrastructure to cremate so many Covid victims in a single day. The number dipped significantly in November. We will now watch for some weeks before taking the Covid tag off the crematorium,” an official said. According to state health department data, Covid fatality in Kolkata was 3,092 on Friday. In February, till now, 18 people have died due to Covid in Kolkata while the number was 124 in January. On December 31, 2020, Kolkata had reported 2,950 Covid deaths. The first Covid death in Kolkata was reported on March 25, 2020. Data available from the KMC health department revealed only 1% of those taking RT-PCR tests across Kolkata daily have been testing positive for the past month. “Around 3,000 citizens are visiting the city’s test centres daily, of which only 30 are testing positive. But we need to keep our guard up,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-crematoriums-may-shed-cov-tag-as-number-of-deaths-falls/articleshow/81116007.cms||Saikat Ray
February 20, 2021||Delhi||JNU students’ plea: Delhi HC seeks reply from govt, cops||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Friday sought response of the AAP government and police on petitions by JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita seeking bail in a case related to the northeast Delhi riots last year. A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and AJ Bhambhani issued notice to the Delhi government and police and sought their stand on the two appeals by March 10, the next date of hearing. In their pleas, the two accused, who are also members of Pinjra Tod group and were arrested last year in May in connection with the communal riots and are in judicial custody, have argued that the investigation in the case is “tainted.” The duo was arrested by Delhi Police’s Crime Branch and booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including rioting, unlawful assembly and attempt to murder. For allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy,” they have also been booked under the stringent anti-terror law—Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA)—in a separate case related to the northeast Delhi riots. In all, four cases have been registered against Kalita, including in relation to the northeast Delhi riots and violence in old Delhi’s Daryaganj area during protests against the CAA in December 2019. Narwal is accused in three cases. Both of them have been granted bail in the other cases except for the one under UAPA. The trial court had on January 28 dismissed their bail pleas saying the allegations against them were prima facie true and provisions of anti-terror law were rightly invoked in the present case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnu-students-plea-hc-seeks-reply-from-govt-cops/articleshow/81117480.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Patna||Covid-hit Bihar reports growth rate of -18.2% in Q1: Economic survey||PATNA: The state recorded a negative growth rate of 18.2% (or -18.2%) in the first quarter of the current fiscal, according to Bihar Economic Survey Report for 2020-21. Based on "reasonable assumption", the report stated that the Covid-19 pandemic, which roughly began at the start of the current fiscal, might have resulted in the state's negative growth rate. However, the survey has noted that the impact of the massive hit that the Bihar economy has taken in the first quarter of the current financial year was “relatively less” than the -23.9% fall in the growth rate of the national economy during the same period. The survey report said, "It should be noted that the existing growth of the Bihar economy is certain to be reversed." It pointed out that the early “assumption” that the fall in the growth rate would be -15%, and, therefore, the revised estimate of the hit at -18.2% is “higher." Deputy CM-cum-finance minister Tar Kishore Prasad tabled the report in the state assembly on Friday. He later told the media persons that the pandemic gave a strong knock-down to the 10.5% growth rate recorded during the 2019-20 fiscal even as the state government and the Centre took measures to mitigate the problems. The state finance department principal secretary S Siddharth, who accompanied the minister, said, “The actual position of the negative growth rate registered during the current fiscal on account of the coronavirus pandemic will be known only after March 31, after which the details will be available.” However, the economic survey appeared to be sanguine as to the situation in Bihar, as it noted, “During the remaining three quarters, the reduction of the growth rate will be smaller.” At the same time, it also said, “…in absolute terms, the negative impact (of -18.2%) is substantial for a state like Bihar,” even as it is less than the national negative growth rate of -23.9% in the first quarter of the current fiscal. By corollary, the state is expected to register a substantial revenue shortfall during the current fiscal. But, as Siddharth put it, the government will meet the revenue shortfall with market borrowings, which, in turn, implies increasing the fiscal deficit from 3%, as warranted by the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act, to 5%. “The central government has removed the mandatory cap of 3% and allowed for market borrowings at 5% of the gross state domestic product (GSDP) for 2021-22 fiscal. We will meet the revenue shortfall through this mechanism,” Siddharth said. He also added that the Centre has put four conditions while allowing a 5% fiscal deficit during the 2021-22 financial year in Bihar. The state government would have to embark on reform measures in the urban, energy and PDS sectors, besides improving the ease of doing business in the state. Breaking down the sector-wise impact of the coronavirus pandemic, the report puts crops, livestock, fishery and logging in the low impact category, followed by fishing and agriculture, trade and repair, financial services and real estate in the medium impact group. The high impact sector included mining and quarrying, manufacturing, construction, hotels and restaurants, railways, road and air transports. “Bihar witnessed relatively low shock due to low impact on activities in the agriculture and allied sectors,” Siddharth said, adding that the impact was maximum due to the lockdown in the first quarter, and the economic activities resumed at a slow and sluggish pace only after that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-hit-bihar-reports-growth-rate-of-18-2-in-q1-eco-survey/articleshow/81117456.cms||Abhay Singh
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Seven wild boars crushed to death in Chandrapur||NAGPUR: Unidentified speeding vehicle mowed down entire family of wild boars comprising mother and six piglets during late night of Thursday near Kothari village on Ballarpur-Gondpipri road. The crushed remains of the boars were seen scattered in a stretch of over 20 metres along the road on Friday morning. RFO of Kothari SR Langde ratified of the hit-and-run case and suspected that heavy goods vehicle speeding along the newly constructed concrete stretch might be responsible for the accident. The boar family is likely to be crossing the road when the speeding vehicle charged upon them blaring high beam lights and startled boars failed to get any time to escape, he suspected. The crushed and meshed up remains of the boars were seen scattered along the road up to 20 metres. Foresters gathered the remains following directives of RFO Langde and later incinerated it after inquest formalities. Langde claimed a primary offence report against unidentified vehicle driver responsible for accident has been registered. Road kills have increased manifold in Chandrapur district following widening and strengthening of several roads. Death of wild animals in road accident has become common on the newly constructed and widened stretch on Chandrapur-Mul Bramhapuri and Ballarpur-Kothari-Gondpipri roads. Several large predators like tiger, leopards, sloth bears, sambhar, spotted deer, wildcats, wild boars etc have been killed in road accidents. All the pleas of wildlife activists to build mitigation measures like underpasses and speed breakers on these roads have fallen on the deaf ears of authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-wild-boars-crushed-to-death-in-chanda/articleshow/81117520.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 20, 2021||Dehradun||No VIP movement allowed for 'shahi snan', VIPs to be treated like other devotees on 'shahi snan' days: Uttarakhand Police||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand police on Friday reiterated that no VIP movement would be allowed during the shahi snan days during the Kumbh Mela. The VIPs coming to Haridwar on the shahi snan days would be treated as common devotees and no special arrangements would be made for them, police official said. Besides, the Uttarakhand police is also creating a social media monitoring cell to ensure that no misleading content is posted on social media. Through a video conference session on Friday, DGP Uttarakhand Ashok Kumar held a meeting with senior police officials of neighbouring states to discuss the preparations of the mela and also the security and traffic arrangements. The meeting focused on issues related to anti-national activities, anti-sabotage, law and order, traffic management, crowd management, and social media. After the meeting, DGP Ashok Kumar said, “We discussed all the issues in length. For proper crowd and traffic management, we have decided to connect the CCTV cameras of key locations of different states with our Central Control Room. In case of any traffic diversion or traffic holdover at locations in other states, we can get before-hand information through the CCTV cameras installed at these places.” In comparison to last Kumbh, the use of social media will be far more. Kumar said, “We will form a social media monitoring cell to ensure that no objectionable or misleading post is made.” The meeting was attended by senior police officers of Uttar Pradesh Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Jammu and Kashmir. Besides, the officials of central agencies — including NIA — also participated in the video conference session. A major issue discussed in the meeting was the strict compliance of the Covid-19 protocol. The authorities were directed by the DGP to ensure that all the social distancing norms along with wearing of masks was strictly followed by the devotees. “We have decided to create a WhatsApp group to keep each other updated on all issues so that swift and prompt response can be ensured in any kind of situation. We need to remain extremely alert for the shahi snan days as devotees in big numbers are expected to visit Haridwar. The neighbouring states were apprised of the parking arrangements and traffic management plans of the Uttarakhand police,” the DGP said. The mela — which seems set to be reduced to a 28 days’ duration from the original four months — has four ‘shahi snans’ — on March 11 (Mahashivratri), April 12 (Somwati Amavasya), April 14 (Baisakhi) and April 27 (Chaitra Poornima). Besides, there are six ‘parv snan’, which commenced with Makar Sankranti (January 14). The other five ‘parv snan’ dates are – February 11 (Mauni Amawasya), February 16 (Basant Panchami), February 27 (Magh Poornima), April 13 (Navsamvratsar) and April 21 (Ramnavmi). For security arrangements, a total of 1,411 police personnel, one team of NSG, 12 companies of paramilitary force, four companies of PAC, three teams of ATS, two bomb disposal squads, and a dog squad will be deployed on Kumbh duty. In addition, nine police lines have been set up and parking arrangements have been made at six locations for inter-state vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-vip-movement-allowed-for-shahi-snan-vips-to-be-treated-like-other-devotees-on-shahi-snan-days-says-ukhand-police/articleshow/81114935.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 20, 2021||Patna||Primary classes in Bihar to resume from March 1||PATNA: The Crisis Management Group (CMG) of the state government on Friday decided to allow schools to open primary classes (1 to 5) from March 1. So far, classes 6 to 12 are functioning with 50% attendance and other restrictive measures due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief secretary Deepak Kumar, who chaired the meeting, told this newspaper, “We have decided to reopen the school for junior students from March 1. A progress check after 15 working days will decide the continuance or discontinuance of the classes.” Physical classes for classes 9 to 12 were resumed from January 4, followed by the reopening of classes 6 to 8 from February 8. The decision to open more classes has been welcomed by students as well as the school administrations. Aadya Singh, a Class 5 student of Carmel High school said, “I am excited to meet my best friend. It’s been eleven months since we have met each other. I am also looking forward to resuming my dance classes in school." Shreyansh Rathore, a Delhi Public School student, said, “I was eagerly waiting for the physical classes to resume. Earlier, I and my sister used to play, but after her classes started, I was bored all alone at home. And now, I will also go to school and have fun." Abhishek Patrick, assistant director of Jesus and Mary Academy said, “We welcome the government’s decision to reopen the primary school for students. It shows the positive intent of the government to restore normalcy. We were getting a lot of requests from primary section parents regarding reopening of their ward’s classes,” he said. He added, “The students need to resume their physical classes to break the psychological barrier that has developed due to Covid. All precautionary measures and protocols are already in place for senior students. Adherence to SOPs will be ensured even when the number of students increases.” Nishi Singh, the parent of a Class 5 student, said, “The resumption of classes for junior students was necessary as it’s been almost a year of the restrictive online education. I am happy that my son’s life will be back in a routine schedule”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/primary-classes-in-bihar-to-resume-from-march-1/articleshow/81117525.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Double murder: TRS neta’s nephew in cop custody||HYDERABAD: Ramagundam police on Friday took two more persons, including Tulisegari Srinivas alias Bittu Srinu, nephew of former TRS MLA and Peddapalli zilla parishad chairman Putta Madhu, into custody in connection with the murder of lawyer couple Gattu Vaman Rao and PV Nagamani. Inspector general of police (north zone) Y Nagi Reddy said they are questioning Bittu Srinu, who has emerged as one of the key conspirators in the case. “We have not arrested him yet,” the IG said. He also said that they came to know about the role of another person, who conducted a recce on the lawyer couple on the day (Wednesday) of the murder along with the third accused Akkapaka Kumar, who was arrested in Manthani on Thursday. Manthani mandal TRS president Kunta Srinivas and his aide Shivandula Chiranjeevi were the two other accused who have already been arrested. Officials said that a day before the murder, the local gram panchayat office had issued a notice to Srinivas, the prime accused in the murder, in connection with his house which is being constructed without the panchayat’s permission. “Srinivas felt that it was at the behest of Vaman Rao, that the notice was served on him. He was convinced that this was a ruse to restrain him from constructing the house. The issuing of notice was the last straw for Srinivas to hatch the plot and eliminate the lawyer couple,” deputy commissioner of police, Peddapalli, P Ravinder said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/double-murder-trs-netas-nephew-in-cop-custody/articleshow/81117473.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 30-day relaxation on age limit in nursery admission||NEW DELHI: With the registration process for admissions at entry-level classes in Delhi’s private schools ongoing, schools have been asked to give age relaxation of up to 30 days, both at minimum and maximum levels. For admissions in nursery, KG and I there is an upper limit. The child cannot be more than four years for admission in nursery as on March 31, for class KG it is 5 years and for class I it is 6 years. Since 2018, the upper age limit criteria have been fixed by the Directorate of Education (DoE). A circular issued by DoE, said, “It is again reiterated that age relaxation of up to 30 days may be granted at the level of the heads of the school in both the minimum and maximum age limit. Therefore, any parent seeking age relaxation in respect of their ward, may approach the school principal/head of schools through a manual application for his/her consideration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/30-day-relaxation-on-age-limit-in-nursery-admission/articleshow/81117537.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Parts of city see light rain, temps stay above normal||Mumbai: Rain was reported in some parts of Mumbai once again on Friday evening. In areas such as Chembur, Vile Parle, rains began around 7.45pm and continued for a few minutes. IMD has forecast light rain or drizzle for Saturday as well. In the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Friday, IMD Colaba observatory reported no rain. IMD Santacruz observatory reported trace rainfall. The minimum temperatures also remained above normal. Colaba and Santacruz observatories reported minimum temperatures of 22.4 degrees and 21.5 degrees respectively, which was two degrees and three degrees above normal. Weathermen said that the rains were owing to a cyclonic circulation over south Madhya Maharashtra and neighbourhood, and a feeble trough in the low level eateries which runs from north Kerala coast to south Gujarat. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/parts-of-city-see-light-rain-temps-stay-above-normal/articleshow/81118815.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Reviving history: Century-old Shivaji Park pyau to spring back to life||MUMBAI: Civic officials were considering creating a drinking water facility near Shivaji Park at Dadar when they chanced upon the dilapidated and non-functional Ramji Setiba Pyau. They decided to drop the plan for a water ATM and instead revive the British era drinking water fountain to help quench the thirst of walkers, joggers and sports enthusiasts who throng the public ground every day. “We were looking at creating a drinking water facility in the area even as a proposal to revive the pyau was under way. We then decided to expedite work on restoring the pyau and include it in the ongoing Shivaji Park restoration project,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s G-North ward which covers Dadar. “The plan is to revive the pyau and beautify the area around and provide seating arrangements and adequate lighting.” The estimated restoration cost is Rs 46 lakh and the pyau is expected to be ready for use by the end of the year. A grade III heritage structure built in the early 20th century, Ramji Setiba Pyau was on the regular tram route. But after piped water connections began in the 1960s, it fell into disuse. The conservation plan will include complete cleaning of the Malad stone edifice with appropriate chemical and physical methods, comprehensive repairs and restoration of stone elements and replacing missing decorative elements. It also will include exploring the original plumbing scheme of the pyau and recreating similar features wherever possible. “It is a good idea to revive this pyau,” said environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, who has been overseeing the Shivaji Park restoration project work. “In fact, we have revived three to four pyaus in the city till date. This is an operational heritage that we can make use of,” he added. The BMC’s heritage cell proposes to revive around 30 pyaus across Mumbai. Architect Rahul Chemburkar of Vaastu Vidhaan projects, appointed as conservation architect for the project, who is working with the BMC and submitted the proposed pyau conceptual conservation and revival plan, said that a new public space is being created with the restoration at Shivaji Park. “The pyau project is an attempt to redeem this heritage...and make drinking water readily available in some of the busiest corners of our city...Very few pyaus remain in Dadar today. There is another one near Dadar’s Kohinoor Square which was also patronised by philanthropist Ramji Setiba,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/reviving-history-century-old-shivaji-park-pyau-to-spring-back-to-life/articleshow/81119327.cms||Richa Pinto
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Nagamani wanted cops to resolve row||Hyderabad: The controversy over taking over the managing committee of Sri Ramaswamy and Rangaswamy temple by a group which had the support of prime accused Kunta Srinivas was brought to the notice of Ramagudam police commissioner V Satyanarayana and officials in Peddapalli district collectorate. However, the officials refused to intervene since the matter pertained to a private temple. In an audio clip which went viral in social media on Friday, lawyer Vaman Rao’s wife PV Nagamani was heard explaining to deputy commissioner of police, Peddapalli, P Ravinder on the inaction on the part of Ramagudam police despite the temple issue being brought to the notice of police commissioner and also local police station. The DCP was heard telling Nagamani that police cannot intervene in the controversy over the temple committee but assured to provide security if the local sarpanch sought their help. The temple committee issue is believed to be one of the three important motives for Srinivas to kill the lawyer couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nagamani-wanted-cops-to-resolve-row/articleshow/81117534.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: From driving licence to registration certificate, transport services set to go online||NEW DELHI: If you need to renew your driving licence (DL) or get a duplicate one, get hypothecation of vehicle cancelled, transfer registration certificate (RC) or get an international driving permit, you will be able to do it from the comfort of your home and without a single visit to the Regional Transport Office (RTO), in all probability by next week. Delhi government has prepared a roadmap for revamp of its transport-related services, which as the government terms it, would become ‘faceless’ without any requirement of the applicant’s presence at the RTO. The government’s transport department is starting with 12 of its most ‘sought-after’ services and will gradually add most of its 70 services, including handing over RC of new vehicles at the vehicle dealership itself, Delhi’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot told TOI. “Delhi government is coming out with a major reform package under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, which would see almost all services of the transport department being made available to Delhiites in a ‘faceless’ manner from the comfort of their home,” the transport minister said. “Most of the services of the department are already available online but the reforms we are bringing in would see its final version, which would be completely faceless as you wouldn’t have to come to the RTO at all,” the minister said. Gahlot further said: “For services like RC transfer, why should the applicant need to come to the RTO? I have told the department that they can first get confirmation from the seller or first from the buyer and then from the seller and do it themselves.” “This is the whole reform we are planning, which would also include options of uploading videos if needed,” he said. “Another delightful news awaiting Delhiites is that very soon, they would also be able to get the RC for their new vehicle at the dealership itself,” he added. Gahlot said that he has directed the department to carry out intensive trials before the reforms are implemented so that there are no teething troubles and people don’t face any problem at all. “It is a good work that is being done and it should not be done in any haste,” he said. Ashish Kundra, principal secretary-cum-commissioner (transport), said that issuance of driving licence, registration, permit, etc. are the cutting edge services of the department with a direct public interface. “The idea is to gradually switch over completely online in not only application but also processing and despatch of documents, and people should not be asked to come to the centre to get things processed,” he said. Kundra said that the reform includes reorientation of people and some re-engineering of the system. “Once we have made sure our people and systems are ready, we will start with some pilot testing and then launch it. Technology is one part of the matrix and the other part is people who are actually dealing with these things,” he said. KK Dahiya, special commissioner (transport) said that intensive trials and testing is going on to implement the reforms. “The second phase will include services related to commercial vehicles like permits, transfer of permits, renewal, etc. By April, 58 more services are targeted to be made available online,” Dahiya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-dl-to-rc-transport-services-set-to-go-online/articleshow/81117564.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Saffron flag will flutter in T: Bandi||Hyderabad: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday said saffron flag will fly high in Telangana soon, indicating his party’s ascension to power in the state by defeating the TRS. Addressing the party rank and file in Borabanda while unveiling a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji, Sanjay said 80 per cent of Hindus in the state will be the vote-bank for the party. “When our party comes to power in the state, we will install Shivaji’s statues in every village,” he said. Earlier, tension prevailed in the area over the statue inauguration. Sanjay alleged that the TRS government is not alllowing installation of Shivaji statues worried over losing votes of a particular community. “It is not difficult for us to unveil Shivaji statue here. But, it is shameful that the TRS government is trying to stop us from holding the celebrations of the birth anniversary of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj,” he said. He said the TRS government has not learnt its lessons despite losing badly in Dubbak and GHMC elections and trying to align with the Majlis party, which insulted Hindu gods. He called on the party activists to fight against religious conversions. He also said that Hindu girls are being targeted as ‘objects’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/saffron-flag-will-flutter-in-t-bandi/articleshow/81117547.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Owaisi showers praises on Shivaji on birth anniv||Hyderabad: On the birth anniversary of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi showered praises on the 17th century Maratha king and addressed him as Kulwadi Bhushan. “#Shivaji was not born with a silver spoon & throughout his rule, he embraced the weakest of the weak. A thousand tributes to ‘Kulwadi Bhushan’ Chhatrapati Shivaji on the occasion of #ShivajiJayanthi,”tweeted Owaisi. He also tweeted a video of a public meeting in Maharashtra, where he mentioned the Muslims who were part of Maratha Empire and questioned the BJP leaders. “Daulat Khan was the in charge of a part of the navy, tell me members of BJP who was Siddhi Hilal, he was the one who stood by Shivajii and fought for him. Even his son was kidnapped by Mughals but Siddhi Hilal continued his fight for Chhatrapati Shivaji . Tell me who was the Sufi whom Chhatrapati used to admire and love, his name was Yakub Baba,” said Owaisi in the video. “People used to hold him in very high regard because he used to keep the oppressed communities close to him, he was close to the Dalits and today, the people who claim themselves as worshippers of Shivaji want to remove the Dalit atrocities act from Maharashtra,” he added. AIMIM recently won the sarpanch elections in Aurangabad, the party also has two MLAs and one MP (Aurangabad Parliament segment) from Maharashtra. In the 2019 Maharashtra state elections, the AIMIM contested 44 seats and won from Dhule and Malegaon Central assembly segments. In 2014 assembly elections the party won from Bayculla and Aurangabad Central but was unable to retain them in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owaisi-showers-praises-on-shivaji-on-birth-anniv/articleshow/81117543.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||9999999999: No. given by people testing for Covid at private labs in Nagpur||NAGPUR: At least 10% of the people being tested for Covid-19 are giving wrong contact numbers or avoiding giving detailed information while registering for tests, in nexus with laboratories. This prevents visits by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) teams as part of contact tracing and testing if people test positive. Taking serious cognisance of the issue, civic officials inspected private laboratories and warned them of action on Friday. For Covid-19 testing, all persons have to give contact number, detailed address, email ID and other information, like reason for getting tested etc. Swab collection cannot be done if all this information is not filed on the ICMR website. Around 11 private laboratories and hospitals are conducting RT-PCR tests apart from three government-run laboratories in the city. NMC has provided the facility free of cost at 50 centres. NMC sources told TOI contact numbers of over 10% of the positive patients are either wrong or not working. Officials at NMC’s 10 zones have found contact number of over 10-15 positive patients every day is 9999999999. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI, “Problem can be solved if laboratories demand correct and detailed information before collection of swab samples. Our teams can visit patients, and trace and test contacts even if the address is proper.” Some laboratories are mentioning just name of the area in the address, like Jaripatka or Khamla, making it impossible to trace the tested person if s/he tests positive. Tracing and testing of contacts is necessary for early detection and treatment of the patients and others around him. “This will help break chains and contain spread of the disease, which is also for the benefit of people and city. Therefore, I appeal to all to give proper information,” Joshi said. Earlier, private laboratories used to ask for copy of Aadhaar card for correct address. The system stopped during the peak of Covid-19 in August. It is not mandatory at NMC centres and government-run laboratories to show or submit proof of address. Joshi said, “We visited private laboratories and explained to them the importance of getting proper contact numbers and address of all people doing tests. Stringent action will be taken in case any private laboratory continues to violate the norms.” Also, correct contact number of each and every person is important to check status of positive patients like admitted in hospital or in home isolation and recovery after 10 days. NMC has also noticed private laboratories are not filing information of testing and results on ICMR website on the same day as the number of tests are rising. Joshi said private laboratories were also directed to ensure filing of data before 12 midnight every day. “We prepare list of positive patients daily and distribute to 10 zone offices the next day. Tracing and testing of contacts is delayed by a day in case of late filing by laboratories on ICMR portal,” he said. Joshi added 429 centres facilitating CAT scan were also directed to provide information on daily basis, which will help trace patients and their contacts. “Also, private hospitals have been asked to submit list of positive patients and influenza like illness (ILI) patients on daily basis,” he said. A couple of days ago, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B held a meeting with all laboratories and directed them to give results within 24 hours for early treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/9999999999-no-given-by-people-testing-for-covid-at-pvt-labs/articleshow/81117545.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Vaccinator held for Covishield vials’ theft||NAGPUR: Akola police on Friday arrested vaccinator Deepak Sontakke, 25, for his alleged role in stealing seven vials of Covidshield vaccine from the cold room of the Chatari rural hospital in Akola. The offence was registered following a complaint lodged by medical superintendent of the hospital. Police sources said Sontakke, originally a data entry operator posted at Patur, had been deputed at Chatari rural hospital as vaccinator of February 5 after the drive was launched for the health and frontline workers. He was in-charge of the vaccines at the rural hospital. As per the initial findings in the inquiries conducted by the internal committee of the health officials’ team of the hospital, Sontakke is likely to have taken the vials with him on February 11. SP G Sreedhar said an offence under Section 380 of IPC for theft was registered against Sontakke. “We would now conduct inquiries based upon our questioning of Sontakke and try to recover the stolen vials, if possible. The case has to be detected now,” said Sreedhar who is supervising the case. Seven of 44 vials of the vaccines were found missing from the box on February 12 by the staff nurses who were supposed to administer the doses to the beneficiaries. The hospital authorities are learnt to have approached the Channi police station on February 16 with a complaint. Police said the internal committee of the health officials conducting the inquiry once again approached the police on Friday with a fresh complaint of theft mentioning the name of Sontakke as the prime suspect. “The health committee had fixed the responsibility on Sontakke for the missing vials as his conduct was questionable,” said a source. Asst police inspector Rahul Wagh of Channi police station, also the investigating officer in the case, said police would produce Sontakke before the court on Saturday for custody remand. “We need to interrogate Sontakke to ascertain the manner in which the offence took place and other details including recovery,” said the IO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccinator-held-for-covishield-vials-theft-in-akola/articleshow/81117566.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Both strains local, but next 2 weeks crucial for Vidarbha||NAGPUR: As panic gripped Vidarbha region after researchers found two new mutations in coronavirus samples from Amravati and Yavatmal on Thursday, Maharashtra health department on Friday said neither of the two mutations are foreign. Both mutations have been already prevalent in different parts of India. However, experts cautioned the next two weeks were crucial as the infection could only be stopped by following Covid appropriate behaviour. TOI had reported it on Thursday the mutations were local and not the new mutated strains from the UK, South Africa and Brazil. “Further investigations are underway and some more samples from Akola, Amravati and Yavatmal districts have been sent to the National Institute of Virology and National Institute of Cell Science, Pune, for genetic testing. A detailed report in this regard is expected by next week,” the health department’ statement stated. Epidemiologist Dr Anand Thatte, who has been following coronavirus mutations since the beginning said the virus strain found in Amravati was a unique mutation known as ‘E484Q’ which is quite similar to the E484K mutation found in South Africa, but eventually it’s not a foreign strain. “In Yavatmal, the N440K mutation was detected. This is already present in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and some districts in Karnataka. Yavatmal shares borders with Telangana and interstate travellers may be the carriers of this mutation,” he said. “Such mutations are common. More than 400 such mutations are present in India alone. There is no point in panicking. Instead, we must be worried about the increasing number of patients and start following Covid appropriate behaviour to break the chain of this new mutation,” he added. Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said that functional importance of mutation is still not known. “We can say that the mutations are highly transmissible but can cause lower fatality. I am seeing that type of patients in last few days,” he said. Doctors from Amravati and Yavatmal also told TOI about the changes they have noticed in symptoms in local patients in last ten days. “A large number of samples are testing positive but most patients are asymptomatic,” said Dr Amol Pinge, who works in health department of Yavatmal. Out of 866 under-treatment patients in Yavatmal, 656 are recovering in home isolation. As a matter of precaution, many asymptomatic patients with pre-existing co-morbid conditions have been kept under observation in hospital or Covid Care Centre in Yavatmal. Conditions are same in Amravati. Out of 2,783 total patients under treatment, 1,922 are in home isolation. “We have 859 patients admitted in hospitals and Covid Care Centres across the district. Most are senior citizens with co-morbidities. We don’t want to take any chances,” said Dr Shyamsundar Nikam, civil surgeon, Amravati. A leading private practitioner in Amravati said that patients with diarrhoea and muscle pain were more in numbers these days unlike known symptoms like fever and cough. Two mutationsN440K: First reported in July 2020 in Andhra Pradesh. It can infect people previously infected with another variant of novel coronavirus E484Q: Similar to the E484K mutation that was observed in South Africa and Brazil. It is highly contagious but does not cause severe infection Why next two weeks crucial?: Generally, more infectious variants only cause effects like common cold. In such case, there is no cause for concern. Since we do not know the full impact of these mutations yet, we must exercise extreme caution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/both-strains-local-but-next-2-weeks-crucial-for-vidarbha/articleshow/81116079.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||PIL withdrawn after bench suspects petitioner’s intentions||Hyderabad: A petitioner who filed a public interest petition claiming that he wants to fight against land grabbers who encroached huge portions of government land in Yadadri district had withdrawn his PIL on Friday. Pinjala Suresh Goud in the petition alleged that Narne Gokul and six others, along with their real estate companies had grabbed more than 1500 acres of Bhoodan land situated at Bibinagar village in Bibinagar mandal of the Yadadri district. “This is a government land, a part of which was given to poorer sections and also to the ex-servicemen in the past,” he said. According to the petitioner, all this land is now under encroachment of Narne companies and their family members. Responding to a query from a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy that was hearing the PIL, Rapolu Bhaskar, the petitioner’s counsel replied that they have no personal interest in the subject land. But at the same time, while responding to another query, the counsel claimed that the petitioner was one of the victims of the land grabbing done by the realtors. The bench turned skeptical and inquired more about the petitioner. “If we find that the petitioner is misleading the court, then that becomes perjury and the consequences will follow,” the bench told the counsel. “If you have civil disputes, thrash them out at civil courts,” the bench told the petitioner. After this, the counsel had withdrawn the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pil-withdrawn-after-bench-suspects-petitioners-intentions/articleshow/81117552.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||Pune: Continuous caution & care to beat Covid||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday reiterated that lockdown was not the solution to curb rising Covid-19 cases and strict adherence to social distancing, mask and sanitizer rules was the way forward. The minister said the government would consider increasing penalties for violation of social gathering guidelines, but local authorities should ensure that strict action was taken against violators. At present, people venturing out without masks are being levied a fine of Rs 500. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the Pune police and the railway police have together filed 4,754 cases against rule violators between February 10 and 17, leading to a collection of Rs 23 lakh in fine. The Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) has decided to intensify action against those not using masks at the wholesale markets. “We are seeing a spurt in cases across the state, but we are also seeing an equal number of people unnecessarily gathering and not following the Covid-19 guidelines. There is a need for the local authorities to ensure that social distancing guidelines are followed strictly and penalise those not following it,” the minister said. He said lockdown was the last resort. “The government has announced opening up of several activities and laid out strict Covid-19 guidelines. SMS — social distancing, masks and sanitiser — should be adhered to strictly. All local authorities should increase testing and tracing of contacts,” Tope said. PMC data showed that no violations had been found in areas like Ahmednagar Road and Yerawada. The highest number of violations were found in the Hadapsar areas, where 28 cases were filed by the ward office. PMC has collected Rs 92,500 from the offenders so far. The police have filed 4,498 cases and collected Rs 21.39 lakh fine, while 72 cases were filed by the railway police who collected Rs 36,000 fine. “Citizens should abide by mask and social distance norms,” said Kunal Khemnar, additional commissioner of PMC. The administration has also decided to display sign boards at strategic locations in the wholesale market appealing to the people to wear masks and follow social distancing norms. Madhukant Garad, APMC chief, said, “Masks are a must for everyone visiting the market. Besides imposing fines, we are also telling the wholesale traders and commission agents to ensure that the staff at their shops and visitors diligently follow the safety measures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/continuous-caution-care-to-beat-covid/articleshow/81117615.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 20, 2021||Delhi||Tax evasion: NDMC attaches 80 properties||NEW DELHI: Taking strict action against commercial properties evading property tax or not doing assessment according to Delhi Municipal Corporation (DMC) Act, North Delhi Municipal Corporation has issued notices to at least 1,244 properties this month. These include prominent hospitals, education institutes and other commercial establishments in areas under Karol Bagh and Civil Lines zones. The civic body has even attached properties of 80 taxpayers (36 in Karol Bagh and 44 in Civil Lines) for violating norms, and has issued a deadline for taking corrective measures. The initiative is part of the civic body’s target to crack down on defaulters, bring more people under the property tax net and increase revenue collection. “This year, we have made some changes in property tax norms. The ‘usage factor’ for rented commercial properties has been changed from 2 to 4. That means the calculated amount of property tax will now be two times higher than the previous amount,” said a north corporation official. “But during the survey, our teams found that big commercial properties were not paying the tax as per the DMC Act. They were either still using the ‘usage factor’ of 2, or were hiding their activities,” said the official. The north corporation claims hospitals and other commercial institutes owe an additional Rs 20 crore to it as pending property tax. “We even found some hospitals running educational courses without paying the correct usage factor,” added the official. Meanwhile, the civic body has also asked private schools and coaching institutions to pay their property tax dues according to new Municipal Valuation Committee guidelines. The Karol Bagh zone claimed to have collected Rs 88 crore this financial year and has set its target at Rs 210 crore. “People can pay house tax either in zonal offices or online and can also take the benefit of amnesty scheme for waiver of complete interest and penalty, which is valid up to March 2,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tax-evasion-n-corpn-attaches-80-properties/articleshow/81117595.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: 24 of 42 Sharjah flight passengers take corona test; all negative||NAGPUR: Covid-19 RT-PCR tests of 24 of 42 air passengers who arrived in Sharjah flight have been completed and all are negative. Results of remaining 18 flyers are awaited. After being stopped for 11 months due to pandemic, Sharjah flight resumed on February 14. First flight arrived with 60 passengers. As per the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) data, 37 flyers were exempted from seven-day institutional quarantine for various reasons. Eighteen of those were not residents of the city, so the civic body had alerted district administrations of their respective cities for home quarantine and testing on fifth day. Twenty three flyers were in institutional quarantine in the city of whom 15 were in private hotel, seven in VNIT Hostel and one in hostel of a medical institution. An NMC official told TOI, “Results of 13 of 23 in institutional quarantine were negative. Results of 10 are awaited.” The official added 11 of 19 in home isolation also got tested and all are negative. Results of remaining eight are likely tomorrow. NMC has tested seven passengers in institutional quarantine at its free-of-cost facility at VNIT Hostel. Those in private hotels were reportedly given option of testing by the NMC or on their own at private laboratories. A passenger told TOI, “I opted for testing by a private laboratory.” As per standard operating procedure (SoP) prepared by the NMC, all passengers are supposed to be tested on fifth day and discharged on seventh day if found negative. Accordingly, 13 flyers in institutional quarantine are likely to be discharged on Saturday. If anyone tests positive, NMC is likely to admit them as suspected patient of mutated variant in special ward of GMCH. The same SOP was implemented by the central government in December for returnees from Europe, South Africa and Middle East. Next flights from Sharjah will arrive on February 21 and 28. Decision on continuation of flight weekly or daily is likely to be taken on March 2. Earlier, Sharjah flight was a daily one. City’s airport had only two international flights. The other flight from Doha is yet to resume service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/24-of-42-sharjah-passengers-take-corona-test-all-negative/articleshow/81116129.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||2,000+ new Covid cases in Vidarbha for second day in a row||NAGPUR: Surge in new cases of Covid-19 infection is now widespread in West Vidarbha with all 5 districts of Amravati division reporting 1,349 cases. Akola, Amravati, Yavatmal and Buldhana reported new cases in three figures, while Washim reported just two short to 100. Overall, 60% of the 2,267 cases of the day from Vidarbha region came from Amravati division alone. In Nagpur division, Nagpur district reported 754 of the total 918 cases with city alone witnessing 603 of them. Other districts like Chandrapur, Bhandara, Gadchiroli and Gondia reported less than 30 cases each on Friday. With a spike of 2,267 cases on Friday, Vidarbha’s total case count now has reached to 2,93,757. With 572 recoveries reported in the day, total 2,73,194 of them have recovered so far. This brings Vidarbha’s recovery rate to 93%. Just eight days ago, on February 11, it was 95%. As new cases are way more than the number of recoveries, the number of under-treatment patients is also more now. Total 13,381 patients are undergoing treatment either in institutional facilities or in home isolation in the region. This number is 4.5% of the total cases reported till date. Number of deaths also increased to 16 on Friday. Eight of them were from Nagpur district, while Akola, Yavatmal, and Buldhana reported 2 casualties each. Chandrapur and Amravati reported 1 death each. This took the Covid toll of Vidarbha to 7,181. Case fatality rate is 2.44%. Districts witnessing fresh spike reported significant increase in number of tests on Friday. Nagpur conducted more than 6,000 tests, Amravati 2,745, Akola 866, Buldhana 1,745 and Yavatmal 520. Akola: Out of 866 samples tested in the last 24 hours, the district reported 256 positive. A 73-year-old man from Murtizapur and another 73-year-old man from Hariharpeth in Akola city died during treatment. Both were admitted on Thursday in critical condition. The district now has 13,393 total cases, 11,421 recoveries, 348 deaths and 1,624 patients under treatment. Buldhana: The district conducted 1,745 tests in the last 24 hours and 271 of them tested positive. A 70-year-old woman and a 50-year-old man died during treatment on Friday. This took the Covid-19 toll of Buldhana to 183. Now, out of 15,630 total cases, 14,395 have recovered in the district. Total 1,052 are still under treatment. Washim: The district reported its highest number of new cases in 2021 on Friday. Total 98 persons were found infected with Covid-19 in Washim. This took the total number of cases to 7,555. With 10 patients recovered in the day, total 7,096 of them have recovered. Now, 302 patients are under treatment in the district. Gadchiroli: The district also reported a surge in new cases with 13 found infected by Covid on Friday. This took total cases in Gadchiroli to 9,449. Now, the district has 56 patients under treatment. This number was under 20 just three days ago. This means, slowly but surely, cases are rising in Gadchiroli too. No death was reported on Friday. Gondia: The district reported 2 new cases while 8 patients recovered on Friday. Now, out of 14,316 total cases, 14,062 have recovered. With 184 deaths reported till date, Gondia now has 70 patients under treatment. Bhandara: Friday saw 18 new Covid cases and 3 recoveries in the district. No death was reported in the day. The district now has 13,456 total cases, including 12,995 recoveries, 326 deaths and 135 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2000-new-covid-cases-in-vid-for-second-day-in-a-row/articleshow/81116104.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Western Railway to introduce 15-coach trains on slow line in April||MUMBAI: Western Railway plans to start running 15-coach services on the slow corridor from April, as the Rs 70-crore platform extension project between Andheri and Virar stations is near completion to accommodate longer trains. By then, WR also plans to add 24 more 15-car services on its suburban network. The work of extending the length of 31 platforms was carried out on the slow corridor of 14 stations as WR’s plan is to run a total 146 15-car services to reduce crowding in trains. At present, WR runs 54 15-car services on the fast corridor, but only 12-coach services on the slow corridor. “We plan to run about 24 more 15-car services in April. We will require at least 42 more coaches to augment the 12-car trains into 15-car. We have asked the railway board to provide more coaches,” said an official. WR officials said that the introduction of more 15-car rakes will reduce the commuter load in the Andheri-Virar belt and increase the carrying capacity by 25% per rake. WR had introduced 15-car services between Dadar and Virar in 2009. On January 28, 2011, it extended the services till Churchgate after extending platforms 3 and 4. The 15-car trains, however, do not halt between Dadar and Churchgate due to shorter length of platforms. Officials said it is not feasible to run 15-car rakes on the slow corridor from Andheri towards south Mumbai owing to lack of space at the stations to extend the platforms. And even if WR does run 15-car rakes, it will have to provide double halts at stations, which is not feasible as it affects train punctuality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wr-to-introduce-15-coach-trains-on-slow-line-in-april/articleshow/81118850.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 20, 2021||Pune||Will take stricter measures if people continue to ignore norms: Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday that the state government would be forced to take strict measures if people continue to ignore Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing of face masks and maintaining social distancing at public places. “It has been observed that many people are not wearing face masks, nor are they maintaining social distancing at public places. This has by and large contributed to the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, particularly after February 1,” Pawar said at a function organised by the Pune police to return seized stolen properties to their rightful owners. He referred to state home minister Anil Deshmukh and, now, health minister Rajesh Tope getting infected by the virus and said, “People, too, have a huge responsibility towards ensuring precautionary measures to contain the spread of the virus.” Pawar pointed out that the local administration at Amravati and Akola in Vidarbha region had to impose lockdown-like restrictions and if people don’t adhere to precautionary measures then the state would be left with little option, but to take stricter measures. A review meeting of the authorities from Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune rural would be held soon to chalk out an action plan to contain the spread of the virus, he said. Pawar said, “Large number of people were getting infected and the recovery rate was relatively less. Ever since the outbreak of the pandemic, many government and police officials and personnel died because of the virus. We have taken a decision to give financial assistance of Rs50 lakh and job to the kin of deceased policemen.” He lauded the efforts of the state police in enforcing lockdown restrictions when the pandemic was at its peak in spite of facing criticism from people that they were being lathi charged at various places.  He also praised the doctors, nurses, health workers and others working for the cause of Covid-19 infected patients. He appealed to the people to take care of themselves and their family members and help the district administration in containing the spread of the Covid-19 contagion.  Else, the government would be forced to take strict measures to discipline them if they do not adhere to the guidelines relating to Covid-19, Pawar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/will-take-stricter-measures-if-people-continue-to-ignore-norms-dy-cm/articleshow/81117629.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 20, 2021||Delhi||From March 15, all courts to resume physical hearings in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has decided to fully resume physical functioning of all the courts from March 15. At a full court meeting on Friday, it was decided that all the judges would sit in physical mode and hear arguments, while some Covid-19 related safeguards would continue to remain in place. An official notification is expected on Saturday, a source said, adding that both the high court and subordinate courts would be back to pre-lockdown functioning from mid-March. The move comes nearly a year after the courts were shut down due to the threat posed by the virus. Last year on March 25, the high court had restricted its functioning along with district courts till April 14 when it shifted slowly to videoconferencing-based hearings. The restrictions were subsequently extended to May, which continued till August, when on August 27, the court decided to partially resume physical hearing from September 1 by two division bench and three single judge benches on rotation. The number of benches was later scaled down to one division bench and two single judge benches in view of the rise in Covid cases, and a majority of the lawyers indicating their preference for virtual hearings. From January 18, the number of benches was increased to 11, which heard matters daily via physical mode even as the court directed the subordinate courts to conduct physical hearings every alternate day. However, on January 22, after some lawyers approached the Supreme Court against the high court’s decision, it decided to put in place a hybrid system of hearing. The new system has been running on an experimental-basis in one of the courts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-march-15-all-courts-to-resume-physical-hearings/articleshow/81117639.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||‘Fake call from impostor’ forces Rakesh Tikait to cancel Yavatmal trip||NAGPUR: After much drama, Sanyukta Kisan Morcha leader Rakesh Tikait cancelled his trip to Yavatmal for Saturday. The organizers claim that it was a fake call in the name of superintendent of police (SP) saying that he would be quarantined for 14 days, which led to Tikait call off the trip. Tikait, who is among the top leaders of the farmers’ struggle in Delhi, was supposed to hold the first ever major public address out of the national capital on Saturday. Initially, the organizers had claimed that over a lakh farmers from entire Maharashtra may reach Yavatmal. The permission was denied owing to Covid restrictions. The Kisan Morcha put up a fresh application with an undertaking that not more than 50 would attend the rally. The second application was rejected too. Finally, after the organizers claimed that Tikait had checked in at the airport to reach Nagpur and then would drive down to Yavatmal, they confirmed that the tour was called off. Sandeep Gidde-Patil from the Kisan Morcha’s Maharashtra wing said, Tikait was called by a person claiming to be the SP Yavatmal. He said, if Tikait came to Yavatmal, he would be put into 14 days quarantine. As it would hamper the protests at Ghazipur near Delhi, Tikait decided to stay back. Gidde-Patil said when they confirmed it was found that the SP, Dilip Bhujbal had not made any call. “This means it was a fake call by our detractors,” he said. Tikait would now make an online address and rest of the activists would attend the meet at Yavatmal, said Gidde-Patil. Bhujbal, on the other hand, told TOI that he had only called the organizers asking them to take a stand. “I told if they still want to go-ahead with their plans, even the police will have to gear up to deal with the situation. But I also asked them to take a responsible decision considering the situation and themselves convince Tikait to not come,” said the officer. Gidde-Patil accepted that there was such a call from Bhujbal asserting that the person who called Tikait was an impostor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fake-call-from-impostor-forces-tikait-to-cancel-yavatmal-trip/articleshow/81116174.cms||Shishir Arya
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||2 BPO honchos held for Rs 9.3cr CGST evasion||Navi Mumbai: The Belapur commissionerate of the central goods and services tax (CGST) and Central excise officials have arrested the chairman-cum-MD and the chief financial officer of a BPO firm in Turbhe MIDC area on Tuesday. The duo was accused of availing Rs 9.3 crore ineligible input tax credit (ITC) with invoices raised by fictitious companies, whose directors were arrested in another case relating to issuing of fake invoices without supplying goods or providing services. A CGST official said, “The CGST Act gives us discretionary powers to arrest without filing an FIR.The Vashi JMFC court has sent the duo to 14-day judicial custody at Taloja prison.”—George Mendonca||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-bpo-honchos-held-for-rs-9-3cr-cgst-evasion/articleshow/81119331.cms||George Mendonca
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Actor Vivek Oberoi charged as he rides bike without helmet, mask||MUMBAI: Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi was charged for violating traffic rules after a video posted on social media showed him riding a bike without a helmet on the night of February 14. Santacruz traffic police issued an e-challan to Oberoi for Rs 500 for not wearing a helmet. The e-challan was issued on Friday at 7.02pm by assistant inspector Nandkishore Jadhav. DCP (western traffic) Somnath Gharge confirmed the e-challan after the joint commissioner of police (traffic) took cognizance of the matter. He also violated pandemic prohibitory orders by not wearing a mask, police said. DCP (zone IX) Abhishek Trimukhe said they were registering a case against him. Watch Mumbai: Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi charged for violating traffic rules||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actor-vivek-oberoi-rides-without-helmet-mask/articleshow/81116735.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Premium fuel crosses Rs 100 mark in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Rates of premium fuel have crossed Rs 100 mark in the city. The superior grade of fuel is now available at Rs100.30 a litre from Saturday which is an increase of 38 paise since Friday. The regular petrol will be available at Rs 97.51 a litre and diesel at Rs 88.62 on Saturday. “The premium fuel is purchased by the upper class consumers who have the high-end vehicles. However, the petrol pumps too are given target to sell the premium brands,” said Shahid Sharif, a consumer activist. He said the government should now ease the taxes on petroleum to reduce the burden on consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/premium-fuel-crosses-rs100-mark-in-city/articleshow/81116154.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||Increase contact tracing: Officials||Pune: Poor contact tracing has been one of the major reasons for the rise in of Covid-19 cases in state, health officials said. The state health secretary told collectors and commissioners to trace 20-30 contacts per case and increase testing to such an extent that the positivity rate drops below 10% and, subsequently, below 5%. “All divisional commissioners and collectors have been directed to ensure that there is no lax approach in contact tracing. We have issued directions to local authorities that all contacts need to be traced,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, the state health secretary. Archana Patil, the state health director, said, “The local authorities have to find way to track immediate contacts to begin early treatment,” he said. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said that he had directed all collectors in the division to ensure that there is adequate tracking of contacts as early tracking and early treatment was the need of the hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/increase-contact-tracing-officials/articleshow/81117636.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 20, 2021||Pune||Collector issues revised regulations||Pune: District collector Rajesh Deshmukh on Friday revised the Covid-19 guidelines, paving way for double the fine amount for second-time offenders and deploying a flying squad to keep a check on gatherings at wedding halls and restaurants. “Instructions have been issued to both the municipal corporations (Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad) and the rural areas to strictly implement the guidelines for the prevention of Covid-19 spread. There should be no unnecessary gathering and restrictions will be further imposed if these guidelines are not strictly followed,” he said. He said, “Deputy CM Ajit Pawar has called for a review meeting on Sunday to take a stock of the Covid situation.” The guidelines state that if norms are not being followed, the errant establishments or people would be served notice and an appropriate penalty should be levied. “If the same situation persists for the second time, the establishment should be sealed for 15 days or the police department should file a case against the establishment concerned.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collector-issues-revised-regulations/articleshow/81117643.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Entrails found in Gittikhadan, trigger panic||NAGPUR: Internal body parts were found scattered in shrubs at a desolate place behind Ramdeobaba temple near Shree Ramdeobaba College of Engineering and Management in Gittikhadan on Friday. The place is around 200 metres away from Gittikhadan police station. Though the organs had triggered scare of a homicide, there was no confirmation till late evening. Possibility of the organs belonging to an animal was also not ruled out. A makeshift chullah using boulders, usually made for cooking outdoors, was also found in the vicinity. It’s learnt a staffer from police headquarters, which is nearby, had spotted the organs before raising an alarm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/entrails-found-in-gittikhadan-trigger-panic/articleshow/81116181.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Revanth meets Tikait, invites him to city||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Friday went to Ghazipur border, the agitation site of the farmers, and met farmers’ leader Rakesh Tikait. Revanth invited Rakesh Tikait and other farmer leaders to a public meeting to be organised by Telangana Congress in support of the farmers in Hyderbad and against the three central farm laws in March first week. Revanth said Rakesh Tikait responded positively to his request to address the public meeting. He also informed Tikait and other farmers about Rajiv Rythu Bharosa padayatras taken up by himself and other Congress leaders in Telangana in support of the farmers and said other senior leaders of the party are also expected to take up padayatras demanding MSP and procurement centres. Later, Revanth demanded that the central government immediately repeal the anti-farmer laws and said there was a need to build pressure on the Telangana government to pass a resolution in the assembly against implementation of farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-meets-tikait-invites-him-to-city/articleshow/81117646.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Bhopal||Mosquitoes bite Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, sting engineer||BHOPAL: A PWD executive engineer has been showcaused after mosquitoes and an overflowing water tank gave Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan a sleepless night at a circuit house during his visit to Sidhi to meet families of those killed in the bus tragedy. The notice, issued by Rewa divisional commissioner Rajesh Kumar Jain, asks Davendra Kumar Singh to explain why two years’ salary increment should not be withheld. When TOI contacted Jain, he initially denied having taken any action against the engineer, but when told that his notice was already doing the rounds on social media, he said, “The letter has been written but (there’s) no action so far.” Chouhan had on Wednesday met families who lost their loved ones in the bus accident in Banganga canal. He went village to village to reach out to the bereaved and said all possible relief would be provided by the government. After a long and tiring day, the CM decided to stay for the night in Sidhi. Room number 1 of the circuit house was opened for him. Officials learned the next morning that the CM spent an uncomfortable night. There were swarms of mosquitoes. And someone forgot to switch off the pump, so the tank began overflowing and the CM himself asked that it be shut, say sources. Caretakers tried to convince officers that mosquitoes had got in as the room remained open for hours due to a steady stream of visitors. A night halt was not on the chief minister’s schedule, so the rooms were not prepared, say sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mosquitoes-bite-mp-cm-sting-engineer/articleshow/81119975.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||Turnout for 1st dose takersdips to 44%||Pune: A total of 566 healthcare workers turned up to take the second dose of the Covid vaccine in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday, while 3,241 (44%) beneficiaries were administered the first dose at 79 vaccine sites. Among the receivers of first dose on Friday, as many as 2,004 were frontliners while 1,237 were healthcare workers. - In the overall tally, areas in Pune municipal limits recorded a maximum of 48% vaccination in the region, followed by the Pune rural pockets (43%) and the Pimpri Chinchwad areas (38%). “All those vaccinated with the first and second dose have been under monitoring for adverse events. None have reported any side-effects after receiving the second shot so far. Even the negligible number of people who reported minor symptoms recovered soon and are doing well,” said district health official Bhagwan Pawar. On the decline in daily vaccinations, Pawar said the government had increased the number of vaccination sites over a few days and many healthcare workers could not have reached the new centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/turnout-for-1st-dose-takersdips-to-44/articleshow/81117647.cms||Umesh Isalkar
February 20, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Has north east cracked the Covid code with next to nothing cases?||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s North-East district did not report a single new Covid-19 case on Thursday, though 5,143 people were tested, around 3,000 with the gold standard RT-PCR test. All 11 districts of Delhi have seen a sharp decline in Covid cases, but North-East has been conspicuous. On February 13, it reported only a single fresh case, then four a day later and none on February 15. It reported only two cases on February 16 and three on February 17 before logging no new cases on February 18. Pankaj Kumar, district magistrate (North-East), said the slide in positivity rate was due to sustained efforts on testing, tracing and isolation. “We have been religiously tracking the contacts of Covid-positive individuals and testing them. This has led to early detection of cases and immediate start of treatment. This played an important role in checking the spread of the infection,” said Kumar. The task hasn’t been easy because the district’s population of over two million live in dense proximity to each other. “We conduct representative tests to cover all areas from slums to planned colonies,” added Kumar. “Tests have been conducted in market places to ensure comprehensive population coverage.” The findings of the latest sero-survey showed 53.8% seroprevalence in North-East district, implying that over half the population had got infected and recovered. In the past six days, some of Delhi 11 districts have reported 10 or fewer new Covid cases in a day. In Central district, since February 11, the daily figure has remained 10 or less. The district has been focusing on conducting tests in all its areas. In the initial months of the outbreak, this district had been among those logging the highest number of cases. Among the lowest Covid cases reporting districts is Shahdara. Authorities there have recognised less than 10 daily cases since February 5. On February 6, the district reported only one positive case from the 6,292 individuals who were tested that day. On February 7, when 4,495 people were tested, only one result was positive for Covid. North is another district with very few daily Covid cases being reported. On February 5, only four of the 6,993 people who underwent the Covid test were found infected. The following day, of the 6,316 tested, just three returned positive results. The positivity rate fell to 0.04% on February 17 when the district tested 7,576 persons and only three proved to be infected. Covid deaths are also on the decline, and several of the 11 districts haven’t reported any in recent weeks. On February 17, 13 and 9, none of the districts reported Covid deaths, easing the pressure on health authorities. Arun Kumar Mishra, district magistrate (East), said that in the last 10 days, East district hadn't suffered any Covid deaths. A health department official said despite the decline in positivity rate, the authorities have been asked to ensure that people adhere to the pandemic guidelines on precautions because the Covid threat isn’t over yet and any laxity could reverse the gains made over the months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/has-north-east-cracked-the-covid-code-with-next-to-nothing-cases/articleshow/81117677.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 20, 2021||Pune||Pune: Commuters not allowed to stand and travel in buses||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), after reviewing its Covid protocol enforcement in view of the rise in infections in the city and alleged “laxity by its own staffers”, has decided not to allow any standing passengers in its buses from Saturday. PMPML’s chairman-cum-managing director Rajendra Jagtap said maintaining social distance was an issue as buses were running at full capacity. “Our focus is to ensure passengers wear masks and buses are frequently sanitized. We received a communication from the divisional commissioner on Friday in which he has asked us to control the number of passengers amidst the rise in cases. So, it has been decided that no passenger will be allowed to stand and travel in the buses,” the CMD said. A senior PMPML official said some of drivers and conductors had become casual about the norms. “With cases rising again, we have issued fresh instructions to ensure nobody should be allowed inside the buses without proper masks,” another senior PMPML official said. The number of buses would be increased by around 100, the official said. While riding from Kondhwa to Golibar Maidan and back, TOI reporter also came across several buses where many passengers were not wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/commuters-not-allowed-to-stand-and-travel-in-buses/articleshow/81117658.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Delhi fog: Flights to and from Mum hit by cascading delays||Mumbai: Over two dozen flights, including 14 arrivals to Mumbai were delayed by an average of two hours on Friday, as dense fog and poor visibility in Delhi, the busiest airport of India, sent airline schedules haywire. The cascading delays hit air passengers across the country, especially those bound for Mumbai.Mumbai-Delhi is the busiest domestic route in India with about 43 daily flights currently. “The Delhi-Mumbai arrivals scheduled post-9am were the worst hit, but the effect petered post-noon. During the day, 14 arrivals had an average delay of two hours, while nine departures were delayed by an average of 130 minutes,’’ said an aviation source. “Due to the morning fog in Delhi, flights all across the network are impacted,’’ tweeted IndiGo airline. Though fog delays are an annual feature during the winter months, this time around it brought along added anxieties due to the pandemic. “Hundreds stuck here at the gate (in Delhi airport) with no idea where to go, no updates being given…” tweeted @AudiPhotography with a photograph that showed scores of passengers huddled near a departure gate. Among the worst hit were passengers booked on Delhi-Mumbai flights scheduled to arrive in Mumbai post-10am. GoAir G8-395 with a 10.05am arrival, landed at 12.35pm; Vistara’s UK-963 and 927 were to arrive at 10.20am and 11.30am, but landed in Mumbai at 1pm and 2pm respectively. SpiceJet SG-789 landed about three hours late at 1.45pm, while IndiGo 6E-5339, scheduled at 12.15pm landed at 1.15pm and Air India AI-865 landed three hours late at 3.15pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/delhi-fog-flights-to-and-from-mum-hit-by-cascading-delays/articleshow/81118859.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||Day’s tally jumps to highest in 83 days||Pune: The daily Covid-19 cases in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) climbed to 1,015 on Friday, a tally which was last seen on November 28 last year when 1,080 people had tested positive for the infection. In comparison, just 493 recoveries were recorded in the region in the last 24 hours. With the continuous rise in cases and fewer recoveries, PMR’s active caseload jumped to 6,362 on Friday. Of these, as many as 3,892 patients are in home isolation and 2,470 admitted in hospitals across PMR. Among the new cases, the Pune municipal limits added 527, followed by the Pimpri Chinchwad civic areas (281) and the rural pockets (207), taking the PMR’s total caseload above 3.96 lakh. As for recoveries, 280 people were discharged in the PMC limits, followed by the rural areas (183) and the PCMC limits (30), taking the total recoveries above 3.81 lakh. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that six more patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Friday, taking the region’s toll to 9,171. A total of 7,908 samples were tested in the region on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-tally-jumps-to-highest-in-83-days/articleshow/81117661.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 20, 2021||Pune||Some SARS-CoV-2 variants with mutations in few samples normal: Expert||PUNE: Detecting one or two SARS-CoV-2 variants with mutations in a few samples is normal, considering that viruses mutate all the time, Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) that heads genomic surveillance consortium in India, told TOI on Friday. “Significance should not be attached to the detection of these mutations until there is a statistically valid number on the basis of which one can say that the rise in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra is due to a typical variant undergoing mutation. If the variant genome causes statistically significant rise in new cases (which are not linked with the previously circulating versions of SARS-CoV-2), then it can be said that the current increase in the affected districts is because of the variant with E484Q mutation,” Dr Singh said. The expert was speaking about genomic sequencing of four patients’ samples from Amravati showing unique mutations, including E484Q. The state health department on Friday clarified that no foreign variant of the novel coronavirus has so far been found in the emerging Covid hotspots of Amravati and Yavatmal in Maharashtra. A detailed report with a second round of genome sequencing is likely next week, said state officials. Dr Singh said NCDC had sought from the Maharashtra government representative samples from 14 districts, including Pune and Mumbai, for genome sequencing. “The samples have been received and genome sequencing is underway. Similar exercise is being carried out on samples from Kerala. Only after we get the results, we can conclude something in a week’s time about what is happening in Maharashtra and Kerala.” Dr Singh clarified that the E484Q mutation detected in some Amravati samples was not the same as mutations found in SARS-CoV-2 variants from South Africa and Brazil. On whether the detected mutations in samples from Amravati and Yavatmal could have made the SARS-CoV2 variants more transmissible or virulent, Dr Singh said, “That will have to be gauged and correlated to case specifics once genome sequencing results are out from among the 10 authorized labs recognized for this purpose. It is one thing to detect mutations in the virus, it is another thing to scientifically check if these mutations have a negative impact on disease transmissibility, virulence and mortality. Only the latter is relevant and is still being investigated.” The state health department on Friday said genome sequencing of four samples from each of the districts Amravati, Yavatmal, Satara was done at city-based B.J. Medical College and the results showed no such mutations in the virus as detected in the SARS-CoV2 variants in Britain, South Africa or Brazil. Officials said further investigations are under way in the districts of Akola, Amravati and Yavatamal. Some more samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) and the National Centre for Cell Science, Pune for genome sequencing. A detailed report is expected by next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/couple-of-sars-cov-2-variants-with-mutations-in-few-samples-is-normal-expert/articleshow/81117699.cms||Neha Madaan
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||BC groups want caste-wise enumeration in census in T||Hyderabad: The Justice Rohini Commission, set up by the Central government to look into the politically sensitive question of equitable redistribution of the 27% quota for Other Backward Castes (OBC) has reportedly proposed to categorise the OBCs into four groups of A, B, C and D. Presently, there is categorisation of the BC quota in Telangana into BC-A, B, C, D and E categories in education and employment. But there is no categorisation at the national level for 27% OBC quota, due to which some BC groups (castes) well-off on social, educational and financial fronts have been enjoying a major chunk of this quota, at the cost of other backward classes. The Rohini Commission has prepared its draft report and is expected to start the consultation process by touring various states and interacting with the stakeholders before preparing its final report. It is learnt that the Commission has proposed to categorise OBCs into four categories with 2% quota for 1,674 castes in A category, 6% for 534 castes in B category, 9% for 328 castes in C category and 10% for 97 castes in D category. The report is yet to be made public. Though various Backward Classes Welfare Associations in Telangana have welcomed the categorisation of BC groups, they said equitable redistribution of OBC quota will not be possible unless “BC caste-wise enumeration” is done. Representatives of various BC associations from Telangana are planning to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi with a request to issue orders to conduct of BC-caste wise enumeration in the ensuing census. “There are 2,633 BC castes in the country, including 130 in Telangana alone. How much percentage of reservation has to be given to these BC groups can be decided only after a scientific enumeration. Any move to divide the OBC quota based on unscientific population figures of BC castes may not stand legal scrutiny,” R Krishnaiah National, president, BC Welfare Association, told TOI. Telangana BC Sankshema Sangham leader, Jajula Srinivas Goud, said the number of BC reservation categories should be at least eight, based on their population. “The BC-caste wise enumeration was done in 1936 during British era. Though an attempt was made to enumerate caste-wise BCs in 2011 by the Congress-led UPA government, it was not a comprehensive exercise and even the report has not been made public,” he said. It is important to know the population of each of the 2,633 BC communities so as to find out which groups have enjoyed most percentage of reservations, and which deserve more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bc-groups-want-caste-wise-enumeration-in-census-in-t/articleshow/81117742.cms||Roushan Ali
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests key accused for couriering drugs to UK||Mumbai: The Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) probing smuggling of huge quantities of banned drugs to the UK through courier, arrested the key person behind the racket on Friday. The NCB arrested Hemraj Patel (31), a native of Pali in Rajasthan under various NDPS sections of possession, conspiracy in procurement, purchase and transportation. The case pertains to March last year when NCB had raided a courier service office at Marine Lines and seized 500 tablets of Diazepam,1,000 tablets of Alprazolam, 1,200 tablets of finasteride. During the course of investigations, the NCB sleuths raided Shivam Piyuz Hindia alias Sameer’s residence in Andheri and seized some more banned tablets. The accused used to send contrabands to the UK, Singapore, Ireland and USA mis declaring them contraband as medicines. During investigations it transpired that Hemraj Patel was behind the smuggling of these banned tablets. Hemraj admitted regarding contraband from two more airway bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-arrests-key-accused-for-couriering-drugs-to-uk/articleshow/81118870.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Cop behind quarantining Satranjipura takes jab||NAGPUR: Senior inspector Narendra Hiware, who was instrumental in quarantining around 1,300 residents of Satranjipura last year, this week took the Covidshield vaccine at police hospital in the city. “Around 10 months ago, our vaccines were vitamin C tablets, kadha, mask, sanitizers and steam inhalation. Insecurity and anxiety had ruled days and nights of every policeman as our colleagues were testing positive or dying,” Hiware, who joined the department in 1993, said. Hiware, now posted at Ambazari police station, was left to handle the first corona case and also the first death in Vidarbha last year at Satranjipura when the place was on the focus of national media with corona chain spreading fast in the locality. As a senior inspector of Lakadganj police station, Hiware had to protect the containment zone of the volatile Satranjipura for several weeks leading to a deployment of almost 80-100 cops round the clock. “It was a Herculean task to quarantine almost a locality and then containing it for weeks. Many of my colleagues had fallen to the Corona virus at Satranjipura but I had somehow emerged unscathed and so did my family,” he said. Hiware said after being a Covid warrior now he wants to turn to Vaccine warrior by spreading awareness about it. "After taking the vaccine, I had performed duty whole day and again had returned for the night duty too," said Hiware adding the vaccine was safe for most and none should engage in spreading rumours without having proper knowledge about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cop-behind-quarantining-satranjipura-takes-jab/articleshow/81116215.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 20, 2021||Hyderabad||Land survey in Telangana after 90 years, set to cost government Rs 600 crore||HYDERABAD: Nearly after 90 years, a comprehensive land survey will be taken up in Telangana. The digital survey is being taken up to end land disputes and also to have transparency in the land records. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced that the digital survey of farm lands would be taken up soon with land coordinates and asked the officials to float tenders for the same. Official sources said the last survey was done in Telangana in 1930s during the Nizam’s rule. A town survey was done in Hyderabad in 1970s. Since the CM announced agriculture land survey, it is likely to be taken up in nine erstwhile districts of the state except in Hyderabad. The revenue department has started gathering information how other states, such as neighbouring AP, Odisha, Rajasthan and Bihar, have done the land survey. According to the estimations of the survey department, at least Rs 600 crore to Rs 700 crore is required and it will take a minimum of two years to complete. “We are working out the modalities for the land survey. The mode of survey, technology, cost factor and other details are being looked into. The government will finalise the modalities in a couple of days before calling for expression of interest from the firms,” L Shashidhar, survey, settlement and land survey commissioner, told TOI on Friday. He said the government may opt for hybrid technologies keeping the different terrain of the state in view. Sources in the government said even in digital survey, technology will be a factor. AP had taken up a survey through drones to collect digital photographs of lands. Differential global positioning system (DGPS), electronic total station (ETS) and high resolution satellite images and lidar (light detection and ranging) survey are available. Officials said the land survey is necessary as there is no match between the land registered and land in the field. “Digitisation and demarcation of government, private and forest land will help various agencies to identify and protect government and forest land,” a joint director of revenue department said. The state government first proposed the land survey in 2017 after taking up the land records updation programme (LRUP). But, the survey could not be taken up as many land records were yet to be cleared, especially those in dispute, and because of lack of funds. Several village maps, field measurement books or tippons and sethwars, which are considered the original parent records which provide classification of the land, extent and pattadar names, are missing in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/land-survey-in-state-after-90-yrs-set-to-cost-government-rs-600cr/articleshow/81117707.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 20, 2021||Nagpur||Only 63 percent HCWs take first vaccine dose in 35 days||NAGPUR: First dose of Covid-19 vaccination of only 63% of registered healthcare workers has been completed in 11 districts of Vidarbha in 35 days since the drive started. Vaccines were given on 24 of 35 days in all districts. Vaccination was conducted only in five— Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Amravati, Washim and Yavatmal— of 11 districts of the region on Friday. Remaining six districts— Nagpur, Wardha, Gondia, Bhandara, Akola and Buldhana — did not go for inoculation citing Shivaji Jayanti holiday. The officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) said state government had suggested not to run vaccination programme on Friday it being a government holiday. Vaccination was not held on some Tuesdays and Saturdays owing regular immunization programme for children. Inoculation is also not done on Sundays it being weekend. Only 2,025 persons were vaccinated on Friday of whom 281 were healthcare workers (HCW) taking first dose, 573 took second dose and 1,171 frontline workers (FLW) took first dose. Around 1.80 lakh HCWs were registered in the region for vaccination. The state government’s deadline for completion of first dose of HCW was February 13. As on Friday, 1,13,278 (63%) had taken first dose. The achievement is less in Nagpur district compared with average of the region. Of total 45,413 registered HCWs, 25,884 (57%) have taken first dose. Second dose of 16,740 HCW was due by Friday. Only 6,872 (41%) turned up for it. The vaccination of FLWs is going on simultaneously along with first and second doses of HCW. Inoculation of FLWs started on February 5. In all, 50,503 FLWs from departments falling under ministry of housing and urban affairs, revenue and home affairs had availed the benefit as on Friday. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI, “There is a need to speed up vaccination in the region in view of rise in coronavirus cases. Second dose of HCWs and FLWs is remaining. Vaccination of people above 50 years and below 50 years with comorbidities is required urgently considering spike in cases. It will be difficult to run vaccination of all simultaneously. Another option is that the government should made available vaccine in the market so that anyone may avail it,” he said. Dr Shinde added vaccination will help in controlling the spread and reduce deaths from Covid-19. The government is yet to resume registration of HCWs whose names got missed earlier. Large number of HCWs have submitted details. Over 2,500 HCWs are waiting in Nagpur district alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-63-hcws-take-first-vax-dose-in-35-days/articleshow/81116265.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 20, 2021||Jaipur||Fake social media profile used for extortion in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Piyush Sharma, a marketing manager at a five-star hotel in Jaipur, was stunned when his friend called him to confirm that he had received a friend request on Facebook from Piyush followed by a request on messenger to deposit Rs 10,000 as he had lost his wallet in the tiger safari. Sharma, who was then vacationing in Ranthambore National Park, Sawai Madhopur, quickly searched his name on Facebook to see a fake account with his recent display picture and four common friends. An office colleague also informed him of getting similar request for money. "I understood that my identity was being used for cheating. I posted a message asking my friends not to entertain any such requests," said Sharma, who had checked in Sawai Madhopur on Facebook which made the fraudsters use his identity and current location to make it look real. The investigation by the cyber cell revealed that the bank account number shared with Sharma’s friend was registered in eastern Rajasthan. This is not the only case in the state. The cyber cell in Jaipur says that almost on daily basis they have been receiving such complaints. The complaints of fake profiles on Facebook include police officials, bureaucrats, academicians and businessmen. The latest in the series is Vimal Nehra, additional SP, Bhilwara, newly elected mayor of Ajmer Brajlata Hada and educationist Damodar Goyal. Confirming the rise in such crimes, Satpal Yadav, SHO, Special Offences and Cyber Crime Police station, says that in most of the cases digital footprint of the offender has been traced from eastern Rajasthan. "The modus operandi being used in these crimes is the same happening across the country. Here the local connection is that in most of the cases — offender’s address, bank and UPI details come from eastern Rajasthan and some specific areas in Haryana," said Yadav. Assisting police in solving these cases, Mukesh Choudhary, a cyber-crime consultant to Jaipur police says that fake profiles cannot be stopped but denying access to your friends' list can prevent majority of these cases. "Everyone, especially those who are vulnerable, should keep the privacy settings to 'only me'. Most of these cases land in IT section 66 C and D which is bailable is a reason that we have seen repeated offenders in most cases," said Choudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-mans-fake-social-media-profile-used-for-extortion/articleshow/81116252.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Pune||Garg chairman, Satpute deputy of CII Pune chapter||Pune: The Pune chapter of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has elected Deepak Garg and Parag Satpute as its new chairman and vice-chairman, respectively, on Friday at its virtually held annual session. Garg is the managing director of the Indian arm of the Chinese heavy equipment firm Sany, while Satpute heads the India operations of the tyre manufacturer Bridgestone. Garg has taken over from Alakesh Roy, who heads the India operations of Zamil Steel Buildings. The CII also invited the rural development pioneer Popatrao Pawar, who is known for his development model at the Hiware Bazaar village in regards to farming and water conservation, besides Ranjitsinh Disale, the teacher who was recognized with the Global Teacher Award recently. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/garg-chairman-satpute-deputy-of-cii-pune-chapter/articleshow/81117762.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Jaipur||CM inaugurates schemes worth Rs 158 crore in 4 assembly seats going for bypolls||Jaipur: Despite all the adverse circumstances and challenges, the state government did not allow development work to slow down, said chief minister Ashok Gehlot while addressing the inauguration ceremony of 52 development works costing Rs 33.87 and foundation stone laying for 126 development works worth Rs 124 crore at Vallabhnagar, Sahada, Rajsamand and Sujangarh assembly constituencies on Friday. He said that government’s endeavour is all-round development in every assembly constituency without any political discrimination. Remembering the late MLAs of these four assembly constituencies Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal, Kailash Trivedi, Kiran Maheshwari and Gajendra Singh Shaktawat, Gehlot said that the government will fulfill the promises made by these MLAs to the public. He added that whenever our government has been in power in the state, work has been done to strengthen the infrastructure including education, medicine and roads. Government services are easily accessible to the people sitting at home through Rajiv Gandhi Seva Kendras. Today Rajasthan is no less than any developed state in the country in terms of better roads and development. The CM said that during his previous term, there was an initiative to supply Chambal water to Bhilwara and a permanent solution was found to the water problem here. Bagheri's Naka dam was built for Rajsamand. Similarly, we strongly demand that the Central government should declare Eastern Rajasthan Canal Project (ERCP) as a project of national importance with a view to alleviate the drinking water problem of 13 districts of the state. For this, all MPs of the state should also request the Prime Minister. Gehlot said that our government laid the foundation stone for ambitious projects like refinery in the state. Work on this project could not proceed for four years at the time of the previous government. After our government came into power, we expedited the work of this project. Our effort is to complete the refinery work within the stipulated time.Speaker C P Joshi, UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal, energy and PHED minister B D Kalla, transport minister Pratap Singh Kachariyawas, medical and health minister Reghu Sharma, education minister Govind Singh Dotasra were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-inaugurates-schemes-worth-rs-158-crore-in-4-assembly-seats-going-for-bypolls/articleshow/81116275.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Jaipur||NHRC directs state to initiate inquiry into FIR delay||Jaipur: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the state government to pay Rs 2 lakh as relief for the delay in registration of FIR into the death of a student on allegations of corporal punishment in Kota.The body, acting on a complaint from the deceased’s mother on December 10, 2017, also directed the state to initiate disciplinary action against the erring police officials for the delay in the registration of FIR on the allegations of the Class 5 student’s death due to the beating by a teacher in his school in Kota.The victim’s mother in the complaint stated that her son was brutally beaten up with a bamboo stick by a teacher for not completing his homework. “When her son came back home, he was so struck by the fear of his teacher that he found it hard to recognize his mother and brother and was having hallucinations about the teacher coming to stab him with a knife. He was not eating anything,” reads the complaint. Further narrating the tale, the mother in the complaint said that they rushed to the emergency of the medical hospital college. “Here the doctor said her son was suffering from high fever and panic attack, which was also confirmed by the psychiatrist the next day,” said the complaint.The NHRC in its observation said that the boy died on December 3, 2017, and the case was registered on January 1, 2018, after the lapse of 52 days that too after the intervention of ACJM Court, Kota. Notably, the case has been investigated and police had submitted the final report which stated brain fever and lung disease as the cause of death. The NHRC observed that the non-registration of FIR by police on cognizable reported offence, in itself, is a violation of human rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nhrc-directs-state-to-initiate-inquiry-into-fir-delay/articleshow/81116269.cms||---
February 20, 2021||India||Indian monsoon system 27 million years old: Study||NEW DELHI: For decades, the evolution of the Indian monsoon has not been entirely understood. Nor have scientists decoded how it intensified and how it has varied with time, leaving gaps in how they understand a recurring climate phenomena on such a large scale. By analysing sediment from the Bay of Bengal, researchers have found that the present Indian monsoon system, as we have it now, goes back at least 27 million years. “Previous studies only went as far back as 12 million years. They used wind and vegetation data, but that would not paint a clear picture of Monsoon intensity,” corresponding author Sajid Ali from the Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeontology in Lucknow told TOI. Illustrative graphs used in study show isotope combinations in sediments and age deduction procedure.Caption: Illustrative graphs used in study show isotope combinations in sediments and age deduction procedure.“We analysed sediment from the Bay of Bengal. Change in sediment is directly linked to change in monsoon … The presence of minerals depends on the intensity of monsoon. Different minerals are formed when the monsoon is strong and others when it is weak.” For the study, to be published in Wiley journal ‘Paleoceanography and Paleoclimatology’, they collected 38 sediment samples of Bay of Bengal under Japan’s International Ocean Discovery Program, which were then analysed in Germany. Then, they studied the nano fossils (plankton which are one thousand millionth of a metre) from the bottom of the sediment deposits. “Those were found to be 27 million years old, the age we conclude for the present Indian Monsoon system,” Ali explained. To understand how stable monsoon was  — that is, the fluctuation patterns of precipitation — they conducted radiogenic isotope analysis (in which radioactive decay gives an indication of time or duration of a geological event) and then tested for the presence of clay minerals. The clay was found to have originated from the Himalayas and the Indo-Burman range. “And we found the presence of four clay minerals — illite, chlorite, smectite and kaolinite — was more than 60% in some samples. This is tied to increased weathering (wearing down) of rocks. That was around 13.9 million years ago,” Ali said. More physical weathering means more precipitation. “In other samples, the presence of clay minerals was less than 40%. That was about 9 million years ago.” Points like these on the geologic time scale are important markers of monsoon variability.  “A pronounced increase in physical erosion coincident with global cooling about 14 million years ago points to a shift in the weathering regime,” the supplementary information to the paper said. Ali said that is what they will work on next: “With high-resolution studies around these points, like 13.9 million years ago or 9 million years ago, we can explain monsoon variability better and compare it with global climate systems.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-monsoon-system-27-million-years-old-study/articleshow/81119980.cms||Rohan Dua
February 20, 2021||Jodhpur||17 army personnel awarded in Alwar||JAIPUR: An investiture ceremony was organised in Alwar on Friday to felicitate the 17 Army officers and soldiers for recognition of their acts of bravery and distinguished service to the country. In addition to this, 23 selected units of South Western Command will also be awarded the unit citations. Lieutenant General Alok Kler, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, South Western Command honoured and present gallantry and distinguished service awards, as well as unit citations. Speaking on the occasion, the Army commander congratulated those who were decorated with bravery and distinguished service. He also urged all ranks, ex-servicemen, civilians and their families to dedicate themselves in service of the Nation. Lt Gen Alok Kler later interacted with the award winners and their families and acknowledged their invaluable contribution in upholding the highest standards of professionalism of Indian Army. A large number of senior officers, distinguished dignitaries and proud families of the award winners attended the event. Naik Hemraj Jat (Grenadiers) has been conferred gallantry award posthumously. The award has been received by the next of kin. According to Army officials, in 2019, 23-year-old soldier Hemraj Jat, who hailed from Bhadoon Rooopangargh village in Ajmer district, was killed when Pakistan army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC. Hemraj joined the army in 2017 and was youngest of three siblings. He was unmarried and his family was preparing for his marriage in December 2019. Born on July 5, 1996, Hemraj was commissioned into the Indian Army on March 22, 2017. The ceremony will be attended by various senior army personnel along with the awardees and their families. Last week, the Southern Command Investiture ceremony was conducted at the Konark Corps at Jodhpur on Friday. Lieutenant General J S Nain, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Command, presented gallantry and distinguished awards to 36 Army personnel including one next of kin of a posthumous gallantry award winner N K (Late) Rajendra Singh and 22 units of Southern Command for their outstanding contribution in various fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/17-army-personnel-awarded-in-alwar/articleshow/81123413.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Mumbai||Young and familiar faces at protests turn to anonymity to avoid backlash||Mumbai: The choppy phone network does not interfere with the conviction in her thin voice. “Disha didi has a better action plan for the environment than our ministers,” said a Mumbai-based teenager who has interacted with the young Bengaluru-based like-minded activist Disha Ravi and is shaken by her arrest over an allegedly seditious farmers’ protest ‘Toolkit’.More recently, several young and familiar faces at protests have been resorting to anonymity for fear of pushback either from the institute or from the community. A lot of students are probably already self-censoring their activities after the recent spate of events, suspects PhD student Jit Hazarika from Tata Institute of Social Sciences. “We do see a lot of targeting of students leading to a marginal drop in discussions and debates over socio-political issues among our circles, which is not sign of a healthy democratic society,” said Hazarika. “Since campuses are shut, and most activities are happening online, there is a general fear that these will be controlled too. We are worried that informal discussion forums will be under scrutiny too, especially the ones where international speakers are involved,” he added. This is perhaps why creating awareness about laws is necessary, suggests a student. “If someone violates a law unknowingly, they should be informed about the law, instead of taking a harsh step,” said the student, citing the Gateway of India anti-CAA protest case of last year where not many of the 50 people who were booked were aware of the fact that Section 144 (against unlawful assembly) was always in force in south Mumbai. However, Sakshi C, another student, appears optimistic about the awareness levels following Ravi’s arrest. Asked if her parents would permit her to participate in protests, she said that it would depend on the cause. “If it is something that my family believes in, I don’t think they’ll stop me.”In the aftermath of Ravi’s arrest, parents of vocal Gen Zers in the city are a worried lot. “A lot of students, including schoolgoing children, feel strongly about climate change and have participated in rallies; their parents have been encouraging too,” said an organiser with a climate change activism group. “But, parents are now worried about students getting dragged into legal trouble and have said they would not want their children to be seen in photographs from the protest. While not many have opted out of groups yet, we will all be lying low for a bit to ensure our protests do not negatively impact the ongoing cases.”Shivrajeshwar Dhondge (18)—who has participated in various protests like Save Aarey, the anti CAA, NRC rallies and the most recent in support of farmers—said many fellow activists have over messaging groups and other mediums expressed the fear of labels. “Nobody wants to be worried about being called a terrorist for saving the planet,” said Dhondge, who manages a social media page that creates awareness about various social issues. What scares him more than the government’s “heavy-handed tactics” of “dissent suppression” is the increasing destruction of biodiversity and the loss of a liveable future. That’s why he plans to remain unfazed. “Seeing the coastal road destroying biodiversity and the livelihoods of my koli friends, seeing what’s happening in Mollem in Goa, the way forests are being destroyed is what’s keeping me going.”To many public-minded youngsters used to being snubbed by police and trolled on social media, Ravi’s arrest has not come as a surprise. “Such cases get highlighted only when it happens in the metro cities, but there are plenty of similar cases filed in smaller cities and towns,” said a PhD student, who was booked for unlawful assembly at the Gateway of India during the anti-CAA protest. He added that the arrests are usually done to “break the network or to understand the roles of significant people in the network”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/young-and-familiar-faces-at-protests-turn-to-anonymity-to-avoid-backlash/articleshow/81118878.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 20, 2021||Jaipur||Farmer leader slams Rakesh Tikait over crop remark||JAIPUR: Farmer leader and Kisan Mahapanchayat convener Rampal Jat on Friday expressed his objection to the remarks made by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait who said, “the farmers would burn their crops if they were forced to return (for crop harvesting). Slamming the leader, Jat said the leaders of the farmers’ agitation must “exercise restraint and should not make such irresponsible statements”. He also said, one should not try to “imitate Sir Chhotu Ram”, who was a peasant leader during the British rule. Tikait made this remark this while addressing a farmers’ rally at Kharak Punia in Haryana on Thursday. “Several leaders of Kisan Andolan are losing patience and dignity. If anybody considers himself a tall leader, he should exercise restraint, must be patient, dignified and responsible. Taking advantage of his position, if anyone talks about burning the crops without consulting the samyunkt morcha and issuing a statement at his personal level, is nothing but crossing one’s limit. Will he set his on farmland on fire? How can you ask the farmers to burn their crops?” Jat told TOI. “One should exercise restraint and must not lose one’s patience. When Sir Chhotu Ram gave such a call (to burn the crops) during World War II, British were ruling the country. During the second World War, the British had the requirement of a huge amount of wheat. Hence, it was done to negotiate with the British for a better price for the crops. But, neither anybody is as tall a leader as Sir Chhotu Ram nor the British are ruling the country now. Also, there is no such situation to bargain (for the price),” he added. “Despite all these, trying to imitate Sir Chhotu Ram without using one’s brain, is a wrong thing. Therefore, no leader should make any irresponsible statement just to get publicity and to remain in the public glare. They should be responsible and patient, else they will only cause harm to this agitation. It is a wrong practice,” Jat further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmer-leader-slams-tikait-for-burning-the-crops-remark-says-do-not-try-to-imitate-sir-chhotu-ram/articleshow/81116282.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Jaipur||17 army personnel awarded in Alwar||JAIPUR: An investiture ceremony was organised in Alwar on Friday to felicitate the 17 Army officers and soldiers for recognition of their acts of bravery and distinguished service to the country. In addition to this, 23 selected units of South Western Command will also be awarded the unit citations. Lieutenant General Alok Kler, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, South Western Command honoured and present gallantry and distinguished service awards, as well as unit citations. Speaking on the occasion, the Army commander congratulated those who were decorated with bravery and distinguished service. He also urged all ranks, ex-servicemen, civilians and their families to dedicate themselves in service of the Nation. Lt Gen Alok Kler later interacted with the award winners and their families and acknowledged their invaluable contribution in upholding the highest standards of professionalism of Indian Army. A large number of senior officers, distinguished dignitaries and proud families of the award winners attended the event. Naik Hemraj Jat (Grenadiers) has been conferred gallantry award posthumously. The award has been received by the next of kin. According to Army officials, in 2019, 23-year-old soldier Hemraj Jat, who hailed from Bhadoon Rooopangargh village in Ajmer district, was killed when Pakistan army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC. Hemraj joined the army in 2017 and was youngest of three siblings. He was unmarried and his family was preparing for his marriage in December 2019. Born on July 5, 1996, Hemraj was commissioned into the Indian Army on March 22, 2017. The ceremony will be attended by various senior army personnel along with the awardees and their families. Last week, the Southern Command Investiture ceremony was conducted at the Konark Corps at Jodhpur on Friday. Lieutenant General J S Nain, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Command, presented gallantry and distinguished awards to 36 Army personnel including one next of kin of a posthumous gallantry award winner N K (Late) Rajendra Singh and 22 units of Southern Command for their outstanding contribution in various fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/17-army-personnel-awarded-in-alwar/articleshow/81116286.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||CM checks ground reality of 2nd track||Vasco: Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday inspected the existing South Western Railway track to gauge the proximity of the second track to houses along the route, especially heritage ones in the villages of Cansaulim, Velsao and Pale. To get a better understanding, Sawant climbed up the hill behind the row of houses to get a vantage view of the existing track. He was informed that, to lay the second track, land on the side of the houses would have to be filled up, sources said. Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha, who accompanied Sawant, said on Friday that the chief minister noted that most of the houses have no access. “He questioned this and was informed that the only access they can resort to is across the existing SWR track,” she said. “As per the demarcations on ground, 13m from the centre of the existing SWR track is the land that is needed for laying the second track. Unfortunately, this demarcation lands, in most cases, inside the compounds of these houses ensuring that should the second track become a reality, the residents will have to move out of their houses,” Saldanha said. She said that the CM was “taken aback” with the ground reality. The villagers of Pale said that the lives of the residents of these houses will be at risk in case of any derailment/landslide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-checks-ground-reality-of-2nd-track/articleshow/81117904.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ajmer||17 army personnel awarded in Alwar||JAIPUR: An investiture ceremony was organised in Alwar on Friday to felicitate the 17 Army officers and soldiers for recognition of their acts of bravery and distinguished service to the country. In addition to this, 23 selected units of South Western Command will also be awarded the unit citations. Lieutenant General Alok Kler, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, South Western Command honoured and present gallantry and distinguished service awards, as well as unit citations. Speaking on the occasion, the Army commander congratulated those who were decorated with bravery and distinguished service. He also urged all ranks, ex-servicemen, civilians and their families to dedicate themselves in service of the Nation. Lt Gen Alok Kler later interacted with the award winners and their families and acknowledged their invaluable contribution in upholding the highest standards of professionalism of Indian Army. A large number of senior officers, distinguished dignitaries and proud families of the award winners attended the event. Naik Hemraj Jat (Grenadiers) has been conferred gallantry award posthumously. The award has been received by the next of kin. According to Army officials, in 2019, 23-year-old soldier Hemraj Jat, who hailed from Bhadoon Rooopangargh village in Ajmer district, was killed when Pakistan army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC. Hemraj joined the army in 2017 and was youngest of three siblings. He was unmarried and his family was preparing for his marriage in December 2019. Born on July 5, 1996, Hemraj was commissioned into the Indian Army on March 22, 2017. The ceremony will be attended by various senior army personnel along with the awardees and their families. Last week, the Southern Command Investiture ceremony was conducted at the Konark Corps at Jodhpur on Friday. Lieutenant General J S Nain, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Command, presented gallantry and distinguished awards to 36 Army personnel including one next of kin of a posthumous gallantry award winner N K (Late) Rajendra Singh and 22 units of Southern Command for their outstanding contribution in various fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/17-army-personnel-awarded-in-alwar/articleshow/81123415.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Maoist threat impedes vaccination drive among CRPF jawans||DALTONGANJ: For paramilitary personnel posted in remote areas of Palamu district, turning up at the state health department’s designated Covid-19 vaccination centres means risking their lives. At a time when the state health machinery is inoculating security personnel to prevent them from contracting the life-threatening viral disease, CRPF jawans camping at the forward posts in Left-wing extremism-affected Dagra and Mansurya areas are sitting tight at their posts as heading towards vaccination centres without proper security measures can make them vulnerable to ambush attacks by Maoists. “Security personnel posted at Dagra cannot move without a road opening party, where armed security personnel sweep their route for dangers such as landmines and ambush attacks,” Palamu SP Sanjeev Kumar said, adding, “We cannot vacate our posts and ferry all our men to vaccination sites for jabs at once. We have to move them in batches.” The CRPF contingent deployed at Dagra will take their vaccines at the sub-divisional hospital in Chatterpur, which is 20km away. Likewise, the contingent stationed at Mansurya will have to go to Manatu community health centre after negotiating a route that has witnessed a string of violence in the past. The exact number of CRPF personnel deployed at Dagra and Mansurya has been kept under wraps for security reasons. Kumar said the district health machinery was requested to hold vaccination camps at the CRPF’s forward posts to save them the treacherous travel. “However, our request was not accepted. Completing the vaccination of our paramilitary personnel will take time as we have to dispatch them for jabs in batches,” he told TOI. When contacted, Palamu civil surgeon Dr John F Kennedy said, “As per the health department’s instructions, health workers and frontline staff are to be administered the Covid-19 vaccines only at the designated sites, which are government-run hospitals, sub divisional hospital and community health centres.” As of Thursday night, only 52% of Palamu’s registered 9,426 frontline workers have taken the shot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/maoist-threat-impedes-vax-drive-among-crpf-jawans/articleshow/81116041.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ranchi||Congress big shots in Hazaribag for mega tractor rally against farm laws today||Ranchi: The Jharkhand unit of Congress is all set to host a mega tractor rally in Hazaribag on Saturday to lend its solidarity to the farmers who are protesting at the borders of Delhi against the Centre’s farm laws. The party’s state chief Rameshwar Oraon, AICC national in-charge for Jharkhand RPN Singh, Congress ministers in the state cabinet and its legislators are expected to take part in the rally, which will take place at Hazaribag Maidan. “It will be a massive spectacle. Farmers from Hazaribag, Koderma, Jamtara, Giridih and Ranchi will converge at Hazaribag Maidan with their tractors. We are expecting at least 5,000 people and more than 1,200 tractors at the event tomorrow (Saturday),” Irfan Ansari, Jamtara MLA and working president of Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee, told TOI. Ansari also said that his party will urge the government to bring about a resolution in the upcoming Budget session demanding a rollback of the farm laws. The party said its Saturday rally will surpass the previous tractor rally, which was held in Deoghar and Godda districts in the tribal-dominated Santhal Pargana on January 31. Congress working president Rajesh Thakur said, “It will demonstrate Congress party’s organisational strength and will send a message to the BJP-led government in the Centre that it is time for them to repeal the laws. The protests will continue till the farm laws are repealed.” The seriousness of the rally was gauged from the fact that Oraon and his five co-working presidents camped in Hazaribag on Friday to oversee the preparations. At present, the Grand Old Party has incumbent MLAs in three out of the five assembly segments under Hazaribag parliamentary constituency. “Behind the rally, there is also an intention to demonstrate that Congress has resolved its internal differences in Hazaribag and is united as one,” an office bearer said on condition of anonymity. The party’s Hazaribag rally is the second of its planned statewide protests against the farm laws. In the next phase, the party plans to take out a rally in Jamtara where farmers will hold sickles as a mark of protest. BJP on Friday took a jibe at the rally and its state spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “Farmers will be absent from the tractor rally and Congress leaders will turn up for a photo opportunity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/congress-big-shots-in-hazaribag-for-mega-tractor-rally-against-farm-laws-today/articleshow/81115923.cms||Dhritiman Ray
February 20, 2021||Surat||Acid burns mother’s organs, foetus saved||Surat: Acid that this diamond artisan’s wife consumed to commit suicide left her internal organs severely damaged. The woman succumbed after a fortnight of hospitalization, but the doctors miraculously rescued her eight-month-old baby by carrying out a cesarean surgery. On February 2, the 28-year-old woman Nirmala Sondagar, a resident of Dabholi Road, had drunk acid after a quarrel with her husband Vipul over taking their seven-year-old son for a jaunt. The family members were extremely worried as Sondagar was eight-months pregnant. They rushed her to a private hospital, and after a day when her condition did not improve, she was shifted to Venus Hospital where she was admitted in critical condition. “The C-section was challenging that the infant’s heart beats were irregular and her blood pressure was constantly fluctuating due to the injuries. It was a risky operation, but done successfully,” said Dr Niraj Patel, administrator at Venus Hospital. After successful delivery, both the infant boy and mother were in a stable condition but the family decided to shift them to another hospital. “We provided free treatment to the child under the Baal Sakha scheme,” said Dr Haresh Paghda, administrator of Diamond Hospital, where she and the infant were taken later. “The infant’s health was stable and he was discharged, but due to severe internal body damage, the life of the woman could not be saved,” Dr Paghda added. Vikram Gujariya, investigation officer, Singanpore police station, said, “The family told police that the couple’s seven-year-old son wanted to go for an outing. He was asking Nirmala to take him but she told Vipul. Vipul too refused and this led to a dispute between the couple after which she drank acid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/acid-burns-mothers-organs-foetus-saved/articleshow/81116178.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 20, 2021||Ranchi||JEE, NEET aspirants queue up before edu centres for admission||Ranchi: A day after the state government allowed coaching centres to reopen from March 1, JEE and NEET aspirants on Friday thronged the institutes, enquiring about the admission process even as some centres distributed enrolment forms. After the pandemic slammed the brakes on their dreams of becoming doctors and engineers for nearly a year, the Class XII board examinees were waiting with baited breath for coaching classes to resume. Though some of them continued nurturing their dreams of cracking the JEE and NEET by making the most of online classes conducted by a few institutes, all of them agreed that the lack of an interactive session leaves many doubts unresolved. “I had enrolled in a leading institute’s online course during the lockdown last year but you cannot solve complex topics like calculus just by attending online classes. My preparation for cracking JEE has already been comprised by 11 months because of viral outbreak and now I am not going to waste any more time. I want to get myself enrolled for physical classes at the earliest,” Class XII student and JEE aspirant Shravan Kumar said. NEET aspirant Kumar Saksham said, “Though I have been preparing for the exams at home, one cannot gain confidence unless he/she solves test papers in a time-bound manner in a classroom set-up.” He added, “I took the admission form today and will attend the preparatory classes from March 2.” The president of Jharkhand Coaching Institutes Association, Sunil Jaiswal, said the institutes’ owners are busy sanitising and making other safety arrangements at their respective campuses before reopening next month. “The government’s decision to allow us to resume operations comes as a big relief as we were on the verge of bankruptcy,” he added. “We are making arrangements for enrolling new students and for resuming classes for the ones already enrolled with us. We are constantly in touch with our students and are counselling them online as well as on call,” Paras Jaiswal, the director of Brother’s Academy here, said. Last year, as many as 15,000 students had appeared for JEE and NEET examinations in Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jee-neet-aspirants-queue-up-before-edu-centres-for-admission/articleshow/81116163.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchi schools rule out change in exam plan, to stick to online mode||Ranchi: Although the state government in a late evening order on Thursday allowed schools to reopen from Class VIII onwards, most of the educational institutions said they will go ahead with their plan to conduct the year-end examinations online. Principal of Guru Nanak Senior Secondary School Manohar Lal said, “There will be no change in the examination plan of our school and several others. The dates of tests have already been announced.” Lal also said this time, his school will emphasise more on multiple choice questions (MCQ) than subjective types. During the examinations, students will be divided into smaller groups for closer monitoring by teachers. Principal of Jawahar Vidya Mandir, Shyamali, Samarjit Jana echoed Lal and said their online examination mode will begin from February 26. He said, “After taking part in online classed for the entire session, students may lack the writing ability and endurance for taking offline examinations.” He said students of Class VIII onwards can come to the school with their parents’ permission for understanding a topic, but they must follow Covid norms within and outside the school premise. It may be stated here that JVM students have to answers questions within a time frame. They would write the long answers either on the screen or on paper and upload photographs. The examinees have been asked to keep their cameras switched on while writing the examinations for proper surveillance. Amardeep Sinha, a teacher at Delhi Public School, said his institution will conduct the examination online and students will have to send the answer sheets to the school in PDF format via email. Sources informed Bishop Westcott group is preparing for online MCQ-based questions for the finals, but will also take into consideration the marks obtained during the other assessments. DAV Hehal faculty Prabhat Kumar said the school will take a decision as per the SOPs and guidelines of issued by the government. “Most probably, the examinations will be held offline,” he said. The management of Don Bosco School is also preparing to conducting offline examinations in March for senior classes. Meanwhile, St Xaviers’ School, Doranda is yet to finalise the mode and will work in accordance with the directions of the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations. (With inputs from Kusum Chakravarty)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-schools-rule-out-change-in-exam-plan-to-stick-to-online-mode/articleshow/81116186.cms||Sanjay Sahay
February 20, 2021||Ranchi||HC rejects Lalu’s bail plea, says RJD chief is 2 months short of half jail term||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court on Friday rejected the petition for suspension of sentence of RJD chief Lalu Prasad on the ground that he is yet to complete two more months of his jail term to complete half the tenure of his total sentence in the animal husbandry case pertaining to the Dumka treasury. Although Lalu’s counsel and former Union minister Kapil Sibal argued before the court of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh through video conferencing that his client has completed 42 months in custody, which is half of the maximum sentence in the case, making him eligible to file a petition, CBI counsel Rajiv Sinha said the period of custody has not been properly computed. Earlier, while hearing the case, the bench had asked for the entire order sheet of the trial court to ascertain the exact period of Lalu’s detention. Upon scrutiny, it was found that Lalu is falling short by two months from the half mark of the maximum sentence imposed on him. Sibal further argued that the other convicted persons in the case — Dayanand Kashyap, Jagdish Sharma and Sunil Kashyap — have been released earlier. However, the court said Lalu’s involvement is more serious than the co-convicts and their release cannot be a ground of parity for Lalu. Lalu has been in custody since his conviction by a special CBI court in Ranchi in the animal husbandry case pertaining to fake withdrawals from the Dumka treasury. He has been in jail since December 2017. Lalu was the reigning chief minister of unified Bihar at the time and was also in-charge of the finance portfolio of the then Bihar government. Charges against Lalu are that he being the chief minister of erstwhile Bihar had allowed financial irregularities leading to fraudulent withdrawals of Rs 3.13 crore from the Dumka treasury. Lalu being in the helm of affairs of the Bihar government was aware of the anomaly and yet did not take any action to prevent such withdrawals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hc-rejects-lalus-bail-plea-says-rjd-chief-is-2-months-short-of-half-jail-term/articleshow/81115789.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ranchi||Street plays to create awareness on forest fire prevention||Jamshedpur: With relaxation in the Covid guidelines, the management of Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary (DWS) has decided to organise street plays to spread awareness among communities living in the premise on preventing forest fires. They said locals will be involved extensively to make the initiative a success. “We have also decided to put up posters with awareness messages. Fire watchers have also been deployed at 21 different points who will coordinate with the local forest guards for quick response in dousing flames in the event of a forest fire. After receiving a fire alert SMS through the satellite of the Forest Survey of India, the forest guards will coordinate with the quick response teams for action,” said Dalma DFP Abhishek Kumar. Although there has been no major wildfire incident in Dalma in the last few years, but small instances of are reported in the sanctuary during the summer months almost every year. A team of forest officials will also be equipped with blower machines to remove dry leaves. The DFO said negligently discarded buds of cigarettes and bidis, by the people who walk into the sanctuary either for livelihood or for leisure, cause fires. Burning of dry leaves by villages in the foothills also cause forest fires. “During Mahashivratri, devotees burn discarded tyres to light up the stretch while walking up to Dalma Pahar Shiv Mandir. This increases the risk of fires. Hence, adequate lighting will be done so that devotees do not have to burn tyres,” said a forest guard preferring anonymity. He informed devotees in thousands walk up to the temple from Makalakocha and Phaludgoda entry points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/street-plays-to-create-awareness-on-forest-fire-prevention/articleshow/81116095.cms||B Sridhar
February 20, 2021||Rajkot||Two cops caught ferrying liquor||Palanpur: Two constables posted with the local crime branch unit of Aravalli police were arrested for smuggling liquor in a car on Friday. Police also arrested one other person Shah Rukh who had aided the cops — Imran Shaikh and Pramod Pandya. Liquor worth Rs 1.2lakh was seized from the boot space of the car. According to police, the incident came to light when the car that the accused cops were driving went off-road and turned turtle. This is when the liquor bottles kept inside the boot space tumbled out. Police said that the two cops along with their aide were booked and Prohibition Act. He added that a departmental inquiry will also be undertaken against the two cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-cops-caught-ferrying-liquor/articleshow/81115917.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ranchi||Passengers at airports, rly stations to undergo Covid test||Ranchi: Following a recent spike in cases being reported in Maharashtra and in Kerala, the state government has decided to test all incoming passengers at airports and railway stations for Covid-19. “We have already installed testing facilities at airports and railway stations as per government orders. If required, we might ramp up testing in other areas of the state as well,” Dr Ravishankar Shukla, MD (Jharkhand unit) of National Health Mission, said on Friday. In addition to this, the state health department is also planning to roll out fresh and modified protocols to keep the infection spread in check before the relaxations announced by chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday come into effect from March 1. The proposed modification in protocols might include increased testing in several districts and announcement of additional precautions for containing the spread, sources said. After having contained the virus spread considerably and bringing the cases down to double digits, the state government is not taking any chances regarding its surveillance programme. A few months ago, when some people tested positive for the UK virus strain in other parts of the country, the state integrated disease control programme cell alerted all its surveillance units to maintain a strict vigil on those flying into Jharkhand from abroad. The IDSP cell had directed all the laboratory in-charges at government-run RT-PCR labs to test the suspected carriers, and those who came in contact with them, for genome surveillance every month. “Samples of any international traveller testing positive for Covid-19 should be stored properly and should be sent to the Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar for testing,” read a letter issued by IDSP state surveillance officer Dr Ajit Dayal. Dr Praveen Karn, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, said, “Since December 23, a total of 108 passengers have returned from United Kingdom and 138 samples, including the ones the returnees came in contact with, were collected for genome surveillance. None of them tested positive and so far, we do not have any cases of the new virus strain in Jharkhand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/passengers-at-airports-rly-stations-to-undergo-covid-test/articleshow/81115750.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 20, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 51 fresh cases, 51 recoveries||Ranchi: The number of active Covid cases in the state continued to be 467 as Jharkhand recorded 51 fresh infections and a similar number of recoveries on Friday. Meanwhile, the state did not report any casualty on Friday. The fresh infections reported on Friday came from eight districts. Of the new infections, 28 were recorded in state capital Ranchi, followed by East Singhbhum with 17 cases. The remaining six districts reported cases in single digits. As per data provided by the government, as many as 1,19,528 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,17,977 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 98.70%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.03% against the national average of 0.06%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 2364.73 days against the national figure of 1183.24 days. Meanwhile, a total of 8,646 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Friday, which included 6,944 persons who were administered the first dose and 1,702 who were administered the second dose. The overall coverage for Thursday among first-dose recipient was 35%, while it was 59% for beneficiaries who took the jab for the second time. The cumulative figures for vaccination as of Friday stood around 68% for first dose beneficiaries while it was 72% for those who took the second dose. A total of 273234 out of 403679 have received their first dosage across the state while 9718 out of 13446 have completed their inoculation by taking second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-records-51-fresh-cases-51-recoveries/articleshow/81115876.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Congress soaks in water supply past||VADODARA: When Congress leaders in the eastern and southern parts of the city went out for canvassing, they made it a point to talk about ‘water history’, emphasizing more on the Congress rule era in Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) when water charges were far lower and clean water was available twice or thrice a day. Politics over water flowed on expected lines as towards the end of 2019 parts of eastern and southern Vadodara started receiving turbid and yellow coloured water. In fact, chemicals used to take care of this only worsened things increasing turbidity. It eventually came to light that faults in the Nimeta filtration plant that purifies water from Ajwa reservoir had led to the situation. While desperate measures were taken up to take care of the problems, the unprecedented scale on which these took place ensures that it is not forgotten easily. Congress has tried its best to capitalize on the issue. It remains to be seen if it bears results more than a year after it has been taken care of. VMC officials said that the issue of quality of water supply from Nimeta plant has been taken care of completely now. “We worked even during the lockdown to ensure that the problems there were taken care of,” said VMC’s in-charge executive engineer for water works Amrut Makwana. Makwana pointed out that the VMC was prepared to handle the water requirements for around 25 years. Besides the existing facilities, the water supply project drawing water from Mahi river at Sindhrot was also nearing completion. “We can draw 300MLD water from the river. Presently, we will set up a filtration plant of 150MLD and draw from it,” said Makwana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/congress-soaks-in-water-supply-past/articleshow/81116729.cms||---
February 20, 2021||India||PFI activist says ‘do not pay for temple’, booked||BENGALURU/ MANGALURU: Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday that a case has been filed against Anis Ahmed, general secretary of Popular Front of India (PFI), after he allegedly asked Muslims not to offer donations for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.  “The statement is not only irresponsible but also anti-national, aimed at creating divisions among people,” Bommai said. At a rally in Ullal on Wednesday, Ahmed reportedly urged Muslim businessmen and shopkeepers not to give a single penny for the temple construction in Ayodhya. “It is not Ram Mandir. It is an RSS Mandir. Just boycott them like you boycotted the NRC (National Register of Citizens),” he reportedly said. On Thursday, Mangaluru police registered two FIRs against PFI activists. “PFI has shown its true colour by speaking ill of Ram Mandir,” Bommai told reporters in Bengaluru. The home minister said the mandir is being constructed following a Supreme Court verdict. “He (Ahmed) has spoken badly about the RSS which is the most patriotic organisation,” Bommai said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pfi-activist-says-do-not-pay-for-temple-booked/articleshow/81119981.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||‘Need panchayats’ view on draft coastal plan by Feb 26’||Panaji: The state government has directed the panchayats to compare the draft Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) prepared by the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM) with their own and submit their objections and suggestions by February 26 as it will help finalise the CZMP in a smooth manner. Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) member secretary Dasharath Redkar said that the panchayats were requested to submit their draft Coastal Zone Management Plan and 126 of them have submitted their draft Coastal Zone Management Plan to the authority. He said that the draft CZMP prepared by panchayats were forwarded to the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management. Now, the NCSCM has submitted the draft Coastal Zone Management Plan for the state as per CRZ Notification 2011. The said draft plan for the respective villages have been provided in hard copies to the panchayats and also are available on the Goa Coastal Zone Management website, the member secretary told TOI. “The panchayats can email their suggestions and objections to us,” he said. The public hearing for finalisation of the draft plan has been scheduled for March 7 from 10am to 7pm. In North Goa, the hearing will take place at the Community Hall, Taleigao, while in the South, it will be at Ravindra Bhavan, Margao. TOI was the first to report that the state would receive the draft plan from the NCSCM and it will then be kept for public hearing. The district-level maps are available at the office of both collectors, while the village-level maps are available at the respective panchayat offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-panchayats-view-on-draft-coastal-plan-by-feb-26/articleshow/81117933.cms||Murari Shetye
February 20, 2021||Goa||Goa: After 17 years, court acquits man accused of murder||COLVA: Additional Sessions court on Thursday acquitted one Rahul Ramprakash Sharma charged with murder of one Pramod Soni back in December 2004. Both were employed in a hotel in Colva. The motive for the murder of his colleague was that both — the accused and victim — were interested in the same girl. Over an argument Sharma stabbed Soni, who succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment. During the trial Sharma fled from the Sada jail in 2006 by cutting the ventilation grill. This had brought the trial to a grinding halt. In August 2019, Goa police, with the help of Madhya Pradesh police, nabbed the accused and brought him back to Goa. The case was investigated by Jivba Dalvi who was then PSI posted at Colva police station. The prosecution examined 26 witnesses in support of their case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-17-yrs-court-acquits-man-accused-of-murder/articleshow/81117982.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||From Apr 1, GIDC to implement 7th pay commission||Panaji: Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) on Friday decided to implement the 7th pay commission for all GIDC employees, which will see wages increase by 12-15% for the 133 workers employed with the corporation. Employees will see their wages reach on par with the recommendations of the 7th pay commission from April 1 onwards, but a decision on arrears will be taken at a later stage. The decision to implement the 7th pay commission was taken at GIDC’s board meeting where industries minister Vishwajit Rane was also present. The board decided to drop the earlier decision that had resolved to implement the 7th pay commission only after the SEZ land was sold. “The 7th pay commission matter is with the government, but the board has decided that it will be effective from April 1 on a prospective basis. Arrears will be released at a later stage as we haven’t decided yet,” said GIDC managing director Derrick Pereira Neto. At present, GIDC incurs a monthly wage burden of Rs 1.23 crore for its 133 employees and with the implementation of the 7th pay commission, GIDC’s wage bill will increase by Rs 18 lakh per month. “The decision that 7th pay is to be given only when the SEZ land is auctioned has been dropped,” said Neto. The GIDC board also decided to enhance land rates for new industrial plots by 10%. The move will impact entrepreneurs who apply for new industrial plots and will not change the present lease rent that GIDC collects. “Revision of new industrial plot rates haven’t been done for the last three years. The industry had asked for a lower rate, but the board finally decided on 10%,” said a board member. The GIDC board also deliberated over reviving lapsed posts and new recruitments. It also toyed with a proposal to allot a plot at Verna Industrial Estate, which had been earmarked for a trauma care centre, for other purposes. The move was resisted by some of the board members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-apr-1-gidc-to-implement-7th-pay-commission/articleshow/81118052.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||India||PM to discuss with CMs today plan to make India a manufacturing hub||NEW DELHI: : Making India a manufacturing hub through changes and reforms at the state level along with “ reimagining agriculture”, which includes a revamped cropping pattern with a focus on exports, will be key aspects of the “National Development Agenda” that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will discuss with state chief ministers at governing council meeting of Niti Aayog on Saturday. While most chief ministers are expected to attend the meeting, West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee and Punjab’s Captain Amarinder Singh may skip the discussions. Along with manufacturing and the farm sector, the agenda also has a significant focus on health infrastructure especially at the primary level and improving service delivery at the grassroots. The meeting is also expected to deliberate measures to reduce compliance burden through business process reforms and cutting logistics costs to boost exports. “The thrust is to create jobs, “ said a source. The Council will discuss in detail the need to reimagine agriculture with a focus on diversification of crops, water conservation and food processing aimed at exports. Issues linked to shoring up physical infrastructure through the National Infrastructure pipeline and PPP projects will also discussed.  It will also examine ways to improve Human Resource development, skilling and upskilling and mapping requirement of resources globally. The agenda also includes improving urban infrastructure, digital connectivity and delivery of services through Bharat Net network. Against the backdrop of the pandemic, extensive discussion is expected on the healthcare and nutrition and targeted integrated approach to medicine, the source said. The Governing Council presents a platform to discuss inter-sectoral, inter-departmental and federal issues. It comprises the PM, chief ministers of states and UTs, with Legislatures and Lt Governors of other UTs. The sixth meeting will witness the entry of Ladakh for the first time, in addition to the participation of Jammu and Kashmir as a UT. This time, other UTs headed by administrators have also been invited to join.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-to-discuss-with-cms-today-plan-to-make-india-a-manufacturing-hub/articleshow/81119985.cms||Surojit Gupta
February 20, 2021||Goa||‘Will list Goa’s needs at Niti Aayog meet’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that he will mention at the Niti Aayog meeting about the state’s requirement for infrastructure development, grants, sustainable development besides future challenges.  Speaking to mediapersons, Sawant said that a review of the decisions is being done at the meeting including the 15th finance commission.  He said that a detailed letter has already been sent to the Aayog about the issues faced by the state. “We have made all preparations for the meet scheduled on Saturday,” he said. The meeting will continue till 6pm wherein all the chief ministers will put up their views. “This year, the meeting will be virtual,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-list-goas-needs-at-niti-aayog-meet/articleshow/81118090.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||CII wants state budget to focus on infra||Panaji: Goa needs to be developed as an education hub, but the state government needs to create adequate infrastructure for it, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) stated in its recommendations for the state budget. CII also suggested tie-ups in key sectors such as pharmaceutical, tourism and manufacturing. Chief minister Pramod Sawant met with a CII delegation, which submitted a 10 page document with budgetary recommendations for nine sectors, including education, tourism, healthcare, mining and startups. CII has recommended that the state government should setup an institute of national importance, especially a National Institute of Design by earmarking space for such an institute. Such an institute would drive the creation of skilled manpower, CII stated. CII’s Goa chapter stated that it is important to upgrade the infrastructure at all the 20 industrial estates in Goa. Improvements would require a command and control center with security surveillance, efficient waste disposal, sewage treatment facilities, wide roads, trucks and containers terminals, housing for migrant labour, reliable power supply and a fire hydrant system for all industrial estates. “Industrial Utilities Facilitation Scheme, which is long pending, should be announced immediately and subsidy should be provided to units who make their own arrangements for infrastructure to get power connection up to 100 HP,” CII’s budget recommendation stated. CII has once again called for a reliable and cost-effective public transport system. It stated that there is a need to connect all industrial estates to major towns with bus services. CII also reiterated the need for better internet connectivity in the state. For the tourism sector, CII has recommended that all licences should be renewed for a period of five years instead of annually. CII has also called for the Goa Tourism Board to be notified after suggested changes are made to the constitution of the board so that Goa can be promoted as a safe tourism destination. The recommendations state that there should be adequate budetary provisions to obtain Blue Flag certification for five beaches and for effective beach management to tackle hawkers and shacks. CII asked the government to formulate a scheme to help restore Goan homes which can then be converted into homestays. CII has recommended that barges should be exempted from barge tax and that the state government should “repeatedly follow up” with the Centre for a legislative cure to ensure resumption of mining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cii-wants-state-budget-to-focus-on-infra/articleshow/81118153.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Goa||Provedoria officials to explore another site for new block||Panaji: Heritage lovers and concerned citizens met with Santa Cruz MLA Antonio Fernandes and Institute of Public Assistance (Provedoria) officials on Friday and urged them to shift the proposed new Provedoria block away from the protected ruins of the Church and Convent of Mount Carmel at Chimbel. Officials assured Fernandes and the Mount Carmel Conservation Association of Chimbel that the government would explore the possibility of constructing the new block at a site close to the old Provedoria block where land is available. Fernandes claimed that he had been not been informed about the government’s plan to construct the new block in close proximity to the heritage site. “I am not against the project, and since there is land next to the Provedoria, the project can come up there.” GFP president and former town and country planning minister Vijai Sardesai has criticised the state government for not protecting the ruins of the Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church at Chimbel. Sardesai, during his tenure as TCP minister, had started the process to protect the site. Sardesai said that it is the government’s basic duty to protect heritage sites and not “tear down our history”. He said he would stand with the people of Chimbel who aim to protect the ruins. “On June 23, 2019, TCP’s heritage maintenance committee had taken a resolution to protect the site as a heritage site. When Chandrakant Kavlekar was sworn-in as the TCP minister, it was his duty to honour that resolution and protect this heritage site. It has to be preserved at all cost,” said GFP’s employee wing convenor John Nazareth. Fernandes claims that he has spoken to Provedoria minister Milind Naik and expressed reservations about the construction. “I spoke to the provedoria minister and he said that they are ready to shift it. The topic will be closed regarding the land next to the ruins,” said Fernandes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/provedoria-officials-to-explore-another-site-for-new-block/articleshow/81118314.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Chennai||Chennai reservoirs are brimming, have enough water for a year||CHENNAI: The city's reservoirs are brimming. On Friday, two months since the rain stopped, the five facilities together had a storage level of more than 11 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft). Water managers have been continuing piped supply of 830 million litres a day (MLD) - 620 MLD in the core areas and 110 MLD in the added areas. A senior Metrowater official said that of the 255 MLD drawn from the Red Hills reservoir, 141MLD came after treatment from the Kilpauk plant, 108 MLD from the Puzhal plant and 6 MLD from the Surapet plant. From Chembarambakkam, Metrowater draws 258 MLD. The adequate storage levels have ensured that Metrowater needs only 36 MLD from the Nemmeli desalination plant and 85 MLD from the Minjur plant, said the authorities. On Friday, the Poondi reservoir had 3,101 mcft (million cubic feet) against the capacity of 3,231 mcft, Cholavaram 880 mcft against a capacity of 1,081 mcft, Red Hills 3,208 mcft against the capacity of 3,300 mcft and Chembarambakkam, the biggest, had 3,325 mcft against the capacity of 3,645 mcft. The fifth reservoir at Kannankottai Thervoykandigai in Tiruvallur had 498 mcft against the capacity of 500 mcft. Veeranam lake in Cuddalore district, from where Metrowater draws 150 MLD, had a storage of 347 mcft against the capacity of 1,465 mcft, the official said. The available water is sufficient to quench the city's thirst for a full year without any difficulty, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-reservoirs-are-brimming-have-enough-water-for-a-year/articleshow/81120008.cms||P Oppili
February 20, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Saurabh Patel, Dilip Sanghani make surprise visit||VADODARA: State energy minister Saurabh Patel and former minister Dilip Sanghani sprung a surprise on Friday by arriving in the city for the election rally in ward 10 of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). Even the local unit of the BJP was caught unaware regarding the visit. Sources in the party said that Patel and Sanghani had come for the rally that traversed throughout ward 10 as they were close to former BJP corporator Nitin Donga, who was awarded a ticket again. It is believed that they may also have played a key role in ensuring Donga was repeated on the seat. Besides local party members not being aware of the visit, what perplexed many was that there was no need for campaigning by heavyweights as the seat was safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/saurabh-patel-sanghani-make-surprise-visit/articleshow/81116776.cms||---
February 20, 2021||India||ED attaches assets of Rs 281 crore in case tied to ex-CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda||NEW DELHI: : In a Gurgaon land grab and money laundering case worth over Rs 1,500 crore, the ED on Tuesday attached properties worth over Rs 281 crore. The total attachment in the case, in which former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda is one of the accused, has crossed Rs 390 crore. Three chargesheets have also been filed in the case so far. The land scam in Manesar, Gurgaon is related to an acquisition order issued by the Haryana government in 2005 when Hooda was CM. The notification was issued for acquisition of 912 acres for setting up a model industrial township in Manesar and villages in Gurgaon. “A large number of land owners, in haste, had to sell about 400 acres at throwaway price to private builders and thereby caused a wrongful loss of Rs 1,500 crore to the land owners,” an ED official said. It claimed the land was later “freed from compulsory acquisition by the state government as a result of conspiracy by politicians, bureaucrats and private builders”. A prosecution complaint (chargesheet) and two supplementary chargesheets have already been filed by the agency. Most of the land was purchased by companies controlled by Atul Bansal, according to ED. In the fresh order, ED has attached Bansal’s stakes in Dove Infrastructure Pvt Ltd worth Rs 109 crore; Business Bay Project of Seriatim Land &Housing Pvt Ltd worth Rs 78 crore; flats and FDR; Rs 25.53 crore refunds from HSIIDC and 20 acres and 20 flats in Frontier Home Developers worth about Rs 52 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-attaches-assets-of-281cr-in-case-tied-to-hooda/articleshow/81120009.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||Unseasonal showers likely to continue for next 3 days||Panaji: Many parts of Goa received brisk showers accompanied by thunder and lightning as the cloud-formation driven by a trough intensified on the second day, bringing relief from the heat. IMD has forecast light rain for three days. Locals in Quepem and Shiroda claimed that there was a hailstorm. They said they experienced small hailstones some of which were collected before they melted off. “We are waiting for a confirmation about the hailstorm,” Rahul M, scientist, India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji said. While a few parts of the state received light showers during last 24 hours till Friday morning, the only station among 13 that recorded more rainfall was Panaji with 0.2mm of rain till Friday morning. Figures for rainfall in Sakhali and Valpoi were not available. The rain activity increased by Friday afternoon as the trough from north Kerala to central Maharashtra and the circulation over central Maharashtra continued to persist. The sky was heavily overcast in most parts of the state. While the rain brought relief from the heat, concerns were being raised about the fate of the mango, cashew and other crops in the flowering stage. On Friday, IMD had issued a nowcast by early evening about moderate thunderstorm at a few places over south Goa and isolated places over north Goa. As per the forecast for next three to four days in both districts, light rain with thunder showers is very likely on Saturday but the weather is likely to be dry during the three subsequent days. “The trough will weaken and we can expect some cloudy weather but not such intense spell,” the scientist said. During the last month there had been a spell of light rain for a few days, including heavy showers on one of the days. With summer set to start in barely 10 days, the brief wet spell disrupted a week of mild chill when minimum the temperature had dropped a degree below normal to around 19 degrees celsius during mid-February. “The maximum temperature was also normal, between 31 to 32 degrees celsius during this period,” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unseasonal-showers-likely-to-continue-for-next-3-days/articleshow/81118396.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 20, 2021||Goa||Unseasonal showers wash over many parts of Goa||PANAJI: Many parts of Goa received brisk showers accompanied by claps of thunder and lightning as the cloud-formation driven by a trough intensified on the second day, bringing relief from the heat. Locals in Quepem and Shiroda claimed that there was a hailstorm but there was no confirmation. “We are waiting for a confirmation about the hailstorm,” Rahul M, scientist, IMD, Panaji said. While a few parts of the state received light showers during last 24 hours till Friday morning, the only station among 13 that recorded more rainfall was Panaji with 0.2mm of rain till Friday morning. Figures for rainfall in Sakhli and Valpoi were not available. The rain activity increased by Friday afternoon as the trough from north Kerala to central Maharashtra and the circulation over central Maharashtra continued to persist. The sky was heavily overcast in most parts of the state, triggering light to moderate rainfall for some time. While this brought relief from the heat, concerns were being raised about the fate of the mango, cashew and other crops in the flowering stage. The Indian meteorological department, (IMD) Panaji has forecast light rain for three days. On Friday, IMD had issued a nowcast by early evening about moderate thunderstorm at a few places over south Goa and isolated places over north Goa and even a hailstorm in isolated places. As per the forecast for next three to four days in both districts, light rain with thunder showers is very likely on Saturday but the weather is likely to be dry during the three subsequent days. “The trough will weaken and we can expect some cloudy weather but not such intense spell,” the scientist said. During the last month there had been a spell of light rain for a few days, including heavy showers on one of the days. With summer set to start in barely ten days, the brief wet spell disrupted a week of mild chill when minimum the temperature had dropped a degree below normal to around 19 degrees Celsius during mid-February. “The maximum temperature was also normal, between 31 to 32 degrees Celsius during this period,” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unseasonal-showers-wash-over-many-parts-of-goa/articleshow/81118366.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Gurgaon||Delhi-NCR sees highest demand for affordable homes||GURUGRAM: The realty sector, which has been passing through a rough phase for the past few years, is gaining momentum in Delhi-NCR with improved demand and supply in the affordable housing segment. As far as demand is concerned, affordable housing — which includes units with a price of less than Rs 45 lakh — has seen the highest preference after the pandemic hit the country, according to a survey by property consultant Anarock. Affordable houses accounted for 40% of the demand in 2020, against 31% before Covid-19 — an increase of 9%. Out of the total affordable housing demand across the country, nearly 38% was from Delhi-NCR, followed by Kolkata (21%). In Delhi-NCR cities, Gurugram had a share of 32% of the total demand, followed by Greater Noida (24%). As many as 79,840 affordable units were launched in Delhi-NCR between 2018 and 2020. Out of this, nearly 50% was in the affordable segment. Last year saw a total supply of 18,540 units, out of which affordable housing comprised a share of 61%. Anarock vice-chairman Santhosh Kumar said the supply was in sync with demand. Gurugram has the highest supply of affordable housing — out of the 11,180 new units launched last year, 6,590 were in the affordable segment. The city is followed by Faridabad with 3,050 affordable units, and Greater Noida and Bhiwani with 900 units each. Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida added no unit in the affordable segment. On the demand side too, Gurugram is at the top with 32%, followed by Greater Noida (24%), Noida (18%) Delhi (12%), Ghaziabad (8%) and Faridabad (6%). As per the latest amendment to the Affordable Housing Policy, 2013, one car parking space for each dwelling unit is now free, which means a buyer gets the additional facility at no extra cost. “Moreover, the increase in project area limit by the state government through this amendment would also lead to many reputed real estate players to come forward and develop affordable houses that have always been in demand. Another boost to the sector is the increase in the commercial area in a project, which means more margins to developers struggling with low profits,” said Surinder Singh, director of GLS Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ncr-sees-highest-demand-for-affordable-homes/articleshow/81119111.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||New reforms to help excise dept match last yr’s revenue collection||Panaji: The excise department is confident of matching last year’s revenue collection of Rs 487 crore by the end of this financial year. Reforms introduced by the excise department, such as extension of validity of liquor licences from a year to five years, has contributed towards the rising revenue collection, a source said. The first six months of the current financial year proved to be dull due to the pandemic, but revenue collection picked up once the state opened for tourists and other commercial activities began. “Revenue collection is slightly less compared to last fiscal year, but we hope to bridge the shortfall by the end of the financial year,” said excise commissioner Shashank Mani Tripathi. After the liquor licence validity period was extended to five years, many have applied to avail the same. The government has also offered a 10% rebate to applicants applying for the five-year licence, which will remain in force till the end of next month, Tripathi said. The applications of the entities or individuals against whom any police complaint or any other complaint is pending, he said, will not be granted a five-year licence until the complaints are resolved. The reform will also be extended to temporary shacks that are set up during the tourist season. Since the validity of a licence issued by the tourism department for setting up a beach shack is three years, the excise commissioner said the liquor licences issued to beach shacks will also be valid for three years. More reforms are in the pipeline, and they will be rolled out once the government approves them. The travel and tourism association of Goa (TTAG), an association of hotels, tour operators and others, had been demanding the government licence period be extended as part of ease of doing business (EDB). Over the past few years, the excise department has shifted its various services online, thus reducing paperwork and offering speedy service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-reforms-to-help-excise-dept-match-last-yrs-revenue-collection/articleshow/81118431.cms||Bindiya Chari
February 20, 2021||Faridabad||Delhi-NCR sees highest demand for affordable homes||GURUGRAM: The realty sector, which has been passing through a rough phase for the past few years, is gaining momentum in Delhi-NCR with improved demand and supply in the affordable housing segment. As far as demand is concerned, affordable housing — which includes units with a price of less than Rs 45 lakh — has seen the highest preference after the pandemic hit the country, according to a survey by property consultant Anarock. Affordable houses accounted for 40% of the demand in 2020, against 31% before Covid-19 — an increase of 9%. Out of the total affordable housing demand across the country, nearly 38% was from Delhi-NCR, followed by Kolkata (21%). In Delhi-NCR cities, Gurugram had a share of 32% of the total demand, followed by Greater Noida (24%). As many as 79,840 affordable units were launched in Delhi-NCR between 2018 and 2020. Out of this, nearly 50% was in the affordable segment. Last year saw a total supply of 18,540 units, out of which affordable housing comprised a share of 61%. Anarock vice-chairman Santhosh Kumar said the supply was in sync with demand. Gurugram has the highest supply of affordable housing — out of the 11,180 new units launched last year, 6,590 were in the affordable segment. The city is followed by Faridabad with 3,050 affordable units, and Greater Noida and Bhiwani with 900 units each. Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida added no unit in the affordable segment. On the demand side too, Gurugram is at the top with 32%, followed by Greater Noida (24%), Noida (18%) Delhi (12%), Ghaziabad (8%) and Faridabad (6%). As per the latest amendment to the Affordable Housing Policy, 2013, one car parking space for each dwelling unit is now free, which means a buyer gets the additional facility at no extra cost. “Moreover, the increase in project area limit by the state government through this amendment would also lead to many reputed real estate players to come forward and develop affordable houses that have always been in demand. Another boost to the sector is the increase in the commercial area in a project, which means more margins to developers struggling with low profits,” said Surinder Singh, director of GLS Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/ncr-sees-highest-demand-for-affordable-homes/articleshow/81120173.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||Goa: Congress cycles to protest fuel hike||SALIGAO: Irked by the rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG, the Bardez taluka youth Congress organised a cycle rally to highlight the plight of citizens. The cycle rally which commenced at Bodgeshwar temple culminated near Gandhi Chowk saw a large number of youth participating. They held placards and protested fuel price hike. The rally was supported by youth Congress president Varad Mardolkar, former Calangute MLA Agnelo Fernandes, former Mapusa councillor Sudhir Kandolkar, Aldona block Congress members and others. The group also shouted slogans against the government. Kandolkar said, “As the prices are hiked, vehicular traffic is adversely affected and poor people will not be able to afford it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-cycles-to-protest-fuel-hike/articleshow/81118453.cms||---
February 20, 2021||India||No foreign strain found in hotspots, says Maha||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra health department on Friday clarified that no foreign variant of the novel coronavirus has so far been found in the emerging Covid hotspots of Amravati and Yavatmal in the state. A detailed report with a second round of genome sequencing is likely next week, said state officials. The state government has started a special surveillance in which random Covid-19 positive samples are sent for genomic sequencing to ascertain the mutations and variants in circulation in various areas. “The number of coronavirus patients has been on the rise since last week in some districts of the states like Amravati, Yavatmal, Satara and Pune. Every effort is being made to find out the reasons for this increase,” said a statement released by the public health department. The study will also ascertain whether there is any change in the genetic make-up of the coronavirus in the areas. The initial genome sequencing showed that four samples from Amravati had E484Q mutation, while four samples from Yavatmal had the N4400K mutation that is associated with Andhra. The novel coronavirus is perhaps the first infectious organism in recent times to morph into thousands of its variants across the globe.A team of scientists from Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) have found 7,569 variants in circulation in the country alone. This is despite the fact that not enough samples are sequenced in the country. “The variants that are worrying many countries globally have been identified with only a low prevalence in India so far,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, director, CCMB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-foreign-strain-found-in-hotspots-says-maha/articleshow/81120012.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Wimco Nagar station a tough place for disabled||CHENNAI: "It looks like all metro stations in the city are only made for the able-bodied and the rest of us are not allowed," said Ranjan De. The graphic designer. who has low vision, had assembled with 20 other people with disabilities and activists at the recently launched Wimco Nagar metro station on Friday to see if it was disabled-friendly. But as they entered the station they found several issues. "The height of ticket counters and vending machines were higher. The wash basins meant for the disabled were also high and the flush was way behind, making it difficult for us to turn around and use it," said R Sathish Kumar, a wheelchair user. Some of the others complained that the floors were too shiny and slippery and that the tactile pavings were few and far in between. "If I don't wear shoes that have a good grip, I would easily slip and fall," said Ranjan, adding the signages inside the station were placed at a higher level. The covers over the platform drains meant to avoid water stagnation have wide gaps, making it difficult for wheelchairs and crutches. The platforms are two inches lower than the trains and people especially those who use wheelchairs need help to enter trains, they said. Sudha Moorthy, a disabled rights activist, said the long-stop-request buttons inside trains for the disabled are placed at a height not easily accessible for wheelchair users. The group travelled from Wimco Nagar to Washermenpet and some of them got down at Central Station and Egmore. At Egmore, lifts were not working. Two of them who were supposed to join the group couldn't enter the station due to its inaccessibility. Activists said they have had a detailed discussion with metro rail officials on making the stations disabled-friendly, and were assured of it. They said they were given a blueprint on the various amenities it would have. "However, the end product was different. The stations are not easily accessible," said Sudha. Officials from CMRL were unavailable for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-wimco-nagar-station-a-tough-place-for-disabled/articleshow/81120033.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||Goa: Ribandar’s road work continues to put lives at risk||PANAJI: Road digging in Ribandar to lay underground electricity cables under the Imagine Panaji Smart City Development (IPSCDL) Limited in Ribandar continues to pose a risk to motorists and pedestrians. On Wednesday, an ox slipped into one of the narrow trenches that was dug and left open. The Goa Human Rights Commission had issued notices to the North Goa Collector, chief secretary and IPSCDL in 2019 over a complaint of the condition of the dug-up roads which were not properly restored, thus posing a risk. The Rs 60 crore project involving conversion of overhead to underground electrical network undertaken by Smart City in 2019 is yet to be completed. The commission at the time also conducted an inspection of the roads and had made recommendations to Smart City to avoid road sinking and flooding. The police inspector of the commission’s investigation cell, Manoj Mardolkar stated that there were no open trenches or debris found dumped at the side of the road, rather only exposed cables that could pose danger to vehicles and pedestrians moving on the road. The commission ordered the inspection after a complaint filed by Ribandar resident Aires Rodrigues. “The power minister stated that the work would be completed in one year’s time, but two years have already passed. The biggest problem is for two-wheelers on the narrow road. The trenches are a serious hazard for motorists and pedestrians. Even patches which they filled up with mud are all uneven. Something needs to be done immediately to prevent accidents,” Rodrigues stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ribandars-road-work-continues-to-put-lives-at-risk/articleshow/81118466.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||Soon, dept inquiry into lockdown labour scam to be complete||Panaji: The labour department will in a few days complete an inquiry into the alleged scam, and determine if any of the 7,500 beneficiaries who received a one-time payout of Rs 6,000 during lockdown were not labourers. Payments were halted after the department received complaints that those receiving benefits were not labourers and thus ineligible to receive this compensation for loss of employment during the lockdown. Some of those who allegedly received the money were panchayat members. After the news broke, a few returned the money. “About six beneficiaries have returned the money. We are in the process of completing the inquiry that is looking into how many of them were labourers,” an official said. Around 16,000 labourers are registered with a board formed under the Goa Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Act, 1996. The board was formed over a decade ago. “Registration was very slow for almost ten years, but it picked in 2017, and many names were registered,” the official said. Registration first picked up speed in the constituency of a former cabinet minister. Registration started with panchayats in his constituency, and it was soon emulated by other panchayats. “So, registration swelled,” the official said. “When we received directions to pay labourers, we went by the names registered.” He said that recovery from such persons would start after the verification process is complete. A source said that the former minister’s initiative of boosting registration was good and helped enrol more labourers, but it is suspected that some political activists also registered themselves as labourers. “The number of Goans working on construction sites would be really negligible,” the source said. “Again, the number of locals working as masons, electricians, and tile-fitters or carpenters is not likely to be more than 25%.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-dept-inquiry-into-lockdown-labour-scam-to-be-complete/articleshow/81118505.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||‘Make in India’ derived from Shivaji’s farm policy: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PONDA/BICHOLIM: Chief Minister Pramod Sawant claimed that the Union government derived the concept of ‘Make in India’ from the agriculture policies implemented by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj over 350 years ago. Sawant said that Goa has also followed Shivaji’s policies by way of the ‘Swayampurna Goem’ concept. He as speaking at the state-level function organised by the department of information and publicity at Farmagudi to mark the 391st birth anniversary of the Maratha king. He said that Shivaji fought wars with indigenously made arms and ammunition. He called out to people to emulate Shivaji’s example to become self sufficient in all aspects of human endeavour. Shiv jayanti was organised in several places in the state, including at Bicholim, Margao and Calangute. The function at Farmagudi was attended by minister for art and culture Govind Gaude, Ponda MLA Ravi Naik, PMC chairperson Vishwanath Dalvi, Verem zilla panchayat member Shramesh Bhosle, director department of information and publicity Sudhir Kerkar. The chief minister kicked off the function by garlanding the statue of Shivaji at the Farmagudi fort premise. Other dignitaries present also garlanded the statue. This was followed by a cultural presentation. The children of Bal Bhavan, Bandora, presented the welcome song and also sung ballads. Shivjayanti was also organised in Bicholim where Bicholim MLA and speaker Rajesh Patnekar called upon the youth to adopt the ideals of Shivaji. Bicholim block Congress committee president Meghshyam Raut said that Shivaji is a national hero. The time has now to rule like Shivaji, he said. Speaking on behalf of ‘Together for Bicholim’, former Bicholim MLA Naresh Sawal said that all must help and protect the poor just like Shivaji did. Former Bicholim MLA Pandurang Raut asked teachers to imbibe students with the Shivaji’s values to make them ideal citizens .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/make-in-india-derived-from-shivajis-farm-policy-sawant/articleshow/81118519.cms||---
February 20, 2021||India||Vaccinator held for ‘stealing’ vials of Covishield from Maha hosp||NAGPUR: :Police on Friday arrested Deepak Sontakke, 25, for his alleged role in stealing seven vials of Covishield vaccine from Chatari rural hospital in Akola. A case was registered following a complaint lodged by the facility’s medical superintendent. Police sources said Sontakke, originally a data entry operator posted at Patur, had been deputed at Chatari rural hospital as a vaccinator on February 5 when the inoculation drive was launched for health and frontline workers. He was in-charge of the vaccines at the hospital. According to initial findings in the inquiries conducted by the hospital’s internal committee, Sontakke allegedly took some vials of the vaccine with him on February 11. SP G Sreedhar said a case under Section 380 (theft) of IPC was registered against Sontakke, adding, “We would now conduct inquiries based upon his statements and try to recover the stolen vials, if possible.” Of the 44 Covishield vials 7 were found missing from the cold storage on February 12 by the staff nurses who were supposed to administer the doses to the beneficiaries. The hospital authorities lodged a “missing” complaint with police on February 16. On February 19, the hospital’s internal committee once again went to police with a fresh complaint of theft mentioning Sontakke as the prime suspect. “The committee had fixed the responsibility on Sontakke as his conduct was questionable,” said a source. Assistant inspector Rahul Wagh, the investigating officer, said Sontakke would be produced before the court on Saturday for custody remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccinator-held-for-stealing-vials-of-covishield-from-maha-hosp/articleshow/81120047.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 20, 2021||Goa||Goa: After state function, Bandora has own Shivaji celebration||PONDA: Hours after chief minister Pramod Sawant concluded the state-level functions for Shivaji Jayanti at the Farmagudi fortress, the Bandora panchayat had its own commemoration of the event on Friday. Alleging that the state government has been excluding Bandora in the organisation of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Jayanti celebration at Farmagudi, former deputy chief minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said Sawant has disrespected the local panchayat in whose jurisdiction the function is held annually. So as a mark of protest, the panchayat held another function hours after the state-level official one with Dhavalikar. Dhavalikar accused the government of playing petty politics even while organising a state-level function for Shivaji Jayanti. Apart from the MLA, Bandora sarpanch Rajesh Naik and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-state-function-bandora-has-own-shivaji-celebration/articleshow/81118525.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Two men robbed by a gang on NH 48||VADODARA: Two persons were robbed within one hour on national highway 48 on Friday. The police said that four persons were involved in both crimes and it may be the same gang. In first incident the gang first targeted Mehul Luhar, a resident of Surat when he stopped to ask for directions near Tarsali bypass. They thrashed him and looted his mobile phone worth Rs 3,000. At about 4 pm, four men targeted Yogendrasinh Vazeer near the same area and took away his mobile phone and cash worth Rs 15,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-men-robbed-by-a-gang-on-nh-48/articleshow/81116837.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Ahmedabad||The man who did not charge fees for designing IIM-A||Ahmedabad: “Every time a student walks past a really urgent, expressive piece of architecture that belongs to his college, it can help reassure him that he does have that mind, does have that soul,” said noted American architect Louis I. Kahn. Anyone who lays their eyes on Kahn’s imposing red-brick complex -- the Indian Institute of Management’s Ahmedabad campus – experiences a sense of awe and wonder. The interplay of light and shade, the spacious corridors, the open spaces, the well-laid green lawns lined by brick paths, and the multitude of arches supporting the structures -- all contribute to this experience. “He lies here somewhere” are the words inscribed on Kahn’ tomb. “That somewhere may well include Ahmedabad, where the architectural masterpiece that this American architect created on about 25 hectares of land constitutes the “heritage campus” of IIM-A today,” reads one of the pages on IIM-A’ website. Ahmedabad, home to a great array of architectural masterpieces built over several centuries, had already attracted international attention in the 1950s when Le Corbusier, a pioneer of modernist architecture designed Sanskar Kendra.Indian space scientist Vikram Sarabhai and industrialist Kasturbhai Lalbhai wanted something on that level of grandeur for their business school. They were put in touch with Louis Kahn in 1962 through the National Institute of Design (NID) and B V Doshi, then a young architect. Kahn was a professor of architecture at the School of Design in the University of Pennsylvania. Kahn’s IIMA project began with his visit to India in November 1962. “There was no formal contract. He did not ask for regular fee, just his actual expenses. He was a generous person. He only gave, and all he wanted in return was to know more about others and their pursuits. The teacher in him was always there to guide,” according to B V Doshi, noted architect, planner and a Pritzker laureate. Doshi recalls Kahn as an extremely shy person who was very much in awe of French-Swiss architect Le Corbusier who had designed four projects in Ahmedabad at that time. They never met each other. In fact, once when one of the deans at the University of Pennsylvania tried to introduce Corbusier, who was there as a guest lecturer, Kahn who was in the audience left. “He was a very humble person,” said Doshi. The news of the demise of Corbusier had in fact shaken him so much that he remarked, “Who shall I now work for?” Doshi recalls him as saying when they met at his residence in the US back then. Kartikeya Sarabhai, chairman of Centre for Environment Education and son of Vikram Sarabhai recalls his father and Kahn sitting on the carpeted floor of their Ahmedabad residence, where the design plans for IIM-A were laid out. They would discuss the design for hours together, Sarabhai said. Today, Louis Kahn’s majestic red-brick campus has become a case study in architectural institutions in India and overseas. Every year, thousands of students visit the campus to study the masterpiece that has drawn generations of people associated with the IIMA community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/the-man-who-did-not-charge-fees-for-designing-iim-a/articleshow/81116958.cms||---
February 20, 2021||India||Bengal court summons Shah in Abhishek Banerjee case||KOLKATA: A Bidhannagar special court hearing cases against MPs and MLAs has issued summons to Union home minister Amit Shahseeking his appearance in court at 10am on February 22 in a 2018 criminal defamation case filed by Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee. Advocate Brajesh Jha, also BJP legal cell’s co-convener, said: “We are looking at the legal aspects of the court order. We will take legal recourse.” The special court had in August 2018 taken cognisance of the complaint, filed under IPC Section 500 for criminal defamation. Banerjee had moved court after Shah had levelled several charges against him in an August 2018 “Yuva Swabhiman Samavesh Rally”. Banerjee’s lawyer, Sanjay Basu, said the summons was issued on Friday. Bengal BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya said, “It seems that TMC has left the fight on the field and is trying to take recourse to legal battles. TMC doesn’t believe in right to dissent and has started slapping legal cases on anyone who has an opposing voice. They have lodged cases against most of the top-rung BJP leaders, but that has not deterred us.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-court-summons-shah-in-abhishek-banerjee-case/articleshow/81120067.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
February 20, 2021||Delhi||PCR calls show dip in murders & street crimes in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police made a change in strategy for crime control in 2020. Instead of relying on the number of FIRs it registered, police commissioner S N Shrivastava made PCR calls — which police have no control over — the parameter for judging the crime scenario in any area of the city. The conclusion: the number of PCR calls in the year of the Covid declined by 38% against the figure in 2019. Murders — a prime indicator of the crime situation in a city — saw a major dip last year with 472 being reported, of which 53 were deaths in the north-east Delhi riots. There was a 9% reduction against 2019 when 521 murders were registered. Last year, cops were able to solve 90% of the murders. These figures were revealed by the police commissioner at the annual press conference on the crime situation on Delhi on Friday. Crime patrol: Police map FIRs for renewed area-specific focusCalls made by people about snatchings, a major parameter to gauge street crime in any city, reduced by more than half — 56,037 calls related to snatchings were received in 2019, but last year the number dropped sharply to 24,746, a decline of 55.9%. Calls related to robberies and dacoities declined by 37% and 57%, respectively. There was a decline of 15% in the overall registration of cases as well despite free and fair registration by Delhi Police, which had come under severe criticism for not registering and manipulating figures of snatchings and other FIRs in 2019. For effective crime control, the police started an innovative crimemapping-based-patrolling system last year. This meant that the cops analysed the number of PCR calls coming from each area in a district and diverted their focus there instead of undertaking routine patrolling on designated routes A total of 2,66,070 cases were registered last year in comparison with 3,16,261 cases in 2019. Police officials attributed the decline to strong preventive policing measures. Since the lockdown was implemented in the last week of March, around 65-80% of the crimes were registered online without citizens having to visit police stations. On the other hand, the number of arrests made last year saw an increase of around 15.4%. The figure was 1,25,986 last year as against 1,09,138 in 2019. Last year also saw a drop in the number of PCR calls as well. A total of 18,08,384 and 29,25,531 PCR calls were received in 2020 and 2019, respectively, showing a drop of 38.2%. Crimes like dacoities and motor vehicle thefts saw a sharp decline of 40% and 24%, respectively. Last year, only nine cases of dacoities were registered in comparison to 15 in 2019. Similarly, 46,215 cases of motor vehicle thefts were registered in 2019, the number dropping to 35,019 in 2020. There was a slight increase in the number of robbery cases registered last year in comparison to 2019. A total of 1,963 cases were registered in 2020 as compared to 1,956 in 2019, a rise of just 0.4%. Cases of kidnapping for ransom dropped by 26.7%, burglary cases were down by 27.3%, motor vehicle theft cases by 24.2% and other theft cases by 30.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pcr-calls-show-dip-in-murders-street-crimes-in-delhi/articleshow/81120054.cms||Raj Shekhar
February 20, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Carpenter arrested for rape, murder of 74-year-old woman||CHENNAI: Police on Friday said they had cracked the February 12 rape and murder of a 74-year-old woman at the Government Peripheral Hospital in Thiruvottiyur with the arrest of a carpenter. The accused, Jayakumar, who was traced with the help of CCTV camera footage, was later sent to jail. After police found the senior citizen with severe injuries at the Government Peripheral Hospital, she was taken to the Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital where she died the same evening. A case was registered and a team led by Thiruvottiyur assistant commissioner Anandakumar began investigations. After collecting CCTV camera footage from about 50 locations, inspectors M G Sundar and Bhuvaneshwari tracked the suspect moving from near the victim at the hospital towards Thazhangkuppam via Ennore beach road. They showed his photograph to many people and identified him as Jayakumar, a 32-year-old father of two from Thazhangkuppam. After his apprehension, Jayakumar told investigators that on February 12 he had come to meet his parents in Thiruvottiyur. On the way to their house, he had a few drinks at a Tasmac outlet and was taking a short cut through the government peripheral hospital when he was saw the woman sleeping in a corner and raped her, an officer quoted him as saying. As she screamed, Jayakumar threw a stone on her head and fled, the officer said. Police said the woman had five sons who lived with their families in Thiruvottiyur. Washermenpet deputy commissioner G Subbulakshmi said, "She quarrelled with a daughter-in-law and moved on to the hospital premises where the incident occurred." (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/carpenter-arrested-for-rape-murder-of-74-year-old-woman/articleshow/81120072.cms||---
February 20, 2021||India||DGCA nod to use of drones to collect agri data from 100 districts||NEW DELHI: The agriculture ministry has got conditional nod from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation for deployment of drones for remote sensing data collection in farm areas of 100 wheat and paddy producing districts for ‘gram panchayat’-level yield estimation under the central government’s flagship crop insurance scheme. The move will help assess accurate crop yield loss at insurance units, paving the way for quick claim settlements under ‘Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana’. “The exemption shall be valid for one year from the date of issue of the permission letter or until the operationalisation of the ‘Digital Sky Platform’, whichever is earlier,” said an official order, noting that the exemption for Remotely Piloted Aircraft System (drones) will be valid only if all conditions and limitations are adhered to.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dgca-nod-to-use-of-drones-to-collect-agri-data-from-100-districts/articleshow/81120110.cms||---
February 20, 2021||India||Akal Takht cites Kumbh to cry govt bias against Sikhs||AMRITSAR: Protesting the Centre’s decision to deny permission to a jatha to travel to Pakistan to observe the Nankana Sahib massacre centenary, Akal Takht officiating jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Friday said the government was discriminating against Sikhs. The Centre denied permission to the jatha on the pretext of Covid-19 while the Kumbh festival was going to be celebrated in Haridwar in April, he said. On Wednesday, the Centre refused to allow the SGPC-led Sikh jatha to leave for Pakistan, citing security reasons and prevalent Covid situation in the neighbouring country. The jatha was scheduled to leave on Thursday. In a video message on Friday, the jathedar said, “Not just lakhs but crores of people converge there to take a holy dip and they will arrive this year too, but there is no such restriction even as Kumbh festival comes after 12 years. But our religious day, which is going to be observed on February 21 after 100 years, did not get permission.” Restricting the movement of the jatha was “highly unfortunate” and had hurt the religious sentiments of Sikh community, he added. “I think Centre has made a historical mistake, which it will be reminded of every year,” he said. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur has also written a letter to PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, asking them to reconsider their decision. “Sikhs laid the foundation for freedom of the country by making sacrifices but Centre is discriminating against them,” she alleged. Kaur also sent a set of books on the Sikh community’s history of sacrifice to Modi and Shah. “The books are sent to make them realise the importance of the sangat to participate in the ceremonies taking place there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/akal-takht-cites-kumbh-to-cry-govt-bias-against-sikhs/articleshow/81120113.cms||---
February 20, 2021||India||SC slams NCDRC for delaying reasoned orders||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court has taken exception to the practice of National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission to pass brief orders without giving reasoning and then taking months to deliver a reasoned order. A bench headed by Justice Indu Malhotra said delay in delivery of judgments amounts to violation of rights of the litigants and the problem gets aggravated when the operative portion is made available early and the reasons follow much later, or are not made available for an indefinite period as done in various cases in NCDRC. “Undisputedly, the rights of the aggrieved parties are being prejudiced if the reasons are not available to them to avail of the legal remedy of approaching the court where the reasons can be scrutinised. It indeed amounts to defeating the rights of the party aggrieved to challenge the impugned judgment on merits and even the succeeding party is unable to obtain the fruits of success of the litigation,” the bench said. “Let this order be placed before the President of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission to look into the matter, and take necessary steps so that this practice is discontinued, and the reasoned judgment is passed alongwith the operative order. We would like to observe that in all matters where reasons are yet to be delivered, it must be ensured that the same are made available to the litigating parties positively within a period of two months,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-slams-ncdrc-for-delaying-reasoned-orders/articleshow/81120116.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: PM 2.5 rise leads to more visits to doctors, says study||NEW DELHI: A recent research shows that a rise in PM2.5 concentration in air results in an increase in respiratory illness in the community and causes rise in visits to health clinics in the city. The research says when PM2.5 concentration rises from the prescribed standard of 60 micrograms per cubic metre to 70 micrograms, it leads to 0.5% higher clinic visits in Delhi when exposure to pollutants happened one day ago. The research was done by The Energy and Research Institute in collaboration with experts from AIIMS, Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and Safdarjung Hospital. Visit to doc 11% more likely if PM2.5 near 220 ug/m3An increase of PM2.5 concentration from 200 to 210 micrograms per cubic metre leads to 0.7% higher clinic visits when exposure to pollutants took place one day prior. However, when the PM2.5 concentration increases from 60 to 220 micrograms per cubic metre, it leads to 10.9% higher clinic visits at the lag of one day. The analysis was done considering the daily 24-hour average concentration for PM2.5, nitrogen oxide and ozone, daily meteorological parameters, including relative humidity and temperature, seasonality and daily count of respiratory illnesses at 85 city mohalla clinics from August 2016 to December 2019. The findings of the study were shared during a webinar organised by Teri and supported by Shakti Sustainable Energy Foundation on Friday. The respiratory illnesses included in the research are acute bronchitis, acute nasopharyngitis, acute upper respiratory infections, acute pharyngitis, asthma, bronchitis, chronic lower respiratory infections, cough, other acute lower respiratory infections, other COPD conditions and TB with cough. “The objective of the research was to study the association of air pollutants and daily clinic visits in Delhi and understand the trend between two,” said Teri’s Meena Sehgal. A PM2.5 level reading of below 30 micrograms per cubic metre is classified as “good” while calculating the air quality index (AQI). PM2.5 readings between 30 and 60 micrograms per cubic metre fall in the “satisfactory” category and those between 60 and 90 micrograms per cubic metre are classified as “moderate”. “Poor” air quality ranges from PM2.5 level of 90 to 120 micrograms per cubic metre, “very poor” from 120 to 250 micrograms per cubic metre and “severe” when PM2.5 level is over 250 micrograms per cubic metre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-pm2-5-rise-leads-to-more-visits-to-doctors-says-study/articleshow/81120117.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 20, 2021||India||SC to UBI: Pay ₹6L for breaking open locker||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday ruled that breaking open a customer’s locker by a bank was a serious breach of trust and ordered United Bank of India to pay Rs 6 lakh compensation to an aggrieved person whose locker was broken open at a Kolkata branch more than 25 years ago. The bank informed Amitabha Dasgupta in 1995 that the locker had been broken open and allotted to another person as the rent was not paid for 1993-94. When Dasgupta proved that he had paid rent for the previous year, the bank admitted its mistake. When the customer wanted back the seven pieces of jewellery deposited in the locker, the bank could return only two. The district consumer forum awarded Rs 3 lakh as cost of jewellery to Dasgupta and an additional Rs 50,000 for mental agony, harassment and cost of litigation. But the state consumer forum as well as the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission awarded only Rs 30,000 compensation. Dasgupta appealed in the SC. A bench of Justices M M Shantanagoudar and Vineet Saran ordered the bank to pay Rs 6 lakh, which included Rs 1 lakh as litigation cost, to Dasgupta and ordered that Rs 5 lakh be recovered from erring officials. Finding that there were no uniform rules governing lockers, the bench laid down 15-point guidelines. The SC said these guidelines would remain in force till the RBI framed new rules for locker operations in six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-to-ubi-pay-6l-for-breaking-open-locker/articleshow/81120126.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 20, 2021||Goa||Goa plans Tillari pipeline to solve frequent supply issues||Bicholim: A 23km-long underground pipeline will be laid from the Tillari reservoir in Maharashtra till the Goa border to ensure that no disruptions in supply are faced by Goa in the future. At present, open canals carry the water from Tillari to Goa. Last month, the canal burst yet again on the Maharashtra side affecting supply for drinking and agricultural purposes in three North Goa talukas. A meeting of the standing committee of the Tillari irrigation project was held on Thursday at Colvale at which officials of Goa and Maharashtra were present. Post the meeting, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the underground pipeline will be a permanent solution towards ensuring uninterrupted raw water supply from Tillari to Goa. “As the water supply from Tillari dam is irregular, the government is now planning to take it directly from the Tillari dam by laying an underground water pipeline, instead of depending on the open canal system, which bursts every year on the Maharashtra side,” Sawant said. He said that former CM Manohar Parrikar had plans to lay such a pipeline. “The prime motive of constructing the Tillari project (a joint venture between the Goa and Maharashtra governments) was to provide abundant water for drinking and agriculture purposes for Goa. However, now the bursting of the canal has become a regular phenomenon and the time has come to approach this matter from a different manner,” said Sawant. Officials of Goa WRD will first begin a survey for the underground pipeline project. The pipeline will be planned on land already acquired for the Tillari project. Once the survey is complete, the work of laying of the pipeline will be taken up. Goa officials said that the closed pipeline will carry the water from the Tillari dam till Dodamarg, near the Goa border. From here, the water will be carried through an open canal within Goa’s borders. “There is no issue with the open canals on this side of the Goa border. All the cases of open canals bursting have been in Maharashtra,” said a state official. The standing committee meeting of the Tillari Irrigation Project was chaired by Santosh R Tirmanwar, chief engineer, Konkan Irrigation Development Corporation, Maharashtra. In the meeting, Goa WRD chief engineer Shrikant Patil brought up the issue of the recent canal breach at Bhedshi. Maharashtra officials have assured for now to take up the repair work immediately and to reinstate the canal fully to deliver the required water to Goa. State officials said that Maharashtra has agreed to Goa’s plan of laying the underground pipeline from Tillari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-plans-tillari-pipeline-to-solve-frequent-supply-issues/articleshow/81117657.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Goa||Soon, new jetty policy to regulate all tourist vessels||Panaji: The tourism department is in the process of coming out with a new jetty management policy that will cover all boats and cruises. The current jetty management policy is mainly confined to cruises and boats operating from the Santa Monica jetty. “Now, we are trying to come out with a jetty management policy that will streamline and regulate activities of all tourist vessels in the state,” tourism secretary J Ashok Kumar said. To discuss the policy, a meeting of the jetty management committee was held on Thursday. The committee currently governs vessels that are operating from the Santa Monica jetty alone. The government has felt the need to make basic facilities available at jetties for tourists, Kumar said. It has also been noticed that touts have a free hand in the absence of regulations and are undercutting those conducting business legitimately, he said. Presently, a common ticketing software is available for Santa Monica jetty alone. Since this is not applicable to boats operating from anywhere else, Kumar said that the state is losing on revenue. Besides the Santa Monica jetty, a few vessels use the Captain of Ports (CoP) jetty, while other operators operate tourist rides from other points along the city limits of the Mandovi. “We want to regulate activities at all jetties. A jetty management policy with a wider ambit to cover all boats will be introduced,” he said. Kumar said that the government’s intent is not to stop or cut down on any activities, but to see to it that all operators, including touts, register and conduct business legitimately by registering as agents. “They shouldn’t get an opportunity to lure tourists,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-new-jetty-policy-to-regulate-all-tourist-vessels/articleshow/81117771.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad hold final vaccination round of Ph-1, many names missing on list||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The final round in the first phase of vaccinations was conducted in Noida and Ghaziabad on Friday. Also, the second dose of the vaccine was administered to many health workers on the day. A total of 1,560 healthcare workers received the shot, even though only 901 of them were registered for vaccinations on Friday. This happened, officials said, because many names of the 2,059 HCWs who got the first dose earlier were not uploaded on the portal on time. Of the HCWs who got the first dose, only 1,392 turned up at the various centres. Also, 168 HCWs walked in to get the vaccine during a mop-up. There were 13 centres and 19 sessions set up in Noida on Friday. In Ghaziabad, the final mop-round round concluded with 177 of the 1,266 HCWs getting the jab on Friday (14% vaccination coverage). Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said it was the final chance for HCWs to get the shot. Besides, of the 3,251 HCWs who were scheduled to take the second shot, as many as 2,728 turned up (83.9% coverage). The overall vaccination percentage for Friday’s drive was 64.3%. Altogether, 2,905 HCWs were vaccinated against the target of 64.3% in Ghaziabad. The drive was conducted at 53 session sites in 36 centres in Ghaziabad. Meanwhile, some recipients who turned up for the vaccine didn’t find their names in the list and had to return. At some centres in both Noida and Ghaziabad, the HCWs who came for the second shot did not find themselves registered. Dr PL Kariholu, a senior doctor at a private hospital, said, “I was supposed to get the second dose today but they refused the vaccination. I have not been informed about when I will get it.” Health officials claimed that there was a delay in updating the portal after the first round. “The portal was updated a day later, which is why some names were missing. We will be contacting everyone,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, GB Nagar. Meanwhile, over 500 HCWs from Sharda University — many of who are on Covid duty — have not been registered yet. The administration said their names were sent to the CMO, the DM and the DGME in Lucknow. “We are trying to follow up with the departments, but we have not received any response yet,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, spokesperson of Sharda Hospital. Meanwhile, CMO Dr Deepak Ohri said the additional list from the hospital came in later when the portal was already shut and will be added once it is reopened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-gzb-hold-final-vax-round-of-ph-1-many-names-missing-on-list/articleshow/81117841.cms||Snehil Sinha
February 20, 2021||Ghaziabad||Noida, Ghaziabad hold final vaccination round of Ph-1, many names missing on list||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The final round in the first phase of vaccinations was conducted in Noida and Ghaziabad on Friday. Also, the second dose of the vaccine was administered to many health workers on the day. A total of 1,560 healthcare workers received the shot, even though only 901 of them were registered for vaccinations on Friday. This happened, officials said, because many names of the 2,059 HCWs who got the first dose earlier were not uploaded on the portal on time. Of the HCWs who got the first dose, only 1,392 turned up at the various centres. Also, 168 HCWs walked in to get the vaccine during a mop-up. There were 13 centres and 19 sessions set up in Noida on Friday. In Ghaziabad, the final mop-round round concluded with 177 of the 1,266 HCWs getting the jab on Friday (14% vaccination coverage). Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said it was the final chance for HCWs to get the shot. Besides, of the 3,251 HCWs who were scheduled to take the second shot, as many as 2,728 turned up (83.9% coverage). The overall vaccination percentage for Friday’s drive was 64.3%. Altogether, 2,905 HCWs were vaccinated against the target of 64.3% in Ghaziabad. The drive was conducted at 53 session sites in 36 centres in Ghaziabad. Meanwhile, some recipients who turned up for the vaccine didn’t find their names in the list and had to return. At some centres in both Noida and Ghaziabad, the HCWs who came for the second shot did not find themselves registered. Dr PL Kariholu, a senior doctor at a private hospital, said, “I was supposed to get the second dose today but they refused the vaccination. I have not been informed about when I will get it.” Health officials claimed that there was a delay in updating the portal after the first round. “The portal was updated a day later, which is why some names were missing. We will be contacting everyone,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, GB Nagar. Meanwhile, over 500 HCWs from Sharda University — many of who are on Covid duty — have not been registered yet. The administration said their names were sent to the CMO, the DM and the DGME in Lucknow. “We are trying to follow up with the departments, but we have not received any response yet,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, spokesperson of Sharda Hospital. Meanwhile, CMO Dr Deepak Ohri said the additional list from the hospital came in later when the portal was already shut and will be added once it is reopened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/noida-gzb-hold-final-vax-round-of-ph-1-many-names-missing-on-list/articleshow/81120161.cms||Snehil Sinha
February 20, 2021||Kolkata||Translation howlers mar Centre’s tribute to Bengal freedom heroes||Kolkata: Shauryanjali, a programme organised on Friday by the Union ministry of culture to pay tribute to freedom fighters from Bengal, was shadowed by flawed translations and fumbling around with Bengali words. The ministry had handed over a bilingual brochure in which mistakes were glaring. While speaking of “unsung” heroes, the brochure referred to them as “asantusht (unhappy)” in Bengali. In the page-long translation, there were other howlers too. According to the English version, the rally of the cyclists is scheduled to be over in 30 days. The Bengali translation mentioned 300 days by mistake. State education minister Partha Chatterjee said, “The Modi government translated ‘unsung’ heroes of Bengal into ‘unhappy’ heroes of Bengal in Bengali. And they say they will create ‘Sonar Bangla’!” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/translation-howlers-mar-centres-tribute-to-bengal-freedom-heroes/articleshow/81118876.cms||---
February 20, 2021||Kolkata||Midda’s widow gets Home Guard job||Kolkata: Bankura DM K Radhika Aiyer, along with SP Koteswar Rao and MoS for panchayat Shyamal Santra, went to the house of DYFI worker Maidul Islam Midda on Friday at Kotalpur and offered his wife an appointment letter. The state government has appointed Mamoni Khatun in the Home Guard at Kotalpur police station. Midda, who came to Kolkata in February to participate in the Nabanna march, was injured during a clash with police and died this week. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/middas-widow-gets-home-guard-job/articleshow/81118906.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
