February 21, 2021||India||India asks China for faster disengagement in Gogra, Hot Springs & Demchok||NEW DELHI: India on Saturday asked China for faster disengagement at Gogra, Hot Springs and Demchok areas, while asserting the need for Chinese soldiers to stop blocking Indian patrols in Depsang Plains to de-escalate the overall tensions in eastern Ladakh. There was no official word on the outcome of the tenth round of corps commander-level talks, led by 14 Corps commander Lt-General P G K Menon and South Xinjiang Military District chief Major General Liu Lin, on the Chinese side of the Chushul-Moldo border meeting point on Saturday. The dialogue, which included additional secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava from the external affairs ministry in the Indian delegation, began at 10am and went on till 2am. Sources, however, said there were “no differences as such” between India and China in “completing” the stalled disengagement at patrolling points (PPs) 15 and 17A in the Hot Springs-Gogra-Kongka La area. “There are only a handful of troops from both sides in the forward locations there, and they too are not in close proximity to each other. After disengagement on both sides of Pangong Tso, which was far more tough, it should happen faster at PPs 15 and 17A,” said a source. Similarly, the “friction” at the Charding Ninglung Nallah (CNN) track junction in the Demchok sector, which arose after the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) pitched some tents while also denying grazing rights to Indian villagers there, should be relatively easier to resolve, said sources. The major trouble-spot remains the strategically-located Depsang Plains or `Bulge’ area, the table-top plateau located at 16,000-feet, which has been “a source of constant friction” since at least 2013. While the region provides India access to the Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) airstrip and the critical Karakoram Pass in the north, it is also close to China’s Western Highway G-219, which connects the Tibetan Autonomous Region to Xinjiang. After the face-offs erupted in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and Gogra-Hot Springs areas in May last year, both sides had also amassed additional infantry battalions as well as mechanized forces in the shape of tanks and infantry combat vehicles in their “depth areas” of the Depsang region. The PLA has been consistently blocking Indian soldiers from going beyond the `Bottleneck’ or `Y-junction’ area in Depsang, which is around 18-km inside what India perceives to be its territory, to their traditional PPs-10, 11, 11A, 12, and 13, as was earlier reported by TOI. Both India and China have vastly overlapping claims in the Depsang area, with the latter claiming as much as 972 square km of territory. The last major troop face-off at Depsang had taken place in April-May 2013, when the PLA had intruded 19-km across the LAC to camp at the Raki Nalla area. Though the then face-off was resolved after 21 days, the tensions have prevailed in the region ever since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-asks-china-for-faster-disengagement-in-gogra-hot-springs-demchok/articleshow/81129882.cms||Rajat Pandit
February 21, 2021||India||Manchester councillor suspended for breaching Covid restrictions||ISLAMABAD: Britain’s Labour Party has suspended the Manchester city councillor of Pakistani origin, Aftab Razaq (52), for breaching Covid-19 restrictions by flying to Pakistan and attending a wedding. Travel outside the UK for holidays and other leisure purposes has been declared illegal under the current Covid-19 rules. Razaq’s photos were shared on Facebook last weekend that showed him at the celebration in the city of Kharian in Pakistan’s Punjab province. The photos showed Razaq sans a mask, ignoring social distancing norms, despite virus rules in Pakistan making this mandatory. The BBC quoted Councillor Pat Karney, secretary of Manchester Labour, saying he would “thoroughly investigate these matters”. He said the Labour group had seen the photographs but “despite their best efforts” had not been able to contact Razaq, who received a coronavirus vaccine in January. “All Manchester councillors must rigorously abide by Covid regulations and we will take action against any individual who does not,” Karney added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/manchester-councillor-suspended-for-breaching-covid-restrictions/articleshow/81130095.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 21, 2021||India||Mehbooba urges dialogue with Pak to end bloodshed in J&K||SRINAGAR: People’s Democratic Party president and former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday reiterated her stand on opening up dialogue with Pakistan to end bloodshed in Kashmir. Mufti visited Logripora to express sympathies with the bereaved family of constable Suhail Ahmad who was killed by terrorists in Baghat area in Barzulla of Srinagar on Friday. While talking to mediapersons on the sidelines of the condolence meet, Mehbooba said there is need to start dialogue with Pakistan and that the Centre must consider the suffering of the people of Jammu and Kashmir, who witness violence every day. “Every day, our youth -- whether policemen or others -- is becoming victims of violence. Graveyards of Kashmir are full now,” she said. While talking about Suhail, she said that his father was also killed when he was just four. “What will the family do now?” she asked. Meanwhile, IGP (Kashmir Zone) Vijay Kumar chaired a security review meeting in view of the recent militant attacks in Srinagar city. Kumar asked officers to strengthen the general security grid and to ensure better synergy and co-ordination among themselves and other sister agencies working at the ground level, so that terrorists and anti-national elements do not get any chance to disturb the present peaceful atmosphere prevailing in the Srinagar city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mehbooba-urges-dialogue-with-pak-to-end-bloodshed-in-jk/articleshow/81130254.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Singer Jashan Singh performs at a road safety event||Singers Jashan Singh and his wife Rhythm Singh performed recently at the walkathon, organised to mark the concluding ceremony of the 32nd National Road Safety Month in Chandigarh. The month-long event with the theme 'Sadak Suraksha-Jeevan Raksha' saw various road safety awareness drives/programmes being organised during the entire month. Jashan interacted with the crowds and gave a brief performance. The walkathon saw many people turning up to take part in the initiative. The event by the Chandigarh Traffic Police at Sukhna Lake was done to spread awareness related to traffic rules besides promoting fit and a healthier environment. The singers were elated to be a part of the event and said they are looking to spread awareness on various issues through their songs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/singer-jashan-singh-performs-at-a-road-safety-event/articleshow/81130902.cms||---
February 21, 2021||World||Biden approves Texas disaster declaration following deadly freeze||HOUSTON: President Joe Biden approved a major disaster declaration for Texas on Saturday as the state struggles with the fallout from a winter storm that killed at least two dozen people and caused widespread blackouts and water shortages. Millions of residents in the United States' biggest oil and gas producer have had to contend with days of electricity outages, and nearly half of all Texans are still suffering from disruptions to their water service. Lina Hidalgo, the top elected official in Harris County, which encompasses Houston, said on Friday authorities were reporting 10 deaths due to hypothermia. The action by the Biden administration makes federal funding available to affected individuals, including assistance for temporary housing and home repairs and low-cost loans. Biden is also weighing a trip to Texas to survey the federal response to the first new crisis to develop since he took office a month ago. The White House is working closely with Texas Governor Greg Abbott, a Republican who did not initially acknowledge Biden's November election win. Abbott thanked the president for approving the major disaster declaration, saying in a statement that it was "an important first step." But, he added, individual assistance had only been approved for 77 counties, not all the state's 254 counties as he had requested. FROM RESPONSE TO RECOVERY With all the state's power plants back online, millions of Texans were finally able to turn on the lights and heat their homes again. However, outages persisted and more than 78,000 homes remained without electricity as of Saturday morning. With the weather set to improve and temperatures expected to return to normal in the coming days, the main concern has shifted from power to water. More than 1,200 public water systems have reported service disruptions, many of them leading to boil water notices, said Gary Rasp, a spokesman for the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality. He said 14.3 million people in 190 counties were affected as of Saturday morning. "I would have rather gone through a hurricane than this freeze," Jay Farrell, a plumber, told Reuters at his home in Houston. Farrell said he has not been able to take showers and for days has been using buckets of water from his hot tub to flush the toilet. As Texas shivered in the dark during the freeze, he said the temperature in his house dropped to 22 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 5.5 Celsius). In Houston, officials struck a more optimistic tone after power was restored to most residents and with mass distributions of bottled water under way. "Things are looking up... We are headed in the direction of normalcy," Hidalgo said in a video address on Friday. "Right now it's about shifting from response to recovery." Meanwhile, Abbott said he was convening an emergency meeting with officials on Saturday to discuss the spike in energy bills received by many residents following the power outages. FINGER POINTING The Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT), a cooperative responsible for 90% of the state's electricity, has come under fire after the power grid collapsed as demand spiked during the freeze. Abbott lashed out at ERCOT last week, saying the corporation had told officials before the storm that the grid was prepared. A lawsuit against ERCOT was filed on Friday in Nueces County court in Corpus Christi alleging the council failed to heed warnings and take action to address weaknesses in the power infrastructure. Separately, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton issued civil investigative demands to ERCOT and other power companies regarding power outages, emergency plans, energy pricing and more related to the winter weather. In a statement on Friday, Paxton said the companies "grossly mishandled" the weather emergency, and vowed to "get to the bottom of this power failure."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-approves-texas-disaster-declaration-following-deadly-freeze/articleshow/81131082.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Varanasi||A riot of laughter in Banaras||Members of a social club were treated to some good comedy. An event with stand-up comedian Bassi as the star performer turned out to be a riot of laughter. The guests started to reach the venue much before the event and ensured that they got the proper seat to enjoy the show. (L-R) Aditi, Ahana, Harshita and Ronak (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L-R) Aditi, Ahana, Harshita and Ronak (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) Anannd, Shreya and Ayushi (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)Anannd, Shreya and Ayushi (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) (L-R) Mughda, Ananya and Khusbhoo (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L-R) Mughda, Ananya and Khusbhoo (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) The comedian did not disappoint his audience, as his one liner, certainly tickled the funny bone. All praise for Banaras, he said, “I have never seen a place like Banaras. The kind of crowd I saw on Godowlia crossing, is really unthinkable in any other place.” He also described the situation in his characteristic style. Leading to a lot of laughter. (L-R) Varun, Juhi and Khusbhoo (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L-R) Varun, Juhi and Khusbhoo (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) (L-R) Viraj, Srijan and Satyam (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L-R) Viraj, Srijan and Satyam (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) (L) Abhilasha and Akanksha (R) Amisha (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Abhilasha and Akanksha (R) Amisha (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) He went on to narrate a piece of comedy in the typical western UP style, much to the delight of the audience. Dhawal Prakash, the Chairman of the club, said , “ After a long time we truly got the chance to unwind ourselves.” Anupma and Prakhar (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)Anupma and Prakhar (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) Artika and Aman (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)Artika and Aman (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) (L) Mayank and Apurav (R) Utkarsh (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Mayank and Apurav (R) Utkarsh (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) Pradeep and Ayush (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)Pradeep and Ayush (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) Priyanka (L) and Sakshi (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)Priyanka (L) and Sakshi (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) Prateek Jain (L) and Dhawal Prakash (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)Prateek Jain (L) and Dhawal Prakash (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/a-riot-of-laughter-in-banaras/articleshow/81125677.cms||Meera Vohra
February 21, 2021||World||President Biden, Canada's Trudeau to meet virtually next week||WASHINGTON: US President Joe Biden on Tuesday will hold his first bilateral meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, an event the neighboring countries said would highlight their strong and deep ties. The meeting, which will be virtual due to the coronavirus crisis, will aim to elevate collaboration on shared concerns at a time when the relationship between the close allies has been strained by Biden's decision to block the Canada-backed Keystone XL pipeline. In a statement on Saturday, the White House said Biden and his Cabinet will also meet virtually with Canadian ministers on a range of bilateral and global issues. White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki said it would be "an opportunity for the two leaders to review joint efforts in areas of mutual interest such as the Covid-19 response, climate change, and the economic ties that bind our countries, as well as the deep people-to-people bonds we share. "The President will highlight the strong and deep partnership between the United States and Canada as neighbors, friends and NATO Allies," she said. Trudeau called the US-Canada relationship "one of the strongest and deepest friendships between any two countries." Canada and the US share one of the strongest and deepest friendships between any two countries in the world. On Tue… https://t.co/4hznlHkvZQ— Justin Trudeau (@JustinTrudeau) 1613840783000"It is built on common values, strong ties between our people, and a shared geography ... We will work together to end the Covid-19 pandemic and support people in both our countries," he said in a statement. Trudeau was the first world leader to congratulate Biden when he was declared the winner of the November US election and his swift embrace illustrates the degree to which Canada, one of America's closest allies, is looking forward to turning the page on the Donald Trump era. Biden later tweeted that he looked forward "to renewing the strong friendship between the United States and Canada and working to tackle the shared challenges we face." On Tuesday, I’ll be meeting virtually with @CanadianPM Justin Trudeau. I look forward to renewing the strong friend… https://t.co/gClwlHYQuQ— President Biden (@POTUS) 1613846167000While Biden has had at-times lengthy calls with several foreign leaders, next week's meeting goes further by extending to lower-level meetings between Cabinet ministers, as have interactions with Mexico and several European allies. Biden revoked a permit for the Keystone pipeline, which would transport 830,000 barrels a day of carbon-intensive heavy crude from Canada's Alberta to Nebraska, on his first day in office last month, as part of a flurry of executive orders aimed at curbing climate change. Trudeau said last month Canada will seek exemptions to a US effort to ensure federal agencies buy American-produced goods. The U.S. move could hurt Canada, given how tightly the two nations' economies are integrated. The two countries are in a shared standoff with China after Canada's detention of Meng Wanzhou, chief financial officer of China's Huawei Technologies on a US arrest warrant. Beijing detained and charged two Canadians with espionage after the detention of Meng, who remains under house arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/president-biden-canadas-trudeau-to-meet-virtually-next-week/articleshow/81131204.cms||---
February 21, 2021||India||UP leads in total vaccine doses, Karnataka in most 2nd shots given||NEW DELHI: India had administered over 1.08 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines till Saturday evening, with Karnataka inoculating the maximum number of healthcare workers with the second dose so far. Karnataka had fully vaccinated (with two doses) over 1.11 lakh health workers against Covid-19, followed by Telangana and Uttar Pradesh at 86,648 and 85,752, respectively. Live updates: Coronavirus pandemicUP had given the highest 11.52 lakh doses to healthcare and frontline workers. This included over 10.66 lakh persons given the first dose and 85,752 second doses (healthcare workers) administered after a gap of four-six weeks. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageOf the 1.08 crore doses given across the country, 63.52 lakh healthcare and 36.11 lakh frontline workers had been given the first dose, whereas 8.73 lakh health workers had taken the second shot. Read AlsoIndia gives 1 crore+ vaccine jabs in 34 days, 2nd fastest after USIndia administered more than one crore doses of Covid vaccines till Friday evening, becoming the second fastest in the world to cross the milestone in the fight against the global pandemic with plans to boost vaccination sessions to 40,000-50,000 a day from the current average of 10,000.In terms of percentage coverage of registered beneficiaries, Bihar had the maximum 85% of healthcare workers covered with the first dose of the vaccines. A total of 12 states and UTs had vaccinated more than 75% of the registered health workers with the first dose. Immunisation of frontline workers began on February 2 and 10 states/UTs have so far registered more than 50% coverage for the first dose, which include Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. On the other hand, seven states have reported less than 50% coverage. These are Ladakh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Punjab, Chandigarh, Nagaland and Puducherry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-leads-in-total-vaccine-doses-karnataka-in-most-2nd-shots-given/articleshow/81132085.cms||Sushmi Dey
February 21, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Championship course at Vizag golf club inaugurated||Visakhapatnam: Vizag city is set to emerge as the place for golf tourism in the state with the East Point Golf Club’s (EPGC) 6,800-yard championship course inaugurated by Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh on Saturday. As many as 80 guests, representing some of the top golf clubs across the country, attended the event. The 135-year-old EPGC at Mudasarlova was recently accorded Category-A golf course status. The club dates back to 1884 and was originally located near Vuda Park and shifted to Mudasarlova in 1964. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/championship-course-at-vizag-golf-club-inaugurated/articleshow/81129358.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Vijayawada||APSRTC outperforms transport units in region||Vijayawada: The beleaguered Andhra Pradesh State Transport Corporation (APSRTC), which had been struggling to get back to normalcy after the Covid-19 lockdown, has actually outperformed its peers. Compared to its peers in neighbouring states, the APSRTC stands above in all performance indicators both during and in the post-lockdown periods. APSRTC achieved a 69 per cent occupancy ratio (OR) while the corresponding ratio in Telangana and Maharashtra RTCs were 60 and 47, respectively in February. OR is a key indicator for any transport corporation to weigh its performance. In fact, winning back passenger confidence after the lockdown has been the biggest achievement of APSRTC when compared to its peers, said officials. In terms of other performance indicators such as volume of operations, operated fleet, earnings per lilometre (EPK) and earnings per bus (EPB), APSRTC ranked first among its peers, except in operated fleet. Telangana outperformed in operated fleet with 100 per cent fleet utilisation, while Andhra Pradesh stood at second place with 81 per cent fleet utilisation. Executive director (ED) of APSRTC for operations, K S Brahmananda Reddy said strategic opening up of routes and technological initiatives brought in at the right time to meet the requirements during the pandemic helped them perform better than other states. Reddy said routes were opened after the lockdown by conducting an extensive survey on passenger demand for each route, which helped in optimum utilisation of fleet and improved performance. When bus services were resumed, APSRTC introduced a contactless ticket purchase system. The facility, Reddy said, has been introduced in all buses, eliminating the risk of contact among passengers. Additionally, with the risk of the bus conductor becoming a super-spreader was eliminated, helping passengers regain confidence, he said. Reddy further said safety measures such as sanitisation, supplying passengers with sanitizer, giving masks to staff and making masks mandatory for passengers also helped improve OR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/apsrtc-outperforms-transport-units-in-region/articleshow/81129328.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 21, 2021||Patna||Lack of auspicious dates derails wedding planners’ revival hopes||PATNA: The wedding industry came to a standstill last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and many marriages were postponed. Hence, couples and planners looked forward to a vibrant wedding season in 2021. However, with no auspicious marriage dates in the month of Phalgun from February 28 to March 28 this year, the revival hopes have been derailed. According to Acharya Chandra Mohan Pandey, a priest, only an auspicious date and time are chosen for solemnizing Hindu weddings. These are calculated after performing ‘Panchang Shuddhi’. “There are only a few ‘muhurts’ available for engagement ceremonies in the month of ‘Phalgun’, but none for marriages,” Pandey told this newspaper and asked couples to wait for April. To wedding vendors and planners, who have been out of business for the last three seasons, March will also be a disappointment. Arun Kumar, the owner of a marriage hall in Hanuman Nagar, claimed, “March used to be a busy season, but I have no bookings this year.” The owner of another marriage hall in Kankarbagh, Sanjay Yadav, said, “I had to ask half of my employees to leave because it was difficult for me to pay their salaries. I hope the rest of 2021 proves to be lucky for me.” The much-awaited marriage season has also disappointed mehndi artists. “I had 18 bookings in March alone in 2019, but this year, I have only one appointment for an engagement ceremony,” said Ritu Kumari, a mehndi artist. Anil Singh, whose catering business suffered huge losses in 2020, recalled that several wedding ceremonies, birthday parties and other events were put on hold. “This year, I have hardly earned any profit,” he added. Although few in number, people who are getting hitched are anxious due to the pandemic and its threats. Bride-to-be Anusha Hammad said, “I am making a lot of adjustments. I have planned a reception party in an open space instead of a hall so that people can maintain social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lack-of-auspicious-dates-derails-wedding-planners-revival-hopes/articleshow/81129514.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||First multi-level parking plaza comes up in Sec V||Kolkata: Sector V’s first multi-level car parking plaza set up by the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) was inaugurated on Saturday. State urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim inaugurated the parking lot virtually from the Kolkata Municipal Corporation conference hall. The G+8 parking plaza set up on plot AQ 11 will accommodate 650 cars, which, officials said,will minimize the parking problem on road sides of Sector V and will ensure smooth traffic movement in the IT hub. The civil part of the project has been completed and operators who will collect the fees for parking and will operate the parking lot will be engaged very soon, officials said. “The multi-level complex has been built with the aim to decongest and ease traffic chaos on the streets of Sector V due to parking,” said an NDITA official. The plaza will have solar panels and rainwater-harvesting facilities, along with drinking water and toilets on each floor and space for rehabilitating hawkers. There will also be CCTV surveillance. There will be food courts and other commercial shops on the ground floor too, officials said. Parking in Sector V has been a long-standing problem. NDITA has already initiated the process to engage agencies to put up parking and no-parking sign boards across Sector V and to supply wheel clamps to the electronic complex police station of Sector V to lock cars found parked in no-parking zones. NDITA has also identified 14 streets divided in four zones across Sector V as fee car parking zones and are in the process of engaging agencies to operate them and collect fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/first-multi-level-parking-plaza-comes-up-in-sec-v/articleshow/81129721.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 21, 2021||Patna||I-T depertment to move court for Sadhu’s Rs 1.07-cr property||PATNA: The Income Tax (I-T) department will move court for the possession of cash and jewellery worth more than Rs1.07 crore belonging to incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s brother-in-law Aniruddh Prasad Yadav alias Sadhu Yadav. The cash and jewellery stolen from Sadhu’s house and recovered later are lying in the police ‘maalkhana’. Sadhu has not proved the source of wealth. A court of judicial magistrate Divya Amal on Wednesday rejected Sadhu’s petition in which he had prayed for handing him over the cash and jewellery. The police had, by chance, recovered the stolen Rs38.41 lakh in cash and 2kg of gold jewellery from the two thieves when they were trying to flee near Biscomaun in Patna in 2014. The thieves had then taken the police to Phulwarisharif area for identifying the house from where they had stolen it. The house turned out to be of Sadhu. Police seized the stolen items and informed the I-T department as it was valued above Rs10 lakh. Sadhu later lodged an FIR with Phulwarisharif police station on June 22, 2014 for theft. Archana Sinha Shahi, I-T department’s senior standing counsel at Patna high court, on Friday said the jewellery recovered from thieves were worth around Rs68 lakh according to its value that time. “Its present value is much higher. The property has already been provisionally attached by the I-T department after Sadhu’s failure to explain its source. The court was informed about attachment on April 21, 2015,” she said. “The next hearing in the case is on March 18. The I-T department would file a petition that day urging the court that the stolen property be handed over to them as Sadhu had not been able to explain the legitimate source of income from which it was amassed,” she said. Shahi said the I-T department had written to the police on July 23, 2014 asking to hand over the property, but they replied the same day that the property was deposited in the maalkhana after seeking court permission. “On July 23, 2015, a judicial magistrate court had passed an ex parte order in favour of Sadhu with a rider that an I-T department officer would remain present,” Shahi said. She added: “A revision petition was filed by the department immediately after which then district judge Birendra Kumar stayed the order on August 6, 2015. The matter was transferred to the court of ADJ-V, which finally set aside the ex parte order and remitted the matter back to the judicial magistrate court,” Shahi said. Shahi said Sadhu again moved the court in 2018 for getting the stolen properties released. The court rejected it again. She said Sadhu’s income tax of Rs33.69 lakh for assessment year 1991-1992 to 1999-2000 and Rs31.62 lakh for year 2015-2016 along with penalty of Rs26.99 lakh besides interest on all these were still due for payment. Meanwhile, Sadhu’s counsel Abhishek Priyadarshi said they will challenge the order in the high court. “It’s a criminal matter. Either court would have to release the property or it would remain seized on its direction. The property could not be handed over to anyone else,” he said. Priyadarshi said the department pleaded for provisional attachment of the property as per law. “But the maximum period of provisional attachment by department is two years. In this case, the time frame expired in April 16, 2017,” he said. He said I-T commissioner had already waived off Sadhu’s penalty and the department has moved the appellate tribunal against the relief on which a final decision is yet to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/i-t-depertment-to-move-court-for-sadhus-rs-1-07-cr-property/articleshow/81129646.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 21, 2021||Patna||Congress workers vent ire on party netas at Begusarai||BAGUSARAI: Congress’s Bihar incharge Bhakta Charan Das and party’s state president Madan Mohan Jha had a torrid time while offering garlands to the statue of noted Hindi poet Ramdhari Singh ‘Dinkar’ on Barauni Zero Mile roundabout in the town on Saturday. While the Congress leaders followed by their supporters made bid to climb the stairs to garland the statue, the supporters of a local party leaders started raising slogans against them and even tried to stop them from garlanding the statue by obstructing their way to the podium. They even chanted “Bhrasta pradesh netritva wapas jao” (corrupt state leadership go back) slogans. With one faction pushing the leaders to garland the statue and another posing stiff resistance, pandemonium broke out near the statue, prompting the bodyguards and other security personnel present there to step in to make the two senior Congress functionaries able to offer garlands and rescue them to their vehicles. The protesters alleged selling of party tickets to the other constituents of Mahagathbandhan in the state assembly elections last year despite Congress having strong foothold in at least three of the seven assembly constituencies in Begusarai district. A supporter of the rebel Congress leader Garib Das, who had contested as an independent candidate from Bachhwara after the seat was allotted to CPI in the Mahagathbandhan, alleged that the “corrupt state leadership was responsible for the debacle in the assembly elections”. Incidentally, party supporters had expressed anguish after Congress claim on Bachhwara and Matihani assembly seats was denied in favour of the Left parties. Only Congress’s state women cell president Amita Bhushan had contested as a sitting Congress MLA from Begusarai seat, but lost to BJP’s Kundan Kumar. Amita, who was also present there on Saturday, dubbed it as a minor incident. She denied any scuffle between rival factions of the party. “The two leaders along with former state Congress president Anil Sharma and several other senior state leaders had come here to launch the second phase of ‘Kisan Satyagraha Yatra’ in the state on the call of former party president Rahul Gandhi to protest against the farm laws. “A tractor rally was organized from Barauni Zero Mile to Har-Har Mahadeo chowk in Begusarai, from where it turned into a foot march to the local Congress Bhawan. It was all a smooth affair with hundreds of party supporters participating in the programme. The second phase of Kisan Satyagraha Yatra is to cover 16 districts,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-workers-vent-ire-on-party-netas-at-begusarai/articleshow/81129595.cms||Rajiv Kumar
February 21, 2021||Patna||3-day training programme of JD(U) workers begins||PATNA: JD(U) president RCP Singh on Saturday called upon the party workers to spread the ideology of equality and socialism in the society without use of any violent method. Addressing the party workers after inaugurating a three-day training programme at the JD(U) headquarters, he said violence has no place in socialism. “We have to discourage antisocial elements at any cost. We have to make such a society that the fruits of changes reach the people at the lowest strata. The bureaucrat-turned-politician also said there is a general belief that socialist leaders spend more time on struggle for the people’s cause and fail to raise or strengthen their organization or political party. “But in JD(U), we are fast progressing towards breaking this myth under the leadership of Nitish Kumar. Today, JD(U) has its organization even at the polling booth level,” he said. Singh also said only the political parties based on certain ideologies remain vibrant for a long time. “It is our endeavour that each JD(U) worker learns about the party’s ideology. They should know how JD(U) is different from other political parties and how our leader Nitish Kumar is the best among other political leaders,” he said. Making an indirect reference to the poor performance of JD(U) in the 2020 assembly elections in Bihar, when the party was reduced to 43 seats from 71 in 2015 assembly polls, the party state president Umesh Kushwaha told the workers that “the result of last assembly polls is a challenge for us and we have to convert this challenge into an opportunity.” Kushwaha had also lost the last assembly polls from Mahnar in Vaishali district. Other prominent JD(U) leaders who addressed the inaugural training session were the party’s Rajya Sabha member Harivansh Narain Singh, former MLC Prof Ram Bachan Roy, training cell’s state president Sunil Kumar, motivational speaker Neyaz Ahmad and Atul Priyadarshi of the Gandhi Smriti Darshan Samiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-day-training-programme-of-jdu-workers-begins/articleshow/81129627.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Patna||SBI official evades arrest in paper leak case||PATNA: Deputy manager of the Jamui SBI main branch, Amit Kumar, was evading arrest in connection with the leak of social science question paper of the ongoing matriculation examination being conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB). The paper went viral on social media on Friday after which the BSEB cancelled it across the state late Friday night. Jamui Sadar SDPO Rakesh Kumar on Saturday said raids were on to nab Amit. He said two more SBI employees — cashier Shashikant Chaudhary and accountant Ajeet Kumar — along with a private person Vikas Kumar were sent to jail for leaking the paper. “It was actually Vikas who leaked the paper. His suspicious movements were captured in the CCTV camera inside the bank. Bank employees were actually negligent in keep question papers,” he said. Kumar said Vikas, a resident of Jamui, is an employee of a firm named Vandana Solutions and he worked for the bank as an outsourced workforce. “Vikas’s niece is appearing in the matriculation examination. He had leaked the question to her through WhatsApp,” Kumar said. The SDPO said police have seized the cellphones of Shashikant, Ajeet, Vikas and the girl. “Prima facie it is evident from Vikas’s cellphone that he had clicked the question’s picture and his niece had received it,” he said. He said the question was leaked almost at hour before the first shift examination. “Investigation is going on whether the question was forwarded to any other person after clicking its photograph,” he said. Kumar said no immediate action has been taken against the minor. “A decision about her would be taken later on,” he said. Jamui district education officer Ravi Kumar Singh had lodged an FIR with Town police station against Shashikant, Ajeet, Amit and Vikas. In the FIR, he alleged that the question paper was leaked and made viral after opening a packet of one of the two sacks kept as reserve at the SBI main branch in Jamui. Singh alleged that the three bank employees responsible for secure handling of question papers had left everything in the hands of Vikas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sbi-official-evades-arrest-in-paper-leak-case/articleshow/81129983.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Night curfew likely where cases rise sharply: Vijay Wadettiwar||NAGPUR: Concerned over the alarming rise in number of Covid-19 patients in Vidarbha, state relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Saturday warned of imposing night curfew at such places, if the situation further deteriorates. He, however, made it clear that the final decision would be made only after a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray next week in Mumbai. “The entire Vidarbha region is witnessing a spike in cases. Even in Nagpur, over 750 cases were reported yesterday. The government has already declared partial lockdown in Wardha, Amravati and Yavatmal. If fresh cases jump exponentially, the government needs to take strict measures like night curfew,” the minister told TOI. He said the curfew would be imposed from 5pm to 5am and the government would entrust district administrations — including collectors and municipal commissioners — to take a final decision depending on the conditions in their respective areas. “During curfew, all places like marriage halls, markets, cinema halls and others where crowds gather in large numbers would be closed. The sudden surge is due to the majority of people becoming careless and not following Covid-19 protocols like wearing masks and maintaining Covid distancing,” Wadettiwar said. The Bramhapuri MLA also came down heavily on the political rallies by leaders, suggesting them to stop such events till the situation returns to normal. “Both the ruling and opposition party leaders are taking out such rallies and agitations where a large number of supporters gather. The top leaders should avoid visiting such rallies.” Indicating that the marriage halls were turning out to be super-spreaders, the former leader of opposition said instructions were issued to the administration to crack down at such places and impose a harsh penalty of Rs1 lakh if more than 50 persons were found at one place. “We’re also considering regulating the vegetable markets where people gather. Such places may be allowed to open from 10am to 5pm with restrictions,” Wadettiwar said. Raut cancels son’s post-wedding receptionIn view of rising cases in Nagpur, energy minister Nitin Raut has cancelled the post-wedding reception of his son Kunal and daughter-in-law Akansha. It was scheduled on Sunday, where a large number of dignitaries was expected to arrive. Raut said, “We’ve decided to cancel the event to avoid any further spread. As a guardian minister, I want to set an example for others. I would appeal to the citizens to remain careful and compulsorily use masks and sanitisers while venturing out of their homes.” The minister issued instructions to the administration to keep a close watch on the situation and take measures accordingly to prevent spread of the deadly disease. “Currently, we haven’t decided on anything like a lockdown. We will meet next week to gauge the situation and then take a decision,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/night-curfew-likely-where-cases-rise-sharply-wadettiwar/articleshow/81131196.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 21, 2021||Patna||SSP suspends chowkidar, SHO after 3 deaths in Bihar's Muzaffarpur||PATNA: Katra police station SHO Sikandar Kumar and chowkidar of Dargah village were placed under suspension by Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant on Saturday in connection with the suspected hooch death of three suspicious deaths. Ramchandra Manjhi (70) and his wife Manju Devi (65) died on Wednesday followed by the death of Vinod Manjhi (45) on Thursday. Hooch poisoning was suspected to be the reason behind their deaths, but the police had initially denied it. Vijaypur SHO and Majhaulia chowkidar in Gopalganj was also suspended on Friday following three suspicious deaths and partial blindness of two persons. Muzaffarpur DSP (east) Manoj Kumar Pandey said the SHO was suspended for failing to maintain law and order after the three deaths followed by the rumour of hooch poisoning. Pandey, however, said that nothing has surfaced to establish that the deaths were from hooch poisoning. An FIR was registered with Katra police station on Friday night against unknown persons after the three suspicious deaths. Pandey had said the FIR was lodged to investigate if deaths were caused by hooch poisoning and to take action against rumour mongers. Meanwhile, ADG (law and order) Amit Kumar on Saturday said ‘prima facie’ the three deaths at Majhaulia in Gopalganj and blindness of two persons on Friday were suspected to be caused by hooch poisoning. “As the deaths and blindness both has taken place in the same locality, thus it is being suspected to be caused by spurious liquor,” he said. In reply to a query, Kumar said a report from Muzaffarpur SSP is awaited over the three suspicious deaths at Katra after which it could be said if those deaths were also from hooch or any other reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssp-suspends-chowkidar-sho-after-3-deaths-in-muz/articleshow/81129579.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Patna||Bihar govt to rope in ICDS staff for 2nd dose of vaccination||PATNA: The employees of Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) will be roped in to mobilize and bring the beneficiaries to the session sites in order to increase the pace of the second dose of Covid-19 vaccination in the state. On Saturday, 1,600 healthcare workers across the state took the second dose. So far 35,019 have got the second dose in the state. Principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit and other senior department officials also took their second dose on Saturday. Health department special secretary Manoj Kumar said ICDS employees will work from Monday to mobilize the beneficiaries. Amrit said principal secretaries of the departments concerned have been requested and nodal officers were working to increase the vaccination of frontline workers. “They are all helping us,” he said. Nearly 78% of the targeted beneficiaries took their second dose on Friday, he added. The officials also cited technical glitches with the portal as one of the reasons for less number of beneficiaries taking the second shot, compared to the first dose. This problem has been reported to the Centre, they said. As per the information shared by the State Health Society, total 5,15,280 beneficiaries have taken their first shot since the launch of vaccination drive on January 16. They include 3,97,491 healthcare workers and 1,17,789 frontline workers. The second dose is being given in state from February 15 after four weeks of the first shot. Meanwhile, 57 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state. Patna registered new cases in single digit after a long time. Only seven people tested positive for Covid-19 in the district in the last 24 hours. Though the state’s tally reached 2,62,066, there were only 500 active cases in Bihar. One official death was reported from Patna, taking the state’s toll to 437. AIIMS-Patna reported the death of a 27-year-old male.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-rope-in-icds-staff-for-2nd-dose-of-vaccination/articleshow/81129492.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 21, 2021||Patna||Bihar’s growth story not gloomy despite Q1 dip: Experts||PATNA: Even as the state’s growth rate recorded a plunge of -18.2% in the first quarter (Q1) of the current fiscal due to the coronavirus impact on the economy, experts say the situation is likely to improve by the fourth quarter, ending March 31 this year. “We should remember that the negative 18.2% growth is only for the Q1 of the current fiscal. If it had continued, a lot many of us would have died by now,” Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) member secretary P P Ghosh said in a lighter vein on Saturday. “The fact, if you recall, is that the economic activities began to pick up from the second quarter (July-September) last year, even though it was in a halting manner as the state also had its assembly election in October-November. There has been a gain in momentum since," Ghosh said. "But much will still depend on the investment and utilization of the fund in the fourth quarter (December to March),” Ghosh further said, adding that by the time the 2020-21 financial year ends, the growth scenario will not look so grim. He also said a similar forecast has been made about the national economy that had, otherwise, registered a negative 23.9% growth rate under the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Ghosh added that compared to the overall 7% growth rate forecast for the national economy, despite the gloomy scenario in the manufacturing sector, the growth rate of Bihar might be around 3-4%. That being the case, the turnaround of the state’s economy witnessed under CM Nitish Kumar from 2005 with an average growth rate of 10% has come down to the 2005 level of around 4%. The performance in 2020-21 has virtually become the base of the state’s economy to start on the revival road again from 2021-22 fiscal with the strategic five-year governance path that governor Phagu Chauhan also indicated and spelt out in his address to the joint session of the state legislature on Friday. The combined growth witnessed in all sectors had given Bihar the highest growth rate of 10.47% in 2019-20 among 20 states and Union Territories whose data were available with the Central Statistical Organisation (CSO). The capacity of Bihar to bounce back on the economic front is not in doubt, even as the continued rise in the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG has been giving a cause for concern. The work on expansion and extension of the agriculture feeder of electricity has been somewhat affected due to the paucity of funds. Nonetheless, as to an indication of the strength of Bihar’s agriculture sector and its crop production that proved to be a major shock absorber amid the coronavirus pandemic, Nitish in December last year had fixed the paddy procurement target at 30 lakh metric tonne for 2020-21. In tune with the same, the governor mentioned in his address to the joint session of the legislature on Friday that the overall procurement made till a few days ago was more than the target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-growth-story-not-gloomy-despite-q1-dip-experts/articleshow/81129522.cms||Abhay Singh
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||Kids away, elderly get a comfy & safe abode in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: When youth emigrate to foreign lands for higher education, jobs and better life, their parents are left with large houses that pose a security threat, or in apartments, leaving them lonely and in anxiety. To ward off this loneliness and isolation, an old-age home will start functioning in Rajajipuram area of the city from Sunday. Set up by a non-profit-organization, the old-age home, Shree Ram Senior Citizen Home, is the brainchild of city entrepreneur and orchadist SC Shukla. The ‘luxury class’ old-age home has been set up on an ancestral property of Shukla’s family, and has eight VIP and executive double rooms with total 40 beds and all facilities keeping in mind the requirements of senior citizens. The facility also has a library, dispensary, intercom, spacious balconies and open areas for exercise and meditation, hot and cold air-conditioners in rooms, among other amenities. Besides, there are four living rooms equipped with a dining table, sofa set and a central table. Keeping their safety in mind, the old-age home will do thermal scanning of every visitor visiting the home and ensure they are wearing masks. The old-age home currently has one elderly occupant, aged above 60 years. The female occupant came in December 2020 when she didn’t get a visa and her children had to leave for France for resuming their jobs. “This is our third old age home, and our ancestral house, therefore the members will have a feeling of home and comfort when they start living here. It is safe for the elderlies as well, their security has been kept in mind while converting it into an old-age home. Further, it is located in a premium residential area, and has ample area for morning and evening walks too. We have four kitchens with all the basic appliances,” said Shukla. “We have taken special care to ensure a homely feeling by creating a space that is airy and spacious. Holistic care and healing will also be provided through yoga and meditation sessions. We will also celebrate their birthdays and festivals so that they feel comfortable and within family,” said Gaurav and Suchit, Shukla’s sons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kids-away-elderly-get-a-comfy-safe-abode-in-city/articleshow/81131613.cms||Aditi Singh
February 21, 2021||Patna||Micro containment zones, area sealing to be back in Bihar||PATNA: Taking a cue from the spurt in Covid-19 cases in other parts of the country, the Bihar health department has decided to create micro containment zones and seal nearby houses if a new Covid-19 case is detected in any locality. Implementation of Covid-19 protocols in public vehicles and massive checking of masks has also started from Saturday across the state. Though Bihar is registering less than 100 new cases in a day, health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said all officials have been alerted, and they are watching the developments in other states closely. “If a new case is found that house and three to four nearby houses will be sealed, and every resident will be tested,” said Amrit, adding, “We are back to square one and don’t want to take any risk.” He said the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Centre on February 13 to contain the spread of Covid-19 in workplaces is being implemented. As per the SOP, offices in a containment zone will remain closed, except for medical and emergency services. Employers will have to ensure all prevention measures, thermal screening and proper sanitising facilities are provided at the entrance. Those residing in the containment zone have to inform their office head and will not come to the office unless the zone is denotified. Officials said largescale violations were being noticed in all offices and public places. Even in public gatherings, Covid-19 protocols were being violated. “Cases are increasing in four states, and if this continues, there are chances that the central government will come up with strict rules for gathering. Some relaxations may be taken back,” an official said. On Friday, a meeting chaired by the chief secretary was held to discuss the increase in Covid-19 cases in other parts of India and measures needed in Bihar. All civil surgeons have been instructed to keep a watch on the increase in cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/micro-containment-zones-area-sealing-to-be-back-in-bihar/articleshow/81129475.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 21, 2021||Patna||Bihar: EOU may monitor Rs 32 crore fraud probe||PATNA: The Economic Offences Unit (EOU) of state police may soon take over the case of fraudulent transaction of Rs32 crore from two NHAI accounts with Kotak Mahindra Bank’s Exhibition road branch in Patna. The NHAI money was meant for payment against land acquisition for road projects in Patna district. Patna police is investigating the case as per routine procedure after an FIR was lodged with Gandhi Maidan police station on January 2. Sources said subordinate officers are unable to properly handle the case due to lack of technical and financial expertise resulting in slow progress in the investigation of the case. A senior EOU officer said a detailed report about the case has been sought from Patna police. “Some reports have come and more are awaited. It is expected that all the required reports in the case would be received within a day or two after which our additional director general (ADG) would take a final call,” he said, preferring anonymity. When asked, EOU ADG Nayyar Hasnain Khan said they may start monitoring the investigation of the case soon. “Reports from Patna police are awaited. A final call would be taken soon after going through those reports,” he added. The investigation till now shows that money had been transferred to multiple bank accounts in different states from the NHAI accounts via RTGS and cloned cheques. One Subham Kumar Gupta had reached the branch on January 2 to transact Rs11.73 crore by using forged letter heads of the NHAI and Aadhaar card of Patna district land acquisition officer (DLAO) Pankaj Patel. One of the bank employees suspected foul play and informed the police after which Subham was arrested. It was only after the incident that the bank, DLAO, NHAI as well as police came to know that several crores had already been transacted fraudulently from two government bank accounts having money for land acquisition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/eou-may-monitor-rs-32-crore-fraud-probe/articleshow/81129943.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Jodhpur||Pali medical officer in ACB net for taking bribe||Jodhpur: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Saturday caught a senior medical officer red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 17,000 from a doctor of his own department at Sumerpur in Pali district. In order to build pressure on the doctor for bribe, the officer had even issued him a notice accusing him of financial irregularities. The accused has been identified as Sharad Kuamr Saxena (senior medical officer, community health centre in Takhatgarh) who also holds additional charges of BCMHO of Sumerpur in Pali. Complainant Pawan Kumar is a medical officer at primary health center of Pawa in Sumerpur. Assistant superintendent of police (ACB-Rural) Bhopal Singh Lakhawat said that there were two sub-health centres of Basant and Hingola under Pawa centre. “On every Thursday, Mother and Child Health Day is observed at these sub-centres and a medical officer of health centre is supposed to visit these sub-centres for inspection, for which he/she is paid a remuneration of Rs 1,500 per visit,” Lakhawat said. This remuneration is remitted to applicants' accounts through a mobility app directly. Kumar had drawn this amount for the period from June to December last year and Saxena had been putting pressure on him to pay him Rs 17,000 at the rate of 30% as his commission against the amount claimed by him and for the amount to be claimed for the period of present year. “He had refused to pay any bribe to him. So, in order to build pressure on him, Saxena even issued him a show-cause notice stating that he had carried out a financial misappropriation by claiming that amount without his verification,” Lakhawat said. Kumar, then approached the ACB, which laid a trap to catch the SMO red-handed after verification of complaint. “Saxena called the complainant at his residence in Sumerpur on Saturday with money. He took the money from him and put it in a box on the centre table of the drawing room. We raided the moment he took money,” said Lakhawat adding that the ACB recovered the money and arrested Saxena. Interestingly, there are 13 medical officers under Sumperpur block and eight, including Kumar, had drawn the amount of their respective inspection visits of sub-health centres, but it was only the complainant, who had been served the notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/pali-medical-officer-in-acb-net-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/81129898.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Vijayawada||AP scientist bags astronomy award||GUNTUR: A scientist from Guntur city, Dr Panini Singam, has secured the prestigious Justice Oak Award from the Astronomical Society of India (ASI) for his research in detecting multilayer mirrors to capture X-rays. ASI said the innovative methodology has led to a comprehensive understanding of the design and fabrication of multilayer mirrors. Dr Panini is presently a post-doctoral research fellow at National Aeronautics and Space Administration, MSFC. ASI will present the award on Sunday. “The practice of X-ray astronomy is challenged with major technological limitations. Unlike the X-ray sources we have in our laboratories, celestial objects are often very faint and hence we need large area sensors to increase the efficiency of observation. But the major difficulty in building X-ray sensors lies in the development of mirrors which can efficiently reflect X-rays. As X-rays have small wavelengths, they pass through practically all substances with very little interaction. This makes building sensors and mirrors difficult for X-ray astronomy,” Dr Panini told STOI. This issue is traditionally addressed by using grazing incidence mirrors where X-rays reflect at a very small angle from the surface. While grazing incidence X-ray optics is popular within the X-ray astronomy community, it has many limitations. Telescopes made with these types of mirrors have a small bandwidth, a small effective area and are very bulky. “To address this, we (in collaboration with IIA, ISRO and RRCAT) developed multilayer mirrors which can efficiently reflect X-rays even at very high angles,” said Dr Panini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-scientist-bags-astronomy-award/articleshow/81129351.cms||Samdani MN
February 21, 2021||Amaravati||AP: Budget session likely after municipal polls||VIJAYAWADA: The budget session of the state assembly is likely to be held in April, after the municipal elections. The government is reportedly planning to hold the session for two weeks. This would be the third budget session of the YSRC government and the second during the Covid-19 crisis. The government has initiated several measures involving financial commitments, while resources at hand are not commensurate with the requirements. The finance minister will have to do a balancing act between expenditure and revenue. The state cabinet, which is scheduled to meet on February 23, will decide on the dates of the budget session. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy is also holding a meeting with ministers and senior leaders of the party on February 22, a day before the cabinet meeting, where he is likely to discuss the impending MLC elections, where the party has to finalise six candidates to be elected by the assembly. Three MLCs from TDP and two from YSRC are retiring in March this year. Another seat fell vacant following the death of YSRC member Challa Ramakrishna Reddy. Before the 2019 general elections, Jagan had promised MLC seats to senior leaders Marri Rajasekhar, Yalamanchili Ravi and Balli Kalyan Chakravarthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/budget-session-likely-after-municipal-polls/articleshow/81135357.cms||Gopi Dara
February 21, 2021||Patna||Appointment of underqualified teachers in higher edu institutions is Bihar’s bane||PATNA: The appointment of underqualified teachers and officials in various higher education institutions in the state is not entirely a new phenomenon. Cases of people getting appointed based on fake degrees or without requisite qualifications have been reported from time to time. In 2016, the vice-chancellor of Veer Kuar Singh University, Md Azhar Hussain, was sacked by the Patna High Court on the ground that he did not possess the requisite qualifications for the post. The then chancellor Ram Nath Kovind appointed another academician as the VC in his place. A couple of years ago, the Higher Education Commission of Thailand had rejected the degrees of 40 Thai nationals who had done their PhD from Magadh University. Most of the PhDs were in Buddhist Studies and allied subjects. Later, the case was handed over to the vigilance investigation bureau for an inquiry into allegations that more than 300 foreigners got PhD degrees and many of them got without even visiting India. Similarly, a few years ago, Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University cancelled the LLB degree of Jitender Singh Tomar in connection with a fake degree case levelled against the former law minister of Delhi. The case garnered attention in 2015 when Delhi High Court issued a notice to Tomar on a plea filed by BJP leader Nand Kishore Garg, demanding the cancellation of the AAP leader's ticket for submitting fake certificates. In 2013, more than 25 people were appointed to different posts in Aryabhatta Knowledge University reportedly without verification of their original certificates. Much later, when their certificates were sent to the awarding universities for verification, a few were found to be “spurious”, said AKU VC S M Karim. An inquiry is still going on, the VC added. However, in recent times, appointments of teachers are being made on the recommendation of the BPSC and University Service Commission but they are asked to join the university service only after getting their original certificates verified from the concerned universities, said PU registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/appointment-of-underqualified-teachers-in-higher-edu-institutions-is-bihars-bane/articleshow/81129528.cms||B K Mishra
February 21, 2021||Patna||Precautions key to beating new Covid variants: Doctors||PATNA: A new wave of apprehension and fear is evident among the people as the country has reported presence of the UK, South Africa and Brazil mutant variants of the SARS-CoV-2, which have demonstrated increased transmissibility. The Patna district authorities and doctors, however, believe that the new variants of the virus are also manageable if proper precautions are taken. Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh said the state is well equipped to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus strain. “As compared to other states, we have fared well in restraining the spread of the virus. People are mostly cooperative here,” he said, adding Covid protocols were being strictly implemented at public places like temples, shopping malls, hotels and restaurants. “More police personnel will be deployed at crowded places like vegetable markets, food courts, railway stations and bus stands,” the DM added. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, head of cardiothoracic surgery at AIIMS-Patna and nodal officer for Covid-19 at the hospital, said, “The mutant coronavirus strains can quite possibly reach the state. Although more transmittal, the strains are reportedly less deadly. Precaution is the key and complacency in following the guidelines should be avoided. Also, undergoing vaccination is important as both the vaccines provided by the government will be effective against the new strains too.” Dr Siddharth Kumar, an ophthalmologist, said, “Four standard precautions – use of masks and sanitiser, social distancing and frequent hand washing – should be followed. People should also take multi-vitamin supplements after consulting doctors.” Dr Siddharth added people should avoid touching eyes, especially at crowded places. “Eye hygiene is also necessary to prevent infection,” he said. Dr Ravi Shankar, an ENT specialist, said good oral health is also important during these times. “Viruses enter our body through eyes and nose. Hence, disinfecting oral cavity is very important. This can be done through warm saline gargle or antiseptic gargle,” he added. People too are taking necessary steps to avoid returning to quarantine times. Saket Singh, a resident of Buddha Colony, said, “Experiencing quarantine was far more worse than just hearing about it. It was a tough few weeks for me. I am extra cautious now to avoid that situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/precautions-key-to-beating-new-covid-variants-doctors/articleshow/81129503.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar pitches for ‘one nation, one rate’ policy for electricity||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday pitched for ‘one nation, one rate’ policy in the power sector across the country. Addressing the sixth governing council meeting of the NITI Aayog through videoconferencing, Nitish said, “The rate of electricity supplied from different power plants of the central government varies in different states. Bihar also gets electricity from the central government’s power plants at a higher rate compared to other states. There should be a policy of ‘one nation, one rate.” “Bihar has to spend a huge amount as subsidy to electricity users. A uniform electricity rate across the country will be much better,” Nitish said at the meeting chaired by PM Narendra Modi and attended by the chief ministers of different states. He said the state government spends more than Rs5,000 crore as subsidy to electricity users every year. Nitish further said Bihar has achieved several milestones in the power sector. The state government provided electricity connection to each household across the state in October, 2018. “When we got an opportunity to serve the people of Bihar in 2005, the electricity consumption in the state was just 700MW. As per the figure of June 2020, the electricity consumption in the state has gone up to 5,932MW,” he said. Backing the three farm laws against which thousands of farmers have been agitating on Delhi borders, Nitish said the laws were in the interest of farmers. “We abolished the APMC Act in Bihar way back in 2006. Earlier, farmers faced difficulties in selling their produce. After we abolished the APMC Act, there is no difficulty for the farmers in selling their produce,” Nitish said. The CM also said it was his government which started procurement. “The state procured 20 lakh metric tonnes of paddy last year and around 32.89 lakh metric tonnes till February 19 this year,” he said. Nitish also demanded a provision that the deposited money in a state should be spent for its own use and industrialization. “Bihar’s CD ratio is very low at 36.1%. People deposited Rs3.75 lakh crore in Bihar, but the banks extended loans up to only Rs1.35 lakh crore. The rest of the money deposited by Bihar was distributed as loan in other developed states,” Nitish rued. He praised the Narendra Modi government for allowing production of ethanol from sugar cane juice, which would lessen the dependency on petrol and diesel. “In 2007, we had sent a proposal to the Centre for setting up ethanol production units in Bihar. But the then government at the Centre did not give necessary permission. “It is good that ethanol production is starting in the state,” Nitish said. The CM further urged the Centre to provide land and other facilities in the coastal area of Odisha for an exclusive port for Bihar. “Bihar is a landlocked state. We are facing many difficulties because of it. We have been demanding since 2011 that a separate port be made available in Odisha, so that Bihar does not face difficulty in exporting its products,” Nitish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-pitches-for-one-nation-one-rate-policy-for-electricity/articleshow/81129975.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Patna||AIIMS-Patna mum on termination||PATNA: The AIIMS-Patna remained tight-lipped on the termination of three of its faculty members from services for lacking required qualification. The governing body of AIIMS-P at its meeting held on Thursday took the decision in this regard. Sources said the governing body has rectified the proposal to initiate the process of termination of the three faculty members. However, none of the senior doctors came on record about the decision. AIIMS-Patna director Dr P K Singh said, “I cannot say anything right now as minutes of that meeting have not been prepared. It will be ready by next week.” As per a media report, the three faculty members are Ajit Saxena, professor and head of pathology department, Sushmita Das, associate professor in microbiology department, and Alok Ranjan, assistant professor in the department of community and family. Both Saxena and Das hold postgraduate degrees in zoology and Ranjan during his appointment did not have a PhD degree. However, a doctor working with the AIIMS-P said a few other faculty members were also holding non-medical degrees. “Why action against a select few and not others,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-patna-mum-on-termination/articleshow/81129540.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Patna||Few takers for online exam on ‘cow science’ in Bihar||PATNA: The first-ever nationwide online examination on ‘cow science’, scheduled to be held on February 25, is unlikely to get good response from the students of universities and colleges in Bihar. Though the last date of registration for this online examination ended on Saturday, hardly a few students are learnt to have registered themselves for the examination. The details of online examination were announced by Rashtriya Kamdhenu Ayog (RKA) on its website. The exam will be conducted in four categories — primary level up to 8th standard, secondary level from class 9th to 12th, college level after 12th+ and fourth category is for general public. The examination with 100 multi-choice questions will be held in Hindi, English and 12 regional languages. The duration will be one hour. There is no registration fee and the results will be declared on the RKA website immediately after the examination. Certificates will be given to all. Successful meritorious candidates will be given prizes and certificates afterwards. The UGC, in its letter on February 12, had asked the vice-chancellors of all the universities to encourage students to take a voluntary online exam on ‘gau vigyan’ or cow science. “I write this to request you to give wide publicity to this initiative and encourage students to enrol/register themselves for this examination. This may also be brought to the notice of the colleges affiliated to your university,” the UGC secretary had requested through the letter to VCs. However, most university officials failed to take notice of the UGC’s letter and disseminate its content among students. Patna University’s students’ welfare dean N K Jha had no idea of this online examination. “I can’t say anything about it as I have not come across the UGC letter so far,” he said. Even Patna College principal Ashok Kumar feigned ignorance about this online examination as well as the UGC’s letter in this regard. Munger University vice-chancellor Ranjit Kumar Verma also did not have detailed information about this online examination on cow science. Verma, however, admitted that he had read about this examination in the newspaper sometime ago. However, students of some local colleges have registered themselves for this examination on their own. “When I read about it in the newspaper, I waited for the announcement of this examination on RKA’s website and got myself registered thereafter. I will also appear at the mock test on Sunday before taking the final exam on February 25,” said Sudhanshu Kumar, a student of TPS College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/few-takers-for-online-exam-on-cow-science/articleshow/81129469.cms||B K Mishra
February 21, 2021||Kanpur||Girl found in Unnao field regains consciousness||Pics sent on mail Kanpur: A 16-year-old girl, who along with two other minor girls was found in an unconscious state in an agriculture field in Unnao’s Babuhara village under Asoha police station on Wednesday, regained consciousness on Saturday and is in a stable condition at a private hospital in Kakadeo area of the city. “Doctors stated that after the girl has shown signs of improvement, she was put off ventilator support on Saturday,” said SSP/DIG Preetinder Singh. The girl, however, is still not in a condition to record statements or narrate the incident. The doctors are constantly monitoring her condition and administering necessary medical assistance to her, he said. The victim, who was offered pesticide with water along with her two other relatives, regained consciousness and opened her eyes on Friday night for the first time since she was admitted at the hospital on Thursday. “On being called upon by her name, she responds and opens her eyes. When asked about her well-being, she even nods her head. Once she fully shows signs of improvement, her statement will be recorded before a magistrate. Her family members were only allowed to see her that too from the glass partition of the ICU,” said Inspector Kakadeo Kunj Bihari Mishra. A deployment of heavy police force has been made at the hospital to ensure law and order. During preliminary assessment, the girl was found to be in shock. “Taking it to be a suspected case of poisoning, she was immediately admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the paediatric ward,” the medical bulletin issued by the private hospital located in Kakadeo, where she is undergoing treatment, stated. The victim was admitted to the hospital in an intubated condition and was on bag and tube ventilation. Later, she was shifted to the ICU and rigorous treatment was given to her. On Saturday, the girl was put off the ventilator and has been going through spontaneous respiration, it added. To recall, three minor girls — aged 16, 15 and 14 — were found in an unconscious state in an agriculture field in Unnao’s Babuhara village under Asoha police station area by the locals on Wednesday night when they did not return after leaving their house to bring fodder for cattle. The three were rushed to hospital, where two of them were declared brought dead. The 16-year-old girl was rushed to a district hospital in Unnao and later referred to a private hospital in the Kakadeo area of the city where she is recuperating. The police had on Friday achieved a breakthrough and arrested two people in connection with the deaths of the two teenage girls. The cops told reporters that the incident was the fallout of a one-sided love affair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/girl-found-in-unnao-field-regains-consciousness/articleshow/81129468.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 21, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Expert panel reviews works at Polavaram||Rajahmundry: Polavaram Dam Design Review Panel (DDRP) chairman A B Pandya on Saturday expressed satisfaction over project works. The chairman, along with project authority CEO Chandrasekhar Iyer, held a review meeting in Rajahmundry on the progress of works with Polavaram Project Authority members, members of the Central Water Commission and officials of the state water resources department. Speaking after the meeting, Pandya said new issues have come up, such as additional erosion on the left bank of the dam, which require remedial measures. “We have spillway designs point of view and we found small modifications may be necessary in the reservoir area. The project works are going on well.” Stating ongoing works pose no concern, the chairman said such projects require inputs from various disciplines and course corrections are inevitable. The chairman gave several suggestions to the contracting agency, Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited. Erection of 29 out of 48 gates, he said, is complete while spillway pillars have been constructed at a height of 52 meters. Further, 1,105 of 1,128 meters of the spillway bridge are complete and hydraulic cylinders and power packs are being fixed, he informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/expert-panel-reviews-works-at-polavaram/articleshow/81129332.cms||Samson Raj
February 21, 2021||Allahabad||Seven-year-old’s body found in drain, kin protest||Prayagraj: Body of an 11-year-old boy, reported missing from Kanshiram colony of neighbouring Pratapgrah district for the past three days, was found in a drain under Kotwali police station area on Saturday. Alleging negligence by the police, the bereaved kin staged a demonstration to seek quick action against the accused. They also staged a ‘chakka jam’ on the busy road and also indulged in stone-pelting to prevent police from taking the body for a post-mortem examination. Only after the police used mild lathicharge that the situation could be brought under control. SP Prataphgarh Shiv Hari Meena said the situation was under control and the accused have been detained. “Body of the victim has been sent for a postmortem examination, while the accused are being interrogated,” said the SP. Circle officer (city) Abhay Pandey said the victim, Deepak (11), son of Shyamu, left his home at Kanshiram Colony on Katra Road to play in the evening on February 17. When he did not return, his parents approached the police on February 19. An FIR of kidnapping was registered at the Kotwali police station against three persons based on their complaint. Victim’s mother Seema informed the police that on February 15, a seven-year-old kid of the same locality was throwing stones when one of the stones hit the window of her house. When Deepak’s father complained about the incident, the boy was thrashed by his parents and he was given Rs 200 as compensation for the damage. She alleged that enraged over the incident, the three elder brothers of this boy kidnapped Deepak and killed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/seven-year-olds-body-found-in-drain-kin-protest/articleshow/81129255.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Patna||Examinees go on rampage against paper cancellation||Patna: At least two persons were injured and more than a dozen vehicles got damaged after irate matriculation examinees went on a rampage in front of A N College on Boring Road in Patna at around 8.30am on Saturday. The rampage continued for almost half an hour, but the police and officials at the college remained mute spectators. The students were angry over the cancellation of social science paper examination across the state on Friday though the paper was leaked in Jamui only. The matriculation examination is being conducted by the Bihar State Examination Board from February 17. On Saturday, more than 1100 students were scheduled to write examination in first shift from 9.30am and around 900 in second shift starting from 1.45pm, said A N College centre static magistrate Rajeev Ranjan. Centre magistrate Subhash Prasad Singh had not reached the centre till 10.15am. His colleagues said he was stuck in a jam due to the rampage. S K Puri police station SHO Satish Kumar Singh told TOI that some of the agitators had their examination centre at AN College. “They would be identified in the CCTV camera footages,” he said. Those who received injuries were Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) driver Arjun Kumar and sanitation worker Saxena Rai. Arjun received multiple blows on his head and face. “We were passing through the road after loading garbage from ward number 25 when the students attacked us,” Arjun said. The PMC vehicle was turned turtle in front of the college gate. Eyewitnesses said a pregnant woman was also thrashed by the students. That she was allowed to go only after her husband fell on their feet begging for mercy. The occupants of a private vehicle had to flee while leaving the car, which was damaged. Several other vehicles were also damaged by the rampaging crowd. However, many managed to escape with their vehicles, eyewitnesses said. Those whose vehicles were damaged and reported to police are industries department deputy director Ranjeet Kumar, BMP women’s battalion havildar Manoj Kumar Paswan, Rakesh Kumar besides and two of PMC. Ranjeet told TOI that he along with wife Poonam Sinha was returning to their residence in Digha after purchasing flowers and other items from Boring Road when they came under attack. “The students attacked our car with bricks. My car’s windscreen was shattered,” he said. Poonam said her husband tried to escape by reversing the car, but a group attacked from the back also and damaged the vehicle. Manoj’s son Mohit Kumar was returning from Digha with his friend Shatakshi Narayan and driver Vishal Kumar after dropping his cousin Naveet Kumar for another examination when they came under attack. “Before I could do anything, they attacked the windscreen with bricks and sticks,” he said. Mohit had approached the police at near SK Puri Park checkpost, but they did nothing to spot the students. City magistrate Sunny Saurav said the youths tried to obstruct the examination over question paper leak and exam cancellation. The administration will be soft on those involved in the hooliganism as most of them are students of tender age, he said. He said a group of agitators had also blocked the road near Ram Mohun Roy Seminary on Khazanchi Road for obstructing the examination, but failed. “Additional forces were also rushed there and agitators were removed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/examinees-go-on-rampage-against-paper-cancellation/articleshow/81129986.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||HC asks why no bids sought for land ex-min got||Mumbai: The Bombay high court has frowned at the “selective” allotment of land near a lake in Khed city, Ratnagiri, to an organisation that has former state environment minister Ramdas Kadam of the Shiv Sena as its chairman. “They could invite tenders … [and] ask for allotment of the land to any individual,” observed a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni on Wednesday. The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) by an activist, Virsen Dhotre, seeking quashing and setting aside of the June 2006 approval of the urban development department (UDD) to give on lease 1,600sqm of land owned by the Khed Municipal Council (KMC) to the Shivtej Aarogya Seva Sanstha. The land has been leased for 99 years at a nominal rent of Rs 100 annually. Dhotre’s PIL said the piece of land cannot be developed as it is reserved as an open space (green zone) because of its proximity to the lake. His petition said the KMC passed a resolution and sought UDD approval saying the land was not reserved in the Development Plan for any purpose. The December 2006 lease agreement mentions the land is reserved as an open space in the Development Plan. Another lease agreement in December 2007 signed by the KMC CEO and Kadam refers to it as an open land near the lake. Dhotre said that in 2008 the KMC resolution to convert the land to a residential zone was not approved by the government. On a complaint, in 2017 the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis ordered an inquiry. Dhotre said the collector’s July 2018 report stated that the land was reserved for a green zone and the KMC CEO supplied false information to the government in collusion with Shivtej. Dhotre’s advocates Uday Warunjikar and Ditendra Mishra argued that it is the usual modus operandi to identify land and grab it. They said a ground-plus-two-storey structure was built. When the judges asked if there were other constructions near the lake, Warunjikar said no. Shivtej Aarogya Seva Sanstha advocate Girish Godbole said there was no reservation on the land. “Reservation and zoning are two separate things,” he said. He said the occupation certificate had also been received. The judges asked why tenders were not invited. They remarked that public land allotment should not be confined only to “one segment of the population” and the option to apply for it should be kept open for all citizens. “Why be selective? That is the whole issue!” said Justice Kulkarni. Dhotre was allowed to challenge the occupation certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-asks-why-no-bids-sought-for-land-ex-min-got/articleshow/81131215.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 21, 2021||Nashik||Active Covid cases cross 1,500-mark in Nashik city||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare, concerned about the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, on Saturday, appealed to the citizens to stringently adhere to all Covid safety protocol to prevent another lockdown. Mandhare, in a video message to the residents of the district, said that over the past couple of months, it had appeared that the situation was finally coming under control and everyone would soon come out of this difficult situation. “A large number of people have, however, forgotten the importance of wearing masks and maintaining social distance. As a result, there has been a recent spike in the number of cases. The number of active cases, that had dropped below 1,000 only a fortnight ago, has again crossed the 1,500-mark,” he said. People need to take precautionary measures and follow the Covid protocols before things go out of hand. In the last week of March 2020, there was only one Covid case in the district. In the following month, the number rose to 100 and grew to thousands and crossed the 1-lakh mark in a matter of months. Claiming that only the use of mask and following other Covid-19 related protocols stood between the citizens and the next lockdown, Mandhare said if citizens continued to ignore the safety measures, the administration would be left with no alternative but to announce another lockdown. “I appeal to the citizens to stop organising social programmes if possible. The last six months have shown that there is no need to organise physical programmes. Before organising such programmes, citizens should ask if such a programme is necessary at the cost of the health and lives of our near and dear ones,” he said. “Mask is the only weapon that we have against Covid 19. Do not wear it to avoid action from the administration, use it for your own safety. If the Covid protocols are followed, I believe things can be brought under control,” he said. 252 new cases in district Meanwhile, 252 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 157 from Nashik city, have been reported in the district in the 24 hours ending on Saturday evening, taking the tally of positive cases to 1,19,606. Over the past few days, Nashik city has been reporting 150-200 daily cases. Three patients, including one from the city, succumbed to the viral infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/active-covid-cases-cross-1500-mark-in-nashik-city/articleshow/81131201.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 21, 2021||Patna||Ex-MP acquitted in a case of attack on cops||SASARAM: Rohtas police will appeal against the acquittal of alleged Maoist and former MP Kameshwar Baitha in the case of murderous attack on police personnel in 2001. A special court at Sasaram on Friday acquitted Baitha as neither the witnesses nor the informant (police personnel) appeared in the court despite summons and warrants issued against them many times in the last five years. Rohtas SP Ashish Bharti told this newspaper on Saturday that after examining the merit of the case, an appeal would be filed against the acquittal of Baitha, who once carried a reward of Rs1 lakh on his head. Bharti said action would also be taken against the erring police personnel for not appearing before the court. Additional public prosecutor Anil Yadav said the court, after exhausting all procedure for appearance of the witnesses, investigating officers and informant, acquitted the former MP for lack of evidence on Friday. Yadav said in another case related to police attack, Baitha had to be acquitted by the court recently, as in that case, too, no witness or police personnel appeared before the court. “As there were sufficient evidence against the accused in both the cases, a report will be submitted to Rohtas DM for filing an appeal against Baitha’s acquittal,” Yadav said. A named FIR was lodged against Baitha and his accomplices on the complaint of then sub-inspector at Nauhatta police station, V Singh, related to a conspiracy to blow up a police patrol vehicle and later firing on the police personnel at Dabua Mod village on August 1, 2001. The police had also recovered explosive, arms and ammunition from the spot. The police filed chargesheet in 2009 against all the named accused, including Baitha, who contested the 2009 election as an independent candidate from Palamu parliamentary constituency and won. Baitha won the election from Sasaram district jail. Later, charges were framed against the accused. Witnesses and informants, including the investigating officer, were summoned by the court. When they remained absent during subsequent hearings, the court issued non-bailable warrants through Rohtas SP and DIG Shahabad against them, but no one appeared. Finally, the presiding officer of the special court, Bharat Bhushan Bhasin, on Friday acquitted Baitha for lack of evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-mp-acquitted-in-a-case-of-attack-on-cops/articleshow/81129605.cms||Alok Chamaria
February 21, 2021||Agra||UP: Paid Rs 30 for day's work in the fields, two minors, both 16, kidnap, kill employer's five-year-old son||AGRA: Two teenagers allegedly killed their employer’s 5-year-old son in Aligarh’s Raghupura village as they were upset with his father for paying them a paltry sum of Rs 30 to Rs 50 for the work they did in his fields every day. The entire murder and the subsequent destruction of evidence was carried out by the suspects on tips that they had picked up after watching Hindi crime serials. The duo has been apprehended and sent to juvenile home after being produced before a juvenile justice board. Aditya was allegedly kidnapped and then strangled to death by the two boys, both 16-year-old. Police said the victim was kidnapped on February 13 when he was playing outside his house. His father lodged a police complaint against unidentified persons after he was unable to locate him. The FIR was registered under section 363 (kidnapping) of IPC. Two days later, the boy’s body was recovered from a tubewell. Superintendent of police (rural) Shubham Patel told TOI that during interrogation, the boys confessed to have killed Aditya after they kidnapped him from outside his house. They told police that they were upset with Aditya’s father and decided to kill one of his sons to take revenge and hurt him. As Aditya was younger among the two siblings, he was an easy target for them, said police. After they kidnapped him, they took him to fields where they strangled him to death. Later on the fateful day, they took the body to a nearby jungle and buried it in a pit after placing it in a plastic bag. Next day on February 14, a rumour spread across the village that some tantrik had told the victim’s family that the boy will be found at a tubewell. After hearing this, the accused took out the body from the pit and tried to burn his clothes and chappal in order to destroy evidence and left his body at a nearby tubewell. The SP said that the duo used to watch Crime Patrol and CID and took the idea of destroying evidence from them. The victim’s partially burnt clothes and slippers were also recovered by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/paid-rs-30-for-days-work-in-the-fields-two-minors-both-16-kidnap-kill-employers-5-yr-old-son/articleshow/81129304.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 21, 2021||Patna||BSEB cancels English exam at 3 centres in Siwan district||PATNA: During the ongoing Matriculation exams, the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) cancelled the English paper in the first shift at three centres in Maharajganj block of Siwan district on Saturday. According to a statement issued by the BSEB, the exam was cancelled due to a delay in taking out question papers from the strongroom of the Maharajganj branch of the Central Bank of India. Re-examination at the three centres will now be held on March 9. BSEB chairman Anand Kishor said the English examination was held in two shifts across the state on Saturday. Altogether 8,46,969 students appeared in the first shift from 9.30am to 12.45pm while 8,37,497 candidates wrote the examination in the second shift from 1.45pm to 5pm. As many as 28 examinees, including nine impersonators in six districts, were expelled on Saturday. The next exam will be held on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/english-exam-cancelled-at-three-centres-in-siwan/articleshow/81130016.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Nine surrender in Nepal girl’s rape, murder case||MOTIHARI: Nine of the 12 named accused in Nepal girl’s rape and murder case under Kundawa Chainpur police station surrendered in the court of additional chief judicial magistrate of Motihari on Saturday. Main accused Siyaram Saha and his son Vinay Saha were arrested on February 3. One accused is still on the run. East Champaran SP Navin Chandra Jha said the nine accused were sent to jail. They would be taken on remand for interrogation. The 12-year-old Nepal girl was gang-raped on January 21 by four persons, including Vinay and his father Siyaram, in whose house at Kundawa Chainpur market the victim lived on rent with her family and the crime was committed. Later, the girl was strangled and her body was burned on January 21 night after keeping her parents and brother hostage in her rented room. Kundawa Chainpur police station’s former SHO Sanjeev Kumar Ranjan (sub-inspector), is also an accused in the case for his role in the cremation of the victim without her postmortem or medical examination. He has been suspended. A warrant has been issued against him as he is evading arrest. “His properties would be attached if he did not surrender,” the SP said. Earlier, police got orders for attachment of properties of the 10 accused, who were evading arrest. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nine-surrender-in-nepal-girls-rape-murder-case/articleshow/81129654.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
February 21, 2021||Visakhapatnam||New crafts villages planned across AP||VISAKHAPATNAM: The coming months will see a number of Shilparamam (crafts villages) development projects taken up in the state by the Shilparamam Society under the department of tourism and culture. While new craft villages will be set up at Tirupati and Srikakulam, the Vizag Shilparamam will get a facelift with amenities, amusement parks and a tribal museum for which Rs 11 crore has been sanctioned by the government. Most of the interior development works will be through public private partnership (PPP) mode. Speaking to STOI, chief executive officer (CEO) of state Shilparamam Arts and Crafts Cultural Society B Jayaraj said, “With modern amenities, ambience and amusements, we intend to contemporise the crafts villages while retaining the traditional ethnic touch. The masterplan has been prepared. Already, re-development works worth Rs 12 crore at Pulivendula Shiparamam has been taken up. Funds worth Rs 10 crore and Rs 3 crore for Tirupati and Srikakulam Shilaparamams respectively have also been sanctioned while revamp works at Kadapa, Anantapur, Kakinada and Vizianagaram will also be taken up.” For the 25 acre Shilparamam in Visakhapatnam, Rs 11 crore has been sanctioned but funds are yet to be released for redeveloping the place in an integrated manner. Jayaraj said, “Since its inauguration in 2002, Vizag Shilparamam has not got any facelift. Hopefully after March, in the new financial year, the sanctioned amount will be released, with which various new attractions for all age groups such as tribal and crafts museum, food courts, amusement parks and rides for children, a revamped boating facility, open air theatre for cultural shows and landscaping can be taken up.” “Later, seminars and live workshops of craftsmen can be held regularly. A five-star hotel is also in the offing. Most of the upgradation work will be taken up thtough PPP mode and a detailed project report has been approved while the feasibility report is ready,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/new-crafts-villages-planned-across-state/articleshow/81129340.cms||Sulogna Mehta
February 21, 2021||Bareilly||FIR in Bulandshahr for ‘disrupting harmony’ after controversy over cremation ground caste segregation||MEERUT: A day after a controversy over a caste-segregated cremation ground in Bulandshahr’s Banail village, an FIR was lodged for creating disharmony and under the SC/ST Act on the basis of a complaint by a gram panchayat member. “Recently, we got to know someone had set up a barbed wire fence dividing the cremation ground … It was done with an aim to stoke division. I filed a complaint, on the basis of which an FIR was lodged,” Banail gram panchayat secretary Kuldeep Giri told TOI. An unidentified person has been booked under Section 153A(1)(b) (act which is prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony between different religious, racial groups, caste, etc.) and sections of the SC/ST Act. According to a source, at a meeting on December 28 last year, dominant caste residents of the village had brought up the plan to erect a fence dividing the cremation ground on the basis of caste. The source added that the Dalit community had “agreed”, after which it was asked to pay for the fence along with others in the village during a donation drive. Both communities stuck to their sides of the ground since then. When a media report brought it up, the district authorities ordered an inquiry and the fence was torn down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fir-for-disrupting-harmony-after-controversy-over-cremation-ground-caste-segregation/articleshow/81129305.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 21, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Budget session likely after municipal polls||VIJAYAWADA: The budget session of the state assembly is likely to be held in April, after the municipal elections. The government is reportedly planning to hold the session for two weeks. This would be the third budget session of the YSRC government and the second during the Covid-19 crisis. The government has initiated several measures involving financial commitments, while resources at hand are not commensurate with the requirements. The finance minister will have to do a balancing act between expenditure and revenue. The state cabinet, which is scheduled to meet on February 23, will decide on the dates of the budget session. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy is also holding a meeting with ministers and senior leaders of the party on February 22, a day before the cabinet meeting, where he is likely to discuss the impending MLC elections, where the party has to finalise six candidates to be elected by the assembly. Three MLCs from TDP and two from YSRC are retiring in March this year. Another seat fell vacant following the death of YSRC member Challa Ramakrishna Reddy. Before the 2019 general elections, Jagan had promised MLC seats to senior leaders Marri Rajasekhar, Yalamanchili Ravi and Balli Kalyan Chakravarthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/budget-session-likely-after-municipal-polls/articleshow/81129313.cms||Gopi Dara
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||2 youths attacked with choppers, shot dead in Nawabganj||Kanpur:Two youths were attacked with choppers and later chased and shot dead allegedly by a group of nearly a dozen men over old enmity in the city’s Ujiyaripurwa under the limits of Nawabganj police station late on Friday night. The police identified the deceased as Raj Kumar (26), a resident of Ujiyaripurwa, and his friend Ravi (27), a resident of Parmiyapurwa. Tension ran high in the area after the double murder and a heavy police force has been deployed to ease out the situation. The bodies have been sent for postmortem examination. The families of both the victims have lodged an FIR under relevant sections including 147 (punishment for rioting) 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC, besides 3 (2) 5/3 (2) 5 (a) SC/ST Act at the Nawabganj police station and four persons have been arrested, while raids are under to make the arrest of their other aides possible. Police sources said a group of nearly a dozen men allegedly hacked and shot dead Raj Kumar, a contractor and his friend Ravi, a driver, late on Friday night in the Ujiyaripurwa. Ujiyaripurwa resident Raj Kumar’s friend Ravi, a resident of neighbouring Parmiyapurwa, had come to meet him late Friday evening. Later, Raj Kumar along with Ravi had left his home to his nearby fields. “It was while they were on their way back, Deepu Nishad, (31) Akash alias Akka (24), Vikas alias Vikka (20) and Vishal (18) and their associates waylaid them near Pachmukhi Hanuman temple and attacked the duo with choppers and later sprayed them with bullets and fled thereafter,” said superintendent of police (West) Anil Kumar. The aggrieved families have lodged an FIR at the Nawabganj police station against Deepu Nishad, Akash, Vikas and Vishal and several of their other unidentified aides, the SP said. SSP/DIG Preetinder Singh said four police teams have nabbed the four named accused — Deepu, Akash, Vikas and Vishal — and recovered a country-made firearm of 315 bore, besides several cartridges and a chopper from their possession. “Raids are underway to make the arrest of the other aides of the four accused,” he said and added, “Going by the preliminary findings, the gruesome killings appear to be fallout of some kind of old enmity. Investigations to ascertain the same is underway and a heavy deployment of police and PAC personnel have been made to ease out tension in the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-youths-attacked-with-choppers-shot-dead-in-nawabganj/articleshow/81129460.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 21, 2021||Delhi||New DU panel to probe harassment charges||NEW DELHI: Delhi University has formed yet another committee to probe the harassment charges against a former head of chemistry department. The formation of the three-member committee was finalised at an executive council meeting of the university on Saturday. According to the elected EC members, a report of the judge probing the charges against Ramesh Chandra was not placed at the meeting. The charges were levelled against Chandra in 2018 and, since then, the case has been hanging fire. Seema Das, an executive council member who teaches political science at Hindu College, said: “The move to form another committee is really irrational. Its members already have an opinion on the outcome. It’s a biased committee.” Dean of Colleges Balram Pani told TOI: “While one committee had ruled in Chandra’s favour, another’s opinion had gone against him. So, a new committee was formed, but with a shorter time frame. It has to submit the report within 10 days.” When contacted, Chandra said: “I am out of the country. Please ask the university about the Justice S L Bayana Committee’s recommendation. It will clear everything. No charge is made out against any of the seven members of the selection committee, which interviewed the candidates. EC, at its meeting held on March 14, accepted the Justice Bayana Report.” Several other key decisions were taken at the meeting. Acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi told TOI he had announced the formation of a committee for absorption of ad hoc teachers. “We also sought to resolve the salary issue at the 12 fully funded colleges of DU,” said JL Gupta, another EC member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-du-panel-to-probe-harassment-charges/articleshow/81131952.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 21, 2021||Meerut||22-yr-old student held for Hapur girl’s kidnap, rape||Meerut: A 22-year-old student was arrested by a Hapur police team for allegedly kidnapping and raping a four-year-old girl after an encounter early on Saturday. The girl had gone missing on Thursday afternoon from outside her residence in Simbhavali area in Hapur district. Hours later, she was found in a critical condition in a field in Meerut’s Kithor area. “An encounter took place in Simbhavali area and a suspect, identified as Anuj Kumar, was shot at. A motorcycle was seized from him which was used in the girl’s kidnapping. A bag and some clothes were also recovered,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, Hapur superintendent of police. Anuj sustained a bullet injury in the leg during the shooting, he added. According to police, Anuj, resident of Qila Parikshitgarh in Meerut, is a polytechnic student at a city-based college. He got married last year. He was returning home from his in-law's place in Bahadurgarh area in Hapur district when he allegedly kidnapped the girl and took her to a desolate spot in a field in Kithor area in Meerut and raped her. Anuj fled from the spot after the girl’s cries caught the attention of passersby who rushed to help. They alerted police. On the basis of CCTV footage, Meerut and Hapur police had initiated a massive manhunt to trace the suspect. Earlier, the rape survivor was rushed to the Meerut district hospital and later, referred to Lala Lajpat Rai Medical College in the city. While refusing to divulge details of the girl’s medical condition, police confirmed that she was raped. “Sections of rape and relevant sections of Pocso Act were added to the existing FIR of abduction registered at Simbhavali police station,” said Sarvesh Mishra, Hapur additional superintendent of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/22-yr-old-student-held-for-hapur-girls-kidnap-rape/articleshow/81129311.cms||Piyush Rai
February 21, 2021||Meerut||FIR for ‘disrupting harmony’ after controversy over cremation ground caste segregation||Meerut: A day after a controversy over a caste-segregated cremation ground in Bulandshahr’s Banail village, an FIR was lodged for creating disharmony and under the SC/ST Act on the basis of a complaint by a gram panchayat member. “Recently, we got to know someone had set up a barbed wire fence dividing the cremation ground … It was done with an aim to stoke division. I filed a complaint, on the basis of which an FIR was lodged,” Banail gram panchayat secretary Kuldeep Giri told TOI. An unidentified person has been booked under Section 153A(1)(b) (act which is prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony between different religious, racial groups, caste, etc.) and sections of the SC/ST Act. According to a source, at a meeting on December 28 last year, dominant caste residents of the village had brought up the plan to erect a fence dividing the cremation ground on the basis of caste. The source added that the Dalit community had “agreed”, after which it was asked to pay for the fence along with others in the village during a donation drive. Both communities stuck to their sides of the ground since then. When a media report brought it up, the district authorities ordered an inquiry and the fence was torn down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/fir-for-disrupting-harmony-after-controversy-over-cremation-ground-caste-segregation/articleshow/81129318.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 21, 2021||Meerut||Bride on way to in-laws’ house dies, groom survives after tractor-trolley hits their car||Bijnor: A bride on her way to in-laws’ house was killed and four others, including the groom, sustained injuries after a speeding tractor-trolley hit the car they were travelling in on Raipur road close to a powerhouse in Najibabad area of Bijnor district late Friday night. According to police, Mayaram married Puja, 28, of Syalipur village in Bijnor district on February 16. Puja had gone to her parents’ house for post-wedding rituals and was on her way back to in-laws’ house in Mochipura village of the same district, along with her husband and three others, when the accident took place, killing Puja on the spot and injuring others. The injured were admitted to a private hospital. Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said the injured were out of danger and recovering at the hospital. A case was registered against the unidentified tractor driver who fled the scene leaving his vehicle behind, said the SP, adding that a probe was on. The accident came just two days after a similar accident was reported from UP’s Muzaffarnagar, where a bride dancing on an open-roof vehicle had a narrow escape after a speeding vehicle brushed past her vehicle, killing two and injuring 14 others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bride-on-way-to-in-laws-house-dies-groom-survives-after-tractor-trolley-hits-their-car/articleshow/81129312.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Assistant professor approaches TSHRC, says JNTUH violating GO||Hyderabad: Following a complaint from an assistant professor on contract that the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad (JNTUH) has not enhanced the salary of contract employees and is violating the equal pay for equal work rule, the Telangana State Human Rights Commission has a sought a report from the varsity registrar. In his complaint, Kireet M, the petitioner, who is working as an assistant professor (contract basis) in the department of computer science and engineering, said that JNTUH is not properly implementing GO MS No 11 released in April 2018 pertaining to the remuneration of contractual faculty in 11 varsities in the state. He said that the varsity is only implementing basic pay from the GO, but is not implementing the enhancement of salary every year. Kireet said that even as other universities such as Osmania, Kakatiya among others, are fully implementing the GO, JNTUH is partially implementing it and in turn, is also violating the Supreme Court’s order on equal pay for equal work. He further alleged that despite contract faculty not falling in the income tax slab, the varsity is deducting 10% as income tax. The varsity is directed to submit its report by March 23, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/assistant-professor-approaches-tshrc-says-jntuh-violating-go/articleshow/81131237.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Agra||Agra: Three brothers among four get life term for murdering student||AGRA: Four men, including three brothers, were sentenced to life imprisonment by a Mathura court on Saturday for thrashing a 19-year-old hotel management student to death in 2014. Additional District and Sessions judge Vipin Kumar (II) imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 each on the accused. According to the government council, Bhisham Datt Singh Tomar, student Tarun Rawat, was beaten to death with sticks and iron rods by the accused in Mathura’s Pushpanjali colony on September 28, 2014. The accused Vishnu Sharma, used to work as a security guard in Pushpanjali colony and had been removed from his job due to some dispute. On the fateful day, Sharma had visited the colony and his presence was objected by local residents. Rawat had also questioned Sharma about his presence in the colony and this had apparently enraged him. He subsequently called up his four brother-in-laws who came there with sticks and rods and beat Rawat mercilessly. The student was taken to a hospital where the doctors declared him dead. Rawat was pursuing a hotel management course from Noida at the time of the incident. An FIR was registered against Sharma and his four brother-in-laws — Dinesh, Ashok, Nand Kumar and Ram — along with some unidentified persons for murder and other crimes. However, one of his brother-in-laws died during the trial. The court considered the evidence presented by the prosecution and convicted the four men, including three brothers, and awarded them life imprisonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/three-brothers-among-four-get-life-term-for-murdering-student/articleshow/81129317.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||After China finally admits to casualties in clashes, Galwan martyr’s father happy||HYDERABAD: With China admitting that there were casualties on its side in the clash between the Indian Army and People’s Liberation Army (PLA) last year, Bikumalla Upender, father of Col Santosh Babu, is proud of his ‘warrior’ son who died fighting for the country. Upender said the Chinese government has for the first time acknowledged that four of its soldiers had died in the clashes. “We can understand that because of the pressure brought by government of India. China could not escape from accepting the facts of Galwan clashes – whether it was four or 40 casualties on its side,” Upender, a retired bank officer, said. Upender said though China had accepted only four deaths, there was enough reasons to believe that more than 40 PLA soldiers had died in the clashes on June 15, 2020. He said: “China’s true face has been revealed with the admission that it has made.” Col Santosh Babu was awarded the Maha Vir Chakra posthumously by the GoI on Republic Day this year. The martyr’s father had reacted saying that his son deserved the highest honour, Param Vir Chakra. “Taking on the might of the Chinese army, he fought to protect the borders of India and laid down his life in the process. That was a supreme sacrifice,” Upender had said. Last year, the 16 Bihar Rregiment was engaged in a hand-to-hand combat with the PLA in which 20 Indian soldiers died resisting the attempts of the PLA to occupy Indian territory. Col Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of the regiment, was among the martyrs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-china-finally-admits-to-casualties-in-clashes-galwan-martyrs-father-happy/articleshow/81131250.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Architect held for Bhiwandi warehouse’s partial collapse||Bhiwandi: Police have arrested architect Durraj Kamankar for the collapse of part of a warehouse this month, which killed two persons and injured six. Police acted after the structural audit report revealed that low-quality material was used in construction of the warehouse, which collapsed within 15 years. Police said as Kamankar was consulting architect, it was his responsibility to keep a watch during construction. The arrest of Kamankar, of K K Associates, shocked architects and developers here.Narpoli police had registered an FIR against the owner, builder and a company that handles its maintenance. Police said a hunt for the owner was on, while builder Sudarshan is in jail in another case in Hyderabad. Senior inspector Maloji Shinde said, “The structural audit report revealed the builder used low-quality material and as he was the consulting architect we arrested him.” Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/architect-held-for-bhiwandi-warehouses-partial-collapse/articleshow/81131272.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Non-payment of AC dues halts operations at Civil||Ahmedabad: Several patients at Sola Civil Hospital were referred to other hospitals including Civil Hospital at Asarwa on Friday and Saturday as the planned surgeries were stopped at the hospital. Sources close to the development said that non-payment of dues for the air-conditioning plant at the hospital led to stoppage of services by the service provider.Dr Pina Soni, medical superintendent of the hospital, said that the issue was of PIO maintenance amount. “We had earlier written a letter to Gandhinagar to resolve the matter. After the issue came to light on Saturday, it has been resolved and the planned surgeries will resume soon,” she said. Sources said that it was second such instance of stoppage of service due to non-payment at the hospital in past one year. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/non-payment-of-ac-dues-halts-operations-at-civil/articleshow/81129953.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Meerut||UP farmer destroys crop in protest after Tikait call||Bijnor: A 27-year-old farmer in Uttar Pradesh’s Bijnor on Saturday publicly destroyed standing wheat crop on his six-bigha farmland to mark his protest against the new central agriculture laws. A video clip showing Sohit Ahlawat riding a tractor over his wheat crop at Kulchana village in Chandpur tehsil went viral on messenger apps. At a kisan mahapanchayat just a day ago, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait had urged farmers to give importance to the agitation and, if need be, destroy their crops. On Saturday afternoon, Tikait said Ahlawat’s video had pained him but more farmers would do the same “if the government does not listen to us”. “The government has forced us into a situation where farmers are destroying crops, which is not a good sight. I was personally pained to see the video, but this is not what I meant when I asked farmers to be ready to sacrifice one season’s crops. ‘Is tarah nuksan ka matlab nahin banta hai’ (one shouldn’t incur losses like this),” Tikait said at UP Gate. Ahlawat, whose father Sanjeev Kumar owns over 40 bigha farmland, is heard saying in the video, “You can see my standing wheat crop. I am destroying it in front of everyone in support of the ongoing farmers’ protest. I don't want these three black laws to be imposed upon us.” “Once these unnecessary laws are implemented, farmers will be exploited as there is no MSP (minimum support price) guarantee and security of payment. Why should we grow the crop if we are to be exploited in the coming days? We, in our family, decided to send the government a message from Bijnor,” Ahlawat adds. State president of BKU's youth wing Digambar Singh alleged, “The cops have started harassing the farmer who destroyed his standing wheat crop. But farmers will not bend before the government and its police.” Local police refuted Singh's allegations, saying they only went to the farmland to “check the site”. Singh further claimed, “Even Delhi Police slapped notices on several farmers taking part in the agitation. In addition, hours after sit-in protests on railway tracks, 70 farmers were booked by the railway department. The government is sending officials of power corporations to exert pressure for power dues. Seems like the entire state machinery is being used against us.” Bijnor SP Dharamveer Singh said that there is no pressure on the farmers in the district. Chandpur SDM PK Maurya said, “We had sent revenue department officials to check and talk to the farmer's family. They said that it was a symbolic protest against the farm laws. We are on alert and trying to talk to everyone.” (With inputs from Abhijay Jha in Ghaziabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-farmer-destroys-crop-in-protest-after-tikait-call/articleshow/81129330.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 21, 2021||Meerut||Man held in Meerut for selling fake branded apparel||MEERUT: You name it and he has it -- all popular brands specializing in shirts. For four years, Meerut-based Arihant Jain was the go-to person for many across India for their branded apparel needs. He even clocked an annual turnover of over Rs 2 crore all these years with his wide network and extensive marketing through social media platforms like Facebook and WhatsApp. However, the dream run came to an end on Friday night, when officials of the Brand Protectors India Private Limited along with local police raided Jain’s showroom and arrested him for selling counterfeit branded apparel. The team also unearthed a large network of distributorship and online marketing of counterfeit apparel. Jain and a buyer were arrested and booked under IPC section 420 (cheating) and the relevant sections of the Copyright Act. The duo was produced in court on Saturday and both got bail. “Jain was using the marketing tool on Facebook to build a database of contacts interested in buying branded shirts. He then transferred their contact details to communicate with them on WhatsApp groups he created with prospective buyers all over the country. After carefully tracking his activities, we, along with Transport Nagar police team raided the Rohta Road showroom and arrested him and a buyer who was in the process of transporting a consignment procured from him,” said Dhirendra Singh, director, Brand Protectors India Pvt Ltd. Vijay Gupta, station in-charge, Transport Nagar police station, said, “We got an input from Brand Protectors of India that a man named Anil Saini was in the process of transporting a consignment of fake branded shirts to his shop. We found 160 shirts with labels of renowned brands. He later directed us to Jain’s shop and stock room.” Giving details, Dhirendra Singh said, “A manufacturing concern that has several renowned brands received a complaint from a Karnataka-based customer and passed it on to us. We then traced the route backwards and eventually came across a Facebook page by Jain that showcased pictures of ‘branded’ apparel available for the wholesale market. It was only after acquiring all evidence did we inform local police and nabbed Saini. Later, we raided Jain’s premises. To our surprise, we also found stacks of Amazon parcels that were ready to be shipped to various states. This was apart from the stock of fake branded apparel.” The entire proceeding of the raid was recorded on camera in which Jain was seen pleading with authorities to “settle the issue there only”. He also showed a letterhead of a rightwing group with an aim to influence authorities of his political connections. After Friday’s raid, another raid was conducted on Saturday in Delhi’s Shahdara area on a unit manufacturing fake labels of renowned brands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-held-in-meerut-for-selling-fake-branded-apparel/articleshow/81129322.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Bank files FIR over forged papers||Ahmedabad: The branch manager of a nationalized bank on Friday filed a complaint for cheating and forgery with Navrangpura police against a man from Kutch, who submitted forged documents to apply for a loan of Rs 2 crore.The Navrangpura branch manager of Central Bank of India, Avinash Singh, 34, a resident of Vasna, stated that the accused, who identified himself as Nikhil Bhatt, 30, a resident of Adipur in Kutch, had on January 19 applied for an MSME loan of Rs 2 crore.To avail of the loan, Bhatt produced certain documents including a possession letter, share certificate and allotment letter for a shop in Gulbai Tekra as his property along with property tax receipts from the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), KYC (know your customer) details and GST return statements. When the MSME department of the bank scrutinized the details, they found that the shop shown by Bhatt as his property was possessed by another person. After this, Singh filed a complaint with Navrangpura police for breach of trust, cheating and forgery against Bhatt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bank-files-fir-over-forged-papers/articleshow/81129981.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||3 more arrested for Jilani crash||Police, probing Jilani building collapse in Bhiwandi, which last September claimed 38 lives, arrested three more persons, including two flat-owners who rented out their property despite knowing the structure was dangerous, and one who after getting a notice on the condition of the building did not share the report with the civic body. Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-more-arrested-for-jilani-crash/articleshow/81131286.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||Start Ganga Aarti in every village along river, says Mohan Bhagwat||PRAYAGRAJ: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said the country needs another gigantic effort like that of King Bhagirath to make our national river, the holy Ganga, completely free from pollution, and it is not possible without sensitizing and involving common people. According to ancient Hindu texts, King Bhagirath of Ikshvaku dynasty had brought the sacred Ganga to the Earth from heavens after severe penance. Bhagwat was addressing Ganga Samagra volunteers from six states on the concluding day of two-day event at the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) camp in the tent city on Saturday. Bhagwat said Ganga is the cultural and social lifeline of our country and we need to save it by spreading awareness among people and involving them in the mission to realise the dream of a clean Ganga. The RSS chief said Ganga Aarti should be performed in every village along the river to sensitise people on the cleanliness of this life-giving holy river. “This will instill faith and devotion in the people towards Maa Ganga and they will be inspired to ensure it is pollution free and would inspire others also in turn,” he said. “This can be achieved through the blessings of our saints. However, like we could not predict when Ram temple would get constructed in Ayodhya, we also cannot forecast when the Ganga would become pollution free,” he added. Around 600 office-bearers and activists of Ganga Samagra from all over the country deliberated on ensuring a clean Ganga. They also suggested tree plantation, cleanliness of ghats, involving priests on the ghats, boatmen and fishermen, construction of ponds along the bank for conservation of the national river. Senior RSS leader Krishna Gopal, former Union minister Uma Bharti, Ganga Samagra national organisational secretary Mithilesh Narayan and its national general secretary Ashish Gautam also attended the meet. Bhagwat left the city later in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/massive-efforts-active-public-rolemust-to-clean-ganga-bhagwat/articleshow/81129282.cms||Rajeev Mani
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||Crackdown against illegal sand mining: Priyanka to meet boatmen ‘beaten by cops’||Prayagraj: All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and party in-charge of the state, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, would be visiting Baswar village in Ghurpoor area of trans-Yamuna on February 21. She would be meeting the families of the Nishad community who were allegedly beaten up by the police and their boats damaged when district administration and police took action against illegal sand mining, early this month. SP protocol, Kuldeep Singh said, “Priyanka Gandhi would be arriving at the civil enclave of Bamrauli at 10am and would visit Baswar where she is scheduled to meet villagers after which she would be leave at around 4pm.” Recently, an eight-member fact-finding team of Samajwadi Party, appointed by SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, had visited Baswar and Mohabbatganj of trans-Yamuna area to investigate allegations of locals that a team of police and district administration on February 4 beat up villagers, damaged their boats and misbehaved with women and children in the name of crackdown against illegal sand mining. The team had also provided financial assistance to the affected villagers. Later, an 11-member delegation was formed on the direction of Congress state president Ajay Kumar Lallu and was sent to the village to prepare a ground report. The team visited Baswar on February 15. This team submitted the report to the party. On getting the information that Priyanka Gandhi would be visiting Baswar, a team of office bearers of the district unit of congress party visited the village and inspected the area. They also inspected the preparations made by the party in view of the visit of their leader at the village. A joint team of police, administration and mining department, raided the ghat at Yamuna to stop illegal mining at Baswar on February 4. It is alleged that villagers attacked the police team when action was taken against the stocked sand. On the other hand, villagers alleged that police thrashed them and even damaged their boats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/crackdown-against-illegal-sand-mining-priyanka-to-meet-boatmen-beaten-by-cops/articleshow/81129266.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||Chemical & Metallurgical Lab of Carriage Workshop gets NABL accreditation||Lucknow: Chemical & Metallurgical Laboratory of Carriage Workshop, Alambagh, northern railway, has been accredited by National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). This accreditation has given the laboratory global recognition, as the NABL has mutual recognition arrangement with the International Laboratory Accreditation Co-operation (ILAC). NABL accreditation benefits access to the global market, enhanced customer confidence and satisfaction, robust quality management system, continual improvements, better operational control, and assurance of accurate and reliable results. The laboratory is the intergral part of second oldest workshop of Indian railways. The laboratory houses the testing capability of metals and alloys, paints, rubber, plastics, composites, rexine, grease, water, forged, and cast products through various destructive and non-destructive test methods||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chemical-metallurgical-lab-of-carriage-workshop-gets-nabl-accreditation/articleshow/81131657.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Delhi||Delhi most vulnerable to mosquitoes in September||NEW DELHI: The public health department of East Delhi Municipal Corporation has carried out an analysis of vector-borne diseases and mosquito-breeding data from 2016-2020 to determine the peak vulnerability periods. The report has thrown up several interesting aspects about the incidence of dengue, malaria and chikungunya cases in the trans-Yamuna areas while putting the spotlight on the alarming levels of vacancies in key supervisory posts in the department. The five-year data on detection of mosquito breeding shows that the weekly count peaked between the 32nd and the 38thweeks of the year, with September witnessing the highest number of cases. Relatively larger number of cases were seen last year in the 1-14 years age group and among men. Large-scale vacancies in various public health posts were also highlighted, with 50 of the 65 posts of malaria inspectors, all six posts of senior inspectors and both positions of anti-malaria officers lying vacant. As many as 63% of 153 posts of assistant malaria inspectors and 78% of senior field workers lie vacant. Overall, 430 of the 1,423 posts in the malaria division area are yet to be filled. The data shows that a bulk of supervisory staff is absent with most of the posts being filled at field and domestic breeding checkers’ level. Similar large-scale vacancies in the public health department at the supervisory levels are seen in south and north Delhi municipal corporations. The vector-borne disease data for 2020 shows that weekly mosquito-breeding peaked around September with 5,419 positive cases. The maximum number of malaria cases were seen in 1-14 years category. As far as dengue was concerned, the maximum number of cases were again seen in the 1-14 years category, followed by the 25-34 category. Comparatively a, larger number of dengue-malaria cases were registered among males, the report shows. A senior public health official said the trends would apply to the entire city and help make better policy decisions. An SDMC public health department analysis shows that peri-domestic containers --such as money plant, vase, flower pots, bird pots, tin, tyre and fountain water -- account for a chunk of mosquito-breeding sites (38%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-most-vulnerable-to-mosquitoes-in-sept/articleshow/81131959.cms||Paras Singh
February 21, 2021||Kanpur||For clean air, UPPCB’s grid-based action plan to focus on grey areas||LUCKNOW: To reduce the concentration of PM2.5 and PM10 level by 2030-2040, which currently snuffs out nearly 7,000 lives in the state capital alone every year, the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) is set to introduce a grid-level action plan in the state, beginning from Kanpur. Track the pollution level in your cityOn Saturday evening, UPPCB officials held a meeting with the Kanpur district administration and other stakeholders to discuss the roadmap for the project. It was decided that action would begin in Kanpur at grid-level. According to UPPCB, the scientific methodology was developed by the Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur after carrying out field work for a year. As the first step, an emission inventory was prepared for Kanpur city on the basis of industries emission, vehicular emission, construction and demolition, road dust, domestic emission, hospital, MSW (municipal solid waste) burning to understand the spatial distribution of emission sources and their contribution. Once the base for emission measurement was developed, the city was divided into 174 grids (2km by 2km each). UPPCB is initially focusing on 27 grids on the basis of urgency or priority due to heavy presence of PM2.5 and PM 10 particles. Talking to TOI, member secretary of UPPCB Ashish Tiwari said, “The basic idea behind grid-level action plan is to manage air quality at micro unit level which includes better action against environmental impact, time-bound implementation of plan and efficient use of funding resources.” “With the grid-level action plan, we are armed with more accurate data to guide the administration on how to improve air quality. For instance, in case of road dust emission, we may tell the administration as to which grid has to be given priority for road construction to prevent dust,” he said. “Recently, the 15th Finance Commission released Rs 357 crore for UP for steps to improve air quality. We expect that with grid-level action and sufficient funds, UP’s air quality will improve considerably,” said Tiwari Officials said the grid-level action plan initiated by UP would be followed by other states. As per fund allocation sheet of finance commission, Agra was allotted Rs 45 crore, Prayagraj Rs 31 crore, Kanpur Rs 74 crore, Lucknow Rs 74 crore, Varanasi Rs 36.5 crore, Meerut Rs 36 crore and Ghaziabad Rs 60 crore. UPPCB plans to finalise grid action plan for Lucknow by April 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/for-clean-air-uppcbs-grid-basedaction-plan-to-focus-on-grey-areas/articleshow/81133512.cms||Arvind Chauhan
February 21, 2021||Allahabad||Five-day theatre festival kicks off in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: The five-day theatre festival, organised by Vinod Rastogi Smriti Sansthan in association with the ministry of culture, Government of India, kicked-off amid bouts of laughter in the audience on Saturday, as a comedy play titled ‘Promotion’ staged in the NCZCC auditorium managed to tickle the audiences' funny bones. The play is written by Vinod Rastogi and directed by Abhilash Narain. The play revolves around an office clerk who adopts tricks to impress his boss for a promotion. He even introduces his friend’s wife as his better half and asks his wife to act as a maidservant. The boss becomes suspicious and the plot laid down by the clerk begins to unravel, leading to hilarious events. Actors Akshat Agrawal, Apoorva Gupta, Riya Jaiswal, Abhilash Narain, Ankit Kashyap, Shubham Verma, and Gaurav Tripathi received applause from the audience for their work on the stage. Shujoy Ghoshal on lights, music design by Ajay Mukherjee, music operation by Aman Pandey and Ashish Yadav, make-up by Sanjay Chaudhary, director Abhilash Narain, directorial assistance Saurabh Shukla, and producer Alok Rastogi was appreciated by the audience. This five-day theatre festival would continue till February 24 at its venue, the North Central Zone Cultural Centre, Prayagraj and the plays would be performed from 6.30pm onwards. This festival is dedicated to the memories of senior theatre personalities Ashwini Agrawal, Kalyan Ghosh, Dr Anupam Anand, Shailtanaya Srivastava, and Puja Thakur. On February 21, a serious play ‘Purna Purush’ will be staged under the direction of Ajay Mukherjee. ‘Nautanki Aalaa Afsar’ is to be presented on February 22 under Atamjeet Singh’s direction. On February 23, the play titled Court Marshal will be staged under the direction of Sudesh Sharma of Chandigarh, while the five-day theatre festival will conclude on February 24 with ‘Prem Chand ke Paatra- Prem Chand ke Saath’ under the direction of Manavendra Tripathi from Gorakhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/5-day-theatre-festival-kicks-off-in-city/articleshow/81129278.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||Female candidates’ success graph enhances in PCS 2019||Prayagraj: Female candidates proved their mettle in the recently announced results of Combined State/Upper Subordinate Services Examination-2019, commonly known as PCS -2019. The success graph of female candidates has risen as compared to the results of the previous five PCS exams conducted by the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC). And their achievement comes at a time when in PCS-2019, the total number of posts was much lesser than those in the previous five PCS recruitment exams. Out of the total 434 candidates declared selected in PCS-2019, 128 (29.49 %) are women candidates with 13 of them managing to bag the coveted posts of deputy collectors—of which there were 46 posts on offer this time, UPPSC officials share. Another important fact that emerges from the scrutiny of the results of the PCS-2019 exam is that out of the total 128 women candidates who have secured selections, 112 are from UP, while 16 are from other states including Delhi. Records also testify that the impressive performance of women candidates in PCS selections is no flash in the pan either. In PCS-2018, 258 women candidates (26.43 %) had tasted success against 976 posts on offer. In PCS-2017, 181 women had tasted success against 676 posts on offer amounting to 26.77 %—the best in at least four PCS recruitment exams held earlier. In PCS-2013, 122 women had been selected against 654 posts on offer amounting to 18.65 % while in PCS-2014 also 114 women had tasted success against 579 posts available amounting to 19.68%.  Likewise, in PCS-2015, 100 women had got selected against a total of 530 posts on offer, again amounting to 18.86 % while in PCS-2016, results of which were declared on February 22, 2020, 138 women had bagged selection against 630 posts on offer amounting to around 21.90 %. In the PCS (Judiciary) exam conducted by UPPSC for recruitment of Civil Judge (Junior Division), women have been making impressive strides. In PCS (J)-2018, out of the 610 posts on offer, women had bagged 315. PCS (J)-2018 had also witnessed Akansha Tiwari emerging as the topper and female candidates claiming five places in the top 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/female-candidates-success-graph-enhances-in-pcs-2019/articleshow/81129271.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||UP govt lists steps taken to improve edu standards||Lucknow: The UP government on Saturday said that it has taken a slew of measures to improve the standard of education in the state. In order to promote Sanskrit education, Sanskrit studies are being imparted to 88,000 students through 1,151 secondary schools, a government official said. To avoid disruption of education and ensure continuation of educational activities in the state during the ongoing Covid times, the government in basic education is running e-schools under its ‘Mission Prerna’ campaign where students are taught through digital and other modes of telecommunication. In the academic year 2020-21, WhatsApp virtual classes are also being held to ensure continuity of teaching which has benefitted 67.73 lakh students, the official said. Under the government’s ‘Operation Kayakalp’ programme, primary schools have undergone total transformation with basic facilities in place, said the official. Under the ‘School Chalo Abhiyan’, 1.85 crore children have been enrolled in 1.5 lakh primary schools in academic session 2020-21. As part of its commitment to providing quality education for children, more than 1.2 lakh assistant teachers have been recruited so far. Providing technology-based education, the government is running smart classes in 5,000 state-run schools, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-lists-steps-taken-to-improve-edu-standards/articleshow/81131666.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||Hamirpur BSA accounts officer caught taking bribe, sent to jail||Jhansi: An accounts officer posted at the BSA office in Hamirpur was caught red- handed taking a bribe of Rs 25,000 from a retired teacher against releasing his gratuity funds by a vigilance team on Friday in Hamirpur. There was huge commotion at the BSA office on Friday afternoon when people saw vigilance sleuths dragging the officer from his office at first floor to their vehicle while he was constantly yelling for rescue, a video of which also got viral later. Reports said the accused officer, Deepchandra, was constantly demanding money from a retired teacher, Jagdish Sharan, who was posted as assistant teacher at Mangroth village falling under Gohand block and had retired from service around one and a half years ago. Jagdish lodged a complaint with the vigilance department in Jhansi. A trap was laid at the BSA office. On Friday, Jagdish was asked to bribe Deepchandra with particular currency soaked in special chemical. The moment the victim handed over the currency to the accused, the vigilance team raided the place and whisked him away to local Kotwali and handed him over to the police. On Saturday he was sent to jail after being presented in front of special magistrate in Lucknow. SP Vigilance Giyalal said, “We have booked Deepchandra under section 7 of Anti-Corruption Act. We have got enough evidence against him including telephonic conversation where he was initially demanding Rs 50,000 for releasing the funds which was finally reduced to half.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hamirpur-bsa-accounts-officer-caught-taking-bribe-sent-to-jail/articleshow/81129487.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Nashik||Face action if Covid rules not followed: Dhule cops||Nashik: Dhule superintendent of police Chinmay Pandit has come out with a notice appealing to the citizens to follow all the covid-related protocols or else face strict police action. He said that the use of mask and sanitizers is a must and people should adhere to social distancing in all public places. People should also stop going out unnecessarily to crowded places. All owners and managers of wedding halls, lawns and other establishments organizing public programmes, hotels, need to follow government guidelines related to Covid 19, he said.Further, permission of local administration is required for engagement and wedding ceremonies, birthday programmes as well as funerals and other programmes, where people are to be invited. Those who are found violating the conditions mentioned in the permission would face action. The local administration would give permission for public programmes or rituals only for a gathering of not more than 50 persons. Social distancing has also to be maintained at coaching classes. At the same time, the medical practitioners have been instructed to immediately refer patients suffering from cough, cold or Covid-like symptoms to nearest Covid centres. People suffering from mild symptoms of Covid-19 should be home quarantined. All shopkeepers and other establishment owners should ensure that not more than five persons are in their establishments at one time and that they are all wearing masks, using sanitisers and maintaining social distancing. “All those found violating these norms will have to face action,” Pandit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/face-action-if-covid-rules-not-followed-dhule-cops/articleshow/81131282.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||For clean air, UPPCB’s grid-based action plan to focus on grey areas||LUCKNOW: To reduce the concentration of PM2.5 and PM10 level by 2030-2040, which currently snuffs out nearly 7,000 lives in the state capital alone every year, the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) is set to introduce a grid-level action plan in the state, beginning from Kanpur. Track the pollution level in your cityOn Saturday evening, UPPCB officials held a meeting with the Kanpur district administration and other stakeholders to discuss the roadmap for the project. It was decided that action would begin in Kanpur at grid-level. According to UPPCB, the scientific methodology was developed by the Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur after carrying out field work for a year. As the first step, an emission inventory was prepared for Kanpur city on the basis of industries emission, vehicular emission, construction and demolition, road dust, domestic emission, hospital, MSW (municipal solid waste) burning to understand the spatial distribution of emission sources and their contribution. Once the base for emission measurement was developed, the city was divided into 174 grids (2km by 2km each). UPPCB is initially focusing on 27 grids on the basis of urgency or priority due to heavy presence of PM2.5 and PM 10 particles. Talking to TOI, member secretary of UPPCB Ashish Tiwari said, “The basic idea behind grid-level action plan is to manage air quality at micro unit level which includes better action against environmental impact, time-bound implementation of plan and efficient use of funding resources.” “With the grid-level action plan, we are armed with more accurate data to guide the administration on how to improve air quality. For instance, in case of road dust emission, we may tell the administration as to which grid has to be given priority for road construction to prevent dust,” he said. “Recently, the 15th Finance Commission released Rs 357 crore for UP for steps to improve air quality. We expect that with grid-level action and sufficient funds, UP’s air quality will improve considerably,” said Tiwari Officials said the grid-level action plan initiated by UP would be followed by other states. As per fund allocation sheet of finance commission, Agra was allotted Rs 45 crore, Prayagraj Rs 31 crore, Kanpur Rs 74 crore, Lucknow Rs 74 crore, Varanasi Rs 36.5 crore, Meerut Rs 36 crore and Ghaziabad Rs 60 crore. UPPCB plans to finalise grid action plan for Lucknow by April 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/for-clean-air-uppcbs-grid-basedaction-plan-to-focus-on-grey-areas/articleshow/81131618.cms||Arvind Chauhan
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||Unnao case: Killer’s aide not minor, sent to judicial custody||LUCKNOW: While investigation into the Unnao sisters’ murder picked up pace, police disclosed on Saturday the accomplice of key accused Vinay Kumar, who claimed to be a minor, had misled police about his age. SP, Unnao, Anand Kulkarni, told TOI his lie was exposed while drafting the procedure of sending him to juvenile justice board. The court remanded both accused to judicial custody. “The boy’s father could only produce an Aadhaar card, which showed his year of birth as 2002, which means he’s 19 years old and not 15 as claimed. Also, the family failed to provide any other certificate or document to prove he was a minor. Documents, including birth certificate and school records will be tracked down and an ossification test would be conducted to ascertain his age before producing him in court,” said Kulkarni. Both were partners in the crime of poisoning the Unnao sisters. “The 19-year-old was aware about the murder plot, but did not inform police and this makes him culpable,” said the police officer. A day after the funeral, families of the girls expressed satisfaction over the arrest of the killers, but said their daughters’ soul would rest in peace only when the duo get death sentence. An inconsolable mother of 16-year-old girl, said, “I had vowed not to sip water till the culprits are arrested. Today, I am relieved by the police action, but the duo should be swiftly convicted. My five-year-old son will now fulfil the ambition of his sister to become a doctor.” The grandfather of the 13-year-old deceased girl, said, justice will be delivered only after the duo is hanged. “We thank God, the accused have been nabbed swiftly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unnao-killers-aide-not-minor-sent-to-judicial-custody/articleshow/81131630.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||Awareness drive at Lucknow University on legal actions in sexual offences||LUCKNOW: Whom to report if you face sexual offence, how to report child abuse and what legal action can be taken in case of an adolescent sexual misdemeanor, awareness about all these issues and more such situations will be spread by Lucknow University’s engineering faculty under the ongoing ‘Mission Shakti’ campaign on the campus on Sunday and Monday. A play will be staged, discussion and poster-making competition will also be organized to spread awareness and support teenagers against adolescent sexual offence and child sexual abuse. “We have planned events in a manner that they appeal to the youths and they connect with us to know and understand all about adolescence and child sexual abuse,” said Mission Shakti coordinator Prof Sheela Mishra. The first event will be held on Sunday. It will be a discussion on the episode of popular TV show ‘Satyamev Jayate’ in which the issue has been highlighted, and it will be followed by a discussion, she added. “We opted for discussion based on a TV show as we know that youths connect better with the television world. Also, renowned psychologist Anandana Trivedi will deliver a lecture on women and culture,” Mishra added. On Monday, a play on legal and empathetic support against harassment will be staged on the campus by MCA first-year students, followed by a poster-making competition on sexual harassment and adolescence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-to-sensitise-students-aboutlegal-actions-on-sex-offences/articleshow/81131633.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Varanasi||ODOP scheme will help India become self-reliant: Om Birla||GORAKHPUR: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla hailed the one district one product (ODOP) scheme launched by the state government and said it will help the country in becoming self-reliant. In his address as the chief guest of Basti Mahotsav on Saturday, Birla said, “Every village, district and city has its own heritage, art and craft and we need to popularize them on national and international stages. The state government’s one district one product scheme is providing market to local products. It is a matter of great pride that our youth can now sell their produce in national and international markets.” “Earlier, our country was dependent on other countries both for raw material and finished products, but our youth and scientists have with hard work started their production locally.” Earlier, Birla unfurled a 100 feet high tricolour at Shastri Chowk in Basti and said our national flag unites us and makes us realize that we all are one in spite of our diversities. “We say India is the biggest democracy in the world also because we inherited democracy as it reflects in our thoughts, work and is a part of our lives. People have been voting in successive elections in large numbers which shows their faith in democracy. We make the government aware about people’s issues in parliament and put in efforts to strengthen the democratic institutions so that people’s hopes are fulfilled.” The Speaker also inaugurated a book ‘Basti Ateet Se Vartaman Tak’ on the occasion. Birla said Basti is a place where more than 300 people were martyred during the 1857 freedom struggle and it is also related to Lord Ram, Maharshi Vashisht and many other great men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/odop-scheme-will-help-indiabecome-self-reliant-om-birla/articleshow/81129513.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Drug planting case: Gujarat HC junks Sanjiv Bhatt’s plea||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Saturday rejected an application filed by ex-IPS officer Sanjiv Bhatt requesting it to direct the trial court to delay the hearing of an application filed by his co-accused, his subordinate officer I B Vyas, to turn an approver in the alleged 1996 drug planting case in Palanpur. Bhatt, who has been behind bars for three years now in this case, wants the hearing on Vyas’s plea to turn an approver and to be pardoned to take place after the hearing on a couple of his applications takes place. The hearing on his own application seeking certain documents from the prosecution is to take place when the court will hear the case in the courtroom. The trial court in Porbandar rejected Bhatt’s request to defer the hearing on Vyas’s application. This led him to approach the high court. He argued that the state government and Vyas have acted in collusion and Vyas expressed a wish to turn an approver in the case after he was released on temporary bail and is out since then. He showed apprehension that the court would be influenced with the prosecution’s support to Vyas. The state government opposed Bhatt’s application and submitted that it was his effort to delay the trial. After hearing the arguments, Justice S H Vora said that as a co-accused, Bhatt has “no say” in the matter of Vyas’s application to turn approver. He will get an opportunity to cross-examine him, if the prosecution relies on his statement. The matter is strictly between the court and the accused so far as the pardon is concerned, and the court will take care of it. Bhatt and Vyas were booked under the NDPS Act on allegations of planting opium on a Rajasthan-based lawyer in a bid to evict him from a commercial property in Pali town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drug-planting-case-hc-junks-sanjiv-bhatts-plea/articleshow/81129927.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||Nearly 44% work complete on Bundelkhand e-way: UPEIDA||LUCKNOW: Nearly 44% of the work on Bundelkhand Expressway has been completed as on February 20, according to UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA). A senior official said that 95% of clearing and grubbing work and 78% of earthwork had been completed. Out of 818 structures, 466 had been completed, he added. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had recently announced that the Bundelkhand Expressway would be inaugurated in April. The length of the expressway will be marked by four railway over bridges, 14 large bridges, six toll plazas, seven ramp plaza, 266 small bridges and 18 flyovers. The project will link Bundelkhand districts with Delhi via the Agra-Lucknow Expressway. A government spokesman said the project would benefit Chitrakoot, Banda, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Jalaun, Auraiya and Etawah districts and boost industrial activities in the region to contribute to the state’s economy. The expressway will start in Chitrakoot district near Bharatkoop on Jhansi-Allahabad national highway-35 and connect with the Agra-Lucknow Expressway near Kudrail village in Etawah. The expressway will be 296.07 km long. Officials associated with the project said the four-lane expressway is expandable up to six lanes. “While the width of right of way (ROW) of the project is 110 metres, a service road of 3.75-metre width is also being constructed simultaneously to facilitate smooth transportation of locals in villages along the expressway,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nearly-44-work-complete-onbundelkhand-e-way-upeida/articleshow/81131671.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||TOI blank DD-AIR to setup title clash with HT||Lucknow: Rishi Sengar’s stormy innings helped the Times of India (TOI) trounce DD-AIR by 47 runs in the crucial semi-final match of the SBI T20 Media Cup at KD Singh Babu Stadium on Saturday. TOI will take on Hindustan Times in the title clash on Sunday. Batting first, TOI scored 161 runs at the loss of five wickets, thanks to the 96-run partnership by openers Rishi Sengar and Abbas Rizvi. Rishi hit seven boundaries and smashed a sixer to score 61 runs in 42 balls. Abbas found the fence twice to score 36 runs in 38 balls. Anish Oberoi and Zuhaib contributed 16 runs each. Sudhir Awasthi took two wickets for DD-AIR while Shailendra Sharma and Pravesh Kumar claimed one wicket each. Chasing the target, DD-AIR could score 114 runs only at the loss of eight wickets. The top four batsmen could score just 43 runs. Jitendra Kumar hit the highest 30 runs while Bholay Ram contributed 20. Rishi also made his mark on the bowling front claiming two wickets. Anish, Abbas, Anil Mishra, Pranchal Srivastava and Praveen Rai took one wicket each. Rishi bagged the man of the match award for his all-round performance. Meanwhile, SBI Media Cup trophy was unveiled at a city hotel on Saturday evening by chief general manager of SBI, Lucknow circle, Ajay Kumar Khanna, state editor of Dainik Jagran Ashutosh Shukla, state head of Indian Express Bhupendra Pandey and regional editor of I-Next Dharmendra Singh. Brief score: TOI: 161/5 (Rishi 61, Abbas 36; Sudhir 2-29, Pravesh 1-24) DD/AIR: 114/8 (Jitendra 30, Bholay 20; Rishi 2-18) BOX UP wrestler bags gold in national event Manish, an international level wrestler of North Eastern Railway Gorakhpur division, who is representing the Indian Railways at the ongoing Senior National Wrestling Championships at Jalandhar (Punjab), has won a gold medal in 60 kg category (Greco Roman).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/toi-blank-dd-air-to-setup-title-clash-with-ht/articleshow/81131662.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||4 lekhpals held for assaulting and abducting e-rickshaw driver||Prayagraj: Enraged over an e-rickshaw driver inadvertently scraping their car near Saraswati Hospital under George Town police station limits, four lekhpals posted at Chayal tehsil headquarters of Kaiushambi district first assaulted the driver and then abducted him on Friday.  On a complaint by the driver’s brother, the police swung into action and managed to nab the four accused and rescue the man safely from Puramufti in Kaushambi within few hours. SP (City) Dinesh Kumar Singh informed that all the four accused lekhpals were identified as Manish of Jhunsi, Mahesh Mishra of Sohbatiabagh, Naveen Sonkar of Saket Nagar and Kamlashankar Singh of Shankargarh area of Prayagraj. The accused have been arrested and sent to jail after registering a case against them under relevant sections of the IPC, he said. As per reports, the incident took place when the victim Saleem, a resident of Gaus Nagar locality under Kareli police station of Prayagraj, was driving his e-rickshaw and scraped a car near Saraswati Hospital under George Town police station. Four youths got down from the car and assaulted him and then abducted him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-lekhpals-held-for-assaulting-and-abducting-e-rickshaw-driver/articleshow/81129296.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||76% health staff, 48% frontline workers vaccinated in UP||LUCKNOW: Over 76% health workers and 48% frontline workers have taken Covid-19 vaccine in UP. According to official data, 7,12,367 (76.4%) health care workers have received the first dose against the target of 9,32,493. Out of these, 98,834 have taken the second dose as well. Likewise, 3,58,819 (48%) out of the targeted 7,47,440 frontline workers have taken the first dose of vaccine. The overall achievement in both the categories has been recorded at 63.7%. Against 16,79,933 listed beneficiaries, 10,71,186 have taken the vaccine so far. UP is the only state in the country to have vaccinated more than 10.7 lakh personnel followed by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Health officials said efforts are on to mobilise frontline workers and increase their participation. For this, two mop up rounds are being organized on February 22 and 25. “The purpose of the exercise is to facilitate the listed beneficiaries who have missed their vaccine on account of genuine reason besides giving a fair chance to remaining ones,” a senior health officer said. Meanwhile, at least 114 new Covid-19 cases were reported while 200 people recovered from infection in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of recoveries rose to 5.59 lakh (98.12%). Health officials reiterated that adhering to prevention protocol was crucial in general interest as cases were on the rise in some states. “Though cases are declining in UP and the vaccination programme is underway, complications caused by Covid-19 claimed two lives in last 24 hours taking the total number of casualties to 8,714. Therefore, till the required herd immunity is achieved, prevention protocol should be followed by all,” a senior officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/76-health-staff-48-frontlineworkers-vaccinated-in-up/articleshow/81131701.cms||Shailvee Sharda
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||UP first state to vaccinate 10 lakh people against Covid: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Outlining the achievements of his government over the past four years during a meeting of NITI Aayog’s governing council on Saturday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath highlighted the fact that UP is the first state in the country to vaccinate over 10 lakh people against Covid-19. Elaborating on UP’s progress under NITI Aayog’s ‘Making India a Global Manufacturing Hub’ agenda, the CM said that the state has implemented more than 500 reforms under the Business Reform Action Plan and moved to the second position in the Ease of Doing Business Rankings. “As a result of the state’s positive policies, proposals for investment of about Rs 45,000 crore have been received for 56 projects during the pandemic. Against MoUs of Rs 4.68 lakh crore signed at the UP Investors’ Summit in 2018, projects worth about Rs 3 lakh crore have been operationalized,” he said, adding that government jobs had been provided to more than 4 lakh youth since 2017. On the agriculture sector, Yogi spoke about the increase in food production from 558 lakh tons in 2016-17 to 602 lakh tons in 2019-20. Under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, Rs 27,134 crore has been transferred to over 2.40 crore farmers, he said. The CM also focussed on the infrastructure development in the state, mentioning the development of international airports at Jewar and Kushinagar. Five more international airports are being developed in Lucknow, Varanasi, Kushinagar, Gautam Budh Nagar, and Ayodhya. “At present, seven airports are functional in Lucknow, Agra,Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Prayagraj and Hindon. Flights from Bareilly airport will commence from March 8, 2021. Airports in 10 other locations are in various stages of development,” he said. Enumerating other works done by his government, Yogi said that more than 40 lakh houses have been constructed under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana; 1.2 lakh primary teachers have been appointed; e-POS machines have been installed at ration shops which is expected to save the government Rs 1,200 crore each year; 259 services of 36 departments have been made online and 60,000 common service centres set up to provide online facilities to the rural population. “In health and nutrition, serious diseases like meningitis are almost over in the state. More than 26 lakh citizens have benefited through the CM Aarogya Health Melas organised at primary health centers each Sunday. Government medical colleges and institutions are being constructed in 30 districts while an Ayush University is being set up to promote excellent research in yoga and naturopathy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-first-state-to-vaccinate-10l-people-against-covid-yogi/articleshow/81131676.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||Green corridor: LDA to build lanes in phase 1||LUCKNOW: To provide direct connectivity between eastern and western parts of the city without any traffic congestion, the Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) on Saturday announced construction of missing lanes between IIM Road and Shaheed Path under the first phase of four-lane green corridor along the Gomti. LDA vice-chairman Abhishek Prakash on Saturday informed chief secretary RK Tiwari and other stakeholders about the project worth Rs 2,603.5 crore which will be developed in two phases. The second phase will cover lanes between Shaheed Path and Kisan Path. “Total 25.2 km of missing lanes will be developed on both sides of the river with additional 7.35 km long overhead bridge. Existing 8.45 km long roads will also be widened,” he said. The first phase is expected to cost Rs 1,754.6 crore while the second phase will be worth Rs 728.4 crore. The chief secretary discussed the issue with the additional chief secretaries of irrigation, urban development, public works department, and the principal secretary (housing & urban planning) and said the housing department would work as nodal agency for the project and prepare a detailed project report (DPR) by including government lands of various departments. It would also arrange funds for the project with private participation. He said efforts should be made to get funds for the project from the central government. The chief secretary asked the officials of Jal Shakti, PWD, urban development and housing and urban planning to complete the DPR at the earliest so that the project could be started by the year-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lda-to-construct-missing-lanesin-phase-1-of-green-corridor/articleshow/81131632.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||Unnao case: Congress’s Udit Raj booked for ‘incorrect’ tweet||LUCKNOW: Former MP and Congress functionary Udit Raj was booked by Unnao police on Saturday for allegedly spreading misinformation through his tweet in which he claimed that the two minor girls, who were found murdered in a field in Baburha village of Unnao, were sexually assaulted and that cremated against the wishes of their families. The post mortem report ruled out any sexual assault and the bodies of the two victims have been buried in the presence of their families and villageers, police say. Police have also identified eight more twitter handles which have tweeted incorrect information about the incident and cases would be lodged against them as well, said Unnao police chief, Anand Kulkarni. In his tweet, Udit Raj says: “I just spoke to former MP Savitri Bai Phule Ji. The police let them meet the victim families in Unnao with great difficulty. The victim’s family said that the girls had been raped and the bodies were burnt against their will”. Kulkarni said that the tweet stated that the bodies of the two girls were burnt by putting pressure on the family and that they were raped. We had shared the findings of the autopsy report with newsmen. "The report clearly said that there no sexual assault was found on either of the two girls," he added. He also said that the bodies of the victims were buried in the presence of the family members as per their will on Friday morning. “Therefore, Udit Raj is accused of giving false and fabricated information on social media, leading to spread of hatred and disharmony in the state,” Kulkarni said. Kulkarni said that an FIR was registered against Udit Raj under charges of triggering anger through “misleading” rumours with intent to cause riot, and the Information Technology Act at Kotwali police station of the district. Kulkarni also said that a cyber unit was deployed the minute the Babraha incident came to light. “We ensured that no misinformation is spread and reported about such tweets to all the social media platforms,”he said. The officer also said that during the scanning as many as eight more offensive tweets came to the light and FIR would be registered against them. “Citing one such tweet, the officer said that it mentioned that the victim's father was arrested and being tortured by the police,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unnao-case-congs-udit-raj-booked-for-spreading-rumours-through-tweet/articleshow/81131697.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adiyanath used words in House which didn’t suit his stature: Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Launching a scathing attack on Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adiyanath, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav accused him of lying on the floor of the state assembly and using a language “that is unbecoming of a chief minister”. The chief minister is using words like “dalaal” and lying on facts on the floor of the house, Akhilesh said in reference to Chief Minister's statement in the house that it was only the middlemen who are unhappy with the farm laws and not the real farmers. “Dalalon ko raas nahi aa rahi hai anna data lki khushhaali … itna bada dhokha, itna bada jhoot koi sadan mein bol sakta hain … (Middlemen are unhappy with the prosperity of the farmers. How can someone lie so blatantly on the floor of the assembly) Akhilesh said naming over a dozen districts where farmers were not paid the minimum support price (MSP) announced by the government for their produce. "We want to know how many farmers have got how much of the MSP," he said. Akhilesh then took on the CM over his statement that SP government had sold off sugar mills in UP. “Main unse jaanna chahta hoon ki kausi chini mill hum Samajwadi logon ne bech dien …(I want to ask him to list the sugar mills that were sold off by the Samajwadi Party government),” he said. He questioned the chief minister on his statement that Samajwadi Party has withdrawn cases against terrorists. “… Samajwadi Party government ne kabhi apne mukhya mantri, up mukhya mantri, kisi balatkari ke muqadmein wapas nahi liye … (… Samajwadi Party has never withdrawn cases against any of its chief minister, deputy chief minister or rapists) the former UP CM said addressing a press conference on Saturday. Taking a jibe at UP CM for his recent comment where he said “ … inke DNA mein vibhajan hai … (To divide is a part of their DNA)” Akhilesh said “Agar DNA ka full form bata de, toh hum jaan jayenge ki woh CM hai ... He should at least clarify what DNA is,” Yadav said. The SP national president also targeted the UP CM for his comment during the anti-CAA protests where he said that all the men were sleeping at home wrapped in blankets and women are sitting on dharna in protest. "This is how he has referred to the people of the state which has welcomed and accepted him though he is not from here (UP)," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-used-words-in-house-which-arenot-fit-for-his-position-says-akhilesh/articleshow/81131686.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||Rescued Oz man dies at city hosp||Kolkata: Australian citizen Ashoke Chakravorty, who had been rescued by the police from a pavement of Ho Chi Minh Sarani and admitted to Sambhu Nath Pandit Hospital around two-and-a-half months ago, passed away on Saturday morning. The 70-year-old was apparently separated from his wife (also of Indian origin) and had a daughter, who is a doctor. Both of them live in Australia. Inquiries revealed that he had a small fortune in bank accounts. A few close friends, who reached out to him during his last days, said that he was a brilliant student and had worked with several banks before shifting to Australia. “We traced his brother who made it clear that he won’t be able to travel to Kolkata to take charge of his mortal remains,” said Ambarish Nag Biswas, secretary, West Bengal Radio Club (WBRC), which went through a lot of trouble to trace Chakravorty’s family.“We will have to wait for family members to take charge or assign somebody to perform the last rites,” a Kolkata Police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rescued-oz-man-dies-at-city-hosp/articleshow/81129984.cms||Jayanta Gupta
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow court issues NBW against Dhananjay Singh||LUCKNOW: Five days after police gunned down a sharpshooter accused of killing Mau gangster Ajit Singh in Lucknow last month, chief judicial magistrate Sushil Kumari issued a non-bailable warrant against eastern UP’s don-turned-politician Dhananjay Singh for plotting Singh’s murder. Saturday’s court order followed a plea by the investigating officer that Dhananjay was on the run since police raids at his Gomtinagar house and is yet to surrender despite a case lodged last year under Official Secrets Act in Vibhuti Khand police station. Senior police officials said, the role of the former BSP MP was being probed and evidence points to his involvement in the conspiracy. Dhananjay owns a flat in Sharda Apartment, Gomtinagar Extension, where four shooters who eliminated Ajit Singh were holed up, said ADCP, east zone, Qasim Abidi. Police say the murder was engineered to prevent Singh from testifying in court against mafia don Kuntu Singh, accused of killing former MLA Sarvesh Singh Sipu in 2013. The Mau don was a witness and his testimony was scheduled, days after he was snuffed out. While Singh forged ties with jailed don Mukhtar Ansari, Kuntu and Girdhari had joined hands with Dhananjay. Six shooters — Shivendra Singh aka Ankur, Rajesh Tomar aka Jai, Bunty aka Veeru, Ravi Yadav, Sandeep aka Baba and Girdhari — had opened fire on Ajit Singh and his aide in Lucknow on January 6. While Singh died, his aide suffered injuries. Arrested shooter Sandeep had told police during interrogation that Bunty, Shivendra and Bandhan took Rajesh, who took a bullet in retaliatory fire, to Dhananjay’s flat, from where he was rushed to a Sultanpur-based doctor. “It was confirmed by the Sultanpur-based doctor that he had received a WhatsApp call from the eastern UP don on January 7,” said ADCP Qasim Abidi. Also, Girdhari had police he got a ‘supari’ (contract) from Dhananjay to eliminate Ajit Singh. Confirming the non-bailable warrant against Dhananjay, Lucknow police commissioner, D K Thakur, said, “We went to court after gathering evidence that Dhananjay was involved in the criminal conspiracy. Kuntu and others already in jail and Dhananjay is still on the run,” he said. In October last year, Special Task Force had lodged an FIR against Dhananjay for allegedly obtaining a copy of the official confidential communication related to his security detail. Earlier this week, Dhananjay’s sharpshooter, Girdhari, was shot in an police encounter while trying to flee from custody during a search of the murder weapon in Gomtinagar. Giridhari had hit a sub-Inspector on the nose, snatched his service pistol and tried to escape when he was killed in retaliatory fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/court-issues-non-bailable-warrant-against-don-turned-neta-dhananjay-singh/articleshow/81131689.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
February 21, 2021||Goa||Worst of Covid not over, must take precautions: CSIR chief||PANAJI: The rise in Covid cases in Kerala and parts of Maharashtra are cause for concern and worst is not yet over, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) director general Shekhar Mande has said. “This (the rise in cases) might be a reflection of the fact that people have become complacent and probably believe that the worst is behind us. The worst is not over and unless we follow due diligence and all precautions, we will not be able to get over the pandemic so easily,” he said. “…if more number of individuals are infected there would be more droplet nuclei floating around in the air and therefore, one must avoid gatherings of people. Whatever the function may be, whether religious, social, whatever as long as we are able to avoid gatherings, we will reduce the probability of having this droplet nuclei in the air and therefore reduce the probability of infecting others,” he said. India’s scientific community had begun preparing itself on how to react to the virus before the WHO declared it a pandemic last year, Mande said during a session of ‘Rise of Indian Science and Technology in the Fight against Covid-19’ organised by International Centre Goa (ICG) on Friday. India’s first case was detected on January 20 last year, and Mande during a lecture in Pune on February 7, last year, had stated, “We are living in the Corona era.” Indian scientists had an inkling that something serious was unfolding and a meeting was held of all 37 CSIR directors at the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) in Goa on February 25 and 26, last year, on how to react if Covid became a global emergency. The WHO declared a pandemic only on March 11 when Indian scientists were already preparing how to deal with it. He said the CSIR formed a strategic group and held daily meetings from March 25 focussing on surveillance, diagnostics and interventions. This was possible because of the investment in science and technology in the country, he said. “India rose to the occasion as one single country. Everyone worked together and made sure our population was affected to a much lesser extent than many other advanced countries,” he said. When asked whether he believed that Covid-19 leaked from a lab or was a natural occurrence, Mande said, “The conspiracy hypothesis that there was a deliberate leak or accidental leak is very, very unlikely. Most of the scientific community believes that a random mutation took place and passed on from a bat to a pangolin and then humans. “At this moment, we don’t believe there was any accidental or designed leak of the virus from the lab. But only the WHO would be in a better position to address this.” He also said contrary to WHO’s stand that the virus spreads through contaminated surfaces, most scientists believe that the virus is airborne. Mande said the immune system of people in poor countries is well trained as they are continuously exposed to pathogens and as a result their immune system doesn’t overreact. The opposite is true for rich countries where lifestyle diseases are more prevalent and where people are used to living in super hygienic conditions which don’t’ see many infections, bacteria and fungi and where these countries also have large number of people above the age of 65. “All this put together suggests that the immune system of people in poorer countries is better trained because people in these countries are continuously exposed to different kind of pathogens and therefore, their immune system doesn’t hyper react to a new pathogen such as SARSCov2 where as in richer countries it is vice versa,” Mande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/worst-of-covid-not-over-must-take-precautions-csir-chief/articleshow/81131785.cms||Lisa Monteiro
February 21, 2021||India||3-month gap between Oxford jabs ensures higher efficacy: Study||MUMBAI: India has decided to stick to the 28-day gap between two shots of Covidshield vaccine, but there is growing evidence that a longer gap — almost three months — would be better. In a study published in medical journal, The Lancet, researchers from Oxford University (where Covishield was developed) said a three-month interval between the doses of the vaccine results in a higher vaccine efficacy rather than a six-week interval. The first dose of the vaccine offers 76% protection for up to three months, said the study. Many doctors in India, too, had raised the “better antibody levels with longer gap” theory with the government. We believe a gap of two months should be provided between the two shots,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the Maharashtra Covid task force. The other important message of the new Lancet study is that a longer gap would allow countries to vaccinate a larger proportion of their population more rapidly. In a statement, the study’s lead author Andrew Pollard from the University of Oxford said, “Where there is a limited supply, policies of initially vaccinating more people with a single dose may provide greater immediate population protection than vaccinating half the number of people with two doses.” The team also found that a single dose of vaccine is highly efficacious in the first three months (76% efficacy from 22 days after vaccination onwards). “Antibody levels against the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein remained at similar levels for 3 months,” said the Lancet study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-month-gap-between-oxford-jabs-ensures-higher-efficacy-study/articleshow/81132094.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||No merit in SP allegations, party spreading lies: Dy CM||Lucknow: Refuting the allegations levelled against the state government by Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said that SP is now reduced to a party that can only dream. SP has lost support on the ground and is now spreading lies through the media to mislead people, said Sharma. “They are totally rattled by this government’s popularity. What the previous governments failed to do over several years, the Yogi Adityanath government has accomplished in just four years. Not only have we cleaned the mess left by previous governments, but we have also pulled the state back on the path of development,” he added. Rebutting the allegations of Yadav, the deputy CM said the state government is successfully working towards doubling the income of farmers. He said food purchase under the Yogi government since 2017 is more than that of each government between 2003 and 2017. “In the history of the state, we are the first government that has paid more than Rs 62,000 crore to farmers. In four years, Rs 23,328.80 crore was paid to more than 25 lakh paddy farmers and Rs 29,017.45 crore to over 33lakh wheat farmers. All 119 sugar mills remained functional despite the Covid-19 outbreak. Sugarcane prices went up in 2018 and we have paid more to cane farmers since 2017 than any other government had done,” he said. Sharma added that BJP achieved full victory in the recent graduate teacher elections and the government was doing well in the field of education by cracking down on copying in exams. “Our Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is leading in all surveys. His Covid management has become a topic of research,” he said. “During the previous SP government, they raised the slogan, ‘SP ka nara hai, khali plot humara hai’, and illegally occupied public and agricultural land. However, the Yogi Adityanath government set up an anti-land mafia task force which has freed more than 67,000 hectare land from mafia,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-merit-in-sp-allegations-party-spreading-lies-dy-cm/articleshow/81131677.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Man strips three boys naked for harassing girls||Ambernath: Police onn Saturday arrested a man who allegedly beat up three boys after stripping them naked as they were allegedly teasing girls passing by. Police are searching for some friends of the accused who recorded a video of it, which went viral on social media. Police said Babu alias Khopadi Ashappa Gunde was arrested under sections of Indian Penal Code. The video shows the children being beaten at Chinchpada. Police sources said Gunde claimed that since he was receiving complaints from some family members of girls from his area that children were passing lewd comments, he decided to teach them a lesson. Police said that they are searching for two others who were with Gunde. A search is also on for those who posted the video on social media. Pradeep Gupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-strips-three-boys-naked-for-harassing-girls/articleshow/81131339.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||Bangla man collapses at Kol airport, dies||Kolkata: A 51-year-old Bangladeshi man who landed at the Kolkata airport on Friday evening collapsed during immigration clearance and was declared dead on being taken to a private hospital. He had come to Kolkata for treatment.The man, Biplab Saha, a resident of Dhaka flew down to Kolkata around 4.40pm by an Air India flight and was at the immigration counter along with his relatives when he suddenly collapsed around 5pm. He was attended to by airport’s medical team who performed CPR and provided initial treatment. He was then taken to Charnock Hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival.“He had been suffering from a cardiac ailment for a long time. It seems he suffered a cardiac arrest while coming out of the airport. By the time, he reached our hospital, he had passed away,” said a hospital official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bangla-man-collapses-at-kol-airport-dies/articleshow/81130001.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Timeless architecture that touches imagination, senses||Salk Institute of Biological Studies, La Jolla, CA., USA 1959-65Over the course of his life Louis Kahn designed a series of masterpieces that changed the way we think about architecture. His buildings were not only modern in their form, construction and technology, but also evoked perennial architectural values in their use of space, geometry, light, shade and scale. Kahn revelled in the individual qualities of materials such as concrete, steel, glass and brick, but he aspired to the immaterial in his buildings. They touch the mind, imagination and senses of those who inhabit them or move through them by means of their metaphysical sense of order.National Assembly Complex Dhaka Bangladesh 1962-83 Kahn would take over the programme and site provided by the client and transform these into a magical sequence of spaces linked to the surroundings. For the Salk Institute of Biological Studies in La Jolla, California (1959-65) he tucked away the day-to-day laboratories inflexible areas traversed by huge beams, reserving the central court for an astonishing outdoor room like a proscenium framing the view to the Pacific horizon. A channel of water runs down the axis and seems to draw the sky down to earth. Realized in exquisite travertine and well-jointed concrete, Salk suggests a cosmic dimension appropriate to the scientific investigation of nature’s laws.Kahn handled the whole range of tasks from houses, to religious buildings, to educational institutions, to memorials, to monuments of state. The Capitol Complex in Dhaka (1962-83), Bangladesh, is organised around a centralised plan traversed by axes. With its giant cylindrical and rectangular forms in silvery concrete with white marble inlays, the assembly sits on a monumental brick platform and is surrounded by bodies of water. While modern in its spaces and voids, this building reflects Kahn’s profound understanding of great buildings in the past which he was able to abstract and transform in his architecture — in this case, Moghul tombs, even the ancient Buddhist stupas of this region.Born in Estonia on February 20, 1901, Louis I Kahn died in Pennsylvania Station, New York city, on March 17, 1974, having just returned from one more exhausting trip to supervise the design and construction of the Indian Institute of Management in Ahmedabad (1962-74), his other great work on the Indian subcontinent. This he conceived as a brick citadel of education, weaving together teaching spaces, library, dormitories, faculty and staff housing, as an entire campus, a unified and inseparable idea. In a masterly fashion, Kahn fused interiors and exteriors, orthoganal and diagonal geometries, as an idealisation in space and geometry of an institution of learning. The best birthday present for this master of architecture would be to restore and protect IIM-A in the long term by providing it with World Heritage status.William J R Curtis is an architectural historian and critic, author of the classic Modern Architecture Since 1900(Disclaimer: The views expressed here are the author’s own)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/timeless-architecture-that-touches-imagination-senses/articleshow/81123882.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Bareilly||Four from Budaun on way to Rajasthan shrine killed as car rams truck||AGRA: Four Budaun residents on their way to Rajasthan’s Mehandipur Balaji were killed and three others injured when the car they were travelling in rammed into a truck on Aligarh-Mathura road near Koyal phatak in Raya area on Saturday. Police identified the deceased as Simran Sharma (20), Kajal Sharma (14), Rohit Sharma (18) and Manish Singh (22). The injured — Prabhakar Sharma (45), his wife Neela (41) and driver Amarpal Singh (42) — were admitted to a hospital, said police. Police suspect that the car driver dozed off at the wheel and the uncontrolled vehicle rammed into the truck around 2.45 am. Police said they sent the bodies for postmortem and informed the victims’ relatives about the accident. In a separate accident in Sambhal, six people — four of a family, including a seven-year-old boy — were killed and three others severely injured after the car they were travelling in crashed into a truck head-on due to poor visibility owing to dense fog on the Moradabad-Agra national highway under Baniyather police station ambit in the district. Sambhal police identified the deceased as Ovais (27), his wife Amina (25), their seven-year-old son Aahil, Ovais’s mother-in-law Choti (60) — all residents of Pakhwada, Moradabad — while their 17-year-old relative, Ruhi, succumbed to injuries on her way to the hospital. Shazia, a relative, later died in hospital while two other relatives, Aman and Leeba, are seriously injured. Police said all the eight people in a Wagon R car were on their way to Moradabad after visiting a relative in Manakpur Narauli village in Baniyather when the accident took place due to poor visibility caused by dense fog and speeding vehicles. Baniyather police station, Sambhal, SHO Vikas Saxena said, “After answering a distress call, police teams rushed to the spot and launched a rescue operation. The injured were admitted to a Moradabad hospital after doctors at Chandausi CHC referred them to a higher medical facility. The bodies were sent for postmortem. The truck driver fled the scene after the accident. A case was registered under 304A (death by negligence) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/4-from-budaun-on-way-to-rajasthan-shrine-killed-as-car-rams-truck/articleshow/81129347.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Samaritan likely to get Padma at home||AYODHYA: A day after TOI reported how Padma awardee and Faizabad’s ‘last rites’ Samaritan, Shareef Chacha, was terminally ill, wallowing in penury and may not live to get a glimpse of his Padma medal, local MLA Ved Gupta and Ayodhya MP Lallu Singh, promised to write to the Centre to get his medal delivered at his doorstep, considering his sinking health. A debt-ridden Shareef had borrowed Rs 2,500 last year to buy train tickets for Delhi, only to be told the Padma awards ceremony at Rashtrapati Bhawan had been cancelled due to the pandemic. Since Saturday morning, social workers, a team of government doctors, citizens and politicians made a beeline for his two-room decrepit house. While legislator Gupta vowed to mobilise funds and disclosed he was talking to the state government to dole out a monthly allowance and free ration for Shareef, former UP minister Tej Narain Pandey donated money to the family and promised to launch a crowdfunding drive. Talking to TOI, BJP MP from Faizabad, Lallu Singh, who was the proposer of Shareef’s Padma award, said, “I am talking to senior Central government officials to arrange delivery of the medal and citation to his home. I will arrange funds and ensure free medical aid.” In the afternoon, a three-member medical team led by additional district magistrate, Ayodhya, Vaibhav Sharma, visited Shareef’s residence. Talking to TOI, Sharma, said “Senior doctors conducted a thorough medical check-up and we have promised all medical help to the family.” Shareef, who has performed the last rites of over 25,000 unclaimed bodies in over 25 years, lives in a rented tenement at Mohalla Khirki Ali Beg in Faizabad City. His two sons, Sagheer and Ashraf, earn a pittance and are barely able to make two ends meet. Talking to TOI, former minister in the Samajwadi Party government, Tej Narain Pandey, said, “It’s shocking that a man who devoted his life to provide honour to the dead should spend his last days in abject poverty. The state government should immediately provide relief.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/times-impact-ayodhya-mp-mla-vow-to-deliver-padma-medal-to-shareef-chachas-house/articleshow/81131687.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
February 21, 2021||Nashik||NMC shifts focus to wedding halls, lawns in city||Nashik: The civic administration has started inspecting the public places in the city to ensure people are following the Covid safety protocols like wearing masks and observng social distancing. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started a drive against erring citizens from Thursday and has fined over 300 people in the last three days for not wearing masks. It has collected Rs 60,000 in fines. The NMC also inspected some hotels and other places where seminars and other social functions are being held. During a sudden inspection in one of the hotels on Sunday, the civic body fined two private doctors, who were attending a seminar, Rs 200 each for not wearing masks. “Municipal commissioner Kailash Jadhav has taken serious cognizance of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the past few days and has given directions to penalize those who are not following Covid safety protocols,” said Kalpana Kute, director of NMC’s solid waste management department. Kute further said they have intensified action against erring citizens from Saturday. Over 150 citizens were slapped with a fine on Saturday alone. “Now, we are also focusing on wedding halls and lawns in the city. We will increase our inspections and take action against the organisers if there is a gathering of more than 100 people,” she said. When contacted, mayor Satish Kulkarni said, “The new cases will increase even more if people do not follow Covid safety protocols. I will hold a meeting with the health department officials on Monday to decide on measures to stop the surge in cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-shifts-focus-to-wedding-halls-lawns-in-city/articleshow/81131306.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Five months on, Metro breaches 2.5 lakh rider count||KOLKATA: With schools reopening earlier this week, Metro Railway on Friday breached the 2.5 lakh daily passenger count along its north-south corridor. When the city’s lifeline resumed services on September 14, only 21,336 had boarded and 110 services were available. Five months on, Friday’s footfall was 2,50,713 with 240 services in place. Only a month ago, on January 22, Metro had clocked 2,01,030, barely a week after the carrier had completely lifted the e-boarding pass system for crowd control. Over the last one week, passenger count hovered around 2.3 lakh-2.4 lakh even as fewer people travelled on Saraswati Puja and the day after. Metro officials attributed the increased footfall to the reopening of schools. “As colleges and universities resume physical classes, we shall have more riders. But the count will still be around 40%-50% of the pre-pandemic 6.5-lakh daily footfall until tokens are issued,” a Metro official explained. In Covid times, only smart cards are allowed for boarding a Metro train. “In pre-Covid times, the average footfall per train at a given point of time was around 3,000 during peak hours. Currently, we are ready to take it to 1,000 with social distancing norms in place,” a Metro official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/five-months-on-metro-breaches-2-5l-rider-count/articleshow/81130015.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 21, 2021||Kolhapur||Curfew in Pandharpur, 10 other villages in Solapur||Kolhapur: With the threat of Covid-19 still looming large, Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar has announced a curfew in Pandharpur and 10 other villages surrounding the temple town that will be effective from Monday midnight to Tuesday midnight. Thousands of devotees from across Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh are expected to congregate at the temple town on the occasion of Maghi Ekadashi that will be observed on February 23 this year. As per the order of the district collector, temple trustees will be allowed to perform traditional puja. Police will seal all the entry points of the temple town to avoid crowding.  Meanwhile, as many as 75 Covid-19 cases were reported from Solapur district on Saturday, of which 55 cases were from the rural areas and 20 from Solapur city. A 94-year-old woman succumbed to the infecton. In all, 65 patienst were discharged from across the district on Saturday. The active case tally stands at 332 in the rural areas and 436 in Solapur city. Satara district reported 70 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths since late Friday night. Currently, 985 patients are undergoing treatment in the district||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/curfew-in-pandharpur-10-other-villages-in-solapur/articleshow/81131358.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Remaining health workers to be inoculated by next week||PUNE: The state is aiming to complete the first dose of vaccination for the remaining registered healthcare workers by the end of next week, DN Patil, the state immunisation officer, told TOI on Saturday. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services (Pune region), said that the first dose has been administered to nearly 64% of healthcare workers registered in Pune circle and the authorities are likely to complete inoculating the remaining healthcare workers in Pune circle in the next couple of days. The Pune circle includes Pune district, Solapur and Satara. The first dose of vaccination for registered frontline workers in Pune region is likely to be complete by March 5, Dr Deshmukh said. There are nearly 10.55 lakh healthcare workers registered on Co-Win app in Maharashtra. The first dose has been administered to nearly 6.08 lakh healthcare workers so far till Saturday. Dr Patil said, “We are aiming to complete the first dose of vaccination for remaining healthcare workers by end of next week, followed by completion of the first dose for frontline workers. The administration of second dose to the two priority groups will continue simultaneously for which we have not set a deadline.” He also added that the state health department has not received any guidelines from the Centre on registrations of priority group above 50 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/remaining-health-workers-to-be-inoculated-by-next-week/articleshow/81131377.cms||Neha Madaan
February 21, 2021||Dehradun||After closure of 11 months, Indo-Nepal border at Banbasa opened for movement from both sides||Pithoragarh: Days after two bridges — Dharchula and Jhulaghat — on the Indo-Nepal border in Pithoragarh were opened up for movement of people, the Nepalese administration on Saturday allowed cross-border movement from the Banbasa check point in Champawat. The check point was shut after the Covid-19 outbreak on March 23, 2020. “The development comes after the Indian officials held discussions with their Nepalese counterparts. The Indians who wish to cross the border check post must get themselves registered on ccmc.gov.np. Those who wish to get themselves registered offline can visit the facilitation centre at Gadda Chowki checkpoint in Nepal. The centre has been set up by the Armed Police Force (AFP) of Nepal,” Himanshu Kafaltiya, SDM Purnagiri. The Nepalese administration has clarified that no non-Indians will be allowed cross border movement through Banbasa check point. Further, no private vehicle will be allowed beyond Gadda Chowki checkpoint. However, goods vehicles will not be stopped. The Nepalese authorities have also agreed to open Tanakpur check points after two weeks. “Also, people will not be required to get themselves registered to come to the Purnagiri Mela, which is starting from March 30,” Kafaltiya added. The decision to open up Banbasa check point is sure to help traders on the Indian side as many businesses which depended on customers from Nepal were suffering huge losses. “Many locals and traders do not have a smartphone and it will get difficult for people to cross borders. Regulations must be relaxed further,” said Bharat Bhandari, a Banbasa trader. “On Saturday, only a few people from India went to Nepal through the Banbasa check point as traders were not aware that it was opened,” said Sanjay Agrawal, vice president, traders’ association of Champawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-closure-of-11-months-indo-nepal-border-at-banbasa-opened-for-movement-from-both-sides/articleshow/81129362.cms||Prem Punetha
February 21, 2021||Chennai||Here’s a chance to adopt a vertical garden in the city||Chennai: Greater Chennai Corporation on Saturday announced that NGOs, private organisations, resident welfare associations, commercial organisations and others can now adopt 15 vertical gardens in the city. These have come up in 15 different flyovers in the city.GCC has removed the advance monetary terms initially there in the scheme. The organisations will be able to display their boards on these vertical gardens as per GCC’s terms and conditions, an official release said. Officials said 108 piers underneath these bridges in the city will have vertical gardens. “The project was executed at a cost of Rs 8.15 crore. Work is nearing completion,” said a senior official.Gardens on the flyovers which are up for the scheme are the ones at Vallar Nagar, Doveton, Pantheon Road, two on Peters Road junctions, North and South Usman road, two on RK Salai junctions, TTK Road, Cenotaph Road, two on Sardar Patel Road junction, Perambur Road junction and GN Chetty Road junctions.The preferred plants are those that can survive without direct exposure to sunlight, given that they will be under the flyovers, the official said. They will be green and red-leafed, on the lines of projects in Bengaluru and Nagpur where such gardens have been set up on metro rail pillars.Due to the pandemic, work on this project had been halted. “Since fabrication yards had not opened, we could not start this work, but it has progressed well,” the official said.The interesting aspect about these gardens is that plants will be watered with sewage water, that will be drawn from a nearby source on the road. Small sewage treatment plants of the capacity of five kilo litres per day would be set up, an official said. “Raw sewage is full of nutrients like nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium, which are necessary for plants. The STP would decrease the biological oxygen demand (BOD) from 400 to 30, but retain the nutrients,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/heres-a-chance-to-adopt-a-vertical-garden-in-the-city/articleshow/81130050.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Soon, improved, customer-friendly website for AAI||CHENNAI: The Airports Authority of India (AAI) is planning to revamp the website of Chennai airport by roping in website developers after passengers complained that the website does not offer enough information, including live flight status. “The plan is to rope in a professional firm who can design and run the site for us. The paperwork has been finalised and a tender will be floated soon,” said an official. The AAI will provide the content and will monitor it but the firm which will be awarded the work will be in charge of preparing a customer-friendly website. Sources said the website of AAI airports are maintained by a team in the headquarters in Delhi. Though information about the facilities at the airport are updated periodically, it takes time for the changes to be brought online. This posed inconvenience to the passengers as Covid-19 restrictions led to frequent changes in travel regulations, documents and guidelines for domestic and international passengers. Though private airports at Bengaluru, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Delhi have good websites with passenger information including live flight updates and RT-PCR test details, Chennai airport’s account on Twitter is a more popular source of information. This is posing a problem as people are not able to access information on travel restrictions and Covid checks at the airport from the website. The existing website does not have information on flight schedules, details of health screening of passengers, quarantine rules. Instead it has only basic information about the airport and lists out food and beverages outlets and retail stores and other facilities. AAI started work to revamp the site around six months ago. The social media presence was strengthened after constant complaints from passengers in the past few years. The social media team provides flight schedules, quarantine regulations for domestic and international passengers and also has posts detailing changes in rules for travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/soon-improved-customer-friendly-website-for-aai/articleshow/81130042.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Three-month gap makes vax more effective: Study||MUMBAI: India may have decided to stick to the 28-day gap between two shots of Covishield, but there is growing evidence that a gap of almost three months would be better. In a study published in the Lancet, researchers from the University of Oxford, where Covishield was developed, said a 3-month interval between the doses results in a higher vaccine efficacy than a six-week interval, reports Malathy Iyer. The first dose offers 76% protection for up to 3 months, said the study. Many local doctors, too, had raised the “better antibody levels with longer gap” theory with the Centre. “We believe a gap of two months should be provided between the two shots,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the Maharashtra Covid task force. The other important message of the new Lancet study is that a longer gap would allow countries to vaccinate a larger proportion of their population more rapidly. India, which has a population of 137 crore, has vaccinated a little over a crore healthcare and frontline workers in 36 days. ,The Union health ministry has announced that it plans to start vaccinating the priority population of people over 50 years of age and those younger with chronic diseases—estimated to be about 30 crore—by March 1. In a statement, the study’s lead author Andrew Pollard from the University of Oxford said, “Where there is a limited supply, policies of initially vaccinating more people with a single dose may provide greater immediate population protection than vaccinating half the number of people with two doses.” His team’s analyses of 17,178 participants from clinical trials held in the UK, Brazil and South Africa found higher vaccine efficacy is obtained with a longer interval between the first and second standard dose—81% for a three-month interval versus 55% for an interval of up to six weeks. The team also found that a single dose of the vaccine is highly efficacious in the first three months— 76% efficacy from 22 days after vaccination. “In addition, antibody levels against the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein remained at similar levels for three months,” said the Lancet study. As it is not yet clear how long protection with a single dose of the vaccine might last, the team has recommended that a second dose should be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-mth-gap-makes-vax-more-effective-study/articleshow/81131977.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 21, 2021||Pune||1,500 get booster jab in Pune Metropolitan Region; efforts on to improve participation||PUNE: A total of 1,528 healthcare workers received the booster jab of Covid vaccine in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday, while 4,036 health and frontline workers were administered the first dose at 74 centres. With this, the total vaccination in Pune district has climbed above 60%. To push up inoculation, state health officials said all efforts were on to remove the names that were reflecting twice on the CoWIN application. On Saturday, the PMR registered a 49% vaccination of health and frontline workers taking the first dose. The officials said the percentage of vaccination improved in the city areas on Saturday, with 66% coverage in the Pune Municipal Corporation areas, followed by 54% in the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits, followed by just 34% in the rural pockets. District health officials said vaccine hesitancy among private health practitioners was seeing a decline in the rural areas. “The response of health workers for the second dose is also not as per expectations as many of the health workers are taking their time, with studies suggesting more gap between the two doses improves efficacy of the vaccine,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1-5k-get-booster-jab-efforts-on-to-improve-participation/articleshow/81131392.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 21, 2021||Chennai||These singers never lose sight of their musical goals||Chennai: “Each of us is made differently, and while lost vision is but one of my identities, my ability to soothe many frayed nerves through my music, which I lose myself in, has given me a larger purpose in life,” said Rathnakumari, famous as ‘Gobichettipalayam’ Rathnakumari Kalyanasundaram. The 82-year-old Carnatic singer was awarded the Kalaimamani award, for excellence in the field of art. She and M J C Comagan were the two visually impaired artists who won the award for their contribution to music on Saturday.Rathnakumari recalled her younger days at Vellore, when her father introduced her to music after she lost her vision to smallpox. She was five. “I had to discontinue school because of my disability, but my father realised I had a penchant for singing and guided me to it,” she said. By eight, she was performing at sabhas, events, and when she turned 11 she gave a performance at All India Radio’s Vijayawada station. He association with AIR as an A-grade artist spans more than six decades. It was during one of her performances that she met D Kalyanasundaram. He fell in love with her voice, traced her house and asked her family for her hand in marriage. “He told me that he would help me grow in music, and he did.” Rathnakumari credits her husband for expanding her scope in music and not deterring her from pursuing her dreams, despite having three children.For Comagan, the entry of Comaganin Raaga Priya, a blind orchestra, into the 2008 Guinness Book of World Record remains his greatest moment. “We sang 682 songs for 50 hours straight. That moment also made us realise we can achieve anything we want.”The group was formed with nine visually impaired artists in 1991 but for almost two years there were no opportunities to perform. The members kept meeting every week, practising tirelessly.They slowly began performing at music festivals, sabhas, and marriage functions before director Cheran approached them to sing in his movie ‘Autograph’ (2003). Their song ‘Ovvoru Pookalume’ became a big hit, and there has been no looking back.The group, with more than 25 members now, has so far given around 3,500 musical performances and travelled to nine countries. They keep themselves updated with modern songs and equipment.While Rathnakumari wants more people, including the disabled, to learn music or any art form as it keeps them grounded and happy, Comagan wants to start a music school. “I also want to share this award with all people with disabilities and tell them that if I can do it, anybody can,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/these-singers-never-lose-sight-of-their-musical-goals/articleshow/81130058.cms||Aditi R
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Rajabai tower to cast a glow once again next mth||Every night, over the past few months, Oval resident Parvana Boga Noorani has watched the Rajabai clock tower light up her home as if it were a family heirloom. Like most residents who live in the art deco arc across the maidan, she felt a visual ownership of the 143-year-old monument. “I sometimes found myself taking pictures and sending feedback to the lighting designer who has been working on making it more and more magical these past few months,” says Noorani, who lives in Belvedere Court, diagonally opposite the tower. Mumbai University’s 85-metre-high clock tower, which has been through a massive makeover, will once again glow forth like a lighthouse on the city from next month. The Porbunder stone building, which seamlessly braids Victorian, Gothic and Islamic architecture, remains one of the abiding features in a fast-changing skyline. Galleries at various levels offer a 360-degree view of the city and exquisitely carved statues represent the various communities of the Bombay state. “Light allows buildings to become living breathing entities, able to communicate their memories to each other and to the people, recalling the layers of history that have defined the city,” says lighting designer Kanchan Puri, who spent months going back and forth, climbing the endless stone steps, examining crevices and hidden arches, in an effort to combine subtlety and spectacle.  Long-time Oval resident Gerson da Cuna says, “The tower belongs to the city but in a much more personal way it belongs to us. The fact that it is being restored so sensitively has been a great solace to us who live in this Unesco respected area.” The city veteran has spent half a century in Fair Lawn, enjoying the quarter chimes. “I was very clear I didn’t want it to look like Disneyland,” says architect and urban conservationist Brinda Somaya who led the project. “As a child, I noticed that many buildings used to be lit up in the colours of the flag on Republic Day. It made sense for that particular day. But otherwise, you should not be drawing attention to the colours of light; the lighting should emphasise the beautiful architectural qualities.” Puri ensured the lighting was both non-intrusive and energy-efficient. It also attempts to avoid the problem of flying insects which are attracted to ultraviolet light, she says, adding, “The finale enables a delicate play of light and shadow, with the pinnacle bathed in moonlight, reflecting the natural rhythm of the lunar cycle.” Supported by Tata Consultancy Services, Indian Heritage Society and Mumbai University, the project has been ongoing for several years. “Rajabai Tower is named after my grandmother who contributed significantly to women’s rights and to education,” says businessman and philanthropist Sushil Premchand. Back then, the tower served another secret purpose: As Rajabai Premchand started losing her vision, the clock chimes helped her to mark time in her home several miles away, in a city once bathed in the light of silence!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rajabai-tower-to-cast-a-glow-once-again-next-mth/articleshow/81130059.cms||Namita Devidayal
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai police to finally get custody of gangster Ravi Pujari||MUMBAI: In a victory for Mumbai police, a Bengaluru court on Saturday passed an order granting it custody of extradited gangster Ravi Pujari. The gangster is in custody of Bengaluru police since February 2020, as part of a probe into cases there. Mumbai Police had been running from pillar to post since Pujari’s deportation. There are 49 serious offences registered in Mumbai alone, apart from Navi Mumbai and Thane, against him. S R Manikya, city civil and sessions judge, also rejected Pujari’s application for supply of the order by the extradition court of Senegal. Mumbai Police had approached the Senegal court through ministry of external affairs (MEA) to seek Pujari’s custody as last time his lawyer Dilraj Sequeira had objected, stating that the Mumbai cases were not mentioned while seeking his custody from Senegal. MEA sought a clarification from the court in Senegal in January. TOI was first to report this (’Mumbai cops approach Senegal court for Ravi Pujari’s custody’, Feb 5). “I objected to this as Mumbai Police have not shown me the extradition court’s order. It’s my fundamental right to get documents relied on by the prosecution against me (Pujari). I will challenge this,’’ Sequeira said. Police said they mentioned in the Bengaluru court they are seeking Pujari’s custody in the firing case of Hotel Gajalee (Vile Parle) in which a hotel staff was seriously injured in 2016. Crime branch had arrested seven Pujari gang members and charged them under the stringent MCOCA. Sources said they will also seek custody in other cases, including firing on the partner of Deepa Bar & Restaurant Humayun Chandivala in 2005, murder of Chembur builder Om Prakash Kukreja, killing of two employees of builder Sudhakar Shetty, attempt to murder film-maker Mahesh Bhatt, builder Suresh Wadhwa and advocate Majeed Memon. There are also more than two dozen cases of threatening Bollywood personalities, including Salman Khan, Shah Rukh Khan, Akshay Kumar, Karan Johar, Rakesh Roshan and Karim Morani, said joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambe. A Mumbai Police team (inspector Ajay Sawant and assistant inspector Sunil Pawar) is camping in Bengaluru and is likely to get Pujari’s custody by Sunday night. Sources said Pujari will be kept in the police lock-up at the headquarters at Crawford Market. Extra Quick Response Team personnel will be deployed. On Sunday, police will review Pujari’s security, an official said. Pujari fears for his life in Maharashtra jails, as there are rival gang members and aides he had betrayed, a police officer said. O P Singh, a Chhota Rajan member, was killed in Nashik jail, gangster Abu Salem was attacked at Taloja jail and undertrial Asghar Ali Mehendi and Rajan aide John D’Souza were killed in rivalry at Arthur Road jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bengaluru-court-grants-custody-of-ravi-pujari-to-mumbai-cops/articleshow/81130106.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 21, 2021||Jaipur||After 10 years, UDH revises rates to change size of plots||Jaipur: The urban development and housing (UDH) department has revised the rates for reconstitution and subdivision of plots in urban areas after a gap of 10 years. A notification in this connection was made after making an amendment in the Rajasthan Urban Improvement Act, 1959. A cap on the maximum amount has also been put for the first time, which will be charged by plot owners. An official said, “The move of putting a cap will benefit the residents as the maximum amount is fixed. In case of bigger plots, the owners have to pay fixed amount even the amount exceeds.” For the reconstitution and subdivision of residential plots, the department has fixed Rs 75 per square metre and Rs 35 lakh maximum amount. For the commercial plots, rates fixed are Rs 100 per sqm and maximum of Rs 50 lakh. The maximum amount fixed for institutional and tourism units are Rs 15 lakh. But reconstitution and subdivision rates for institutional plots will be Rs 100 per sqm and Rs 25 sqm for tourism units. For industrial plots, the department has fixed Rs 50 per sqm and maximum of 20 lakh. An official informed the reconstitution of plots in the city’s old colonies has become the requirement for the developers to construct an apartment. UDH department will issue permission to only ‘Green Buildings’ in the city’s old colonies such as Bapu Nagar, Tilak Nagar, C-Scheme, among others. As the existing colonies are facing infrastructure pressure, the department has decided to provide permission to ‘green buildings’ which uses less water, optimises energy efficiency, conserves natural resources, generates less waste and provides healthier spaces for occupants, as compared to a conventional building. A senior official said , “For the construction of multi-storey buildings, 1,000 square-metre plot was earlier required. According to the latest rules, the size of plots for construction of multi-storey buildings has been increased to 1,500 square-metres. The city colonies do not have such large plots. To construct a multi-storey building, a developer does reconstitution of plots. We have made a mandatory provision that green buildings should come up on all reconstituted plots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-10-years-udh-revises-rates-to-change-size-of-plots/articleshow/81130065.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Century-old Marathi-Hebrew kirtans get revived in Mumbai||At sundown this Thursday, if synagogues in the city are allowed its two-day celebrations for Purim — a festival commemorating the salvation of Jews in the Persian Empire — apart from time-honoured rituals of children and adventurous adults screaming and stomping their feet to scare away the evil Haman during readings from the ‘Megillah’, the congregation will witness a slice of Marathi Jewish history brought alive through ancient sounds of Bene Israel kirtans. The octogenarian Kolet sisters Hannah and Shosannah from Neral have their fingers crossed for a lockdown leeway so they can take centrestage at a south Mumbai synagogue to perform ‘Esther Ranichi Katha’ — the tale of Queen Esther who saved the Jews — in Marathi verses and ovi metres interspersed with Hebrew words featuring biblical figures and sung to Hindu temple tunes accompanied by dholak, cymbals, harmonium and bulbul tarang. These Marathi-Jewish songs with storytelling from the Torah and coloured by Hindu devotional music — first performed in 1880 as a tool to teach first and second generations of Bene Israel Jews about their scriptures — fell into obscurity decades ago. It's only in the last five years that some elderly Jewish women in sari and tichel have had the foresight to transcribe these songs their grandparents sang, into notebooks. And since then been singing these Hebrew inflected Marathi kirtans about Noah, Moses and King David at various workshops and community gatherings to revive and preserve their distinct Indian Jewish sonic identity. How a musical form typical of Hindu worship made its way into a Jewish oral tradition harks back to the arrival of shipwrecked Bene Israel Jews on the Konkan coast more than 2000 years ago. “Offered shelter by local inhabitants they settled into Konkan villages and watched how Hindu kirtans in vogue at the time helped impart the knowledge of Hindu mythologies and scriptures. The survivors felt they could do something similar to pass on stories and tenets of Judaism to their progeny,” explained Elijah Jacob, former director of the Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) in India who has been steering the revival of this Marathi-Jewish performing art in recent times. As Bene Israel scholars sought ways to instruct their Marathi‐speaking folks unfamiliar with Hebrew or the Bible, they adopted the pedagogy of Marathi naradiya kirtan — that combined stories and philosophical discourse with song — to rearticulate Jewishness. In a 1918 article on kirtans, Samuel Mazgaonkar recounts how he and his friends David Haeem Divekar, Benjamin Ashtamkar, Isaac Abraham Talegaonkar and a few other Bene Israel Jews began performing kirtans in 1880 after their first tryst with a “trance-inducing kirtan” by a Hindu kirtankar. They formed an organisation called Kirtano Tejak Mandal while Ashtamkar wrote the first Bene Israel kirtan — Abraham Charitra (The Deeds of Abraham) — in 1882. Despite early resistance by orthodox members of the Indian Jewish society, Bene Israel kirtans drew large crowds and enthusiasm as these early kirtankars went around performing at naming ceremonies, weddings and housewarming parties. “The Hindu kirtankars were quite impressed and it was with their help that the early Bene Israel kirtankars were able to develop similar devotional songs for their co-religionists,” said Jacob. Over the next few years, at least 42 such kirtans including Noacha Bhaktibhav (Noah’s Devotion), Elisha Akhyan (Elisha’s Narrative), Kavitabaddha Moshe Charitra (Versified History of Moses) and David Rajacha Charitra (King David’s History) built up this hybrid genre. According to Ashtamkar, the mandal could not meet the incredible demand for new kirtans, given their other occupation and when they disbanded, the Jewish Union Singing Clubs and Bene Israel youth conventions continued the practice. However, with the establishment of the state of Israel in 1948, many migrated back and kirtan went through a period of dormancy. It saw a brief revival in the 60s led by women educators, mainly Flora Samuel, principal of Sir Elly Kadoorie School. “But she migrated to Israel in 1964 and the last I’ve heard of these kirtans was in the 90s by school teacher Rachel Gadkar who performed kirtans in Mumbai and Thane. Then it went completely silent,” said Jacob. That was until 2015 when an ethnomusicologist from an American university came to Mumbai researching cultural translation in the devotional songs of Bene Israel. “She found a Hindu kirtankar who had composed a song comparing Noah from the Bible with Manu from the Vedas and pushed us to look for people in the community still practising these kirtans,” said Jacob. His search led him onto elderly women from the community’s Orot HaTorah Ladies Group with a memory of this century-old intercommunal exchange. “We got them to write down whatever they could remember and organised a recital in 2015 and 2016 to a packed community hall,” said Jacob who also travelled to Delhi in 2017 with four of them to exhibit this curious Bene Israel tradition at Shirei Hodu, an international conference celebrating the Jewish saga in India. Driven by newfound interest from global quarters, the tiny Bene Israel community—the largest among the three Jewish factions in the country—are trying to continue the practice at community celebrations. “Unfortunately we weren’t able to elicit much interest from the youth,” said Jacob rueing how the Jewish stories rendered through kirtans have been done in by the Internet. “But the efforts by the community to keep the ethos of Judaism alive shouldn’t be forgotten and that’s why we recently published a compilation of 22 Bene Israel kirtans for posterity. Hopefully someone will find a way to revitalize these songs again,” signed off Jacob.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/century-old-marathi-hebrew-kirtans-get-revived-in-the-city/articleshow/81131396.cms||Mohua Das
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||15 agencies get start-to-finish charge of work in piped water supply scheme||Lucknow: UP has become the first state in the country to empanel vendors to carry out the work under the piped drinking water supply scheme. The move will speed up work and ensure quality in the mission to make piped drinking water supply in villages a reality. There are 15 agencies that have been empanelled under the scheme, some of them being big names. The decision to empanel “good quality” vendors was taken by the state cabinet. Each agency, given its capacity to perform, has been assigned a number of districts where it would complete the entire work required to ensure supply. With all the work in a district done by one agency, there would be uniformity at various levels—quality, standard, rates of material and specifications. It would also ensure timely completion. The agency would be responsible for operation and maintenance of the project for 10 years. Usually, whenever a project is initiated, its detailed project report (DPR) is prepared first. Once DPR is approved, tenders are floated and finally the bid is awarded to the lowest bidder. In this case, DPR would be prepared by the agency that has been assigned the work for the district. The agency would get the DPR approved from the DM. Principal secretary, Namami Gange and rural water supply, Anurag Srivastava, said, “(For the government), preparing DPRs for 40,000 villages (in the first phase) would have been a mammoth task. Further, it would mean getting each of them approved, floating tenders and inviting bids.” “The agencies will get the work in bulk. It is through volume of work that they would gain. It’s a win-win situation for both vendors and the government,” said the official. In the past, the state’s efforts to provide piped drinking water in villages have not yielded desired results given various reasons like contractors not having enough capacity, involvement of different agencies for operations and maintenance, poor monitoring of projects and projects left non-functional and incomplete. The ‘Har Ghar Nal’ scheme (piped water to every house), linked to the ‘Jal Jeevan Mission’ is working towards providing piped drinking water in each and every household of the state, including water-stressed regions like Vindhya and Bundelkhand by 2024. The scheme was launched in November. Close to 4,500 villages in nine districts of Bundelkhand and Vindhya have been taken up first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/15-agencies-get-start-to-finish-charge-of-work-in-piped-water-supply-scheme/articleshow/81131680.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Noida||Knight’s Court buyers will complete flats||Noida: After reaching a consensus, the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) on Saturday formally handed over the responsibility for the construction of the pending flats at Knight’s Court, a Jaypee project in Sector 128, to the buyers. Knight’s Court has 312 flats and would require Rs 145.5 crore as construction cost. While the promoter will contribute Rs 40.8 crore, the rest will be contributed by the buyers. UP Rera will appoint a construction consultant to keep track of the project. The completion time of the Knight’s Court flats will be 12-15 months and the project will be supervised by a monitoring committee of buyers, UP Rera representatives and Noida Authority officials. The construction fund would be put together in an escrow account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/knights-court-buyers-will-complete-flats/articleshow/81131983.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||Corporators plan awareness drives to contain spread in PMC areas||PUNE: Elected representatives in the city have decided to step up awareness initiatives in their wards following a rise in Covid-19 cases. The heads of the local units of political parties have also told their workers to be alert. Over the past few days, there has been a rise in cases in Pune Municipal Corporation limits. Though health officials said detection was sporadic, it still indicated a need to be more cautious. City BJP chief Jagdish Mulik said they have asked their corporators to impress upon residents the importance of masks and social distancing. “The city has controlled the infection well in the past three months. We do not want it to spread again. Corporators will visit vulnerable localities to ensure that everyone follows the safety measures. We have strictly asked party members to wear masks,” Mulik said. State Congress vice-president Ramesh Bagwe said party cadre would visit slum pockets to draft an action plan for awareness. They would be in contact with senior citizens, he said. “We held a meeting to discuss the situation two days ago. So far, there has been no fresh outbreak in slum pockets, but we cannot take any risk,” Bagwe said. NCP’s Hadapsar MLA Chetan Tupe said the civic body needed to be more aggressive in testing, tracing and implementation of safety or precautionary measures. “Timely updates should be given to corporators on the status of Covid-related efforts being taken up in the city,” Tupe said. Aditya Malve, corporator from Gokhalenagar area, said they would go to pockets of Wadarwadi, Pandavnagar and Janwadi to urge people to follow social distancing norms and avoid unnecessary gatherings, besides using masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corporators-plan-awareness-drives-to-contain-spread-in-pmc-areas/articleshow/81131401.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 21, 2021||Pune||PCMC refuses extension to over 500 staffers on contract||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The civic body has refused to extend the contract of over 500 healthcare workers it hired on contract during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year. The contract, after a few extensions, expired on January 31 for doctors, nurses, ward boys and technicians. The healthcare workers alleged that the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) had promised permanent jobs to most of them. But, after the cases started to drop, they were removed from their respective positions. The workers started a sit-in protest on February 11, in front of the PCMC office in Chinchwad. Sagar Yellale, a ward boy at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital and a member of the ‘Corona Yoddha Bachao Kruti Samiti’, said, “I joined the YCMH in July when the pandemic was at its peak. We have seen the permanent staff backing out, while we were ready to work in any department. Now, we have no jobs and we feel cheated.” Municipal commissioner Rajesh Patil said, “We shall think about their demands, but there is no plan to regularize the contract workers. I am studying the issue and appropriate action will be taken.” The PMC’s officials said they had also employed healhcare workers in municipal health services. A fresh advertisement would be issued soon for recruitment. “Contracts of staff for Covid-19 treatment at the jumbo hospital are yet to expire. Contracts are expected to last till March 8, after which a decision on the )renewal would be taken,” Kunal Khemnar, PMC’s additional commissioner, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-refuses-extension-to-over-500-staffers-on-contract/articleshow/81131397.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 21, 2021||Dehradun||Cong takes out procession in different parts of U’khand against farm laws, price hike of petrol, diesel and LPG||Dehradun: In a show of strength, the Uttarakhand unit of Congress on Saturday took out processions in different parts of Uttarakhand to protest against farm laws and also against the price hike of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinder. In Dehradun, the procession was led by state chief of the party Pritam Singh and leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh. In other districts, the protest march was led by senior party members, MLAs, and former legislators. Addressing mediapersons, Pritam Singh said, “Be it the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre or the Trivendra Singh Rawat-led government in Uttarakhand, they are least bothered about the common man. The three new farm laws, steep hike in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders clearly reflect that the ruling party has no sympathy for the common man.” Singh said that opposition by political parties, farmers, and even the common man has failed to make any impact on the ruling party at the Centre or in Uttarakhand. “However, we will continue to raise our voice in favour of the common man. We will continue with our protests till the time a decision is taken in these matters,” said Singh. Leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh claimed that the ruling party has “completely ignored the voice of the people”. She said that “when the farmers do not want the farm law then why is it being forcefully enforced on them. The months-long protest is yet to draw the attention of the ruling party”. The Congress veteran leader asserted that the price hike of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinder has broken the “financial backbone of people and has directly impacted the lives of common man, traders, and others”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-takes-out-procession-in-different-parts-of-ukhand-against-farm-laws-price-hike-of-petrol-diesel-and-lpg/articleshow/81129376.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 21, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: Seven years of research leads to new banana variety||NASHIK: After seven years of extensive research, the Banana Research Centre (BRC) in Jalgaon — which functions under the Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth (MPKV) — has come up with a new kind of banana plantation, which has been named ‘Phule Pride.’ This would be the first time in over two decades that banana growers in Maharashtra and elsewhere in the country will have access to this new variety of banana plantation. “Both the state government and the Central sub-committee on crop standard, notification and release of new variety of horticulture crops have recognised and notified this new variety,” said MPKV’s senior horticulture scientist Nazimuddin Shaikh, who led a 15-member research team to grow this new variety. Speaking to TOI, Shaikh said the current banana plantatation — the Grand Nain from Cavandish group — was introduced way back in 1996 in the banana-growing belts in Maharashtra. “However, this variety started showing inherent defects from 2006. Rainfall, coupled with high-velocity winds, resulted in crop damage,” said Shaikh. A study by BRC revealed in the last five years, plantation in 3,600 hectare were damaged in Jalgaon —a hub of banana cultivation —due to climatic conditions. Banana growers had to bear a loss of around Rs 30 crore per year. The hapless banana growers in Jalgaon and other parts of the state had been constantly requesting BRC for a new variety that would prevent losses. “Fortunately in 2012, we detected a single mutant plant of Grand Nain variety with promising traits at our farm at BRC. This new variety was cultivated in MPKV’s premises at Pune, Rahuri and Dhule and at BRC. Phule Pride is superior to Grand Nain,” said Shaikh. “The new variety promises almost 100% yield as the new variety is resistant to lodging, psuedostem breaking and high-velocity winds. It is also tolerant to leaf spot disease that damages the plants ,” added Shaikh. The maiden yield from the new variety is expected by December this year. Interestingly, the banana growers have already started booking saplings of this new variety from the biotech firm with which MPKV has signed an MoU for mass production of the plant prototype. “We have already got confirmed orders of over 1 lakh plants from banana farmers from Jalgaon, Pune, Solapur, Nandurbar etc,” said Ravindra Kadlag., director of the biotech firm. “I have bought 5,000 saplings of the new variety from the firm last month and planted them. I am confident that I will get better yield,” said Suresh Patel, a banana grower from Taloda taluka of Nandurbar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/7-years-of-research-leads-to-new-banana-variety/articleshow/81131405.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Diesel crosses Rs 88, freight to go up 15%, jack up price of essentials||Mumbai: With the price of diesel breaching the Rs88-mark in Mumbai on Saturday, transporters announced freight correction of 15%, which may push up prices of vegetables, fruits, grains and essential commodities from next week. Petrol in Mumbai touched Rs97, while in Parbhani district it was 85paise short of Rs100-mark. “Diesel has been hiked by over Rs7 this year, and the revised price on Saturday was Rs88.06, which is alarming. The cascading impact of inflation due to rising fuel prices and other input costs is putting pressure for freight correction of 15%, that will jack up prices of essential commodities,” said All-India Motor Transport Congress chairman (core committee) Bal Malkit Singh. “Our 14-day notice to government stands following which we will protest aggressively,” he warned. Petrol in Thane and Navi Mumbai were the highest in Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and was hiked to Rs97.11, while diesel was Rs88.18. There were protests in parts of MMR on Saturday on petrol, diesel and LPG cylinder price hikes. The rate of a 14.2kg domestic cylinder was recently hiked by Rs25 to Rs719. Few days back, CNG was also hiked by Rs1.50 to Rs49.40 a kg at pumps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/diesel-crosses-rs-88-freight-to-go-up-15-jack-up-price-of-essentials/articleshow/81130109.cms||Somit Sen
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Central policy for staggered office timings required: CM||Mumbai: Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has demanded that the Centre formulate a national policy on staggering office timings. The CM said that in the backdrop of Covid-19, there is a need to change the traditional office timings of 10am to 5pm, and for which a national policy could be framed. Thackeray was speaking at a virtual meeting of the governing council Niti Aayog, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. Thackeray said that there should be healthy competition and not a cut-throat contest between states to attract investments by offering facilities and not concessions in land or electricity rates. He also spoke about the need for Central intervention to mitigate the impact of climate change on the farm sector, and batted for changes in the Centre’s crop insurance scheme to benefit farmers.Staggering of office timings has been on the state government’s mind for a while, as a method to reduce crowding in local trains. With the pandemic, the need to social distance and avoid crowds, this has become an important issue. The state has tried to appeal to private offices to change their timings, but it has not been successful. “In the last one year, the state government also tried to boost the use of IT in governance, and though the Centre, undertook the BharatNet initiative to spread connectivity. Internet has not reached over 2,500 villages in the remote areas of Maharashtra, and this should be looked into,” he said.“Some states offer concessions on electricity rates or land prices (to investors). Bargaining takes place... There should certainly be competition but it should not be economic, in terms of concessions. There should be healthy competition in offering administrative efficiency and facilities,” he said on investments. Thackeray said that the Centre should look into the issue of meagre compensation given to farmers by insurance companies under the crop insurance scheme and also add damages to crops due to continuous and unseasonal rainfall should also qualify for compensation. He also demanded assistance under the Sagarmala project to develop fishing ports and fish landing sites in Konkan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/central-policy-for-staggered-office-timings-required-cm/articleshow/81131431.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||Restaurants struggle to record details of customers in Pune||PUNE: Even as Covid-19 cases are rising in the city, many restaurants have been unable to record the names and numbers of all the customers coming to dine, which is a mandatory rule in the Covid-19 SOPs for eateries. Restaurants cited customers’ refusal to cooperate with the eateries as the main reason. After restaurants were allowed to function at 50% capacity, written instructions by the state government stated customers’ details must be shared with the municipal corporation and health authorities for contact-tracing. Restaurants TOI spoke to said 10% to 40% customers refused to share contact details. A source from Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association said, “This has become a major point of contention, often causing fights and customers to walk off.” Rahul Mhaske, owner of Corn Club, said, “Around 15% customers do not give their details and they are shown the government SOPs, but some still do refuse.” Owner of a restaurant on Satara Road said, “Customers must realize these details are needed as per the government’s Covid-19 containment measures and are not for the restaurant’s personal use.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurants-struggle-to-record-details-of-customers/articleshow/81131407.cms||Neha Madaan
February 21, 2021||Chennai||Chennai metro rail fare capped at Rs 50||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday announced a reduction in the maximum fare for travel in Chennai metro rail by Rs 20, thus bringing down the fare for full length travel to Rs 50 from the present Rs 70. The new fare will come into effect from February 22. The fares were reduced following requests from commuters and to encourage more people use the facility, the CM said in a press release. A metro train ride from Wimco Nagar to Airport covering 31km will now cost Rs 50 instead of Rs 70. While the minimum fare of Rs 10 for travelling up to two km will be the same, commuters will have to pay Rs 20 for travelling between two and five km, Rs 30 for 5km to 12km, Rs 40 for 12km to 21km, and Rs 50 fare for a distance of 21km to 32km. Passengers using QR-code tickets and smartcards will get a 20% discount. One-day trip card, which includes travelling on the new 9km north Chennai line, will cost the same Rs 100. Cost of monthly pass will also be the same Rs 2,500 for daily commute, including the new line. Passengers will get 50% discount on Sundays and public holidays. “So far, 7.25 crore people have used the metro rail service that commenced on June 29, 2015,” the release said. On February 14, a 9.05km line from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar, which completes the 54.15km-long phase-1 corridor, was thrown open for public use. Foundation stone has been laid for the construction of 118.9km phase-2 corridor. While some commuters welcomed the reduction in ticket fare, many said the train service would still not be economical for the short-distance commute. V Rama Rao, director, Traffic and Transportation Forum, an NGO in Chennai said the slashing of fares will be helpful for long-distance travel covering above 32km where commuters can save Rs 20 by paying Rs 50 instead of the earlier fare of Rs 70. People from the low-income groups can use the service only if the fares are reduced for travelling short distances, he said. “The fares we request should be modified as Rs 10, Rs 15, Rs 20, Rs 25, Rs 30 and Rs 35 (maximum). In Kolkata, maximum fare is Rs 25 only and in Delhi, it is Rs 50. The fares should be revised so that it brings more footfall,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-metro-rail-fare-capped-at-rs-50/articleshow/81130067.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Second chance for those who missed first vaccine shot||NEW DELHI: Delhi reported the highest number of individuals turning out to get the Covid shots with 26,110 healthcare workers and frontline workers getting the jab on Saturday. For the last two days, more than 24,000 individuals were getting the shots. The total percentage turnout was 85.8% and the total target of vaccination was 30,400 across 304 vaccination centres. The vaccination coverage is likely to further increase as the Delhi government is going to conduct mop-up round of vaccination from February 21 to 25 to inoculate all healthcare workers who have been left out of the vaccination process due to hesitancy or any other reason. A total of 24,321 individuals, including healthcare workers and frontline workers, got inoculated on Friday. The turnout percentage was 80.8%, which surged by more than 5% on Saturday. An official said the total turnout saw an increase due to surge in the number of healthcare workers turning out for the vaccination drive. It may have been influenced by the Delhi government’s decision to allow healthcare personnel working in the government facilities not to report to work on the day they are vaccinated and they will be considered ‘on duty’ on submission of vaccination proof. A total of 5,688 healthcare workers got the shots on Saturday as compared to 5,241 the day before and the number of healthcare workers getting the second dose sharply shot up. A record number of 4,351 healthcare workers got the second dose as compared to only 1,790 who got it the day before. Among the three groups currently being vaccinated— healthcare workers receiving first dose, healthcare workers receiving second dose and frontline workers—the highest number of individuals turning out for vaccination was frontline workers. A total of 16,071 frontline workers got the shots as compared to 17,290 a day before. The number of vaccination centres has been increased significantly to give a push to the coverage, which was slow during the initial days. So far, 2,84,891 individuals have been vaccinated in Delhi, including 1,31,854 healthcare workers and 1,53,037 frontline workers. Only 13 adverse events were reported, and authorities said all of them were of minor nature. No adverse event was reported among those who got the second dose of vaccine, according to a government report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/second-chance-for-those-who-missed-first-vax-shot/articleshow/81130078.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 21, 2021||Chennai||Look there’s a mor milagai in my choc bar||Chennai: From a cup of filter kaapi to a bite of the ‘mor milagai’, to the delicate aroma of the pearl white ‘malli’, you’ll find them all snuggled inside a bar of chocolate now, a flavour bomb, waiting to explode in your mouth.While the world was in lockdown, the wheels were turning, churning at Chennai-based Kocoatrait, where Nitin Chordia and wife Poonam decided to lock down flavours of Madras into their artisanal chocolate bars. "It began with ‘malli’ or jasmine. We kept the flower and cocoa beans in a jar for a few days and then used the beans to make the chocolate. It is the aroma that you taste in the chocolate," says Chordia. Kocoatrait prides itself in being a bean to bar chocolate, which means the bar is made from scratch, starting with roasting the beans. "It takes three days to make a batch of two kilos. We infuse real ingredients into the cocoa beans while they are being ground."According to BusinessWire, in the Indian chocolate market, which is growing by around 13% since 2019, demand for dark chocolate (with its low sugar content) is increasing. "The number of bean to bar players in the country has increased," says Chordia, who runs masterclasses on chocolate making. "Even farmers are getting into it. We have installed training units for the Kerala government to train farmers."Kocoatrait isn’t the only bean-to-bar company that experimented with flavours in lockdown. Kochi-based Paul and Mike came out with their immunity bar, infusing their chocolate with curcumin and piperine (the antioxidants in turmeric and black pepper). "The pandemic certainly impacted consumer behaviour," says Vikas Temani, business head of the bean-to-bar company."In lockdown, people were forced to cut down on travel, shopping and entertainment and ended up spending more on food, which became a source of pleasure. In 2020, our reports show increased demand from tier-2 and tier-3 cities as well, not just the metros," says Temani.Pragati Swahney, a dentist who started her own brand of artisanal chocolates, "as an alternative to additive-filled commercial chocolates," infuses her creations with flowers, tea, spices and herbs. For the pandemic, she brought out haldi doodh as well as kadha chocolates, both a twist on grandmas’ cold remedies. "The haldi offering is milk chocolate-based and can be dissolved in warm milk, while the kadha is dark chocolate infused with ginger, tulsi, cardamom and black pepper. It’s immunity boosting with a touch of indulgence," says Pragati.Dietician Dhariini Krishnan though says that one has to be careful about going overboard in creating healthier versions of food. "For instance, when it comes to turmeric or tulsi there is only a certain amount one can consume per day. If there is too much infused in a food, it can defeat the purpose," she says. "Although adding these ingredients to chocolate can surprise the mind."And that begs the question, just how do these special ingredients add wonder. "Pure theobromine, the alkaloid in the cacao bean, is bitter. So the darker, your chocolate the more bitter it is. That’s why chocolate is often mixed with milk and sugar," says Krish Ashok, author of ‘Masala Lab: The Science of Indian Cooking’, which was published in December 2020.It’s the cocoa butter, the fat in cacao beans, that makes the bitter better. "The cocoa butter that transports the flavours of chocolate, much like the flavours of spices are brought to the fore by cooking them in oil. You can infuse any flavour into the cocoa butter," he says.Krish explains that there is also a "sub-threshold level of taste", which can amplify or mute other tastes. "For example, a tiny pinch of salt in your kheer can make it taste more intensely flavourful without being perceptibly salty, which no one would want. This is also why jaggery tends to be preferred when making Indian desserts, because it naturally contains a bit of salt. Contrasting the savoury with the sweet makes eating the chocolate a multi-dimensional taste experience," he says.The trick to enjoying dark chocolate is science, says Krish. "The melting point of cocoa butter is 35˚C, which is the body temperature. So, place the dark chocolate on your tongue and allow it to melt. In a few seconds, the flavours will be transported through," he says.And you will find yourself bang in the middle of a street in Madras, perhaps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/look-theres-a-mor-milagai-in-my-choc-bar/articleshow/81130064.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||Retailers’ association asks shopkeepers to ensure safety measures at stores||Pune: The city-based Association of Retail Shops has asked its members to strictly implement Covid-19 safety measures considering the increasing number of cases. The association has over 15,000 members in the district. It has asked shopkeepers to ensure every employee uses a mask while at the shop and during home deliveries. Customers have been urged to wear masks and follow social distancing norms. The shops will place signboards at counters to create awareness among customers, the association has said. Association member Sachin Nivangune said, “We have started sending messages on shopkeepers’ social media groups to remind them that the measures should be followed as Covid-19 has not gone away completely. We will also hold areawise meetings of shopkeepers to discuss how the measures can be implemented effectively.” The city has reported a rise in the number of cases since last week. Medical experts and health officials have pointed out that following of social distancing norms and use of masks is essential to restrict the spread of Covid-19. Vijay Shah, a retailer from Shivajinagar, said the use of masks by customers has reduced since the last few days. Another shopkeeper BH Baheti said the PMC and police should not initiate action against shopkeepers if people outside their shops are found without masks. The association is planning to approach PMC authorities to prevent action only against shopkeepers. Nivangune said, “They cannot control the crowd on the road or footpath outside the shop. Many shopkeepers were booked during earlier drives for no reason.” — Sarang Dastane||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retailers-association-asks-shopkeepers-to-ensure-safety-measures-at-stores/articleshow/81131404.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||All masters’ exams by March 10: Mumbai University||MUMBAI: A Mumbai University circular has told colleges to complete first semester exams for MA, MCom and MSc students by March 10, when many colleges wrapped their admissions by January-end. Many teachers and students have opposed the conduct of postgraduate exams in less than one-and-a-half-month, without completing the mandatory 90-day teaching period. The February 17 circular told colleges to hold exams by March 10 and upload scores on the university portal within five days. A co-ordinator for PG courses said admissions at their college ended on January 15, but at some colleges it went on till the end of last month. Times ViewWith the pandemic still on, students are anyway missing a lot in terms of academics and practicals. By asking colleges to conduct the exams at short notice, Mumbai University will only compel them to rush with the syllabus, even on the online platform. For the benefit of students, it needs to extend the exam dates.“The circular has been issued now, practically telling colleges to hold exams in few days, if they are to complete them by March 10. It is unfair on teachers and students too. How are we supposed to complete the entire syllabus in a month-and-a-half, in half the usual time? Some courses require time for practicals. MSc-IT practicals can be online, but there is no time to complete it,” said the teacher. Another teacher said students pay a huge sum as fees for some unaided courses. “Rushing through syllabus is unfair to them. Some colleges charge Rs50,000 for some masters’ programmes. Colleges usually get less time for first semesters, but at some colleges they will not even get a full month,” said the teacher. Since postgraduate admissions are done at college level, many autonomous colleges completed admissions early and can hold exams in March, said a principal. But admissions were delayed in university’s own departments, said an official. An official of the university exam section said many colleges completed admissions early and dates were fixed accordingly. Colleges and departments which delayed admissions can seek an extension, said the official. A principal said early exams was probably a solution to ensure this year’s delay does not spill over to the next academic session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/despite-late-admissions-mu-wants-masters-exams-by-march-10/articleshow/81130108.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Jaipur||Gold worth Rs 71 lakh seized at Jaipur airport, one arrested||JAIPUR: The customs department on Sunday arrested a person for carrying around 1.5 kg of gold valued at Rs 70.62 lakh from Jaipur International Airport on Sunday morning. The person was travelling from Sharjah and the gold was in form of two bricks weighing around 750 gram each. “The passenger’s name is Shrawan Kumar (26), who is engaged in civil construction work in Sharjah. Gold was hidden in his two shoes and was to be delivered to a person not known to him,” said an official of customs department. Four days ago, the customs department seized 200 grams of gold bricks at the airport from a passenger who was also travelling from Sharjah.  He hailed from Sikar, similar to the passenger who was apprehended on Sunday. “A lot of people from Shekhawati belt are employed in the Gulf region and many a times they agree to smuggle the gold for few thousand rupees without realising the repercussions. They take the chance hoping to go undetected,” added the official. Last month, the department seized gold at the airport valued at Rs 18 lakh from a passenger who landed from Dubai. In December last year, three persons were detained at Jaipur airport with over 700gm of gold valued at approximately Rs 36 lakh. A passenger arriving by Air India flight from Dubai was intercepted by the customs. Gold worth Rs 15.5 lakh was found on him. Two more persons were detained as well and gold valued at Rs 20.5 lakh was seized from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gold-worth-rs-71l-seized-at-jaipur-airport-1-arrested/articleshow/81130098.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Retail rates of onion soar to Rs 55-60 after ‘unseasonal rain’||Navi Mumbai: Onion prices, which remained high throughout 2020, registered another spike on Saturday. Retail rates soared to Rs55-60/kg across Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai. Consumers have curtailed purchases as high rates have skewed monthly budgets. Nerul residents said the kitchen staple costs Rs60. They reported shortages too. In Borivli, the bulb was similarly costly. Thanekars purchased onions for Rs55. Wholesale rates rose to Rs35-42/kg at APMC Vashi market, pushing the retail price to Rs50-60. The bulb sold for Rs15-24 a month back. Traders said prices began rising in early February due to scanty supply from major producing areas of Nashik, Pune and Ahmednagar, reportedly due to unseasonal rain in the last quarter of 2020. The recent drizzle too played spoilsport in harvesting, causing more damage. APMC director Ashok Walunj said the increase was due to unseasonal rain in October-November 2020. He said, “Fifty percent crop sown had failed. Retail prices will escalate to Rs60-70 the following week. Rates will not decline until the new crop arrives after March 15.” “Supplies from various regions of Maharashtra are a remainder of old stock as most new crops were damaged in rain. Gujarat’s white onions saved the market for a while. They are being sold for Rs20-25/kg in wholesale markets and Rs30-40 in retail. But this supply will last barely for a month,” Walunj said. Around 80 truckloads arrive at APMC yard daily, which is less than Mumbai market’s demand. APMC usually gets around 125 truckloads which is the need of Mumbai market. Of this, 25 trucks come from Gujarat. Traders said wholesale price may shoot to Rs50 next week, which will automatically push retail prices higher. Trader Manohar Totlani said, “The situation has become quite complicated with arrival of almost 50% damaged crop. We are incurring huge losses. Supply is short.” Even though the ban was lifted, traders claim they are unable to export onions due to high cost in domestic market compared to other countries due to over 50% drop in production. With rise in wholesale prices, retailers selling onions at Rs30-40 raised the slab to Rs50-60, forcing consumers to bear with market swing. (Inputs by Bella Jaisinghani in Mumbai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/retail-rates-of-onion-soar-to-rs-55-60-after-unseasonal-rain/articleshow/81130111.cms||B B Nayak
February 21, 2021||Goa||Covid-19 vaccine safe, no adverse reactions reported: Senior GMC doc||Panaji: There have been no potentially life-threatening allergic reactions among those vaccinated till date, head of department of preventive medicine and nodal officer for vaccination at Goa Medical College, Dr Jagdish Kakodkar said on Saturday. “We didn’t have a single anaphylactic reaction unlike the Pfizer vaccine in the UK, unlike the Moderna vaccine… deaths in Norway, there is no death reported in the country out of one crore Indians who received the Covishield and Covaxin,” he said. With no anaphylactic reaction…no serious reaction, no deaths due to the vaccine, we should be rest assured that the vaccine is safe,” Dr Kakodkar said while speaking at a lecture ‘Covid-19 Vaccine: Myth or Reality?’ organised by the English department of Dyanprassarak Mandal’s College and Research Centre, Assagao. “It is absolutely normal to have some adverse effects following immunisation (AEFIs). Be rest assured, only a few who got the vaccine in Goa reported mild to moderate AEFIs. Most AEFIs have been mild, predictable and short lived, and similar to the immune response seen to all vaccines, which means the vaccine is working on you,” he said. Most of those who experienced AEFIs were “young females”, he said. Some experienced “slight weakness, mild to moderate fever, chills, headache and muscle pain. This started in six hours and didn’t last beyond 72 hours,” he said. “We noticed that as age advanced – those beyond 40, 50 and 60 years – hardly had any side-effects compared to younger people,” he said. “Very rarely did we have to admit people. That too was not because of side-effects of the vaccine but because after taking rest, they continued to exert themselves,” he said. In some cases they found that giddiness after the vaccine was not connected to the vaccination but to beneficiaries being on an empty stomach and low sugar. He advised people getting vaccinated to eat something before vaccination. Other AEFIs experienced were heaviness in the head, small allergies among those with history of allergy and mild fever, he said. All the AEFIs were the same side-effects as with any injection, including TT and measles in children. “More than 11,000 doses have been given and not a single patient developed fits or seizes,” he said, responding to a question. “There is no truth in this,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-19-vaccine-safe-no-adverse-reactions-reported-senior-gmc-doc/articleshow/81131443.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chennai||Sharing a love for words, virtually||Chennai: Twenty years and two kids after she married into a joint family, Vinita Mohan realised she hadn’t paid enough heed to what her heart wanted, beyond being a mother and homemaker. "It’s not the kind of family you come from, or your economic status that stop you from getting what you want. It’s your mind," says the 42-year-old.In January 2020, Vinita pushed through a year-and-a-half of extensive research amid her household work and published her first book profiling women achievers from around the world including Muthulakshmi Reddy, Greta Thunberg and J K Rowling. Last December, she, along with a banker and an entrepreneur friend, started an online club that has grown into a 75-member group that reads, discusses and interviews popular writers every week.Like Vinita, literature enthusiasts, aspiring writers and even those with little exposure to these circles such as IT employees and seniors, have found a common retreat in online book lovers’ clubs after the lockdown."Our core team picks authors every week. We read them thoroughly and call them over for a Zoom discussion. It gives an opportunity for us to get to know the person behind the words, and for our members to find inspiration. Many of them have a penchant for writing but are too shy to publish. These interactions expand their scope," says Vinita.Less than a month after the lockdown was announced in March, professor of clinical nutrition at SNDB Vaishnava College, Uma Maheswari, created a WhatsApp group with avid readers known to her. In no time, it grew into a thriving community of more than 70 from around the world who take turns to review a book every week. They have even hosted self-reviews by well-known authors, including Imayam and Malarvathi."We announce the titles ahead of every week’s review and this prompts members to purchase the book. This is one way we cultivate reading among people from different walks of life," says Uma.The CEO of Emerald Publishers and treasurer of Booksellers & Publishers Association of South India, which organises the Chennai Book Fair, says the number of people taking to books has gone up during the pandemic. "Our online sales tripled from what they were before the pandemic," says Olivannan.At a smaller book fair with close to 50 stalls that he and a few other publishers organised at Nandambakkam during Pongal, to "test the waters after the pandemic", the response, says Olivannan, was so encouraging that it has them anticipating at least 1.5 million people at the upcoming Chennai Book Fair, which will begin on February 24. "People have also taken to audiobooks in a big way; it’s one of the reasons why we are planning to feature more audiobook companies at the fair this year," he says. S Sabharathinam is a member of Vinita and Uma’s reading groups, along with a few others. The 64-year-old retired mines manager says these weekly interactions are fulfilling. "I have reviewed two books. But what’s even better is learning about new and upcoming writers," he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sharing-a-love-for-words-virtually/articleshow/81130097.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Rajkot||Junagadh Congress MLA, three sons get one-year jail for 2008 assault||RAJKOT: Junagadh district court on Saturday convicted Congress MLA Bhikha Joshi and his three sons in a 2008 case pertaining to trespassing and assault and also sentenced them to one year of imprisonment. However, on the request of the accused, the JMFC (Judicial magistrate first class) court of Mendarda suspended execution of the sentence to allow the accused to challenge the order in a higher forum. According to case details, Joshi and his sons Bharat, Manoj and Jenti have been convicted under IPC sections 452 (trespassing), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt), 323 and 114, respectively, for an incident that took place at Amrapur village of Mendarda taluka on November 4, 2008 when the Joshis had assaulted one Mugar Mahmed Juneja for political rivalry. Joshis’ lawyers demanded the court to release the accused on probation looking at their clients’ status and also arguing that the complaint is politically motivated and that the accused have no criminal record. Rejecting the request, JMFC D J Goswami in his order noted: “The accused number 1 (Bikha) is an MLA and accused number 2 (Bharat) is a government servant. Looking at it, the accused are educated and, we can believe, are well versed with the law. This kind of persons who are educated and sitting on a high position in society like MLA and if they commit this kind of crime it can’t be taken lightly.” In his complainant, Juneja had stated that his wife had contested the Gram Panchayat election opposing Bharat’s wife had won. The accused then wanted to take revenge on them and Bhikha Joshi called Juneja at around 9:30pm on that night demanding Rs 15,000 for what the former claimed was money spent by them for election campaign. When Juneja refused to pay the amount, the accused came to his home accompanied by his cronies and repeated his demand. When he again denied paying them, the Joshis and their followers started hurling abuses and attacked him and his family with sword, knife, pipe and other weapons. Accused Bharat snatched complainant’s gold chain and mobile. However, when other villagers came to help the complainant’s family, the accused left the place but while going, warned them to leave the village. The order further said that the accused in connivance of each other, trespassed in the house of the complainant and inflicted injury. “I believe that if the accused are released on probation, it won’t serve justice and will have an adverse impact on the society,” it concluded. Talking to TOI, Bhikha Joshi later said, “We came to know about the court order. We will challenge this order in a higher forum.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cong-mla-three-sons-convicted-in-2008-assault-trespassing-case/articleshow/81129389.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||Civic bodies may augment capacity of jumbo hosps||Pune: The civic bodies in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad are contemplating augmentation of the capacity at jumbo hospitals to provide treatment to Covid-19 patients. “We have enough facilities to deal with the number of positive cases and there is no immediate need to augment jumbo facilities. However, we are in talks with the management of hospitals. Citizens should follow the norms and not panic. The beds and other facilities can be increased in a couple of days after a decision is taken,” said Kunal Khemnar additional commissioner of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The PMC is also increasing testing centres across civic limits. As per PMC officials, the situation at the Covid-19 hospital at College of Engineering Pune will be reviewed in a week. Based on the requirement, instructions will be given to extend the contract. Rajesh Patil, who recently took over as the civic chief of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), said, “There is no immediate plan to dismantle the jumbo unit at Annasaheb Magar stadium. We are going to wait and watch how things unfold. For now, the facility will remain as is.” “Random monitoring of restaurants for all necessary safety compliance will take place and overall surveillance will be increased,” Patil said, adding the civic body has ample medical infrastructure available at present to counter current cases of Covid-19. There are plans to dismantle the jumbo hospitals since their six-month contracts are expected to end in February or March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-bodies-may-augment-capacity-of-jumbo-hosps/articleshow/81131436.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 21, 2021||Delhi||152 new Covid cases, 1 death in last 24 hours||New Delhi: The capital recorded 152 fresh cases of Covid-19 and one new fatality on Saturday. The Covid-19 positivity rate dipped marginally to stand at 0.24%, authorities claimed.With Saturday’s fatality, the capital’s coronavirus toll has grown to 10,898. The overall infection tally rose to 6,37,755 with the fresh cases.Officials said 62,063 tests were conducted the previous day, including 40,543 RT-PCR tests and 21,520 rapid antigen tests.The active case tally on Saturday dropped to 1,025 from 1,053 the previous day. The number of people under home isolation as on Saturday was 430, the latest health bulletin issued by Delhi government stated.On Friday, 158 cases and one death were registered. No death due to Covid-19 was recorded in Delhi on Wednesday, the third time single-day fatality count stood nil in February. On February 9 too, no fatality from the infection was registered, after a gap of nearly nine months. No death from Covid-19 was recorded on February 13 as well, the second time in the month when the single-day fatality count was nil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/152-new-covid-cases-1-death-in-last-24-hours/articleshow/81130096.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||Two pupils among 849 Covid cases, school closed till February 24 in PMR||PUNE: Two students of a Model Colony school were among 849 new Covid-19 cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday, prompting the civic authorities to close the school till Wednesday. Besides, 534 patients recovered in the region in the last 24 hours. The Saturday’s caseload was lower than the Friday’s tally of 1,015, which was the highest single-day infection count in almost three months. The students’ infection came to the fore after the class teacher of one the students called up the parents to ask why was teh child not attending classes. “This is when the teacher came to know about the infection,” said Asha Raut, assistant municipal commissioner, PMC. S B Adhagale, block education officer, Ghole Road ward office, said, “As a precautionary measure, we have asked all students and teachers to quarantine themselves till Wednesday. However, the school has been following all norms of safety since its reopening.” This is the second school being closed down within the PMC limits after reopening on January 4. A Kondhwa-based school was also closed down about a week ago for five days after one of its teachers tested Covid positive. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that six more patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Saturday, including five from the PMC limits. The Pimpri Chinchwad areas did not report any death due to Covid-19 on Saturday too. So far, as many as 9,177 people have succumbed to Covid-related complication in PMR. A total of 7,882 samples were tested in the region on Saturday for Covid-19. Of these, PMC health authorities tested 4,634 samples, while rural and PCMC officials conducted 1,971 and 1,277 tests, respectively. With this, total tests conducted in PMR has increased above 22.32 lakh. PMR’s tally of active patients was 6,669 on Saturday, including 4,054 patients in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-pupils-among-849-cases-school-closed-till-feb-24/articleshow/81131426.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 21, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt kicks off land acquisition||Thiruvananthapuram: The revenue department has issued a notice to land owners with regards to acquiring their properties for the doubling of Thiruvananthapuram – Nemom railway line and construction of a terminal at Nemom. The land owners have been directed to lodge any complaints or objections before the special tahsildar, land acquisition (Railway) Nemom. Complaints can also be raised about the updation of land records or title deeds pertaining to the land proposed for acquisition. As per the notice, 296 survey numbers which will be acquired are included in urban and rural areas. According to a social impact assessment report, better facilities of the rail transportation system will facilitate easy commute of passengers as well as goods. Land spread over 759 survey numbers have to be acquired for the project. The impact shall be mitigated by providing suitable resettlement/ rehabilitation/compensation measures as per the relevant act. The report noted that the alignment of the proposed project was designed with an effort to reduce the number of people who will be affected with the land acquisition. It recommended that since the families that are affected would require adequate and fair compensation, the authorities should make a proper action plan to recreate the livelihood opportunities. The revenue department had earlier given clearance for acquisition of 14.9 hectares in four revenue villages for the project. The department gave its approval after the district administration conducted the social impact assessment study and held public hearings, besides preparing a collector’s report on the project. The expert group, while considering the social impact assessment study, has noted that the land belonging to the Women and Children Hospital, Thycaud to the properties near Nemom Railway Station coming under Thycaud, Nemom villages and plots land on the either side of rail line coming under Pallichal village need to be acquired for the project. As many as 171 houses will be partially and 244 houses fully impacted by the land acquisition. A total of 14.9 hectares spread over four revenue villages; Thycaud, Thirumala, Nemom and Pallichal will be acquired for the project. The government had issued the notification for land acquisition of 15.66 hectares in Thycaud, Thirumala, Nemom and Pallichal for the project in July 2019. As part of the project, 1.57 hectares will be acquired from Thycaud village, 1.75 hectares from Thirumala, 4.5 hectares from Nemom village and 6.8 hectares from Pallichal village. The social impact assessment study had found out that the project area was mostly used for residential purpose. In addition, the area housed a few commercial buildings as well. The loss of commercial buildings is likely to have an impact on the owners and people employed in these buildings. As many as 1,142 people were found to be affected by the project, SIA study had mentioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-kicks-off-land-acquisition/articleshow/81129399.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Horsecart racing at Gorai beach: Cops register FIR||Mumbai: The Mumbai police has taken prompt action after an animal rights group lodged a complaint about illegal horsecart racing taking place at Gorai beach. Based on the video evidence submitted to the cops by PETA India, the Gorai police station filed an FIR for animal cruelty under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. “We came to know that illegal horsecart races were organised at Gorai beach, especially on Sundays. The video that went viral on social media shows how the horses were being cruelly whipped and goaded to run fast on the slippery beach along with many noisy bikes,” said the PETA India associate manager of the emergency response team. By Saturday, a few persons involved in the race were rounded up and will be produced before a local court. Further police probe is on.—Vijay Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/horsecart-racing-at-gorai-beach-cops-register-fir/articleshow/81131464.cms||Vijay Singh
February 21, 2021||Delhi||C-vax picks up pace at central hospitals||New Delhi: Immunisation against Covid is finally picking up pace at central government-run institutions with AIIMS leading the way.In the last three days, data shows, over 1,300 healthcare workers from the institute have been vaccinated. This includes 441 Covid-19 vaccines administered on Saturday.On Thursday and Friday, 579 and 361 beneficiaries took the vaccine at the hospital.There are two vaccines that have been approved for mass vaccination against Covid-19 in India: Covaxin that has been developed by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in collaboration with Bharat Biotech, and Covishield, which has been developed by Oxford/Astrazeneca, in collaboration with Serum Institute of India. All central government-run hospitals are giving Covaxin, while those run by the state government as well as private hospitals are giving Covishield to their registered healthcare and frontline workers.A doctor at Safdarjung Hospital said, initially, there was hesitancy in taking the vaccine among healthcare workers, but slowly people are realising the need to take the jab.Safdarjung Hospital administered Covid vaccine to 311 healthcare workers on Saturday and 342 on Friday. Some of the recipients received their second dose, officials said.Dr Arun Gupta, president of Delhi Medical Council, said that the fight against Covid-19 cannot be won without speedy vaccination. “We need to augment the availability and speed of vaccination. Also, leaders from different fields, be it medicine or political leadership, need to set an example by taking the jab. This will help dispel myths against the vaccine, which is leading to hesitancy in some quarters,” he added.Dr V K Paul of Niti Aayog and AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria were among the first few doctors to receive Covid-19 vaccine on February 16 when the immunisation began. This week, both of them took their second doses at AIIMS.“Till now, India was fighting without any effective weapon. Prevention was the only effective way to save oneself against the disease. But now, we have the vaccine. They are safe and effective,” Dr Paul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/c-vax-picks-up-pace-at-central-hospitals/articleshow/81130100.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Rajkot||Eunuchs protest protection of Rajkot transgender artist||RAJKOT: Members of Rajkot’s eunuch community created a ruckus at Malviya Nagar police station on Saturday while protesting cop protection of Payal Rathva, a transgender artist, who they alleged had levelled allegations against the community. Earlier, TOI had reported about Rathva being forcefully disrobed on a public road on Monday by the eunuchs and a video was also recorded which soon went viral on social media. Acting on the report, Malviya Nagar police called Rathva to come to record her statement in the police station on Saturday. While she was recording her statement, accusing the eunuch community of robbing her dignity in public, eunuchs in huge numbers gathered outside the police station and started creating massive ruckus alleging that Payal is a fake eunuch and that she has insulted their gurus. When cops asked them to leave the premises, the eunuchs started raising slogans demanding the police to expel Payal from the city. When police refused to entertain their threats, the eunuchs resorted to stripping on the premises. Despite the massive disturbance in carrying out their routine work owing to the commotion, the police, however, did not file any FIR against the eunuchs. When contacted, police inspector of Malviya Nagar police station, K N Bhukan said, “They (eunuchs) wanted Payal to apologize for the insult of their guru. But Payal refused to do so. It’s our duty to ensure safety of every person and so we are protecting Payal, which made them even more aggressive.” Later, Payal told TOI, “Eunuchs created trememdous pressure on me in the police station. They also threatened to kill me if I don’t leave the city.” The traumatized transgender artist even did not come out of her home for three days after her public humiliation. Payal not alone to be harassed by eunuchsPayal is not the lone case to be targeted by the eunuchs for being different from the traditional community. After Payal’s incident was reported, a 20-year-old fashion designer student from Surat contacted TOI and said she too had passed similar humiliation a year ago. Fana Vaghdare said, “I was subjected to the same humiliation in February 2020 for refusing to join their group. They stripped in Mahidharpura police station. I did not do anything as my parents would not have survived if they came to know about this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/eunuchs-protest-protection-of-rajkot-transgender-artist/articleshow/81129409.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao unwell, skips Niti Aayog meet||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday skipped the sixth meeting of governing council of Niti Aayog chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Sources in the chief minister’s office said KCR could not attend the meeting as he was unwell. Telangana State Planning Board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar, chief secretary Somesh Kumar, principal secretaries — K Rama Krishna Rao and Jayesh Ranjan — and other senior officers attended the meeting. T producing 4 crore tonnes of foodgrains every year The chief minister apprised the officers of the issues to be raised at the meeting. The state officials, during the meeting, highlighted how Telangana revenues took a hit due to Covid-19, but are now bouncing back. Officials said the PM spoke on agriculture and how to improve productivity by providing better infrastructure and modern technology. Team from the state recalled how Telangana used to produce only 35 lakh tonnes of paddy, but now it produces1.10 croretonnes of the crop. Thanks to major irrigation projects, water is provided to1.25 crore acres, while another 40 lakh acres get water from borewells. Telangana is fast becoming an agriculture-based state by producing four crore tonnes of foodgrains every year, senior officials said during the Niti Aayog deliberations. Sources said the officials also explained steps being taken by the state government for setting up food processing units and Hyderabad Pharma City on the outskirts of the city. CS Somesh Kumar explained the measures being taken for 100% implementation of ease of doing business (EoDB). “There were gaps in EoDB, which are being plugged now,” the CS said at the meeting. Industries department officials talked about the salient features of TS-iPASS which was brought in for single-window clearances for industrial units. “It became a huge success. Some other states have been following the Telangana’s model,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-unwell-skips-niti-meet/articleshow/81131468.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Country’s first digital university inaugurated||Thiruvananthapuram: Governor Arif Mohammed Khan inaugurated the country’s first digital university based in Technocity via a video conference on Saturday. Speaking at the inaugural function, the governor said the project reflects the state’s resolve to embrace new technologies in higher learning. “In any aspect of life, knowledge brings courage, understanding, acceptance, unity and also liberates us from the clutches of ignorance,’’ he said. Noting that changes in the fourth industrial revolution were set to disrupt conventional modules of work and business, Khan said the society would expect the Digital University to provide intellectual support to tap the opportunities thrown open by breakthroughs in artificial intelligence (AI), Blockchain and data analytics. The governor, who is also the chancellor of Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology (KUDSIT), unveiled the university plaque. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who presided over the function, said the launch of the first Digital University in the country would open up plenty of opportunities for youngsters. “The digital divide in the society should be bridged. The government is involved in a series of efforts to attain digital excellence in various fields. We need to foster technically-talented people in accordance with the changes in the new world,” Vijayan said. The Digital University, he said, would be putting into use the developments in digital technology for social progress. The benefits of digital technology should be made available for people in various walks of life, he said. The Digital University has been set up by upgrading the two-decade old Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management Kerala(IIITM-K), a centre of excellence in information technologies established by the state government. The university has five Schools of Knowledge--School of Computer Science and Engineering, School of Digital Sciences, School of Electronic Systems and Automation, School of Informatics, and School of Digital Humanities and Liberal Arts. The first phase of the project has been completed on the 10-acre campus in Technocity with an academic building and a hostel. Once the project is completed, the university will provide education to 1,200 residential scholars from its campus in addition to others outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/countrys-first-digital-university-inaugurated/articleshow/81129401.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Aurangabad||Covid testing, contact tracing intensified across Marathwada||AURANGABAD: Testing people with Covid-19 symptoms as well as tracing of close contacts of those testing positive for the contation have been increased across Marathwada, following a spike in cases. According to official data, the daily testing percentage has gone up by over 25% to around 5,351 tests per day in the eight districts of the region by Saturday morning as compared to the corresponding period last month. The contact tracing ratio has been bettered up to 14 in Marathwada, it is likely to increase up to 20 as per instructions by Aurangabad divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar. The total number of confirmed cases of Covid 19 reached 1,57,170 in Marathwada, including 4,547 deaths, by 9am on Saturday. With 158 new cases, Aurangabad district leads among the eight districts with 48.293 cases. Acting Aurangabad district collector Anant Gavhane said the increase in Covid-19 testing would arrest the spread of the disease. “We have instructed all private health practioners to ask patients coming to them with symptoms such as fever, cold and cough to undergo mandatory testing. Citizens should refrain from assuming anything at their level and opt for testing, which is free at state-run health centres,” he said. Meanwhile, Parbhani district administration has banned physical classes for schools and junior colleges, barring Class X and XII till February 28. District collector Deepak Mugalikar said such a measure was essential to contain the possible spread of Covid 19. “We have also banned weekly bazaars in the district till March 15. To begin with our crackdown against crowding, we have fined on a marriage hall Rs 50,000 for allowing assembly of more than 50 people. The Covid prevention norms are sacrosanct and must be followed by all to avoid any crisis situation,” he said. Nanded district collector Vipin Itankar has warned of action against those spreading rumours of another lockdown. “The district administration has only prohibited the gathering of five or more people to avoid crowding amid spurt in fresh cases of Covid 19 and there is no lockdown as such,” he said. Itankar said all citizens must follow basic rules such as wearing of face-mask, hand sanitisation and maintaining social distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-testing-contact-tracing-intensified-across-marathwada/articleshow/81131466.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Accused’s father was director of 3 loan app firms: Telangana cops||HYDERABAD: When credentials of directors of a few Indian companies associated with Chinese-promoted loan apps were verified, Telangana police have found in three Bengaluru-based companies one of the directors happens to be the father of an accused arrested recently. Investigators said B Madhusudan of Kothagudem, who was arrested some days ago, was questioned by police, they came to know that his superior K Nagaraj gave him the task of employing persons who could be directors of three companies. “Since Madhusudan failed to find a suitable person, he made his father a director in three different companies located in Bengaluru. Call centres were set up at these companies to recover money from persons who failed to repay money on time after taking loan from different apps,’’ sources in Telangana police told TOI. Madhusudan’s father claimed he was unaware of the strong-arm tactics employed by these loan app companies. Nagaraju of Kurnool played a key role in setting up call centres in various parts of the country on the instructions of Chinese national Zhu Wei alias Lambo, who was arrested by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-accuseds-father-was-director-of-3-loan-app-firms/articleshow/81131475.cms||Srinath Vudali
February 21, 2021||Goa||Monserrate’s son set to make political debut in CCP polls||Panaji: Panaji MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate said on Saturday that his elder son, Rohit, would contest elections for the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP). “My son Rohit will contest from ward number 3,” he said. Monserrate, a regional satrap in the Tiswadi area, said that candidates for the CCP elections would be declared within two days, and that 13 sitting corporators would be given tickets, while 17 new faces too would be brought into the fray. “We are on the verge of finalising the candidates for the polls in consultation with the party (BJP),” he said. “We will submit some names to the party, and by Monday, we will announce the candidate list.” Rohit isn’t the only political heir to debut at these elections. Former mayor Yatin Parekh’s son will also be given a ticket, Monserrate said. Another former mayor, Carolina Po, will be given a ticket, the Panaji MLA said. While a new face is set to be fielded in ward 1, Monserrate is yet to finalise the name. The Panaji MLA also said that sitting mayor Uday Madkaikar and former mayor Shubham Chodankar would be contesting. He also announced names of persons who will be given tickets — Sanjeev Naik, Shekhar Degvekar, Diksha Mainkar, Vasant Agshikar, Kishor Sastry and Pramay Mainkar. “These are some of the names that will get tickets, but the party will take the final decision,” he said. He also said that the election date for CCP would be announced next week. Monserrate said that he would win all 30 seats. The municipal polls are likely to be held in Goa on March 20, with the state government on Wednesday concurring with the date suggested by the Goa state election commission (SEC). “It is up to the SEC to take a final decision on the date to hold the municipal elections,” a senior government official said. Elections will be held for 11 municipalities across the state and CCP. The SEC has decided to conduct these polls along with byelections to village panchayats and zilla panchayats. The term of the 11 municipal councils ended in November last year, after which the government appointed administrators to the councils. Elections for the Ponda and Sakhali municipalities will not be held in this period. This will be the last major election in Goa before the state goes for the assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monserrates-son-set-to-make-political-debut-in-ccp-polls/articleshow/81131472.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Nawab Malik’s son-in-law bail rejected||A special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Saturday rejected the bail plea of Sameer Khan, son-in-law of NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra’s minority affairs and skill development minister Nawab Malik. Khan was arrested last month. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nawab-maliks-son-in-law-bail-rejected/articleshow/81131489.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Numaish likely from March 2nd week, govt nod awaited||HYDERABAD: For lakhs of traditional shoppers and Numaish lovers, here is some good news. If everything goes well, the 81st All-India Industrial Exhibition (AIIE), popularly known as Numaish, is likely to be thrown open to public from the second week of March at Nampally grounds. The AIIE Society sought the state government’s clearance for opening the exhibition and is waiting for the latter’s response. Society secretary B Prabha Shankar told STOI, “The exhibition may probably start from the second week of March if the government accedes to our plea.” The management of AIIE Society, which organises the 45-day annual event, sounded the government through its president and health minister Eatala Rajender. Sources said Rajender is trying his best to get government’s nod from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Numaish usually opens on New Year day on January 1 but because of the pandemic, the exhibition was deferred this year. On December 31, 2020, a day before its inauguration, Rajender had announced that Numaish was put off citing the Union ministry of home affairs directive extending Covid-19 guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution till January 31. Since the Centre did not announce extending the guidelines after that, efforts are under way to inaugurate the exhibition in March second week. Shankar said the dates will be announced soon after getting a green signal from the government. The AIIE Society is planning to give permission to 2,500 stalls on the 20-acre Exhibition Ground. “But, it will depend on the government’s decision to allow 2,500 stalls or cut down on the number of shops as we have follow social distancing norms,” Shankar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/numaish-likely-from-march-2nd-week-govt-nod-awaited/articleshow/81131478.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||The best he Kahn: Melding traditional with modernity||That the outstanding significance of Louis Kahn’s Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad (IIM-A) rests on its unique design approach, the poetic manner in which the carefully crafted built volumes, the open areas and the interior spaces are knit together, and the spiritual quality endowed by the typical Kahnian play of light is incontrovertible.However, if I — as an architect, a teacher and an avid admirer of India’s 20C heritage — was to choose the foremost attribute that can continue to serve as a timeless source of inspiration, I would go for IIM-A’s ingenious structure systems and experimental construction technologies, and the resulting visual grammar that while being contemporary was born of the region’s traditions.Keeping in mind the economic and technological constraints prevalent in India of the 1960s, an elemental goal of Kahn’s design for IIM-A was to build the campus exclusively in brick, honouring India’s monumental legacies (such as in Bengal’s monumental Adina Mosque) and respecting the actualities of Ahmedabad’s local hand-manufactured bricks and labour-intensive construction. What makes this decision historic is his act of going beyond a mere adoption of an ancient aesthetic and generating a new vocabulary that could re-interpret tradition through technological sophistication. The pioneering designs that we see at Kahn’s IIM-A were born out of the desire to address the structural integrity of brick as a load-bearing material, a system that was applied uniformly to all buildings and loading conditions, ranging from the smallest spans of one-room houses to the monumental form, large span interiors and huge external openings of the library.“If you think of Brick, you say to Brick, ‘What do you want, Brick?’ And Brick says to you, ‘I like an Arch. And if you say to Brick, ‘Look, arches are expensive, and I can use a concrete lintel over you. What do you think of that, Brick?’ Brick says, ‘I like an Arch.’ And it’s important, you see, that you honor the material that you use.” (Excerpt from Louis Kahn: Essential Texts)With the humble local hand-made local brick serving as the centre of all designs, a completely new set of architectural and construction details began to be developed for which the standard dimensions of brick and its structural characteristics were the underlying determinants. Many of these, especially the large circular opening that were held in place through reinforced brick ring beams and the flat arch forms that coupled with concrete restraining tension beams, have since then come to define the project.As Bhatt and Scriver were to say in After the Masters: Contemporary Indian Architecture, “These buildings stretched the bounds of conventional masonry technology while they re-affirmed the timeless power of massive brick construction. Kahn’s experiments helped to promote brick to an almost exalted status in the vocabulary of the Indian architect.”What then are the lessons that we can continue to pass on to the current and future custodians of IIM-A? At the top of the list are Kahn’s “Think-Big” attitude and the forces of intense human creativity that he could gather within himself to transform adverse site conditions to create an icon that gave rise to a new trail of buildings in India. The Louis Kahn buildings of IIM-A have reportedly deteriorated over the last couple of decades and one now needs to address the highly complex challenges of preserving the original fabric of these buildings, the intrinsic nature of which is perhaps very different from other historic brick constructions that have been successfully conserved. Perhaps, all we need is the same “Think-Big” attitude, harness our intrinsic capacities to see beyond the seemingly bleak horizons and look at the numerous success stories of conserving other experimental constructions of the 20th Century.Kiran Joshi is secretary general, ICOMOS International Scientific Committee on Twentieth Century Heritage, and former dean of architecture, Chitkara University(Disclaimer: The views expressed here are the author’s own)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/the-best-he-kahn-melding-traditional-with-modernity/articleshow/81123953.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Surat||Samples of three Covid patients sent for suspected strain testing||Surat: Samples of three positive patients of a family from Kamrej in Surat district were sent for genome sequencing to National Institute of Virology, Pune, to verify if the individuals are infected with a new strain of Covid-19 virus. One member of the family had a travel history of African country. The report will come after around 15 days and future course of action will be decided based on the report, health officials informed. A 41-year-old man from the diamond industry went to Botswana, an African country, and returned on February 9. Already a patient of a chronic disease the man went to doctor after showing mild symptoms and the doctor suspected him of suffering from Covid and suggested RTPCR test in which he tested positive. Meanwhile, his 37-year-old wife and 58-year-old mother who too have mild symptoms of Covid-19 were tested and they too were found to be positive. Their health condition is stable and have been admitted in New Civil Hospital (NCH) and kept under isolation. “It is yet not confirmed if the patients are infected with any new strain of Covid-19. Only genome sequencing can confirm if it is a new strain and that will take over 15 days’ time,” said A K Naik, deputy commissioner (health), Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC). “As part of preventive measures, if a person with travel history of another state or abroad is found Covid-19 positive, we get their samples tested through genome sequencing. In case a new strain is found we will have to take multiple steps on war footing like in the past to prevent further spread of the infection,” Naik added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/samples-of-three-covid-patients-sent-for-suspected-strain-testing/articleshow/81129417.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 21, 2021||Goa||Bring in reforms to start mining: Goa CM to Centre||PANAJI: CM Pramod Sawant on Saturday urged the Centre to bring in reforms to restart the mining industry. At a Niti Aayog governing council meeting chaired by PM Narendra Modi, Sawant told the council that Goa used to export iron, and that after the SC’s order shutting down mining, the state has approached the court and the Centre. “Due to closure of mining activities, the state economy is badly affected, as is employment,” Sawant said, adding that Modi has “noted down” his request on mining resumption. He also said that Goa is eligible for Rs 1,000 crore in special assistance to successfully implement reforms like the one nation one ration card system, ease of doing business, strengthening of urban and other local bodies, and the power sector. “We request (the Centre) to consider the state for (this) Rs 1,000 crore special assistance,” he said. Sawant also said that the NGT has imposed restrictions on sand mining. “We don’t have dry sand mining, but in Goa, sand is removed from river beds, and the Centre should bring in some amendment to the CRZ Act to allow sand extraction in the state,” he said. The CM said that due to restrictions in CRZ, eco-sensitive zones, private forests, and wetland areas, only 30% of land in Goa is left for development. He urged Niti Aayog to bring in amendments to allow vertical development for central government projects. He also raised the issue of the Mhadei, and said that its water is essential for Goa. For the first time, the state has raised the issue of the salinity of the water, he said, adding that scientists from the National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee, would arrive in Goa next week to visit the Kalasa-Bhandura site in Karnataka. The CM said that Goa exports pharmaceutical products, and that the state has requested for a medical device park, which will boost exports. “Most pharmaceutical exports are done outside the state, and we request you to create infrastructure at Mormugao Port Trust so that state pharma companies can export from Goa.” He also asked the Centre for assistance to set up a cancer research centre. Speaking on the three linear projects at Mollem, Sawant said that his government would support all the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bring-in-reforms-to-start-mining-cm-to-centre/articleshow/81131484.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Rajkot||This farmer grew his agri-business ‘organically’||Rajkot: At a time when the country is still debating on how to double farmers income by 2022, this Junagadh farmer has made a killing. By supplying organic farm produce to nearly 5,000 customers across the country and eleven outside India simply through couriers, Parshottam Sidpara’s yearly turnover has reached Rs 2 crore. And that too without any marketing or online presence. Sidpara, who owns a farm in Jamka Gir village of Junagadh’s Mendarda taluka is into cow-based organic farming for the last 17 years. “I have customers in metros like Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad as well as those in America, UK, Norway, Dubai, Ethiopia, Germany among others,” said Sidpara, adding that his business has grown through word-of-mouth. “I invite my customers with the family to visit my farm once in a year. I provide them accommodation to show them how I am working here,” said Sidpara, who cultivates everything from grains to fruits and vegetables at his farm. “I share the details of harvesting crop on WhatsApp and customers place their orders accordingly,” he said, whose engineer sons and graduate daughters-in-law too have joined organic farming as a profession. From pulses, grains, fruits, this farmer also started value addition with drumstick and its powder, ‘amra pak’ from mango, garlic ‘chatni’, ‘chawanprash’ made out of medicinal plants. “I had first brought cow ghee from Sidpara in 2008 after I visited his farm for the first time. Later, I started buying organic wheat, spices and pulses in big quantities for my family and friends,” said Mumbai-based businessman Harshad Mehta, whose Ahmedabad-based daughter and son-in-law, both doctors, have also started placing their orders to Sidpara. “It is not easy like an e-commerce website where you order and get delivery. There are waiting periods and you have to place orders accordingly,” said Bhavina Modi, a Jamnagar-based tax consultant, who even ordered sweets when her son turned a chartered accountant. Sidpara also provides training to other farmers free of cost. He has prepared a liquid using cow urine, cow dung, buttermilk and post-harvest waste of the farm. He claims this liquid is useful to keep land fertile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/this-farmer-grew-his-agri-business-organically/articleshow/81129422.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||UoH appoints 3 new research chair profs||Hyderabad: The University of Hyderabad (UoH) on Saturday announced the appointment of three Institution of Eminence (IoE) Research Chair Professors. While Deevi Basavaiah, who has been working on the Baylis-Hillman reaction at the University of Hyderabad from 1984, has been appointed as IoE Research Chair Professor in Chemistry in the School of Chemistry; Agepati S Raghavendra, who figures in the top 2% of plant biologists in India as per a Stanford University study, has been appointed as IoE Research Chair Professor in Life Sciences in the School of Life Sciences. Similarly, K Narayana Chandran, one of the world’s top scholars of modern (principally American) poetry, has been appointed as IoE Research Chair Professor in Literary and Cultural Theory in the Department of English, School of Humanities. The three professors, who are already recognised worldwide for their pioneering research in respective areas, have been selected as IoE Research Chairs by the external experts from the applications received from various schools in the university.The varsity said that by bringing them into the IoE project in this fashion, it expects to showcase high-impact research globally. The three professors will also be teaching in the university. Appa Rao Podile, UoH vice-chancellor and chairman of IoE project, said that the varsity expects to cautiously widen the pool of such chair professorships in the future, depending on its expansion plans, including infrastructure development and thrust areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-appoints-3-new-research-chair-profs/articleshow/81131541.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Kolhapur||Curbs in Kolhapur fail to bring a check on violators||Kolhapur: Despite restrictions coming into effect in Kolhapur district on Saturday to curb the spread of Covid-19, business resumed as usual in most of the places with a majority of the citizens flouting the safety protocol. As per the orders passed by district collector Daulat Desai, the restrictions include allowing bars and restaurants to operate with 50% capacity, ban on public gatherings besides mandatorily wearing masks and observing social distancing in public places. Some of the fuel stations and shops have put in place boards asking customers to wear masks before entering ther premises. However, public transport was overcrowded with commuters during peak hours. Citizens hardly observed social distancing. The conductors in the buses were repeatedly asking passengers to wear masks. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has deployed teams to take action against violators. While, at some places, the staff were seen appealing to citizens to follow Covid safety protocols, there was no regulation at all at many places. The staff claimed that they were giving ultimatum to citizens to follow Covid rules. From day two onwards, they would start issuing fine from Rs 100 to Rs 500 to both individuals and shop operators.Nikhil More, deputy municipal commissioner of KMC said, “From Monday onwards, we will start sanitising the public places. The teams will start imposing fine on the violators. Though there is no major outbreak so far in the city, we have to ensure the situation remains under control in the comng few days.” According to the district authorities, more restrictions will be in place from next week onwards. The state government has authorised district collectors to take a call over imposing lockdown in the whole district or in any part of it.Karnataka starts scanning travellersThe Karnataka government has set up a check post at Kognoli toll booth along the boundary of Maharashtra and Karnataka. All travellers arriving from Maharashtra wll undergo thermal screening before entering Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/curbs-in-kolhapur-fail-to-bring-a-check-on-violators/articleshow/81131508.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||DNA helps cops trace man’s family 16 mnths after his death||Palghar: Sixteen months after an unidentified man was found dead on railway tracks in Palghar, police have traced his family on the basis of DNA samples, an official said on Saturday. The decomposed body of a 32-year-old was found on railway tracks between Palghar and Boisar stations in October 2019, he said.The deceased could not be identified. But the bones of the dead man were preserved at a laboratory in Mumbai for DNA testing, senior inspector Yogesh Atmaram Devare of Palghar railway police station said.“The police continued their probe. We went to nearby villages and enquired with the locals if any of their family members had gone missing. During the investigation, a 58-year-old labourer from Kolgaon told us that his son had gone missing,” he said.The labourer's blood sample was sent to the lab for testing and DNA analysis confirmed that the deceased was his son, the official said. “Five days ago, the lab informed us that DNA samples of the deceased and labourer have matched. Thus, his family was informed,” Devare added. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dna-helps-cops-trace-mans-family-16-mnths-after-his-death/articleshow/81130171.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad’s Hogwarts: India’s only magic school lets its spell linger||HYDERABAD: Set to open doors to a fresh batch this month is Hyderabad’s own Hogwarts, albeit without the bells and whistles of the fictional school of wizardry. Soon, 20 students will walk into a crammed corner room at the Potti Sreeramulu Telugu University here, and leave, 120 days later, with a diploma in magic – the only such course offered across India. Started in 2014, this short course, complete with a syllabus, semester exams (theory and practical), and a stamped university certificate at the end of it, has found takers both within and outside Telangana. Read AlsoTelangana: Performers on stage, myth-busters on groundAfter being a local press wala in Mahbubnagar for a good part of his life, C Naresh Kumar decided to change his fate in 2015. Armed with a diploma in magic, Naresh is now better known for making things disappear on stage, than straightening the creases of a shirt.“After learning about it, governments of Rajasthan, Odisha, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh too have expressed interest in starting similar courses. Hopefully they will begin soon,” said Samala Venu, a popular illusionist who initiated the launch of the course. His objective: to make magic a serious profession that’s not just seen as a ploy by fake performers to cheat people. “Apart from Telangana, we have had students from these states too who come here to study magic,” he added. At present, most lessons in magic are limited to online courses or workshops, typically spread over 7 to 10 days. Internationally too, it is often part of a larger stream of study. “It (magic) is part of a cultural studies course taught in a few places,” said author John Zubrzycki, who’s book, Jadoowallahs, Jugglers and Jinns, was released in 2018. But can magic be taught in a classroom? “The performing art involves multiple technicalities and a course like this helps one understand those nuances – like what do you do if a trick misfires on stage,” said Ram Akhil, one of the first to take the course. “For someone like me who came from an MSc (in forensic science) background, it opened my eyes to a wide range of magic tricks and magicians that I didn’t know about,” added the ‘conjuring artist’ with over 1,500 shows – in India and abroad – under his belt. His most popular trick: producing currency notes on stage. That the certificate allows one to take up professional gigs, which are reasonably well-paying – many make up to Rs 1 lakh or more (average is Rs 30,000 to Rs 50,000) a month – adds to the charm. “Along with the money, a profession like this also helps one stand out in a crowd,” said 37-year-old, Rajkumar Darna, eyeing a seat in the next batch. A MCom degree holder, with a comfortable job in the private sector, Darna says he has always, secretly, nursed the desire to don the magician’s hat. A chat with aspirants waiting in line for their selection interview revealed many have post-graduate degrees (and even jobs) that they are willing to put on hold, to pursue a career in magic. “It (magic) is a wonderful second profession and to many the only profession. The avenues to perform and entertain are many, be it private parties, public functions, or at five-star brunches. While this has hit pause like most else with Covid, hopefully soon life will be able to continue and magicians will be able to do what they do best — make magic,” said Nakul Shenoy a renowned Indian mentalist based in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyds-hogwarts-indias-only-magic-school-lets-its-spell-linger/articleshow/81131556.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
February 21, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Seroprevalence survey to identify Covid spread begins||Thiruvananthapuram: A seroprevalence survey to identify the spread of Covid-19 in the state has begun at the behest of state government, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “As per ICMR’s survey, Kerala is the state with least prevalence. When ICMR does survey, it is not done in all districts. We plan to conduct study in all districts. This will give us a comprehensive picture,” said the chief minister. Seroprevalence survey tries to find out antibody among the samples to know whether the tested had been affected by Covid-19 recently. In the last ICMR’s survey, Kerala’s prevalence rate was around 11%. The CM said though the Covid-19 situation continued to be serious in the state, the number of active cases decreased by 5.8% in the past one week. On Saturday, 4,650 new Covid-19 cases were detected in the state. Test positivity rate was 7.05% when 65,968 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. With 13 recent deaths also being confirmed as due to Covid-19, the total Covid-19 deaths in the state has risen to 4,704. Among the new cases, 4,253 people acquired the diseases through contact and source of infection is unknown in 295 patients. As many as 76 have recent travel history but none of them had travelled from the UK. As many as 26 healthcare workers have also contracted the virus. On Saturday, 5,841 people who had been under treatment tested negative. Active caseload as on Saturday was 58,606. Kozhikode had the maximum number of cases 602, followed by Ernakulam (564), Malappuram (529), Thrissur (503), Kollam (444), Alappuzha (382), Thiruvananthapuram (328), Pathanamthitta (317), Kottayam (267), Palakkad (193), Kannur (176), Wayanad (143), Kasaragod (124) and Idukki (78). Across the state 2,47,780 people are under observation and 8,989 of them are in hospitals. With symptoms, 949 new persons were admitted to hospitals on Saturday. With the addition of three new hotspots and removal of eight, the state has a total of 366 hotspots now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/seroprevalence-survey-to-identify-covid-spread-begins/articleshow/81129441.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Three helps indicate wealth, can afford Rs 50,000 maintenance: Mumbai court||MUMBAI: A sessions court relied on a Juhu-based family’s three domestic help as an indicator of its wealth and status while rejecting a businessman’s plea to reduce the monthly maintenance granted to his estranged wife from Rs 50,000 to Rs 5,000.  Upholding a magistrate court’s order, the sessions court said that employing three domestic help revealed the high standards of living of the husband and his parents. “The applicant (wife) is also entitled to live her life with the same living standard. Even, if it is presumed that the respondent (husband) suffered losses subsequently in his business, the applicant cannot be made to starve or to live a substandard life on account of the same,” the court said. Man opposes payout order; wife says don’t go by his I-T returnsThe 36-year-old businessman denied the claim that his family made Rs 25 crore annually and said they had suffered losses due to the introduction of GST. He had moved the sessions court after the magistrate court had decided the interim maintenance amount in November 2020. The woman had submitted a domestic violence complaint against her husband and senior citizen parents-in-law before the magistrate court in 2019. The magistrate court in its order also directed the woman’s husband and in-laws not to dispossess her from her flat. The family was told to supply the woman with an extra set of keys. Observing that the magistrate court’s order did not warrant interference, the sessions court held that considering the overall financial status of the husband, and also the entitlement of the wife to get the same status, the maintenance at the rate of Rs 50,000 per month appeared to be reasonable. The husband in his appeal told the court that the maintenance was very high, as he provided for all her expenses including grocery purchase. He also claimed that he paid a monthly EMI of Rs one lakh and his gross income for 2018-19 was only Rs 32 lakh. He said that in the last two assessment years he suffered losses due to the introduction of GST. The husband said that he was forced to take a loan from his mother. Denying the allegations of domestic violence the husband relied on the CCTV footage recovered from the home. The wife, however, contested the appeal and said that she had even sought divorce on grounds of cruelty. She also said that she had complained to the cops about the installation of CCTvs. The woman claimed that the domestic help too had lodged complaints against her husband and that income tax returns do not disclose his true earnings. The court, however, said that had the man and his parents paid a sufficient amount to the woman for her necessities, there would be no need for her to knock on the court’s doors. “The burden to show the income was certainly on the husband, who could have produced necessary income proof before the court below, in respect of which he appears to have failed,” the sessions court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-if-youve-3-domestic-help-can-pay-rs-50k/m-as-maintenance/articleshow/81143629.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 21, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Gopalganj man to hang for minor’s rape, murder||PATNA: A 20-year-old man Jaikishore Sah was sentenced to death by a court in Gopalganj on Saturday for raping and killing a nine-year-old girl from his neighbourhood. The incident took place at Bakhraur village under Sidhwalia police station area on August 25 last year, soon after the convict returned during the lockdown from Patna, where he sold sugarcane juice. Gopalganj civil court public prosecutor Deo Vansh Giri told TOI over the phone that charges against Sah were framed before the special court (POCSO Act) of ADJ-VI Balendra Shukla on January 27 this year. “The special court pronounced the sentence within 25 days of the framing of charges and six months of the incident,” Giri said. Giri further said the convict after raping and killing her, chopped off the girl’s body into five pieces and packed them into a bag. ”Her head and limbs were severed,” he added. The post-mortem report said there were human bite marks on the entire body of the minor girl. The public prosecutor said Sah did not have any lawyer to represent him after which a noted criminal lawyer Abu Shamim was allocated from a panel of lawyers to represent him. Special public prosecutor (POCSO Act) Daroga Singh said the minor used to play with the convict's toddler son. “On the day of the incident, the girl reached his house to play with the kid but Sah’s wife and son were not at home. Taking advantage, he raped and killed the girl. He packed the body in a bag and hid it on an overhead rack inside his home,” Singh said. The prosecutor further said that the girl’s parents started searching for her and later informed the police. “Sah was the prime suspect as he was missing and his house was locked. Police forced its entry inside the house and found the body kept on a rack following a blood trail. Sah was arrested within hours of body recovery,” he said. The court sentenced Sah to death after holding him guilty under Sections 376AB (punishment for rape of woman less than 12 years), 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 6 and 10 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses (Amendment) Act, 2019. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gopalganj-man-to-hang-for-minors-rape-murder/articleshow/81130172.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 21, 2021||Goa||Soon, go behind the scenes to see how feni is made in Goa||Panaji: Tourists, who have for years enjoyed the taste of feni, the state’s signature brew, will soon be able to venture on guided tours to ‘bhatis’ — places where the spirit is brewed using traditional methods. “Goa tourism is working on the tours, and if all goes well, tourists will get to see how feni is distilled starting this season,” said a tourism official. Feni received GI (geographical indication) status in 2009, and in 2016, it was declared the state’s heritage drink. For a few years now, stakeholders have suggested that Goa tourism offer tourists tours of ‘bhatis’ as is done in vineyards around the world. Over a year ago, Goa tourism had decided to implement the idea, but last year, the plan was derailed due to Covid. In Goa, cashew season is brief, from February to May. The last season was a washout, as distilling was stopped due to the lockdown. Welcoming the move, Gurudutta Bhakta, president of the cashew feni distillers and bottlers association, said that with guided tours of ‘bhatis’, tourists and other travellers will be exposed to Goa’s heritage. “They will get to see various processes involved in feni making. It is high time the world gets to see how feni is made,” he said. While earlier all feni makers manually extracted juice from cashew apples by stomping the fruit, now, with modernisation and to cut down on labour costs, many have installed mild steel machines to exact juices, Bhakta said. “The number of those who still crush cashew apples by stomping can be counted on one’s finger.” A distiller who did not want to be named said that most have replaced traditional earthen and copper vessels — used in various stages of feni making — with plastic and aluminium ones. “Most importantly, many give a skip to hygiene, with their target being money making. So, before showcasing the functioning of bhatis to visitors, it would be in the interest of the industry that measures are taken to ensure hygiene at bhatis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-go-behind-the-scenes-to-see-how-feni-is-made-in-goa/articleshow/81131546.cms||Bindiya Chari
February 21, 2021||Surat||‘Sparkle’ focuses on lab-grown diamonds||Surat: State’s biggest gems and jewellery exhibition Sparkle 2021 began here with a renewed focus on lab-grown diamonds on Saturday. Apart from the real diamond and jewellery makers as many as 40 lab-grown diamond or chemical vapour diamond (CVD) manufacturers have put their products on display. A special penal discussion too was organised on lab-grown diamond where jewellery manufacturers and traders raised queries about the synthetic diamonds or CVD. In his address at the inauguration, Dinesh Navadiya, president of SGCCI claimed, “Market for CVD is fast developing world over. Surat is on top in terms of production as nearly 25 firms here have started manufacturing it.”Navadiya also said that the gems and jewellery sector had a 7% share in the country’s GDP and has seen a 53% growth post-Covid. Colin Shah, chairman of Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) said that such exhibitions are important for growth of business and building strong relationships between the buyer and the seller. Jitendra Bhindi of Bhindi Jewellers from Junagadh said that Gujarat can produce the world's best handmade jewellery. “Other countries are ahead in terms of technology but no one can match the handmade jewellery of India,” said Bhindi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sparkle-focuses-on-lab-grown-diamonds/articleshow/81129438.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Cannot withdraw resignation: HC||Bombay HC dismissed a petition filed by Congress member Farzana Ismail Rangrez for permission to withdraw her resignation letter of October 2020 as councillor of Municipal Corporation of Bhiwandi, Nizampur. She said she had tendered her resignation in a huff after a “quarrel with her husband”. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cannot-withdraw-resignation-hc/articleshow/81131567.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Satish Poonia, Vasundhara Raje rivalry spirals into big issue||JAIPUR: The fight for one-upmanship within the state BJP, which has already reached Delhi, is snowballing into a major issue with state president Satish Poonia parking himself in Delhi to apprise party leadership about former chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s ‘absence’ from party meetings and functions. This comes after Raje’s repeated complaints to home minister Amit Shah and national president JP Nadda over the treatment given to her by the state leadership. Poonia reached the national capital a day before to attend state party president meeting with Narendra Modi and Nadda to be held on Sunday. He called on senior party leaders and RSS functionaries to brief them about the ongoing political situation. “Raje has not attended the budget session so far and have been missing party meetings citing one reason or the other. Also, the repeated instances of her loyalists pitching her as the CM candidate on social media is making it difficult for party leaders as the internal rift under the wraps,” said a senior leader requesting anonymity. Raje’s absence from the core committee meeting or from MLA meets before the assembly session has grabbed more eyeballs than the developments in the meeting is also a reason that party leaders want her to toe the line in the larger interest of the party. “Her absence takes more space in the media and social media than the party’s agenda giving a bad impression to party workers and ammunition to the ruling party,” said a party source. The episode of Raje’s loyalists forming social media pages ‘Team Vasundhara Raje’ and ‘Vasundhara Raje Samarthak Rajasthan’ came to the light in November 2020 and January 2021 respectively has taken the rift wide open. For the first time, Poonia told the public that the central leadership was aware of all the developments. “The parliamentary board of the party has the power to decide the action of the state unit,” sources said. Since January, Raje meeting with Shah once and Nadda twice in Delhi has made it inevitable for the Poonia group to pitch their version before the party leadership. What makes the plot interesting is that Poonia has prepared an internal report stating rifts caused due to Raje, confirmed a source. Raje’s contention that her loyalists have not found space in the state organisation and in the frontal organisations found to be true. The BJP minority morcha has refused to accompany Raje’s chadar to Dargah in Ajmer. “Former cabinet minister Yunus Khan asked the morcha to accompany him to Ajmer to offer chadar on behalf of Raje which was denied by the morcha stating that they don’t have information from the party president,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poonia-versus-raje-gains-traction/articleshow/81130174.cms||Shoeb Khan
February 21, 2021||Goa||Worst of Covid not over, must take precautions: CSIR D-G||Panaji: The rise in Covid cases in Kerala and parts of Maharashtra are cause for concern and worst is not yet over, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) director general Shekhar Mande has said. “This (the rise in cases) might be a reflection of the fact that people have become complacent and probably believe that the worst is behind us. The worst is not over and unless we follow due diligence and all precautions, we will not be able to get over the pandemic so easily,” he said. “…if more number of individuals are infected there would be more droplet nuclei floating around in the air and therefore, one must avoid gatherings of people. Whatever the function may be, whether religious, social, whatever as long as we are able to avoid gatherings, we will reduce the probability of having this droplet nuclei in the air and therefore reduce the probability of infecting others,” he said. India’s scientific community had begun preparing itself on how to react to the virus before the WHO declared it a pandemic last year, Mande said during a session of ‘Rise of Indian Science and Technology in the Fight against Covid-19’ organised by International Centre Goa (ICG) on Friday. India’s first case was detected on January 20 last year, and Mande during a lecture in Pune on February 7, last year, had stated, “We are living in the Corona era.” Indian scientists had an inkling that something serious was unfolding and a meeting was held of all 37 CSIR directors at the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) in Goa on February 25 and 26, last year, on how to react if Covid became a global emergency. The WHO declared a pandemic only on March 11 when Indian scientists were already preparing how to deal with it. He said the CSIR formed a strategic group and held daily meetings from March 25 focussing on surveillance, diagnostics and interventions. This was possible because of the investment in science and technology in the country, he said. “India rose to the occasion as one single country. Everyone worked together and made sure our population was affected to a much lesser extent than many other advanced countries,” he said. When asked whether he believed that Covid-19 leaked from a lab or was a natural occurrence, Mande said, “The conspiracy hypothesis that there was a deliberate leak or accidental leak is very, very unlikely. Most of the scientific community believes that a random mutation took place and passed on from a bat to a pangolin and then humans. “At this moment, we don’t believe there was any accidental or designed leak of the virus from the lab. But only the WHO would be in a better position to address this.” He also said contrary to WHO’s stand that the virus spreads through contaminated surfaces, most scientists believe that the virus is airborne. Mande said the immune system of people in poor countries is well trained as they are continuously exposed to pathogens and as a result their immune system doesn’t overreact. The opposite is true for rich countries where lifestyle diseases are more prevalent and where people are used to living in super hygienic conditions which don’t’ see many infections, bacteria and fungi and where these countries also have large number of people above the age of 65. “All this put together suggests that the immune system of people in poorer countries is better trained because people in these countries are continuously exposed to different kind of pathogens and therefore, their immune system doesn’t hyper react to a new pathogen such as SARSCov2 where as in richer countries it is vice versa,” Mande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/worst-of-covid-not-over-must-take-precautions-csir-d-g/articleshow/81131562.cms||Lisa Monteiro
February 21, 2021||Goa||Mega drive sees only 468 people get inoculated||PANAJI: Despite a mega round of vaccination for registered healthcare workers on Saturday, the directorate of health services was able to inoculate only under 500 beneficiaries. Despite giving healthcare workers the opportunity of getting vaccinated at any healthcare centre nearest to them, only 468 were vaccinated. Around 7,000 healthcare workers who submitted their names to the government for the vaccination programme months ago haven't received the vaccine yet. Over 18,000 healthcare workers were registered on the CoWin portal for vaccination, but only 11,168 received the vaccine till Saturday. The vaccination for healthcare workers began on January 16 and it has been more than a month now that authorities have been appealing to healthcare workers, both in the private and public sector, to get vaccinated. Vaccine hesitancy, besides pregnancy and other issues, is a factor keeping healthcare workers away. Several sessions are being organised to encourage the next group of frontline workers to get vaccinated according to their turn and not give into vaccine hesitancy. Doctors who received both the doses are sharing their personal stories and also making Covid recoverees share their harrowing experiences combating Covid with others, to help them make up their minds. Doctors conducting awareness and motivation sessions for others have found that many a times people are under the impression that they cannot take the vaccine because they’re diabetic, suffer from allergy to a particular food and are on medication for certain diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mega-drive-sees-only-468-people-get-inoculated/articleshow/81131559.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Aurangabad||Reopening of Aurangabad zoo postponed||AURANGABAD: Plans to reopen the city zoo in Aurangabad have been put on hold as there has again been a spurt in Covid-19 cases. Director of the zoo B S Naikwade said on Saturday the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) would take a call on reopening the zoo after reviewng the pandemic situation in the days to come. “Following the recent reopening of Byculla zoo in Mumbai after a gap of almost one year, even we were contemplating opening the zoo here. However, the decision has bene put off for now,” he said. The local zoo, which has been proposed to get shifted to Mitmita, is the only zoo in Marathwada that was established in way back n 1985. Classified as ‘small’ zoo by the Central Zoo Authority of India (CZAI), the zoo is spread over 14 hectares and is home to different herbivorous and carnivorous creatures. Meanwhile, civic authorities said the letter of award has been issued to one Aurangabad-based firm for phase one construction of the new zoo at Mitmita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/reopening-of-aurangabad-zoo-postponed/articleshow/81131555.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Dehradun||Roads left unattended after Smart City works pose risk to commuters, say Doon locals||Dehradun: Even as road repair works have started in Dehradun after a lull due to the Covid-19 pandemic, residents say that many stretches that need urgent attention are being overlooked by the civic officials. Locals allege that the roads dug up under smart city projects — including Dalanwala, EC Road, and Subhash Road, among others — have been left unattended. Those who live in Jakhan area or use the Rajpur Road face a similar challenge. People living in these localities say that repairs need to be done in many stretches especially where work under the smart city project was done. Sanjay Porwar, a resident, said, “The roads where the underground wiring work has been completed should be repaired in the minimum time possible. This will reduce problem of road jams and the issues we face in parking vehicles.” In a similar vein, Vinay Katiyar, who lives along Subhash Road, said, “My house catches dust all day long as motorists pass by. Instead of digging up all the roads, the authorities should get the work done in phases to avoid inconvenience to the people.”Deepak Kothiyal, who runs a shop at Subhash Road, said, “On roads where the development works are underway, the corners somehow have water leaking all the time. This can cause injury to the pedestrians and even the motorists. These basic glitches should be taken care of while carrying out works.” Prerna Dhyani, public relations officer, Dehradun Smart City Limited, when queried about the matter, said, “We are handing over the roads for repairing to the PWD in a phased manner. As of now, the repair work is already under way at EC Road, Globe Chowk, and Chukkuwala.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/roads-left-unattended-after-smart-city-works-pose-risk-to-commuters-say-doon-locals/articleshow/81129452.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Goa||‘Viewing scene in Maha, no need to panic’||Panaji: In view of the new strain of Covid and increase in cases in Maharashtra, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said that the state is monitoring the situation and after that, a decision would be taken. Speaking to mediapersons, Sawant said, “We are observing what is going in Maharashtra and other states, and after that we will take a decision. Right now, there is no need to panic.” Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday said that the Goa government is closely monitoring the situation and will implement strict measures, if the need arises. He, however, ruled out a lockdown for Goa. With Maharashtra contemplating closing its borders due to the new Covid-19 strain, the health minister said, “We will discuss the matter with the chief minister. We have to study the situation in neighbouring Maharashtra before taking a decision on whether we will also have to become strict as far as Goa is concerned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/viewing-scene-in-maha-no-need-to-panic/articleshow/81131573.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Jaipur||Rakesh Tikait to address five kisan mahapanchayats in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Farmer leader and Samyunkt Kisan Morcha member Himmat Singh on Saturday said that Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait will be attending five Kisan Mahapanchayats, in support of farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws, in the state from February 22 to 26. The mahapanchayats will be held in Hanumangarh, Churu, Karauli and Ganganagar districts. On February 22, Tikait will be attending a mahapanchayat at Nohar in Hanumangarh and on February 23, he will be attending mahapanchayats in Churu (Sardarshahar) and Sikar. On February 25, he will address a mahapanchayat at Kariri village in Todabhim (Karauli) and on February 26, he will be addressing a mahapanchayat at Padampur Mandi in Ganganagar. On 23 February, ‘Pagdi Sambhal Divas’ will also be celebrated across the country, read a morcha statement. A batch of farmers from Karauli district reached Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border on Saturday to extend their support to the farmers’ agitation. The farmers performed “Kanhaiya Dangal” at the protest site and also started building thatched huts looking at the change in the weather. Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Rampal Jat on Saturday staged a demonstration outside Sawai Madhopur district headquarters demanding legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) for the purchase of agricultural produce. Jat on Friday expressed his objection to the remarks made by Tikait, who said, “The farmers would burn their crops if they were forced to return (for crop harvesting).” Slamming the leader, Jat said the leaders of the farmers’ agitation must “exercise restraint and should not make such irresponsible statements”. He also said one should not try to “imitate Sir Chhotu Ram”, who was a peasant leader during the British rule in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tikait-to-address-5-kisan-mahapanchayats-in-raj/articleshow/81130186.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kochi||Airports beef up vigil as Covid patients try to flee||Kochi: Health department has strengthened its vigil at airports as there were repeated instances in which Covid patients and those directed to undergo quarantine hid their health status and tried to board flights. Around six patients were intercepted by health officials with the help of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) at Cochin International Airport (Cial) recently. With one more similar case being reported at Cial on Friday, district health department warned of strict action against violators. In all reported cases, the patients were intercepted by CISF based on the directive from state police and health department who found that patients had skipped quarantine. CISF intercepted them at the time of check-in based on the names handed over by health department. Sources said that as most patients, who try to flee by air, are the ones working abroad, the department also directed its officials to keep an eye on expatriates turning Covid positive and ensure that they follow quarantine rules and other health protocols. If they are missing, all airports should be alerted. “Despite the prevailing pandemic situation in state and government’s directive to adhere to Covid protocols, many are trying to violate rules. Many people, including expatriates who have to travel to other states and countries by air as part of their work, have a tendency to hide their health status even if they are Covid positive. It is found that many have escaped quarantine and taken flights. Such actions could increase the spread of infection,” said a health official. The statement issued by the district medical officer said that violators will be charged under Disaster Management Act and punished. “It will lead to a serious situation if people fail to obey rules. Covid patients have to stay in quarantine until they test negative. If they violate rules, they will face legal consequences,” said the statement. Airport authorities said that the attempts made by Covid patients to board flights also put airport staff, especially security staff, and other passengers at risk. In such cases, a complete disinfection and contact tracing have to be conducted and many staffers have to go under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/airports-beef-up-vigil-as-covid-patients-try-to-flee/articleshow/81129448.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Rajkot||Pvt airlines to add Rajkot in summer plans||Rajkot: City is set to get comparatively better air connectivity in the coming months starting March end. A few private airline operators want to add some destinations from Rajkot in their summer schedule which will start from March 28. SpiceJet is in talks with the airport authority to start a flight for Hyderabad from May, while they are already starting a daily flight for Bengaluru from February 24. This is the first time in Rajkot’s airport history that the commercial capital of Saurashtra will get air connectivity for south Indian cities. The IndiGo airlines too is in talks to start flight for four destinations. Talking to TOI Digant Borah said, “They are in talks to start operation for Hyderabad, but we are awaiting their confirmation mail. There are other operators who want to add some more destinations from Rajkot. The airport is small, but I told my headquarters and flight operators that we are ready to tackle air traffic for the entire day. We have only asked for 20 to 30 minutes’ time in between arrival and departure of an aircraft. It will be cleared in a few days as to how many flights will operate from Rajkot in the summer schedule.” New flights are scheduled to start from Rajkot between April and May. The terminal building of Rajkot airport is very small and cannot accommodate passengers of two flights at the same time. But there is a possibility that 10 flights will operate from the city soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pvt-airlines-to-add-rajkot-in-summer-plans/articleshow/81129444.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Rs 12 crore transfer to Canada, fake cops & a web of deceit||MUMBAI: Ill-gotten ends up being ill spent. Hardened cops may not ordinarily subscribe to such philosophy, but an “unusually strange” case riddled with twists and turns has made a few police officers agree to the old axiom. Nine persons have been arrested. It began with a temple trustee wanting to transfer Rs 12 crore to Canada through hawala for which he hired two anagadias — those who carry cash physically. The angadiaslugged it to their Malad premises to count it on Wednesday. They had hired a group of six who were to carry it abroad. These men were to reach Malad to pick up the cash. But, in an unusual turn, six “cops” barged in, claiming it was a raid, and took away the money. It turns out that these fake cops were also from a rival group of cash couriers who masqueraded as cops, said an officer from Vile Parle police station. “The fake cops had got a tip about the cash deal through a mole who is yet to be identified,,” said an officer. Later, when the team of six genuine courier men reached Malad to pick up the cash, the angadias told them about the “cops who raided” and took away the cash. After some discussion between the angadias and the genuine cash carriers, and some description of the “raiding cops”, it emerged that the “cops” were from a rival group of cash carriers who had got wind of the deal. The genuine couriers agreed to facilitate a meeting between the angadias and the fake cops. A meeting was arranged among the two angadias, the fake cops and the genuine six cash carriers at a hotel in Vile Parle. The angadias, who had lost Rs 12 crore belonging to their client (temple trustee), begged the fake cops to return at least half the money. “Amid the discussion, things went awry and in another turn of events, even the genuine cash carriers did a U-turn. They teamed up with the fake cops and agreed to split the money among themselves, leaving the two angadias in the lurch” said another officer. So, the six genuine couriers and the six fake cops split Rs 12 crore, each one got Rs 1 crore. That is when the two angadias went to the police.  The genuine courier men were nabbed first. They, in turn, led them to the fake cops who were indeed from a rival group of cash carriers. The nine were identified as Dinesh Dureja, Gafar Mohammed, Jafar Mohammed, Dinesh Pathare, Arif Sayyed, Premchand Jaiswal, Nilesh Binender, Pravin Jain and Sagir Khan. Tax officials have been informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-12cr-transfer-to-canada-fake-cops-a-web-of-deceit/articleshow/81130194.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 21, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Congress takes out padyatra against farm laws, fuel prices||JAIPUR: The state Congress party on Saturday took out a‘padyatra’, under the leadership of transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, from Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) headquarters and against the Centre’s three farm laws and the hike in petrol, diesel and LPG cylinder prices on Saturday. However, chief minister Ashok Gehlot, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasara and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot did not join the padyatra. Around 3,000-4,000 people joined the padyatra, which began at 11 am, as it passed through Chandpole market, Choti Chaupad, Badi Chaupad, Ramganj market, Surajpole and culminated at Galta Gate. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, MLAs – Ganga Devi Rafique Khan, Ameen Kagzi and Govind Meghwal were present in the padyatra. Khachariyawas drove a tractor at Ramganj market and leaders like Joshi, Kagzi, Khan, Devi, Manoj Mudgal, mayor Munesh Gurjar gave him company all the way. Hundreds of Congress workers and councillors joined the padytra as they raised slogans like ‘tanasahi nahi chalegi’ and ‘kisan birodhi bill wapas lo’. The business community at Chandpole market welcomed Khachariyawas by tying a turban and handing over as word. Addressing the crowd at Galta Gate, Khachariyawas said, “The struggle will continue till the farm laws are not repealed by the centre. The Congress workers are fighting, under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi, against the centre’s move to hike petrol, diesel and LPG cylinder prices and in support of farmers’ agitation across the country.” “This is a struggle between the Modi government and the people(of the country). Time has come to raise the slogan “Modi Hatao, Desh Bachao” in order to save this country,” he added. MLA Rafique Khan said, “There is a wave of anti-incumbency against the Modi government across the country on issues of petrol-diesel prices, inflation, employment and farm laws. A movement is developing across the country and people are joining this movement spontaneously. This (farm laws) has become a common man’s issue. They (BJP) are also losing elections in every part of the country because of their policies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-takes-out-padyatra-against-farm-laws-fuel-prices/articleshow/81130179.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to meet farm union representatives today||NEW DELHI: In a major outreach, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has planned a lunch with farm union representatives at Delhi assembly on Sunday afternoon. The three farm laws passed by the Centre last year and other issues concerning the farmers were likely to come up at the meeting, a government official who didn’t want to be named said. Aam Aadmi Party has demanded an immediate repeal of the three laws and Kejriwal had even torn its copies in the assembly in December. The CM said he was doing so as he couldn’t betray the farmers and soldiers of the country.The assembly also adopted a resolution against the three laws. Kejriwal has maintained that the laws bring no advantage to the farmers and will, instead, make it difficult for them to sell their products at reasonable rates. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and other states have been agitating near the Delhi borders since November-end demanding that the farm laws be repealed. Kejriwal has met the protesters many times during the past three months to lend his support, has arranged water supply to them and criticised Delhi Police for allegedly creating hurdles in reaching help to the farmers. The protesters have demanded the withdrawal of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The laws were passed by Parliament in September 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-to-meet-farm-union-reps-today/articleshow/81130188.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: One killed, three injured as car rams into divider||NAGPUR: A woman died while three of her kin were seriously injured after the car in which they were travelling fell on its side after hitting the divider in front of Surbhi Hostel, between Ravi Nagar Square and Law College Square, in the wee hours of Saturday. Barkha Khurana, 23, died on the spot while her younger brother Lucky was among the three seriously injured. Another family member Riya Khurana’s condition is learnt to be critical. Prem Chandani, who was behind the wheels, also sustained serious injuries. The victims, belonging to business families, were returning from an eatery on Amravati Road when the accident took place. An offence has been registered at Ambazari police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-killed-3-injured-as-car-rams-into-divider/articleshow/81130178.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||New study says 50km of Mumbai Metropolitan Region coastline is at risk of flooding, erosion||Mumbai: Over 50km of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region coastline, especially parts of south Mumbai and the eastern suburbs, is highly vulnerable to sea level-induced flooding and coastal erosion, showed a recent study. The researchers have attributed the risk to unsustainable development along with destruction of mangroves, wetlands and water bodies between 1976 and 2015. According to the study published in the peer-reviewed journal Springer Nature, the coastal vulnerability index results showed that across a total area of 187.1km coastline surveyed from Mira-Bhayandar to Alibaug, 50.8km (approximately 19%) was highly vulnerable, 60.9km had a moderate vulnerability and 55.8km had very low vulnerability based on five geological, three physical variables, and four socio-economic variables. The study was carried out by a group of researchers from Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi; Asian Institute of Technology, Thailand; Deshapran College of Teachers Education, Medinipur, WB; and School of Planning and Architecture, Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-study-says-50km-of-mmr-coastline-is-at-risk-of-flooding-erosion/articleshow/81143652.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 21, 2021||Kochi||Permanent market for films mooted||Kochi: Chalachithra Academy has proposed the setting up of a permanent film market, at its headquarters, to help filmmakers in state promote their films to an international audience. Speaking at an open forum on IFFK and Malayalam cinema, Ajoy Chandran, secretary of the academy, said the organization placed a proposal before the planning board for setting up a permanent film market at Centre for International Film Research and Archives. Though various IFFK editions had film markets, they were never effective. Filmmaker Sajin Babu said though IFFK played a significant role in bringing exposure to world cinema and nurturing a generation of film talents, it could not excel in marketing films. “Film festivals in Tehran and Busan played a key role in promoting films made in respective countries and it is programmers, curators and sales agents who popularized the films to an international audience. But, I doubt whether IFFK could help our directors in a similar way,” he said, in the session moderated by filmmaker Sandeep Ravindranath. Speakers at the forum opined creating opportunities for emerging filmmakers. Script and work-in-progress labs would be an ideal way to help struggling filmmakers complete and market their work to an international audience. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/permanent-market-for-films-mooted/articleshow/81129463.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 41,000 left out beneficiaries given last chance to get vaccine shot on February 22||LUCKNOW: Nearly 41,000 healthcare and frontline workers who are yet to take their first dose of Covid vaccine, will get the last chance for inoculation on February 22, district health authorities said on Saturday. Talking to TOI, district immunisation officer Dr MK Singh said, “Earlier, February 22 was reserved as the mop-up round (for phase 2) for frontline workers but now we have decided to vaccinate every frontline and healthcare worker who turns up at booths across the city.” Healthcare workers are being covered in phase I. In the eight rounds held so far in this phase, 43,046 workers out of total 59,000 enlisted have been given the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19. This means about 15,944 have missed the vaccine. Similarly, frontline workers comprising officers and employees of police, security personnel, local bodies, civic agencies, urban development and revenue departments are being vaccinated in phase 2. In the four rounds held in this phase so far, out of total 45,000 listed workers, 20,115 have got their first dose. This leaves 24,885 workers who are yet to be covered. In all, 40,829 healthcare and frontline workers have missed the vaccine shot. Barring the last rounds of both the phases, the drive saw a poor turnout. “We have given enough opportunities to beneficiaries in both the categories. Since the exercise is voluntary, we cannot force anyone but would appeal to all to get the jab to keep themselves as well as their families and society safe,” said Dr Singh. However, the big question is how health officers will vaccinate over 40,000 left out beneficiaries in a day when all the 61 centres in the city taken together can inoculate maximum 18,000 people in a given day. Officers said so far it has been found that around 10% of beneficiaries who come for vaccination are unfit for the jabs because of health issues, while 5% opt out due to personal reasons. This will leave about 27,000 who can turn up to get the shots. When asked how the department would manage vaccination of such a large number in a day, Dr Singh said additional vaccines and extra vaccinators would be available at centres. “Vehicles will be deployed at each centre to bring more vaccines if required. We have already seen that some of the centres achieved three times their target during the rounds on Thursday and Friday. Others can do the same,” he said. Dr Singh added that the health department would inform the left out beneficiaries about the schedule through SMSes and telephone calls. All hospitals and departments will also be asked to send reminders about the schedule to their workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/41k-left-out-beneficiaries-given-lastchance-to-get-vaccine-shot-on-feb-22/articleshow/81131592.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
February 21, 2021||Rajkot||Bigwigs to reach Rajkot today to vote||RAJKOT: Of the bigwigs who will cast their votes in the city on Sunday include chief minister Vijay Rupani and governor of Karnataka, Vaju Vala. There is separate registration for Covid patients who would want to cast their votes which will be opened after 5 pm, said sources. According to officials, Rupani, who has registered himself as per the Covid guidelines, is expected to arrive at Anil Gyan Mandir school voting booth of ward number 10 wearing his PPE kit. While Vaju Vala is expected to cast his vote around 2pm in Harihar hall booth on Kalavad road, Rupani’s wife Anjali will cast her vote at 9am. Rajkot Municipal commissioner Udit Agrawal and his wife Shweta Teotia, the managing director of PGVCL, will cast their votes at 10am in school number 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bigwigs-to-reach-city-today-to-vote/articleshow/81129455.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Patna||DSP demoted for man’s arrest in false rape case in Bihar||PATNA: In a rare punishment, the state government demoted DSP Nisar Ahmed to the inspector rank for illegally getting arrested an innocent man on false charges of rape for personal gain. A notification about Nisar’s demotion with simultaneously revoking his suspension was issued by the state home department late Friday night. “Nisar acted in self interest and for personal gain. The action against him has been taken as per provisions of Bihar Government Servants (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 2005,” the notification stated. Nisar was posted as sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) of Narkatiaganj in West Champaran when an FIR was lodged with Sathi police station on October 6, 2018 following a court’s directive on a complaint case filed by one Chinta Devi. The woman had accused Pune-based Zarar Sherkhar of raping her on the pretext of marriage. Nisar, after supervision of the case, sent a police team to Pune. Zarar was arrested, brought to Narkatiaganj and sent to jail after production before a court. ADG (law and order) Amit Kumar on Saturday said the allegations were found false after thorough investigation in the case. “The DSP had conducted a superficial supervision due to which an innocent person had to spent three months in jail,” he said and added that action has been taken against the DSP after departmental proceedings. The probe revealed that Zarar had never come to Bihar. It also came to light that Zarar’s father had taken loan from the woman’s father while living in Dubai. The woman filed a rape complaint against Zarar in order to pressurise hi family to return the loan amount, the further investigation revealed. The ADG said action has been taken against the DSP after departmental proceedings. Zarar’s innocence was proved only after his mother Nusrat Ejaz Sherkhar wrote to West Champaran SP, who reviewed the case in the presence of Sathi SHO and other witnesses. The SP found that neither investigation was conducted seriously nor the complainant’s medical examination was done. The complainant woman’s mother, brother, her nephew and even independent witnesses didn’t support the allegations during the SP’s supervision. The case was finally found to be ‘false’ in final supervision by Champaran range DIG and an order was issued to file petition in the court for getting Zarar freed after approving the SP’s supervision on March 31, 2019. The final form was submitted in the court for freeing Zarar on April 1, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dsp-demoted-for-mans-arrest-in-false-rape-case/articleshow/81130226.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 21, 2021||Jaipur||Maharashtra BJP MLA, his dad, brother held for assault on Rajasthan police||JAIPUR: The BJP MLA from Maharashtra’s Chimur constituency, his father, brother and two relatives were arrested by Sikar’s Kotwali police for assaulting a police team on Saturday. All the accused were produced in a court for disturbing peace and were released on bail later. The case will be further investigated by the crime branch of Rajasthan police. According to police, Kirti Kumar Bhangdiya along with 19 others including his father, brother and relatives were on their way to Salasar temple in Churu district. “To reach Salasar, they had to pass through Sikar where one of our head constable penalised the bus for entering a no-entry zone and slapped a fine Rs 500. This irked the MLA who along with four others assaulted the head constable on duty and also abused a woman constable,” said Sikar SP Kunwar Rastradeep. Initially, the bus started moving after paying the penalty but within minutes it stopped and five people including the MLA came out and assaulted and abused a head constable and woman constable. “They were threatening our team and even after arrival of more policemen, they were into jostling and assaulting,” the SP added. Soon after, the police team intimated the control room. “The other accused were the MLA’s father Mitesh Bhangdiya (55), his brother Srikant (36), Ankit Bhootada (26) and Sushil Kothari. A case under appropriate sections of IPC has been lodged against the assault on police, causing deterrence in police work and for disturbing peace,” the SP added. All were produced in a local court which granted them bail. Now, Sikar police will send the FIR lodged against all the accused to the CID-CB wing of Rajasthan police. “Since it is a case related to an MLA, they will now investigate the matter,” the SP added. The MLA claimed that there was no no-entry signboard. “I stepped down from the bus to ask the policemen whether he had the powers to seize the license and registration that led to an argument,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/maha-bjp-mla-his-dad-brother-held-for-assault-on-raj-police/articleshow/81130190.cms||Ashish Mehta
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||‘Reset relationship with nature again’||There’s a need to reset our relationship with nature by valuing it as an indispensable resource, said Hindustan Unilever CMD Sanjiv Mehta, stressing on the importance of sustainability as a business goal. He was giving a speech on ‘transformation for continuity’ at All India Management Association’s 65th Foundation Day.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/reset-relationship-with-nature-again/articleshow/81131591.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Centre’s nod for 5 IAS officers as secys||Thiruvananthapuram: Five senior Kerala cadre IAS officers have been cleared by the Centre to the rank of secretary or secretary equivalent, who are now eligible to be appointed in such posts at the Centre. The appointments committee of the cabinet have approved the empanelment of Gyanesh Kumar, Manoj Joshi and Rajesh Kumar Singh for holding secretary-level posts, and Devendra Kumar Singh and Edwin Kulbhushan Majhi for holding secretary-equivalent posts. While Rajesh Kumar Singh is presently additional chief secretary (finance) in the state, other four officers are on deputation at the Centre. It is reliably learnt that Rajesh Kumar Singh, who has completed his cooling-off period in the state, would leave for Centre soon. Gyanesh Kumar, an officer from the 1988 batch, is presently additional secretary in the ministry of home affairs and had supervised the scrapping of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir. While Manoj Joshi is additional secretary in the ministry of food processing, Devendra Kumar Singh is additional secretary and development commissioner in the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises and E K Majhi is additional secretary in the ministry of food and public distribution. The officers are among the 40 senior IAS officers from across the country who have been elevated for holding the posts of secretaries or equivalent at the Centre. The state at present has 19 officers who are on central deputation, and two — Ajit Patil and Keshavendra Kumar — on inter-cadre deputation to Maharashtra and Bihar, respectively, while one officer — M Sivasankar — is under suspension. The state also is facing acute shortage of the IAS officers, as seen from the statistics. While the total strength of IAS officers sanctioned by the Centre for Kerala is 231, only 181 officers are expected to serve the state at a time, while the remaining are excluded under the central deputation reserve, leave reserve, etc. On the contrary to the expected strength, the state has only 145 officers available for service, out of which only 124 are serving in the cadre at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/centres-nod-for-5-ias-officers-as-secys/articleshow/81129472.cms||KP Saikiran
February 21, 2021||Kolhapur||Premium petrol fetches Rs 100.3/litre in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The price of premium quality petrol was recorded at Rs 100.3/ litre on Saturday — the highest ever in Kolhapur city. The petrol prices have been increasing continously in the last couple of months. Since January, the prices have increased by around Rs 6 per litre for regular-quality petrol. On Saturday, the price of regular petrol was Rs 96.9/litre. The prices of both regular and premium-quality petrol ncreased by 38 paise. Diesel price increased by Rs 30 paise to stand at Rs 86.7/litre on Saturday. Gajkumar Mangave, district president of petrol pump owners association said, “The rise in petrol and diesel prices is against the interest of common people. The district requires around 5.2 lakh litre of petrol and 3.5 lakh litre diesel every day. There has been very meagre effect on the sale of petrol but the sale of diesel has been hampered by around 5% to 10%.” Heavy vehicles require large amount of diesel. The diesel is also used by the tractors for agricultural activities and pumps to irrigate farms with water from nearby canals and other water bodies. “Saturday saw the highest increase of 38 paise in petrol rates. Since the last two months, there has been a rise between 25 paise and 30 paise every day. The petrol price varies from district to district mainly due to the distance from the supply node. We have supply node at Bhilawadi in Sangli district. Therefore, prices in Sangli are less than Kolhapur by a few paise,” said Mangave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/premium-petrol-fetches-rs-100-3/litre-in-kolhapur/articleshow/81131581.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Delhi||Mercury rising: Temperature may touch 31°C in Delhi by mid-week, air quality to improve||NEW DELHI: If you were feeling warm this past week, conditions in Delhi are all set to become even more uncomfortable. The mercury is likely to touch 30 degrees Celsius by Wednesday and 31 degrees by Thursday. The minimum temperature is also set to rise by around 3 degrees, with nights becoming warmer than normal. Met officials say lack of western disturbances in the region, coupled with low wind speed, has led to a rise in temperature. No western disturbances have been recorded in the capital after February first week. A western disturbance generally leads to an increase in wind speed and brings rain to the region, causing a drop in mercury after its departure. “A number of factors are impacting the region and while a western disturbance is expected in the coming week, it will influence the hills and not Delhi-NCR. Wind speeds have been low and clear skies are also being seen, causing higher than normal daytime temperature,” said RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD. The region also records a drop in temperature due to cold north-westerly winds blowing from the hills, however, wind direction has largely been westerly. “A change in wind direction is not expected this week, but wind speed may pick up a little that may provide minor relief. Clear skies are one of the major reasons why dense fog is being recorded,” said Jenamani. Even on Saturday, parts of Delhi recorded dense fog in the morning, leading to low visibility. Delhi’s maximum temperature was recorded at 27.3 degrees Celsius — three notches above the normal for this time of the season. The minimum temperature was 10.4 degrees Celsius. According to IMD, the normal temperature between February 20 and 24 is 24.8 degrees Celsius, while it is 25.6 degrees Celsius between February 25 and 28. “This shows mercury could go 5 to 6 degrees above normal. Immediately relief is unlikely,” said a Met official. Delhi’s air quality was, meanwhile, in the ‘poor’ category with an overall air quality index (AQI) of 250 on Saturday. “Surface winds are low, however, they are forecast to improve significantly for the next three days. Improvement in ventilation and AQI is expected over the next three days. AQI is likely to improve from Sunday onwards,” said SAFAR, a body under the Union ministry of earth sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mercury-rising-temp-may-touch-31c-by-mid-week-air-quality-to-improve/articleshow/81130212.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Drive in city to adopt rescue dogs||Hyderabad: To provide a home for rescued Indian dogs and drive home responsible pet ownership, a private veterinary care hospital in the city is organising a pet adoption drive at The Challet, Jubilee Hills on Sunday. The hospital will be organising the adoption drive for 20 rescue dogs that are currently being fostered by rescuers in the city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drive-in-city-to-adopt-rescue-dogs/articleshow/81131594.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Surat||Over 10,000 security personnel to ensure peaceful polling in Surat||SURAT: Over 10,000 security personnel have been deployed to maintain law and order during the voting for the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) election on Sunday. Total 4,500 police personnel, 3,841 home guard, five companies of state reserve police and two companies of paramilitary force will be on bandobast duties in the city. “Our senior officers will keep a close watch on sensitive booths and 27 quick response teams will address any emergency situation. Police also held mohalla meetings to create awareness and ensure peaceful polling,” said Surat city police commissioner Ajay Tomar. Meanwhile, police raided 587 liquor dens of bootleggers and seized liquor worth Rs 40 lakh in the past 20 days. Police also seized 29,750 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor worth Rs 37.65 lakh and 9,337 litre country liquor worth Rs 1.86 lakh. Meanwhile, people who are Covid-19 positive will be allowed to vote during the election after wearing a PPE kit and following social distancing guidelines. District collector and chief district election officer Dhaval Patel declared that the patients need to carry a certificate from doctors approved as per government guideline that they are fit to vote. The Covid19 positive or suspected patients can vote only during the last hour for voting on Sunday and will have to come in an ambulance. The temperature of voters will be checked with a thermal gun and they will be provided soap, sanitiser to clean hand along with gloves to ensure safety. During the last one month, police have arrested 160 absconders while 9,542 persons were detained as part of preventive actions. Total of 74 repeated offenders were externed from the city while 71 were sent to different jails of state under PASA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/10k-security-personnel-deployed-to-ensure-peaceful-polling-in-surat/articleshow/81129465.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Three-wheelers emerge as top EV choice||NEW DELHI: Since the launch of the Delhi electric vehicle policy in August last year, three-wheelers have emerged as the highest-selling electric vehicles in the capital. A total of 5,534 new electric three-wheelers have been registered and more users are coming forward to make the switch. Delhi government is, meanwhile, running ‘Switch Delhi’ campaign focused on generating awareness on the benefits of electric three-wheelers along with the benefits offered under the Delhi EV policy for those who want to make a switch from ICE (Internal Combustion Engine) vehicles to electric. In the second week of the campaign, many users, environmentalists, celebrities and industry leaders have come forward to express their support to the campaign. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said: “We are constantly receiving positive feedback from original equipment manufacturers that a lot of people have expressed interest to make the switch from ICE to electric vehicles. Delhi government has led the way in promoting e-rickshaws for the last few years by giving a subsidy of Rs 30,000.” The transport minister said that under the electric vehicle policy, the same subsidy was extended to e-carts/loaders and electric-autos too. “Scrapping incentives of up to Rs 7,500 are also available. E-autos can complement e-rickshaws in providing zero pollution last-mile connectivity in Delhi. Delhi government will soon bring out a scheme to facilitate easy registration of e-autos,” he added. Subsidies provided by the Delhi government on electric autos reduce the total cost of ownership of the electric three-wheeler by up to 26%. “By switching to electric autos, an individual buyer can save approximately Rs 29,000 annually. Similarly, the subsidies provided on an electric e-rickshaw reduce the total cost of ownership by up to 33%,” Gahlot said. Under the Delhi electric vehicle policy, 177 three-wheeler models are available and eligible for purchase and scrapping incentives across 68 manufacturers. Sunil Kumar who recently switched to EV said, “The e-rickshaw earns me my livelihood. I received a subsidy of Rs 30,000, and the registration fee and road tax were waived off under the EV policy. I would urge three-wheeler owners in Delhi to switch to an e-rickshaw as it would reduce pollution levels while helping you save money.” Another person, Ravi, said “the e-rickshaw is very easy to charge and has a plug-and-charge mechanism.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-wheelers-emerge-as-top-ev-choice/articleshow/81130221.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 21, 2021||Nashik||Marginal rise in wholesale onion price||Nashik: The recent rainfall has affected the supply of onions at the Lasalgaon APMC — the country’s largest wholesale onion market — leading to a marginal rise in average wholesale onion price. The average wholesale price increased by Rs 100 per quintal to reach Rs 4,000. On Friday, the average wholesale price was Rs 3,900 per quintal. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 1,300 and Rs 4,300 per quintal, respectively on Saturday. Around 4,500 quintals of onions were auctioned at Lasalgaon. The average wholesale onion prices have increased by 15% over the past week — from Rs 3,500 to Rs 4,000 per quintal. The arrival of onions have already reduced over the past couple of weeks from 15,000 quintals to 6,000 quintals a day as the late kharif onions are getting exhausted gradually. The arrival of new summer onions is yet to pick up. The recent unseasonal rain also hit the supply. “The recent unseasonal rain has hit the supply of onions at Lasalgaon. The drop in supply in comparison to the demand led to a rise in average wholesale onion prices. But the wholesale onion prices will reduce once the arrivals of fresh summer onions increase,” said Narndra Wadhawane, the secretary of Lasalgaon APMC. In retail markets of the city, good quality onions were available for Rs 50 a kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/marginal-rise-in-wholesale-onion-price/articleshow/81131607.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||PD Act against man caught with ganja||Hyderabad: City police invoked PD Act against a carpenter from Dhoolpet who was arrested by Mangalhat police a few days ago for allegedly being in possession of 24 kgs of ganja. Police said that the accused has been in Chanchalguda prison since his arrest. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pd-act-against-man-caught-with-ganja/articleshow/81131614.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kanpur||Minor girl gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh, three accused arrested||KANPUR: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by three men under the limits of Ghatampur police station on late Friday night. The girl has been sent for a medical examination. Following a complaint, the police arrested the three accused and sent them to jail. The incident came to light after survivors’ family members lodged an FIR at Ghatampur police station on Saturday. The parents of the survivor have lodged a case with Ghatampur Kotwali police station against the three accused, SP (Rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava said, adding that the statement of the survivor under 164 CrPC would be recorded before the magistrate soon. “Following a complaint by the girl’s family members on Saturday, all the three accused were arrested and after being booked under relevant IPC sections have been sent to jail,” he said. The parents of the girl stated in the FIR that the girl had gone to her nearby fields on Friday night when the accused, who were on a motorbike, abducted her and took her to a nearby isolated spot where she was raped. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/minor-girl-gang-raped-three-accused-arrested/articleshow/81129473.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Stress mgmt prog for students||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education will be organizing an online programme on stress management for to all students on February 21 and 28 from 11 am to 12: 30pm. Students can join the live sessions on the YouTube channel of Heartfulness Education. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stress-mgmt-prog-for-students/articleshow/81131617.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Delhi||Seven of Delhi’s 11 districts are reeling under impact of vehicular pollution, reveals study||NEW DELHI: A study on the ambient air quality assessed in 2020 that in terms of five pollutants —CO, NOx, PM10, PM2.5 and Sox — the air quality was ‘excessively poor’ in South-West, West, New Delhi, Central, North-East, East and South-East districts for three air pollutants (PM10, PM2.5 and NOx). Track the pollution level in your cityThe study, published in the journal, Elsevier — Journal of Transport & Health, in 2020 was conducted by researchers from Delhi Technological University, Amity University, Haryana, and Indraprastha University. In the study the researchers focused on understanding the influence of traffic-induced criteria air pollutants along 36 transport corridors in the capital’s 11 districts and assessed the associated health risks. “We classified vehicular pollutants into five different distribution categories — low, moderately low, moderate, moderately high, and high,” said Rajeev Kumar Mishra, assistant professor, DTU. “The spatial distribution maps were developed using Geographic Information System covering 36 transport corridors. The study demonstrated the concentration of three of the five ambient air pollutants, namely NOx, PM10 and PM2.5.” Mishra said the ambient air quality in South, Central, East and New Delhi districts were in the high and moderately high categories, and thus requiring adequate control measures. The researchers used parameters like vehicle characteristics, emission factor, road characteristics and meteorological factors to estimate the emission and concentration of pollutants in the corridors. Co-researcher Amrit Kumar said, “We observed higher concentrations of carbon monoxide in districts like South-East, East, Shahdara, Central and New Delhi because these have regular trans-border fleets.” Similarly, NOx was higher in South and South-East due to the mixed land-use pattern, characterised by commercial and residential areas and the highest traffic density among the districts. PM2.5 and PM10 levels were higher in Shahdara, South-East, South, New Delhi and Central districts. The study also reported on expected cases of human exposure to respiratory mortality, cardiovascular mortality and total mortality due to pollution. “The high respiratory mortality and cardio-vascular mortality on the ISBT Flyover and Wazirabad Road, as well as Panchkuian Road, Janpath, Tilak Marg and Sansad Marg routes, we surmised, could be due to vehicular pollution,” said Mishra. The researchers felt it was of paramount importance for policymakers to focus on the reports findings and bring in suitable remedial measures. “We have to also look at the local sources of pollution in Delhi. Traffic pollution and biomass burning also add to the pollution and need to be considered,” said Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/seven-of-delhis-11-districts-are-reeling-under-impact-of-vehicular-pollution-reveals-study/articleshow/81130238.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 21, 2021||Delhi||We can leave behind China when it comes to manufacturing: CM||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said that India could displace China as the world’s biggest manufacturing hub if the country worked towards it on a war-footing. Addressing a Niti Aayog governing council meeting, the CM said that the central and state governments should come together to build manufacturing hubs across the country to provide facilities and give tax-breaks to micro, small and medium enterprises, manufacturers and industrialists for import substitutes and exports. Kejriwal stressed on promoting start-ups. “India never gave importance to the manufacturing sector in the last 70 years and, as a result, we are lagging. This has allowed China to capture the market,” Kejriwal said at the meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“India had to confront two issues last year. First was Covid, which badly affected the manufacturing sector, and many jobs were lost. Also, we saw how China has been challenging us on the border, and at the same time, it has captured our markets — Chinese products are replacing Indian products on a large scale,” Kejriwal said.“We need to promote start-ups. It’ll help create a number of jobs. I have studied in IIT-Kharagpur and, at that time, a lot of people used to go out (of the country) after studying in IITs. This trend has declined in the last 10-15 years and our youth wants to stay in India and start their own business,” he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/we-can-leave-behind-china-when-it-comes-to-manufacturing-cm/articleshow/81130233.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Thane||Stray dog shot with air gun in Thane||A stray dog suffered injuries near its eye after it was allegedly shot with an air gun in Kasarwadavli, Thane, on Friday. An animal lover spotted the animal in distress and informed an NGO. The dog was rushed to Thane civic hospital’s veterinary department. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/stray-dog-shot-with-air-gun-in-thane/articleshow/81131625.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
February 21, 2021||Delhi||EDMC looks to bring 94 left-out colonies in tax net||NEW DELHI: East Delhi Municipal Corporation has issued property tax categorisation for 94 colonies in areas under its jurisdiction that were either left out or came into being after the last municipal valuation committee (MVC) finalised the classification. An official said that under Delhi Municipal Corporation (Property Tax) Bylaws 2004, the municipal commissioner is empowered to categorise such left-out colonies or those which came into being after the MVC classification. “The new categorisation of these 94 colonies will become applicable starting from ongoing financial year and will last till the new recommendations are cleared as per the successive Fourth Municipal Valuation Committee,” an EDMC order stated. Most of these colonies are spread over 34 wards and largely fall under the D, F,G and H categories. The property tax calculation in the city depends on six factors, which include the categorisation of a colony. Ward 55-E Trilokpuri has the largest number of these colonies, followed by Ward 15-E Shakarpur. Colonies, such as Mayur Vihar Phase-I Extension, Phase-III LIG flats and new MIG flats, Phase II and Mayur Kunj, have all been clubbed into the D category. Similarly, Vinod Nagar E block, West Vinod Nagar B and C blocks, East Vinod Nagar and Laxmi Nagar’s D, J and A blocks come under the F category; so do Shakarpur’s A, R, U, B, DA, D, G, H, MB and WB blocks. The same F category has been determined for C, D, S, B and J blocks of Pandav Nagar, but Law Apartments in Karkardooma and Vivek Vihar Phase-I Block D will be under the D category. According to the unit-area method of property tax calculations, which was introduced in 2004, property taxes in Delhi are calculated on the basis of multiplicative factor of six components — the total covered area, unit-area value (in rupees per square metre), age, occupancy, structural and the usage factors. The colonies in Delhi are categorised from A to G categories based on the state of infrastructure and amenities in the area with A being most developed and G the least. Circle rates and unit-area value of a category varies from Rs 630 per sqm in A to Rs200 per sqm in the G category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/e-corpn-looks-to-bring-94-left-out-colonies-in-tax-net/articleshow/81130242.cms||Paras Singh
February 21, 2021||Kochi||TN hands over new rule curve of Mullaperiyar dam||Idukki: For the first time, the Tamil Nadu government has handed over the rule curve of the Mullaperiyar dam to Kerala. This comes after repeated requests from the state’s water resources department. Recently, central water commission (CWC) in consultation with Tamil Nadu fixed the rule-curve level for Mullaperiyar dam. “The rule curve of Mullaperiyar dam was a long-pending demand, which Tamil Nadu finally handed over to us. We have not verified it yet, and only after a detailed inspection can we know the newly-fixed rule curve of the dam. We hope the rule curve includes the manual shutter operations too,” said an official from the water resources department. “A proper rule curve helps to avoid an emergency situation where dam shutters are opened in a flood-like situation. If CWC fixes a rule-curve level, water in the dam has to be released to keep storage below that level,” said the official. It was alleged that Tamil Nadu’s sudden release of water from Mullaperiyar dam caused floods in 2018. Water from the reservoir was allegedly discharged by opening all the 13 shutters, thus causing large-scale damage on the banks of Periyar river. The sudden water release from Mullaperiyar resulted in an increase in water level in Idukki reservoir. The release of shutters from Idukki reservoir without proper warning had caused large-scale damage to the downstream areas of Idukki dam. KSEB had faced huge criticism that the sudden release from Idukki dam had resulted in the massive flood in Kerala. KSEB chief engineer (dam safety and DRIP) Supriya S said, “When fixing the rule curve, Tamil Nadu needs to maintain the rule level considering the weather forecast too. Mullaperiyar’s rule curve will help manage the water level in Idukki reservoir too.” “Earlier, big dams were constructed for irrigation and power generation purposes. The state had never faced a flood situation before August 2018. But after the August 2018 floods, CWC fixed the rule curve for major dams in every ten-day period,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tn-hands-over-new-rule-curve-of-mullaperiyar-dam/articleshow/81129493.cms||Sandeep Thomas
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Guv lauds efforts by dargah trusts||Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari lauded the efforts of Haji Ali and Mahim dargah trusts who had provided food and other essential amenities to the needy during the lockdown. Besides, the governor also sent appreciation letters to several ‘Covid warriors’ across the city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/guv-lauds-efforts-by-dargah-trusts/articleshow/81131637.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Scam protest pleas to be heard in Mar||A special Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) court will hear arguments on the protest petitions and the EOW’s closure report in the Rs 25,000 crore MSC Bank scam case on March 15. On Saturday, the court heard arguments on the plea submitted by activist Anna Hazare, claiming that since the majority of directors of the bank belong to NCP, it appeared that the investigating officer had acted under political pressure. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/scam-protest-pleas-to-be-heard-in-mar/articleshow/81130249.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Dehradun||Education dept appoints nodal officer for Atal Utkrisht Schools||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand education department has appointed a nodal officer to look after the affiliation process of the Atal Utkrisht Schools. The department intends to get the model schools affiliated to the CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education) board. However, many schools have not been able to meet the eligibility criteria laid out by the central body. The process for affiliation will start again from March 1, 2021. The Atal Utkrisht Schools are a flagship project of the education department. It aims to provide English medium education at a nominal cost to the students who reside in remote areas. Notably, the education department is planning to make the schools operational from the upcoming academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/education-dept-appoints-nodal-officer-for-atal-utkrisht-schools/articleshow/81129499.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 21, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Child protection panel takes cognisance, seeks report||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (RSCPCR) has taken cognisance of the rape and abduction of a five-year-old girl in Jhunjhunu and asked a report regarding the incident from the district police as well as the administration. The child was playing with her brother when the accused abducted her following which he raped her. She was found in a bloodied state near a well in the village and was rushed to the hospital from where she was referred to Jaipur in a serious condition and is undergoing treatment. Chairperson of RSCPCR Sangeeta Beniwal said, “This is an extremely heinous crime and I have asked for a complete report from the district police as well as the administration. The accused has been arrested and we will do everything to ensure that justice is served.” Beniwal was in Jodhpur on Saturday to take part in Congress’s protest against the farm laws but when she heard about this incident, she immediately returned to Jaipur and went straight to the hospital to meet the rape survivor and her family. “We have already given Rs 1 lakh as financial aid to the child’s family and additionally Rs 5 lakh will also be given to them at the earliest. I am personally monitoring her condition,” added Beniwal. Rajasthan has been regularly in news when it comes to crime against women and children. The 2019 National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report also revealed alarming figures for Rajasthan with the state reporting 902 gang-rape cases, highest in the country. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh, but the difference is massive, almost twice the number. While the state. is leading in the number of rape cases with 5997 incidents, it is also on top with 1,019 attempt to rape cases. Meanwhile, the state government claimed that their main focus is to ensure safety of women and children by conducting swift and prompt investigation. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/child-rights-body-seeks-report-on-girls-rape/articleshow/81130256.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
February 21, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Police's cyber cell files FIR in scribe phishing case||NEW DELHI: News anchor Nidhi Razdan had received suspicious emails from at least four accounts and one of them was using the Protonmail server, sources investigating an alleged case of phishing attack said. Last year, cyber-criminals allegedly impersonated Harvard officials and led her to believe that she had got a job offer from them. After conducting a preliminary inquiry, the cyber cell of Delhi Police filed an FIR in connection with the case. A senior police officer confirmed that a case under sections of forgery, 66D (whoever, by means for any communication device or computer resource, cheats by impersonation), among others, was registered. So far, police have been trying to identify the location from where the emails were sent. The cops have written to different platforms from which the mails were sent to obtain the IP address to trace the location. “The mails to Razdan were sent from 3-4 accounts, including a Protonmail. One of the platforms has responded and we are trying to resolve the IP address to trace the location. As of now, it appears that the mails were sent from abroad,” said a senior officer. In January, the cyber cell had received a complaint from Razdan, who had claimed that a fraudulent offer was made to her for a position of associate professor at Harvard. According to a senior officer, Razdan filed the complaint at Greater Kailash police station alleging forgery, cheating, identity fraud and impersonation by unknown accused. She had filed a similar complaint with Jammu & Kashmir police on January 16 when she was in Srinagar. Later, the case was transferred to cyber cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cyber-cell-files-fir-in-scribe-phishing-case/articleshow/81131661.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||With eye on civic elections, Congress woos Gujaratis||Mumbai: A month after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reached out to Gujaratis in Mumbai, state Congress president Nana Patole and his Mumbai counterpart Bhai Jagtap knocked at the doors of that community with an eye on civic polls. At a meeting organized by Mumbai Congress’ Gujarati cell, Patole assured them Congress will make all-out efforts for redressal of their grievances. “The business community is facing a critical situation over the manner in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi brought in GST. Small-scale industry has collapsed, while most small traders have closed business. Modi is concerned only about two leading industrial houses. BJP should not take the Gujarati community for granted,’’ Patole said. A senior Congress leader said out of the 227 wards in Mumbai, Gujaratis are a deciding factor in at least 70. Meanwhile, security outside Amitabh Bachchan’s Juhu bungalow Jalsa was tightened. Prafulla Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/with-eye-on-civic-elections-congress-woos-gujaratis/articleshow/81130291.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL pays BBMB Rs 250cr a year as staff costs, but 1,227 posts lie vacant||Patiala: The PSPCL has been paying over Rs 250 crore annually to Bhakhra Beas Management Board (BBMB) as employee cost. But this includes the cost of 1,227 posts lying vacant. Of 1,549 sanctioned posts under Punjab quota, there are 164 posts under class 1 and 2 categories of which around 65 posts are lying vacant. Similarly, 721 posts of the total 944 under class 3 category are lying vacant whereas 441 posts of 457 posts under class-4 category are lying vacant. Due to non-decision of the partner states (Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan) on the sharing of posts in BBMB during various meetings, the interim arrangements were put in place in 1998, which is being followed till today. In the power wing, Punjab gets 58% share of posts in Bhakra Nangal Project and Haryana get 42% share while Rajasthan has no share. In Beas Units, Punjab and Haryana get a share of 35% each and Rajasthan 30%, respectively whereas in the Common Works Punjab gets 52% share, Haryana gets 38% and Rajasthan gets 10% share in the posts. Punjab plays a major role in sharing the cost of Power Wing among the partner states — Punjab State Electricity Board (PSPCL) shares 51.80% cost while Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL) shares 37.51%; Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEBL) shares 7.19% and electricity department UT Chandigarh shares 3.5% cost each in Bhakra PW Project, Dehar Power House Unit-I and Pong Power House Unit II. The share of Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Ltd. (RRVPNL) is 15.22% in Bhakra PW project, 20% in Dehar Power House Unit-1 and 58.5% in Pong PH Unit II. Meanwhile, PSEB Engineers’ Association has written to Punjab chief minister to set right the flawed recruitment and restructuring policy of PSPCL management that needs to be directed to fill the vacant posts to provide better consumer services and protect the revenues of the corporation. The PSEBEA said PSPCL management in the name of restructuring policy is eliminating essential, but vacant posts or filling them with outsourced employees affecting the services. PSEB Engineers Association general secretary Ajaypal Singh Atwal said there are about 19,000 vacant posts in the cadres of assistant engineers, junior engineers, lineman, meter reader, and revenue assistants, and PSPCL plan to fill only 3,400 posts. He said, “This flawed recruitment policy is directly affecting the power sector and the finances of the corporation and is also denying employment opportunities to the youth of the state. Due to the inaction of PSPCL management, 1,227 posts from the Punjab cadre are lying vacant in BBMB, which is on the verge of recruiting its own cadre of engineers and other staff against the Punjab quota. PSPCL is paying more than Rs 250 crore per annum for the salaries and employee expenses of these vacant posts to BBMB.” “The cost is shared by Punjab, Haryana Rajasthan and HP. All these states have vacant posts. None of the department anywhere is without vacancy. The BBMB seek requirement of employees from us whenever required and later their panel select our employees. We used to send our employees on deputation and try to meet their requirements in every possible way,” said PSPCL director of administration, R P Pandov.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pspcl-pays-bbmb-rs-250cr-a-year-as-staff-costs-but-1227-posts-lie-vacant/articleshow/81130253.cms||Bharat Khanna
February 21, 2021||Pune||Lockdowns will not stop spread, focus on small clusters: Experts||Pune: Officials should not enforce lockdowns and instead must focus only on the small clusters in the state that are reporting a rise in Covid cases, public health experts have said. Dr Subhash Salunke, adviser to the state on Covid control, said the current spurt in cases in Maharashtra is not uniform. “The rise is limited to some clusters; not every area is affected. Administrators need to ensure stricter vigilance only in these clusters.” Dr Salunke said lockdowns are going to prove counterproductive. The districts of Amravati and Yavatmal recently imposed some restrictions with the former even enforcing a “weekend lockdown” to prevent overcrowding at marketplaces. But Dr Salunke said such brief lockdown spells will not stop the spread. He added that local administrations, instead of enforcing wider lockdowns, should focus on micro-containment zones where curbs should stay in place for more than 10 days, at least. Maharashtra, for the second consecutive day now, has reported more than 6,000 new Covid-19 cases. The spikes come after a lull that lasted a little over two months. State task force member, Dr Shashank Joshi, said authorities should immediately map hotspots and enforce double-masking, physical distancing and other measures to ensure these small areas become green zones as quickly as possible. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said lockdowns are an extreme form of isolation and should be applied only when there is no other solution. “It should be a last resort. The lockdown is a blunt weapon that’s painful and economically devastating. Stepping up surveillance and better testing are, any day, better options,” he said. As for the rise in cases, Dr Kant said a possible cause was failure among people to keep up precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdowns-will-not-stop-spread-focus-on-small-clusters-experts/articleshow/81131634.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 21, 2021||Ajmer||In a first, Afghanistan president’s chadar offered in Ajmer dargah||AJMER: For the first time, a chadar by Mohammad Ashraf Ghani, president of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, was offered in the dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisty in Ajmer on Saturday on the occasion of 809 yearly Urs. A delegation of senior diplomats of the Embassy of Afghanistan from New Delhi visited the dargah as special representatives on behalf of President of Afghanistan on Saturday. The delegation came with a qawwali procession and entered from Nizam gate. They went to the crypt and offered the chadar. The chadar was specially designed with immaculate zardozi work signifying the blessed white dome of dargah in centre of the chadar to mark the the blessed occasion of 809 Urs celebrations. Dargah and Chest e Sharif in Afghanistan share 800-year-old spiritual ties. This is the first time that a chadar was offered by the president of Afghanistan as millions of Afghan people reasserted their spiritual bond and cultural ties with India. A special letter from President Ashraf Ghani was also read out by cultural attache Ajmal Alimzai. Khadim Haji Syed Salman Chishty and chairman of Chishty Foundation with other senior members of Chishty Sufi community welcomed the delegates from the Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Mohammad Ashraf Ghani wrote in his message, "It is a singular honor to be offering the Chadar at the Urs of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishty. As an Afghan, and as a student of Sufi orders for over 50 years, I have been fascinated with the character, impact and reach of Khawaja Gharib Nawaz." "May the message of Khwaja Gharib Nawaz be heard and understood across the world," read the message. This chadar was offered on behalf of the people and the government of Afghanistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/in-a-first-afghanistan-prezs-chadar-offered-in-ajmer-dargah/articleshow/81130251.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: BJP to rope in top leaders for MLC election campaigns||HYDERABAD: With just three days left for the nomination process for the two graduate MLC elections, the BJP has drawn up plans to hold ‘intellectual meetings’ in all the poll-bound districts. Union ministers Prakash Javadekar, Smrithi Irani, Nirmala Sitaraman, Piyush Goyal and other national-level leaders, including Bhupender Yadav have been invited to address the intellectuals in the constituencies of Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar, and Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam. The ruling TRS, which is campaigning aggressively in Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam constituency, is yet to finalise its candidate for Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar seat. TRS is also raising the issue of skyrocketing petrol and LPG gas prices to corner BJP. Energy minister G Jagadish Reddy and transport minister P Ajay Kumar while campaigning along with party candidate Palla Rajeshwar Reddy in Nalgonda and Khammam districts said the BJP leaders should first prevail upon the Modi-government at the Centre to give back the seven mandals of Telangana given away to AP and then seek votes. The Congress, while targeting TRS and BJP for failing to give jobs to the youth, is banking on the clean image of its two contesting candidates in former minister G Chinna Reddy from Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar constituency and ex-MLC Ramulu Naik from Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam seat. Both Chinna Reddy and Ramulu Naik were at the forefront of Telangana statehood agitation, said TPCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy. He told the party cadre to explain government teachers and employees, the need to teach a lesson to TRS for not giving interim relief or PRC in last two years, and proposing only 7.5 per cent salary hike. “Tell voters that it is Modi-government which has dropped the ITIR that was sanctioned by previous Congress-led UPA government to generate nearly 50 lakh direct and indirect jobs in Hyderabad and its neighbouring districts,” Uttam told the party cadre. Hyderabad: Nineteen nominations were filed on Saturday for the biennial elections to Mahbubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad graduates’ constituency scheduled to be held on March 14. Till date, 43 nominations have been filed for two gradute MLC seats. Two-time MLC professor K Nageshwar filed his nomination as an independent candidate. Only two members are being allowed while filing the nominations. The last date for filing nominations is February 23. Candidates can file the papers at the GHMC head office between 11am and 3pm. Polling will be between 8 am and 4 pm on March 14 and results will be declared on March 17. A total of 5,17,883 people have so far enrolled as voters and 799 polling stations have been shortlisted.In view of Covid-19, only five members will be allowed to conduct door-to-door campaigning, while five vehicles will be allowed for roadshows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-to-rope-in-top-leaders-for-mlc-election-campaigns/articleshow/81130252.cms||Roushan Ali
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Putta Madhu to react after police probe||Hyderabad: Days after the senstational murder of lawyer couple in Peddapalli district, zilla parishad chairperson Putta Madhukar on Saturday said he would react on Gattu Vaman Rao and his wife Nagamani’s murders once the police inquiry is over. Ramagundam police arrested Madhukar’s nephew Bittu Srinivas on Friday in connection with the case. “Some media organisations are resorting to their own trial and making allegations against me. It appears the media has taken up its own probe in the incident and started a smear campaign. Congress leaders are making false allegations on me. I was in Manthani after the murders and have not gone anywhere,” the ZP chairman said while participating in TRS party membership drive in Manthani on Saturday. He said he would hold a media conference in Hyderabad with evidence after the police enquiry. The former TRS MLA of Manthani said he has no clue as to why people were targeting him and his family members.  “I am not a cheat and did anything wrong. My family and I have devoted our lives for welfare of the people,” he said. He said he would hold a media conference in Hyderabad with evidence after the police enquiry. Former TRS MLA of Manthani said he has no clue as to why people were targeting him and his family members||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/putta-madhu-to-react-after-police-probe/articleshow/81130288.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||NHAI-cops clash delaying road works||Thiruvananthapuram: A dispute between local police and workers of National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has been delaying the works of elevated highway and service roads at Kazhakootam.The authorities of RDS Project Limited, the engineering and general contracting firm that has undertaken the project have alleged that the works were being affected due to unnecessary intervention by the local police. The officials said the works were affected on Friday for several hours after the police at Kazhakootam confiscated their vehicles, including an excavator and three concrete mixers. The workers, including engineers, were also summoned to the station in the evening and kept in confinement till late night. The works could be resumed on Saturday afternoon only after the NHAI project director P Pradeep and RDS Project Limited vice-president colonel M R Nair held talks with district Collector, city police commissioner and deputy commissioner of police. Speaking to TOI, colonel M R Nair said it was unfortunate that the police, who were supposed to create a favourable condition for ensuring the speedy completion of works are instead causing problems. “Two months ago, we had demolished the compound wall of the Kazhakootam Police Station as part of service road works. Now, they are demanding that we must build them a new compound wall before proceeding with the road works,” said Nair. The police station complex, which also consists of the office of Kazhakootam cyber city assistant commissioner, lies beside the proposed service road. Nair said it is the revenue department that has to compensate those whose lands were acquired for the works and the contractor is not liable to carry out any repair works. “They confiscated our vehicles around 7.30pm the previous evening and released them only after 10.30pm,” Nair said, adding that the concrete mix in the mixers solidified in the meantime, rendering them unusable for work. They were also imposed a penalty of almost Rs 15,000 for causing traffic obstruction. Kazhakootam assistant commissioner Shainu Thomas said the vehicles were seized for causing traffic obstruction and that they received several complaints from motorists. “Their vehicles caused traffic snarls for over an hour following which we were forced to take action, he said. City police Commissioner Balramkumar Upadhyay said the demolition of the compound wall of the police station have compromised the station’s safety. “It is a government office. The dust and the slush that seeped into the station premises ever since the compound wall was demolished has been causing inconvenience to the public as well who visit the station,” he said, adding that the matter has been resolved for now and the works are resuming. The works were started in the beginning of 2020. Though the former collector had directed the local police to put traffic diversions in place to facilitate the works, the plan was nixed following protest from the local traders and vendors who complained that their business would be affected. In September last year, minister Kadakampally Surendran had visited the spot to review the works after motorists complained that the ongoing works have rendered the road unsafe. He had also directed the NHAI authorities to carry out temporary tarring of the service road before proceeding with the works of the elevated highway to address the safety concerns of the motorists. But this was delayed as it took some time to shift utility cables and a drainage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nhai-cops-clash-delaying-road-works/articleshow/81129515.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
February 21, 2021||Pune||Search for new job costs retired army man Rs 8.5 lakh in Pune||PUNE: Fraudsters cheated a 52-year-old retired army man of Rs8.5 lakh — the amount he got after retirement — promising him a job with good salary between July and August last year. The victim, currently residing at Bopkhel, lodged a complaint with the Dighi police on Friday. Senior inspector Mohan Shinde said, “The complainant retired in June 2020 from the services. But he decided to continue to work and prepared a biodata and uploaded it on a prominent job portal.” According to the complaint, the victim received a call in July on his cellphone and a woman allegedly told him that she looked after the hiring procedure of a prominent company. “The woman promised a job to him in the prominent company and won his confidence. Following this, either the woman or her two men accomplices used to call him. The fraudsters then asked the victim to transfer different fees, processing charges, document verification, interview charges and others. The suspects also promised to return the money once he joined the services in the private company,” Shinde said. He said, “The victim ended up transferring Rs8.5 lakh using services of his UPI application. He transferred the money on the UPI app of the fraudsters. The victim stopped transferring money to them in August after he did not receive any kind of communication from the company specifying the job. He then started calling up the fraudsters — the woman and her two accomplices — but they kept on demanding more money from him till December to give him an offer letter and refused to return the money they had already taken.” Police are investigating the credentials of the phone numbers used by the suspects and checking the details of the UPI applications used by the fraudsters. Charges of cheating and provisions of the Information Technology Act have been invoked against the three fraudsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/search-for-new-job-costs-retired-army-man-rs-8-5-lakh/articleshow/81130286.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan on toes as neighbouring MP witnesses surge in Covid cases||JAIPUR: The health department is keeping close watch on the situation of Covid-19 emerging in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh and other states. While Madhya Pradesh has been witnessing a rise in the number of daily new cases since Feb 13, Maharashtra and Punjab have also shown a sudden spike in the number of daily new cases in the last seven days. Though Rajasthan has not seen any such spike and has been reporting an average of 100 cases every day. The Centre has informed the state that some states are witnessing increase in cases, including Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. “We have been asked by the Centre not to lower our guard. The message has been sent to all the districts. The cases in the state have gone down over the past couple of months. But some states have been witnessing surge in cases. We have been keeping a track of the situation emerging in some states,” said a health department official. Moreover, the monitoring of passengers traveling from other states and reaching any part of the state has also been intensified. “Earlier, we were conducting RT-PCR tests for passengers traveling from other countries and reaching Rajasthan on the basis of the symptoms. But, now we are doing RT-PCR test of each and every passenger coming from other countries, irrespective of symptoms,” said the official. The health department is giving importance to adherence of Covid appropriate behaviour, which it strongly reiterated for breaking the chain of transmission and containment of the disease. Besides, one person died, while 98 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Saturday bringing its overall tally to 3,19,461. With one more death, state’s toll rose to 2,785. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (17), Ajmer (12), Bhilwara (11), Jodhpur (11), Kota (11), Udaipur (9), Banswara (5), Bundi (3), Barmer(3), Dungarpur (3), Nagaur (3), Chittorgarh (2), Baran (2), Alwar (1), Dausa (1),Dholpur (1), Jhalawar (1), Rajsamand (1) and Tonk (1). Jaipur reported its 518th Covid death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-on-toes-as-neighbouring-mp-witnesses-surge-in-covid-cases/articleshow/81130285.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||4 injured in auto-bus crash on Katraj-Swargate BRTS route||Pune: Four men travelling in an autorickshaw, including the driver, were severely injured after a collision with a bus in the Katraj-Swargate BRTS corridor on Friday morning. The accident occurred near Parvati Darshan — on Pune-Satara Road — at 7.10am.The injured — autorickshaw driver Anil Bhole (29), passengers Pandurang Gaikwad (32), Rajkumar Singh (32) and Ravindra Jagtap (44) — are being treated at Sassoon General Hospital. Three other passengers escaped unhurt. Dattawadi police sub-inspector Pramod Kharat said on Friday that Bhole was illegally driving the autorickshaw in the bus-only lane. At the time of the accident, the bus driven by Ramdas Ghole (43) was headed from Katraj to Swargate at a high speed.“Ghole saw the autorickshaw coming in the opposite direction and didn’t stop,” Kharat said. Ghole was booked for not stopping and also for speeding, while Bhole was booked for carrying extra passengers and plying illegally in the corridor. “The accident occurred minutes before the traffic wardens reported for duty. We learnt that PMPML staffers stationed nearby tried to signal to the autorickshaw driver to stop, but he ignored them,” inspector A Y Navghire from the Swargate traffic division said. “We will issue a notice to the bus driver to cooperate with the investigation. We could not record the statements of the injured as their condition was serious,” Sub-inspector Kharat said. PMPML said it launched an inquiry. “Only PMPML buses, ambulances and fire tenders are allowed to ply on the BRTS route,” BRTS manager Satish Gavhane said. “The signals in Swargate are not clear — people driving through there often get confused and accidentally enter the BRTS lane,” Bharat Surana, an activist, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-injured-in-auto-bus-crash-on-katraj-swargate-brts-route/articleshow/81130293.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 21, 2021||Pune||Cold spell unlikely in Pune till February-end: IMD||PUNE: The minimum temperature in Pune dropped from 16.3 degrees C to 11.5 degrees C on Saturday, but the minimums are expected to increase during the next few days in the city, dropping slightly again to around 11 degrees C on February 25-26. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune, told TOI, "The drop in minimum temperature on Saturday morning was a result of local effects after the city witnessed clear skies following recent rains receding in parts of Maharashtra. "Pune's orography, soil type, waterbodies and vegetation are typical. Clear skies caused the outgoing long wave radiation to escape directly into the atmosphere on the night intervening Friday and Saturday, causing minimum temperature to drop significantly by Saturday morning,” said Kashyapi It is pertinent that the city does not have a northerly wind regime currently, hence the temperature drop was due to local conditions," he said. Kashyapi said that the ongoing week till February 25 shows minimum temperature to be below normal in parts of Maharashtra except north Madhya Maharashtra. "However, this trend is unlikely to continue during the week following February 25 when most parts of Maharashtra will record just below normal to near normal minimum temperatures. The minimum temperatures during that week are likely to be around 1-2 degrees Celsius below normal," he said. Kashyapi said that medium range forecasts indicate that minimum temperatures in Maharashtra, including Pune, are unlikely to fall below 10 degrees C during the next 8-10 days. "There is no chance of a cold spell till February end as we do not see northerly wind penetration into central India, including Maharashtra, during the next few days. A fresh western disturbance is likely to affect Western Himalayan region under the influence of which light to moderate, scattered to widespread rainfall/snowfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad and isolated to fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall very likely over Himachal Pradesh during next five days.," said Kashyapi. On Saturday morning, Shivajinagar was cooler than Pashan and Lohegaon as the latter recorded 13 degrees C and 13.6 degrees C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cold-spell-unlikely-in-pune-till-feb-end-imd/articleshow/81130274.cms||Neha Madaan
February 21, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Restrictions under Section 144 extended by a month||JAIPUR: In view of the Covid situation in Rajasthan, the state’s home department has extended its order to impose restrictions under Section 144 in 33 districts up to March 21. In the previous order, issued by the department on January 22, the restrictions were in force up to February 22. The directions have been issued to the collectors and magistrates of all the districts. Section 144, which was initially imposed in the state on March 18, 2020, with spread of coronavirus, has now been extended again up to March 21 by the state’s home department looking at the Covid situation in the state. The department reiterated its order instructing all the district collectors and police commissioners of Jodhpur and Jaipur to impose Section 144 from November 21, 2020. “Looking at the risk to human life and people’s health condition with the spread of Covid infection, the restrictions under Section 144 have been extended by a month in the state,” said state’s home secretary N L Meena. On Saturday, action was taken in nine cases amounting to a penalty of Rs 1,000 under Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, stated a press note issued by Jaipur police. One person was fined for spitting in public place and action was taken in 8 cases for not maintaining social distance. However, no action was taken on Saturday for not wearing face mask (both public and shopkeepers), consumption of liquor in public place and sale of paan, ghutka and tobacco. 79.69% polling in Vidyavihar municipality of JhunjhunuIn all, 79.69% polling was recorded as the elections to Vidyavihar Nagar Palika in Jhunjhunu ended on Saturday. There were 107 candidates across 25 wards in this municipality. Of the 8772 voters in these wards, 6990 voters cast their votes on Saturday. Electronic voting machines (EVMs) were used for voting in all the 25 polling stations. The counting of votes will be held on February 22. The election to the post of chairperson will be held on March 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/restrictions-under-sec-144-extended-by-a-month/articleshow/81130268.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Rival gangs threaten vengeance after murder of Youth Congress leader||Bathinda: The killing of district Faridkot youth Congress president Gurlal Singh on Friday evening has sparked off a gang war in the virtual world. After responsibility was taken for the killing in social media with a post in the name of notorious gangster Lawrence Bishnoi on the same evening, the rival gang, Vicky Gounder and Davinder Bambiha group threatened the Bishnoi group of dire consequences. Authenticity of the social media posts could not be established as these are not available on Facebook or other social media platforms. Only screenshots were shared on whatsapp groups. Bishnoi group claimed that Gurlal Bhalwan was killed to avenge the killing of Gurlal Brar in Chandigarh in October 2020. Late on Friday evening, after Gurlal Singh, known as Gurlal Bhalwan was killed, responsibility was taken on social media in the name of Lawrence Bishnoi, claiming, “he (Bishnoi) and Goldy Brar has got Gurlal killed. Explained Gurlal many times to mind his own business, don’t do anything against us in association with our anti party, but not everyone can be explained with words nor I know how to speak much so this step had to be taken. Our brother Gurlal Brar had nothing to do with him, but he was killed just for air blowing. Even today I think that Gurlal Brar never said anything to anyone. Until the revenge of Gurulal Bhai is not fulfilled, I will neither live nor let him live”. Against it, a post was put by Vicky Gounder Wale tagging Davinder Bambiha wrote, “the killings of Mani Jaito, Surjeet Bouncer and Gurlal Brar that were done by Chaska Valley and Mann Jaito on the asking of Lucky Jaito. But Gurlal Bhalwan has been killed without any reason. He never helped us nor knew us. They have not taken revenge of the killing of Gurlal Brar, Still rounds have not emptied in our weapons and we do not want to kill any innocent but as you have killed someone now it is our turn.” When contacted, Faridkot Range inspector general of police (IG) Kaustubh Sharma said, “police is looking into the various posts on social media and other aspects related to the killing. During preliminary investigations, it has come to fore that Lawrence Bishnoi group seems to be behind the killing of Gurlal Bhalwan. The Lawrence Bishnoi group is in gang war with Davinder Bambiha group. Police is taking all this very seriously and is looking from where these posts are originating and taking help of IT experts to unearth this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rival-gangs-threaten-vengeance-after-murder-of-youth-congress-leader/articleshow/81130284.cms||Neel Kamal
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Man-eater which killed two tribals in Kumaram Bheem dist resurfaces||Hyderabad: A suspected ‘man-eater’ tiger, A2, which killed two tribal youth in Telangana’s Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district within a span of three weeks last year was once again spotted perilously close to the human habitations of the forest on two consecutive days this week. Tribal inhabitants of the Ravalpalle and Motlaguda villages in the forest also claimed that two people, Kunetha Hanumanthu and K Pullaiah, were just 10 meters away from the big cat when they saw the tiger on February 17. “These two villagers were returning from their agricultural field when they saw the tiger walking towards the village at around 5.30 pm. The two of them slowly walked away from the tiger and alerted rest of the villagers who chased the big cat away by making loud noises using drums and other instruments,” J Venkatesh, sarpanch of Motlaguda village told STOI. He further informed that the tiger also killed one cow in Rampur on February 16 and another in Digida on February 19. All these villages are located 5 kms away from each other, the sarpanch said. The forest authorities, who inspected the sites where the tiger killed the cattle and spoke to the villagers who spotted it, identified it as the same male tiger which killed two people in nearby areas last year. Meanwhile, the forest department officials said that the tiger was moving around Rampur and Motlaguda villages this week. “Since the tiger came very close to the villages this time, we deployed 15 our staff, five members in each village to ensure no untoward incident takes places. After talking to the villagers, we also identified that the village sarpanches were not follwoing the protocol of sounding an alert by beating a drum early in the mornings and late evenings,” said Asifabad Kumaram Bheem district forest officer (DFO) S Shantaram, adding that wild animals feel threatened by loud noises and will avoid going close to villages if they follow this routine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-eater-which-killed-two-tribals-in-kumaram-bheem-dist-resurfaces/articleshow/81130302.cms||Moulika.KV
February 21, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan on toes as neighbouring MP witnesses surge in Covid cases||JAIPUR: The health department is keeping close watch on the situation of Covid-19 emerging in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh and other states. While Madhya Pradesh has been witnessing a rise in the number of daily new cases since Feb 13, Maharashtra and Punjab have also shown a sudden spike in the number of daily new cases in the last seven days. Though Rajasthan has not seen any such spike and has been reporting an average of 100 cases every day. The Centre has informed the state that some states are witnessing increase in cases, including Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. “We have been asked by the Centre not to lower our guard. The message has been sent to all the districts. The cases in the state have gone down over the past couple of months. But some states have been witnessing surge in cases. We have been keeping a track of the situation emerging in some states,” said a health department official. Moreover, the monitoring of passengers traveling from other states and reaching any part of the state has also been intensified. “Earlier, we were conducting RT-PCR tests for passengers traveling from other countries and reaching Rajasthan on the basis of the symptoms. But, now we are doing RT-PCR test of each and every passenger coming from other countries, irrespective of symptoms,” said the official. The health department is giving importance to adherence of Covid appropriate behaviour, which it strongly reiterated for breaking the chain of transmission and containment of the disease. Besides, one person died, while 98 others were tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Saturday bringing its overall tally to 3,19,461. With one more death, state’s toll rose to 2,785. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (17), Ajmer (12), Bhilwara (11), Jodhpur (11), Kota (11), Udaipur (9), Banswara (5), Bundi (3), Barmer(3), Dungarpur (3), Nagaur (3), Chittorgarh (2), Baran (2), Alwar (1), Dausa (1),Dholpur (1), Jhalawar (1), Rajsamand (1) and Tonk (1). Jaipur reported its 518th Covid death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-on-toes-as-neighbouring-mp-witnesses-surge-in-covid-cases/articleshow/81135350.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Those not infected in first Covid-19 wave at greater risk now: Experts||NAGPUR: A lot of government employees, professionals, college students who were fortunate to remain Covid-free are testing positive now as the cases in the city are going north. Doctors and public health authorities say once again people are getting the news about every other person in their community, workplace, club or social group testing positive. This is akin to the situation seen during the July to September phase last year when the city recorded most of its Covid cases, they say. What marks a clear difference between the public mood then and now is that people are not ready to ‘listen’ or even take precautions as they had been doing at the peak of Covid. “People are asking what is corona. Does it even exist?” said a doctor. Cardiologist Dr Aziz Khan said people so far not infected have to be more cautions because, as per feedback he has got, the infectivity is more this time. “Lung shadows (infecton) are being seen early. I would tell people not to remove mask, avoid going to crowded places as far as possible,” he said. Dr Khan added that he too is taking utmost precautions as he hasn’t tested Covid positive thus far. Asked about people’s attitude, he said, “They are not aware about the disease. Arguments like ‘till today nothing happened so what will happen now’ are made. We tell them ‘You will not know when the virus will attack you. Don’t take this wave lightly’.” Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said contact tracing and distancing are not practical in a country like ours. “So mask and vaccination, whenever it is made available, hold the key. Any susceptible person will get infected sooner or later. The good thing is now we know how to treat it. People must stay safe but need not panic. Go for early diagnosis, early treatment,” he said. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande observed that people in general have no worries about Covid. “While it depends on one’s immunity, chances of getting infected remains. Hence they shouldn’t take any chances, “ he said. Orthopaedic Dr Sushrut Babhulkar felt a brief spell of lockdown or night curfew would remind people about the danger of Covid. “That’s the way of teaching people. Right now, we are concerned about post Covid complications rate which is going up,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/those-not-infected-in-1st-covid-wave-at-greater-risk-now-experts/articleshow/81129521.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 21, 2021||Dehradun||Diesel price hike adversely impacts truck operators in U’khand||Dehradun: A significant increase in the diesel price has left the truck operators in dire straits. Miffed with the price hike, several truck operators told TOI that on one hand, the new provision of the e-way bill has made it mandatory for them to drive for at least 200 km every day and on the other, the increased diesel prices and related costs, including spare parts, have put them in a tough spot. “There is not much business for us right now. Further, the increase in the prices of the diesel has a ripple effect on the monthly EMI, maintenance of the vehicles, and even the taxes levied by the government,” said a local truck operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/diesel-price-hike-adversely-impacts-truck-operators-in-ukhand/articleshow/81129519.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||CUP herbarium gets international recognition||Bathinda: Steere herbarium at the New York Botanical Garden in the US has enlisted the Central University of Punjab (CUP)’s facility as one of the key herbariums. Herbarium is a collection of preserved plant specimens. Getting on the list of similar major facilities, the ‘Index herbariums’ is a significant international-level recognition for CUP. It would enable the CUP herbarium to store the ‘holotype’ specimens — records of new species discoveries worldwide, the university authorities said. It would also mean that the university herbarium is now open for public submissions and specimen loan with other herbariums worldwide. Submission to index herbarium enlisted herbarium is essential for the characterisation of ayurvedic medicinal plants and allied disciplines, including pharmacy and biodiversity conservation. The assigned international code for Central University, Punjab herbarium is CUPB. The CUP herbarium, maintained by the university’s department of botany, has hundreds of specimens of algae, moss and lichens from India. A speciality of this herbarium is marine and freshwater algae. It also has large number of plants from East Antarctica. CUP botany department head Felix Bast, who was part of Indian Antarctic Mission in 2017 and brought back the specimens from the icy continent, said, “The herbarium also has hundreds of specimens from mangrove forests of Sundarbans, Pichavaram (Tamil Nadu), and Kerala. Herbarium also maintains a searchable free online public repository of Indian algae called dbIndAlgae — India’s first such algal database.” “This is the only herbarium of central government institution from Punjab in the Index Herbarium. Besides, this is the only herbarium among newly established central universities in the country to get enlisted”, said Bast, who has the additional charge as the curator of this herbarium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cup-herbarium-gets-international-recognition/articleshow/81130306.cms||Neel Kamal
February 21, 2021||Pune||Pvt students can apply for board exams from Monday||Pune: Private candidates, registered to appear for Std X and XII board examinations, can now fill their examination forms between February 22 and 28. The candidates need to get their forms filled online from the respective high school or junior college, stated a notification issued by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education on Saturday. Students, who are unable to fill the forms in the specified period, will be given another chance to submit the forms between March 1 and 7. However, students would have to pay a late fee in case they fill forms in March. The notification further asked schools and junior colleges to follow all safety protocols while filling up forms. There would not be any extension in dates specified. Hence, students have been asked to submit the online forms and pay the requisite fees within the time frame mentioned, added the notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-students-can-apply-for-board-exams-from-monday/articleshow/81130339.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Min visits Taj, stone quarries of Dholpur||Hyderabad: The team led by roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy continued its tour for the second day and visited Red Fort and Taj Mahal on Saturday. The team had also visited red stone quarries in Rajasthan. The minister along with officials are inspecting various types of stones used in the construction of Red Fort, Taj Mahal, its architecture, fountains and other features on the directions of CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, who wants an iconic new secretariat complex to be built in Telangana. Later, the team visited the stone quarries of Dholpur, Bari, Sarmathura and Karauli areas. The team will visit historic buildings and quarries in Jaipur on its third day of the tour on Sunday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-visits-taj-stone-quarries-of-dholpur/articleshow/81130322.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Congress to organise farmers’ rally on February 27 to repeal laws||HYDERABAD: Demanding the repeal of the three farm laws and revival of procurement centres, the Congress, along with farmers associations will organise a rally from Parade Grounds in Secunderabad to the Dharna Chowk near Indira Park on February 27. “Both central and state governments are pursuing anti-farmers policies. While the Narendra Modi-led BJP government has failed to put an end to the farmers’ agitation for over two months now, the K Chandrasekhar Rao-led TRS government has not fulfilled its poll promise of waiving crop loans up to Rs 1 lakh,” said All India Kisan Congress state president, Anvesh Reddy. “Lakhs of acres of crops were damaged last year due to unseasonal rains but the farmers did not get even crop insurance as the state government had not paid its share of insurance premium,” alleged Anvesh. Congress legislature party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, who is on a 14-day tour ‘face to face interaction with farmers’, said on Saturday that he was ready for a discussion on any platform with chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and energy minister G Jagadish Reddy over Telangana being plunged into debts for executing Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project. He visited Chandupatla village in Suryapet and interacted with farmers. Bhatti was accompanied by former MPs V Hanumanth Rao, Madhu Yashki Goud, ex-minister R Damodar Reddy, MLA Podem Veeraiah and Anvesh Reddy among others. While the Narendra Modi-led BJP government has failed to put an end to the farmers’ agitation for over two months now, the K Chandrasekhar Rao-led TRS government has not fulfilled its poll promise of waiving crop loans up to Rs 1 lakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-to-organise-farmers-rally-on-feb-27-to-repeal-laws/articleshow/81130332.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||Ma canteen at SSKM; KMC scouts for space at hosps, wards||Kolkata: The KMC social sector department, in association with a self-help group opened Ma canteen at SSKM Hospital on Saturday to cater to needs of the urban poor. Apart from urging other government hospitals to find space on their premises to start the canteen, the civic body has also instructed all ward coordinators to find multiple spots in their areas for the midday meal facility. After opening Ma canteen at 27 wards, the KMC wants to reach the Rs-5 meal of rice, dal vegetables and egg to more urban poor by next two weeks. KMC board of administrators (BoA) chairman Firhad Hakim on Saturday said the civic body had asked all state-run hospitals in the city to identify a space for the canteen, given the growing demand for the subsidized but nutritious food on the offer. “On Saturday, we ran out of food at SSKM and a few other centres as the demand was high. This prompted us to scout for space across the city so that more urban poor can be brought under the network,” a KMC official said. A KMC social sector department official said they had zeroed in on space in some big government hospitals. “Space should not be a constraint at the big state hospitals in the city. Once the authorities hand it to us, we will set up Ma canteen,” the official said.  “We have also asked all KMC ward coordinators to find adequate space for running Ma canteen as the demand for meals is rising. We aim to open Ma canteens in every 144 wards and continue with the service,” Hakim said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ma-canteen-at-sskm-kmc-scouts-for-space-at-hosps-wards/articleshow/81130350.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||Cheating, theft plaint against 22 employees of two LPG agencies||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police have registered a theft and cheating complaint against 22 employees of two gas agencies in Sangvi for allegedly stealing gas from sealed cylinders and refilling empty bottles. Altogether 381 liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders, two three-wheeled temps and pipes and equipment were seized in the raid carried out early on Saturday by a police team led by inspector Vitthal Kubde. Krishna Prakash, Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner, said, “We have filed cases against two owners of gas agencies. Their role will be probed. Their employees were refilling empty cylinders in a precarious manner in a residential area. Such acts put life of common citizens in danger.” Police said the employees developed a mechanism of stealing gas from sealed cylinders by using small pipes and regulator-like devices. They used to break the official seal of the cylinders and refill empty cylinders. From each filled and sealed cylinder, they used to steal about two kilograms of gas, the police said. After refilling the empty cylinders with gas from filled cylinders, they used to seal both the cylinders again. In this way, they were stealing gas as well as cheating customers, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cheating-theft-plaint-against-22-employees-of-two-lpg-agencies/articleshow/81130331.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||Pune: 37-year-old gets 30 years in jail for repeated sexual assault||PUNE: A special fast track court for POCSO Act here convicted and sentenced a 37-year-old Kondhwa resident to 30 years of rigorous imprisonment for repeated sexual assault on his 15-year-old daughter for more than a year before October 2019. The minor survivor had lodged an FIR with the Kondhwa police station on October 21, 2019, stating that she was repeatedly subjected to sexual harassment at first as her father would touch her inappropriately. Later, the survivor said her father sexually assaulted her, with the first rape committed in June 2019. Frustrated by the repeated assaults, the girl narrated her woes to her mother on August 11, 2019. When the mother confronted the accused, he threatened and assaulted her and his daughter. The mother informed the girl’s maternal uncle about the incident and the latter had given an understanding to the father against committing such acts but the accused continued to do so. The girl eventually started living with her maternal uncle in Mumbai but had to return to Pune due to health issues and learnt on October 7, 2019, that she was pregnant. Later, she had suffered a miscarriage and, even after this, the father again tried to rape her on October 19, 2019, following which the girl lodged the FIR. Special judge KK Jahagirdar observed in his judgment, “Such accused is not entitled for any lenient view or minimum punishment as prayed for. I agree….this is heinous crime committed by accused against his daughter. In order to teach lesson to him and to put an example before the society maximum punishment is necessary to be awarded.” Special public prosecutor Arundhati S Bramhe told TOI, “The survivor and her mother had turned hostile during the trial but in her cross-examination by the prosecution, the survivor admitted that she was rendered pregnant and had suffered a miscarriage. The same was not denied by the defence lawyer.” Bramhe said, “The evidence on the point of pregnancy and miscarriage, recorded by the doctor, who first examined the survivor, and medical experts from Sassoon general hospital proved to be a clinching factor in the conviction. The survivor, during her examination by the doctor and later at hospital, had told them that she was sexually exploited by her father and the authorities recorded this in their evidence,” the prosecutor said. Apart from the main sentence, the court also handed out sentences ranging from five years to six months for offences of sexual harassment, assault and criminal intimidation, besides imposing a fine of Rs15,000, which is to be given to the survivor. All sentences shall run concurrently, the court said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/37-yr-old-gets-30-years-in-jail-for-repeated-sexual-assault/articleshow/81130317.cms||Vishwas Kothari
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Mohalla libraries bring kids back to the world of books||Mumbai: Noted poet-lyricist Gulzar echoed many book lovers when he portrayed the pain of books in his famous poem Kitabein. “Kitabein jhankti hain bund almari ke sheshonn se/Badi Hasrat se taakti hain (Books peep out from closed glass doors of almirahs/They look with great sense of longing),” says the poem’s opening line. Thanks to efforts of sixth grader Mariyam Mirza (12), some of the books have stopped complaining against readers’ indifference.After Mirza began a mohalla or neighbourhood library for children (up to 10th standard) in Aurangabad last year, several such libraries have come up in towns like her own Aurangabad, Jalna, Indore, Beed, Jalgaon, Ahmednagar. One such library will open soon in Central Mumbai area. “Ever since Rajya Sabha member and NGO Federation of All Maharashtra Minority Education Organisation (Fame) president Fauzia Khan opened the library on Children’s Day (November 14) in 2020, it has caused a stir. Now children and parents in many towns are approaching Mariyam to get ideas and start their own libraries,” said Mariyam’s father Mirza Abdul Qayyum Nadvi who runs a bookshop in Aurangabad.Since children are increasingly attending classes online and spending hours before screen watching cartoons, comedy shows and horror movies, reading books has received a jolt. The neighbourhood library is aimed at rekindling interest in printed words and pictorial descriptions in books.The Coronavirus-induced boredom is what triggered the 6th grader Mariyam’s interest in founding a library at home. “I had spent a couple of months at home t and read many books which I got from my father’s shop,” said Maryam. Then one day she asked her father if she could do something for her friends too. And the library came up with 300 books.Just before the lockdown began, Mariyam had accompanied her father to visit Aurangabad’s famous Maulana Azad Library and Research Centre. She was disheartened to find that there was no children’s section in it and the library didn’t stock books for children. That day she began borrowing books from her father’s shop. “We keep complaining that the reading habit is dying but if we don’t inculcate the habit of reading among children. One way to revive it is by replicating the mohalla library Mariyam has set up,” said Association of Muslim Professionals (AMP) president Amir Idrisi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mohalla-libraries-bring-kids-back-to-the-world-of-books/articleshow/81130347.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
February 21, 2021||Jaipur||No major difference in target achievement of Covishield & Covaxin in state||JAIPUR: The health department has been organising separate vaccination sites for Covaxin and Covishield since the launch of the Covid inoculation drive from January 16, but no major resistance against any of the vaccine has been reported. Unlike Mumbai, in Rajasthan no choice has been given to beneficiaries to choose between Covaxin and Covishield for vaccination. Health department officials claimed that they have not faced any significant resistance against any of the two vaccines. In Mumbai, the state decided to offer a choice of vaccine in the centres currently administering Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. According to a health department official, “In Rajasthan, there is no provision which has been made for giving a choice to beneficiaries to select between Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute of India’s Covaxin. The vaccination sites which are providing Covaxin, do not have Covishield and the sites which have Covishield do not have Covaxin,” said a health department official. He said they have not faced resistance against any of the vaccine anywhere. At the beginning of the inoculation drive, the Centre had clarified that healthcare workers will not get to choose between Covaxin and Covishield.The daily report of figures of vaccination indicated that the acceptance of the vaccines is almost the same as the target achieved by Covishield was 95% and Covaxin 94%. It indicates that despite initial hesitancy reported during launch of the drive, the beneficiaries are now comfortable in taking the Covaxin jab.The health department is organising more vaccination sites for Covishield than Covaxin. On Saturday, the vaccination sites organised for Covaxin was 172 while for Covishield it was 551. Inoculation driveDaily achievement of target in (%)CovishieldCovaxinFeb 179594Feb 164829Feb 158295Feb 136368Feb 115078Feb 109086||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-major-difference-in-target-achievement-of-covishield-covaxin-in-state/articleshow/81130312.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Dehradun||Forest guard of Rajaji trampled to death by jumbo||Dehradun: A 32-year-old forest guard, Gaurav Kumar, was mauled to death by a wild elephant on Saturday. The incident took place when the victim — who had been serving as forest guard for five years — was patrolling the Beriwada forest range of Rajaji Tiger Reserve. Known for his active participation and daring nature, Kumar’s death left many in a state of shock, “Gaurav was chased and then critically injured by the jumbo. He was rushed to the government hospital in Haridwar by the members of the same patrolling team but the doctors declared him dead,” said DK Singh, director, Rajaji Tiger Reserve. The senior official added that Kumar had a rifle with him but the wild jumbo left him no chance. Three more members were accompanying Kumar on patrol when the accident took place. “They too tried but when a rogue jumbo chases, the situation on ground is difficult to handle and beyond comprehension,” added Neeraj Verma, DFO, Haridwar. Verma was in the hospital getting last minute formalities related to Gaurav’s postmortem. The bereaved family will be given a compensation amount of Rs 3 lakh. Earlier this month, the state chief minister had announced that those who lay down their life in protecting the green cover and wildlife of Uttarakhand will be given Rs 15 lakh but things are yet to come on paper. Additionally, one member of Kumar's family would be given a permanent job. Notably, this is the first human death in a jumbo attack in the Garhwal region of Uttarakhand this year. The first such death was reported on January 16 in the Terai East region. Earlier in 2020, almost a dozen people were killed in wild jumbo attacks in Uttarakhand and eight others were left critically injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-guard-of-rajaji-trampled-to-death-by-jumbo/articleshow/81129523.cms||Shivani Azad
February 21, 2021||Pune||2 arrested for transporting gutka in truck||Pune: The Wanowrie police on Friday night arrested two men in Netajinagar on the charge of transporting gutka in a truck. Sub-inspector Bolenath Ahiwale and his team, acting on a tip-off, intercepted the truck and recovered the gutka. The vehicle and the gutka were valued at over Rs29 lakh. Senior inspector Deepak Lagad of the Wanowrie police identified the arresed as Revanath Nimbalkar (25), the driver, and his accomplice, Ganpatsingh Rajput (50). The duo were produced before a magisterial court on Saturday and remanded in police custody till Monday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-arrested-for-transporting-gutka-in-truck/articleshow/81130356.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||MCOCA case against 2 chain snatchers||Pune: The city police on Saturday booked two chain snatchers on the charge of running an organized crime syndicate under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). The police arrested them in chain snatching case lodged with Chatushrungi police on October 3, 2020. They later found the suspects were members of an organized crime syndicate. A Chatushrungi police officer initiated a proposal to take action against the duo under MCOCA. It was sanctioned by Namdeo Chavan, additional commissioner of police (east region). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mcoca-case-against-2-chain-snatchers/articleshow/81130358.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||Court rejects bail plea of lawyer accused of abduction & murder||PUNE: The court of additional sessions judge G P Agrawal here on Saturday rejected the bail application of lawyer Rohit Shende, who, with three others, is lodged in jail on the charges of criminal conspiracy, abduction and murder of civil court lawyer Umesh More in October last year. “When the (evidence) is read together, what can be gathered is that present applicant (Shende) … systematically, with a definite plan, induced accused nos 1 and 2 to commit the murder of deceased. This is, prima facie, a clear case of conspiracy. Minute scrutiny of evidence is not expected by the court at this stage. His complicity in the crime is clear and if released on bail, he might tamper with (the) evidence,” judge Agrawal said in an eight-page order. More was abducted by two men in a car on October 1 last year from a spot near Shivajinagar district court and strangulated to death in the moving vehicle. Later his body was burned and disposed of in Tamhini ghat. His brother first lodged a missing person’s complaint with the Shivajinagar police on October 2 and later an abduction complaint on October 5. On October 18, the police arrested Kapil Phalke and Deepak Wandekar — accused of executing the murder — and Shende, and recovered the victim’s body from Tamhini ghat the following day. The fourth accused was arrested on October 28. Investigations revealed that the anti-corruption bureau (ACB), acting on More’s complaint on November 22, 2018, trapped Shende on December 26, 2018 while accepting Rs1.70 crore on behalf of a revenue official in connection with an appeal over land in Parvati. Shende and the other accused were pressurizing More to withdraw the complaint, but he refused. This led to the murder, police said. Special public prosecutor Ujjwala Pawar opposed the bail plea arguing that Shende was the mastermind and that the police had enough evidence against him. The charges are being framed in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/court-rejects-bail-plea-of-lawyer-accused-of-abduction-murder/articleshow/81130354.cms||Vishwas Kothari
February 21, 2021||Delhi||Short of hands, Delhi HC may get two new judges soon||NEW DELHI: Reeling under an acute shortage of judges, which has forced it to function at less than half the sanctioned strength of 60, the Delhi high court is likely to soon get more judges. According to sources, the Centre has cleared the names of two out of the six lawyers recommended by the court and later approved by Supreme Court last year. The advocates whose names were recommended were Jasmeet Singh, Amit Bansal, Tara Vitasta Ganju, Anish Dayal, Amit Sharma and Mini Pushkarna. Out of these, the central government is learnt to have given its go ahead to Bansal and Singh. On the other names, there has been no movement as government may have adverse inputs, as per sources. The objections include adverse inputs from wings of the central government, as per sources. Interestingly, the high court collegium had originally recommended 12 names — 6 lawyers and 6 district judges — for elevation, but it appears that only two names were cleared for appointment. In August last year, the apex court forwarded the names of the six lawyers for elevation, as per the resolution on its website. While the lawyers faced no difficulty in their preliminary screening and were approved, the Centre has now whittled down the list to two, sending the rest of the names back. TOI had earlier reported how in an unprecedented move, the Supreme Court itself returned the names of six Delhi district judges who were recommended for elevation by the high court. The apex court had sent the names to the court for “reconsideration” after the government had objected to the proposal on the judicial officers, citing not just bypassing of seniority norms, but also adverse IB reports. Last year, the high court had proposed six names— Poonam A Bamba, Yashwant Kumar, Neena Bansal Krishna, Dharmesh Sharma, Dinesh Kumar Sharma and A K Mendiratta — all of whom presided as district judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/short-of-hands-delhi-hc-may-get-two-new-judges-soon/articleshow/81131679.cms||Abhinav Garg
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Sharmila vows‘Rajanna rajyam’ in T||Hyderabad: Chanting ‘Jai Telangana’ and ‘Johar YSR’ slogans, YS Sharmila said she would bring back ‘Rajanna rajyam’ (referring to golden rule of late CM YSR) in Telangana. She said former chief minister of AP and her father YS Rajasekhara Reddy had taken up several welfare schemes for farmers, downtrodden and students during his tenure. Continuing with her consultations with supporters and loyalists of the former CM, Sharmila held a meeting with YSR supporters belonging to Hyderabad and Rangareddy districts on Saturday. She earlier held a meeting with YSR loyalists from Nalgonda and Khammam districts. “YSR wanted every poor student to be educated, every person to lead a healthy life and own a house. We will bring back the golden rule and welfare government of Rajanna (YSR),” she said. She said former chief minister of AP and her father YS Rajasekhara Reddy had taken up several welfare schemes for farmers, downtrodden and students during his tenure||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sharmila-vowsrajanna-rajyam-in-t/articleshow/81130353.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Tolerance, edu can help Muslims face challenges’||Hyderabad: Telangana home minister Mahmood Ali said tolerance, equality, justice and education can help Muslims face challenges ahead at an event on Saturday.  He advised Muslims to face the future challenges with their skills and education adding that the dearth of vision and wisdom has disrupted progress of the community. The home minister lauded the ganga-jamuni tehzeeb of Hyderabad, and added that it will continue to be a confluence of peacefully coexisting multi-cultural and multi-religious communities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tolerance-edu-can-help-muslims-face-challenges/articleshow/81130355.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||Wait for Bhama Askhed water continues for residents of Porwal Road, Sathe Vasti areas||By: Anjali JhangianiPUNE: Water supply from the Bhama-Askhed pipeline project has reached some parts of Lohegaon, but residents of two areas — Porwal Road and Sathe Vasti — still depend on tankers to meet their daily needs. At a meeting on January 17 with MLA Sunil Tingre, 60 housing societies in the two areas were assured that they would get adequate water supply from January 25. Nearly a month later, residents of the two areas continue to pay out of their own pockets to buy water from tankers. Depending on the size, each society daily purchases 15-18 tankers of water for domestic use and 2-4 tankers for drinking purpose, representatives of some housing societies said on the condition of anonymity. A Pune Municipal Corporation official, explaining why the two areas were not benfiting from the Bhama Askhed pipeline, said its detailed project report was drawn up in 2013, while 11 villages — including Porwal Road and Sathe Vasti — were merged in the civic limits in 2017. “Before the merger, these villages got water from 6-7 small tanks — 4 MLD every 8-10 days. Now, PMC supplies 6 MLD to half this area one day and the other half the next day,” a PMC official said. Residents of some housing societies claimed they do not get municipal water supply. The PMC official said the civic body started the process of including the two areas under the ambit of the Bhama Askhed pipeline project. “The standing committee will submit a report to the general body, following which the areas would be included in the project. Funds would be allocated and new pipelines and tanks would be installed,” the official said. The official said they need to plan the infrastructure properly for long-term convenience and that the process could take 7-8 months. Meanwhile, MLA Tingre has proposed to include the two areas under the 24x7 water supply plan to give them faster relief. Tingre told TOI, “I have proposed an alternative arrangement while work is done to include these areas in the Bhama Askhed project. Due to technical issues, the file was sent back thrice and had to be reworked and refiled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wait-for-bhama-askhed-water-continues-for-residents-of-porwal-road-sathe-vasti-areas/articleshow/81130361.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Crawford Mkt restoration: Work on Phase 2 begins||Mumbai: Work on the second phase of restoration of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Mandai, or Crawford Market as it was formerly known has begun. The BMC has put put up sheds around the space that was earlier used as a partking lot for vehicles. Soon, fruit vendors from the market are set to be relocated here. Plans are also afoot to relocate vendors from the pet, birds and meat section in service lanes around the market. Officials said that this is being done to ensure that the vendors do not lose their usual customer base. The restoration of the market had begun in phases in September 2014. As part of the first phase, work to restore the clock tower wing had been undertaken and has been completed. The civic body has now started the phase 2 restoration work for which it first needs to relocate some of the vendors to begin excavation work for construction of a basement. Deputy municipal commissioner Ramesh Pawar who is in charge of the market department said that licensed vendors would not be affected and efforts are being made to ensure that they are accommodated on a priority basis before any construction work begins. Conservation architect Abha Narain Lambah, the consultant working on the restoration of the structure, said that while those from the fruit section are being shifted to the parking lot, a few other vendors would be given transit accommodation on MRA Marg while others will be housed under JJ flyover. “We are relocating vendors to prominent spots around the market so that their business is unaffected. All provisions are being made for them, including sturdy temporary structures,” she said. As part of phase 2 restoration, a two-level basement parking space for cars and trucks has been proposed to load and unload material for shopkeepers . It is expected to accommodate around 200 vehicles. Work on the basement is expected to be completed by year-end. Marine Drive resident Mahendra Hemdev who passed by the market on Friday evening said that Crawford Market being an iconic spot, the sudden transit sheds being built could not be missed. “The market is frequented by many and therefore it is good that the shops are not being moved out to another location,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/crawford-mkt-restoration-work-on-phase-2-begins/articleshow/81130371.cms||Richa Pinto
February 21, 2021||Vijayawada||ACB’s Kanaka Durga searches into 3rd day||Vijayawada: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) continued their searches for the third consecutive day across the Kanaka Durga temple complex on Saturday. This time, they raided the engineering wing of the temple and went through documents related to ongoing works, pending bills, project status files. Officials said that they have unearthed that a significant number of bills happen to remain pending despite the works being completed by the contractors. Sleuths also checked as to what bills have been sanctioned so far as well. Sources said that they found a number of irregularities during the three-day searches in the temple across ticket counters, prasadam counter, establishment and sanitation wings as well. Officials noted that the scraps worth crores within the temple have been sold for mere lakhs which is a major loss the exchequer. ACB also seized unaccounted cash from various offices within the Mahamandapam area. Four teams consisting of nearly 25 ACB officials began their surprise checks on Thursday morning. Sources said that there was a lack of maintenance in the stock registers and other records in the prasadam counters. They also looked into provisions and ingredients which are used for making laddus and serving free meals kept in the stores and found irregularities in the maintenance of registries and attendance. Officials said that they are yet to compile all the irregularities and would submit the report soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/acbs-kanaka-durga-searches-into-3rd-day/articleshow/81129517.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Vadodara||Man’s death at pharma unit sparks row||Vadodara: A 28-year-old labour working at the Panelav unit of Alembic Pharmaceuticals Ltd fell unconscious on Saturday evening and later died at a hospital. The worker identified as Prakash Baria, a resident of Halol taluka, was initially treated at the clinic of the company and then rushed to the Bhailal Amin General Hospital (BAGH). He was declared dead at the hospital. It is yet not clear what happened to Baria. The family of the man, including her wife, insisted that the body should be taken to the plant to demand justice. The police did not allow this and eventually, the family agreed to go to the unit without the body. Halol rural police registered a case of accidental death and are conducting further investigations into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mans-death-at-pharma-unit-sparks-row/articleshow/81129647.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Visakhapatnam||GVMC gives final touches to council hall for new admin||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is giving final touches to the new council hall, preparing it for the incoming council which will assume office post-elections in March. A portion on the third floor near the engineering block of the GVMC office is being re-purposed into the new council hall. GVMC chief engineer M Venkateswara Rao said the works would be completed by the time the  process concludes in March. “Around Rs 2.5 crore is being spent on the overall development of the council hall and the new chambers,” the chief engineer said. The old council hall currently houses the city operations centre, which has been developed under the Vizag smart city project at a cost of Rs 140 crore. Meanwhile, the state government has carved out 26 new wards out of the existing 72 wards of Vizag city to make it a total of 98 wards, which would subsequently increase the number of elected representatives. All these factors have driven the GVMC to develop a new council hall of around 5,000 square feet to facilitate council meetings. The GVMC special officer’s chamber at its office would be allocated to the new mayor. The Visakhapatnam district collector is currently acting as the GVMC special officer in the absence of the council for the last nine years. The civic body is also constructing new chambers for deputy mayor and floor leaders given space constraints at the GVMC office. As per the new council hall designs, the benches are spread into two rows with each bench having a seating capacity of three members. The mayor’s podium has also been designed in an attractive manner. In all, the council hall has the seating capacity of 120 people, including 98 corporators, eight city MLAs, and five co-opted members. Meanwhile, contestants in the fray for the municipal elections have intensified their campaigning over the last few days. Welfare measures and schemes introduced by the YSRC government over the last year-and-a-half have been top on the canvassing agenda for its candidates. Contestants from opposition parties are also trying their best to capture the mayor’s seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-gives-final-touches-to-council-hall-for-new-admin/articleshow/81129467.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 21, 2021||Mangaluru||Only four entry points from Kerala open||BENGALURU/MANGALURU: Following the increase in cases in neighbouring states, Karnataka on Saturday decided to close all interstate borders with Kerala, barring four major entry points — Talapady, Saradka (Bantwal), Nettanige-Mudnuru (Puttur) and Jalsoor (Sullia).  It also made Covid-negative certificates not older than 72 hours must for travellers from Maharashtra, whether they come by road, train or flight. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner KV Rajendra said from Monday, travellers from Kerala will have to enter Karnataka and return via four checkposts and health department teams will screen them. All those entering must furnish a Covid-19 negative certificate obtained 72 hours prior to the journey. Once-in-15-day test must for daily commuters from KeralaDetails of the travellers will be sent to tahsildars, taluk panchayat executive officers and health officials to ensure tracking. Separate data will be maintained of daily commuters from Kerala, including students and employees. They will have to produce Covid-negative certificates and thereon undergo tests once in 15 days, Rajendra said. Travellers from Maharashtra, on the other hand, will be screened retrospectively. Those who have arrived in the past two weeks to Karnataka’s colleges, hospitals, nursing homes, hostels, hotels and lodges will be compulsorily subjected to RT-PCR testing, says a government circular. Only those who have already produced a Covid-negative certificate are exempt from testing. The circular says if there are five or more cases of Covid-19 in hostels, and boarding or residential educational institutions, these will be declared as “containment zones” by health authorities . Health minister K Sudhakar said border districts have been told to take steps to prevent a spread in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/only-4-entry-points-from-kerala-open/articleshow/81135331.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Vijayawada||Woman ‘kidnapped’ by husband in AP's Chittoor, rescued||TIRUPATI: Ramakuppam police foiled a kidnap bid and rescued a young woman within an hour after she was abducted. Police later found that it was the victim’s husband and in-laws who were behind the kidnap plot. The woman, identified as Mehreen Taj who works as a government school teacher, was kidnapped by a gang of four persons at around 9 am on Saturday. Palamaner DSP Gangaiah said the incident happened when the woman’s father dropped her off at the school. “A group of four persons forcibly took her away after attacking her father at the entrance of the school. The swift phone call made by the father to the police helped us seal off the area immediately. Within an hour, we tracked the vehicle in which the victim was being held near Naniyal area and rescued her,” he said. The shocker came when police found that the kidnapping plan was hatched by the victim’s husband and in-laws. Mehreen had married Purushotham, a resident of Chittoor town, recently. But differences soon cropped up between the couple and the woman went back to her father’s place at Ramakuppam and was staying there. Police said the husband wanted to forcibly take her back and hatched the plan with his mother and two brothers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-kidnapped-by-husband-in-chittoor-rescued/articleshow/81129537.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Active Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh drop to 604||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 54 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,89,210. No new deaths have been reported, while 70 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state in the last 24 hours. There are currently 604 active cases with 8,81,439 cumulative recoveries and 7,167 deaths. The active caseload of the country consists of 1.3% of total positive cases, while it is a mere 0.07% in AP. Chittoor reported 19 new infections, while Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts have not recorded any new cases. The remaining 10 districts posted single-digit case numbers. The state has tested 26,436 samples to detect the 54 cases, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.2%. So far, about 4.7 lakh people have been vaccinated in the state. There has been an upsurge in the number of daily new cases in Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh in the last few days. Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases of 6,112, followed by Kerala (4,505). The active cases in Maharashtra and Kerala alone account for about 76% of the total active cases in the country. Meanwhile, Kadapa collector Ch Hari Kiran has urged people to refrain from spreading misinformation on deaths related to Covid-19 vaccine, which he said was creating unnecessary panic among public. Citing the report of the death of an Anganwadi worker days after she was administered Covid vaccine in Kadapa district, Hari Kiran said doctors and scientists are still in the process of arriving at a conclusion on the exact reasons which led to the death. “The Anganwadi worker who works at Pulivendula was administered the vaccine on Feb 3. She was under observation for an hour and later sent home as per procedure. She passed away on Feb 18. It’s wrong to jump to a conclusion and link her death to the vaccine when doctors are yet to confirm the reasons behind her death,” the district collector said, while reassuring everyone that the vaccine is safe. He also called upon the public to step forward and get take the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/active-covid-19-cases-in-state-drop-to-604/articleshow/81129495.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||With Chandigarh’s 1st mahapanchayat, Pawadh says nay to farm laws||CHANDIGARH: The loudest applause at the kisan mahapanchayat organised in Chandigarh on Saturday was reserved for farm unionist Gurnam Singh Charuni as he took the stage at the rally ground in Sector 25 and thanked the people of the city for the outpouring of support to the ongoing farmers protest against three contentious agro-market laws. This was, so far, the biggest protest in Chandigarh against the farm laws. “This is a city of educated people who understand the laws and many of them, in spite of not being farmers, have come in our support and I thank you for that,” said Charuni, who is the president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Haryana). Apart from Charuni and fellow unionists Joginder Singh Ugrahan of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) and Mansa Singh Ruldu of Punjab Kisan Union, a plethora of activist groups lent support to the protest. Actor Sonia Mann too spoke from the stage. Many speakers, including Pendu Sangharsh Committee, Chandigarh, patron Baba Sadhu Singh Sarangpur, applauded the unity shown by people from Pawadh, a first for the historic Punjab region which had been divided by the creation of Chandigarh and then the trifurcation of Punjab. Though people from Ambala, Ropar, Mohali, Fatehgarh Sahib, and Panchkula attended the mahapanchayat and came in tractors, cars and even on scooters, the turnout was not on expected lines. While organisers were hoping for a turnout of nearly one lakh people, it attracted a crowd of 5,000-10,000 people. Jai Singh Jalbera, the father of farm activist Navdeep Singh who had turned off a water cannon during the farmers’ march to Delhi in November, spoke in the Pawadhi dialect — a mix of Punjab, Hindi and Haryanavi — from the stage. Police had been deployed to keep a check on any untoward incident and the mahapanchayat went on peacefully, with the sitters often raising slogans against the Centre, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and three laws which have triggered widespread protests. Charuni also hit out at a famous yoga teacher who has now opened a company. “He is not a baba, as he claims to be, but a businessman,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/with-citys-1st-mahapanchayat-pawadh-says-nay-to-farm-laws/articleshow/81129548.cms||Siddarth Banerjee
February 21, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP: Unemployment rate down to 4.5% from 20% in Apr ’20||VISAKHAPATNAM: In April last year with the national lockdown owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state had an unemployment rate 0f 20.5%, a little lower than the national average of 23.5% for the same period. Andhra Pradesh, according to Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) survey, had an average unemployment rate of below 10% since January 2016. The unemployment rate since April has come down to 4.5% for January 2021. “Both the state and the country have improved their employment rate companies began reopening. We have been receiving calls from companies to recruit candidates. The pandemic has put all through a tough time given the job losses and other factors,” said Visakhapatnam district employment officer, Ch Subbi Reddy. The officer added that they had already started increasing recruitment drives for those eligible. According to joint director and in-charge of Visakhapatnam centre of Software Technology Parks of India (STPI), MP Dubey, the state was in an advanced position when it came to reopening firms and continuing jobs through the work-from-home mode. This, he said, was one of the key reasons for the state’s low unemployment rates. Many have even used the time on hand after losing their jobs, to start their own ventures. “It was a terrible time for me trying to decide my future after I lost my job. Then, I started my own company. Now, I am able to give opportunities to some others,” said B Karuna Kumari, a professional architect. Both Telugu states along with other south Indian states fared far better in comparison to other parts of the country in terms of recovering from the impact of the pandemic with states like Haryana still having unemployment rates of above 15%, far higher than the current national average of 6.9% according to CMIE. “The months of April and May in 2020 (after lockdown announcement) registered highest unemployment rates in almost all states. Most states started recovering from June,” said an employment officer from Vijayawada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/unemployment-rate-down-to-4-5-from-20-in-apr-20/articleshow/81129584.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
February 21, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Fourth phase of panchayat polls today, over 7k in fray for sarpanch posts||VIJAYAWADA: The state election commission and panchayat raj departments are set for the fourth phase of elections scheduled for Sunday. Polling is scheduled for 16 revenue divisions covering 161 mandals under 13 districts. Close to 70 lakh voters will be casting their votes in this final phase of polling for panchayat elections. Of the 3,299 panchayats notified for elections in the fourth phase, 554 sarpanch were elected unanimously. For the 2,745 sarpanch posts notified for elections, there were no nominations for two posts under Kadapa district leaving 2,743 posts up for polls. In all 7,475 candidates will be contesting for sarpanch posts in this phase. Of the 33,435 ward member posts notified for elections, 10,921 members were unanimously elected. No nominations were filed in 91 wards leaving 22,423 going for elections with 52,700 candidates in the fray for the posts. Authorities have identified 28,995 polling stations for the final phase of the elections. As many as 4,967 polling stations have been identified as hyper-sensitive while another 6,047 were categorised as sensitive polling stations. The final phase will see the use 15,268 big ballot boxes, 12,033 medium-sized boxes and 10,583 small boxes. Elsewhere in an official statement, the SEC said that it had received a report from the commissioner and director of municipal administration stating 56 candidates, set up by recognised and registered political parties with reserved symbols for municipal elections, have died. Of these, 28 candidates belonged to YSRC, 17 were from TDP and five from BJP. The SEC has given these parties an opportunity to put up other candidates in their place and file nominations by February 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/4th-phase-of-panchayat-polls-today-over-7k-in-fray-for-sarpanch-posts/articleshow/81129479.cms||Venu Lanka
February 21, 2021||Bengaluru||Only four entry points from Kerala open||BENGALURU/MANGALURU: Following the increase in cases in neighbouring states, Karnataka on Saturday decided to close all interstate borders with Kerala, barring four major entry points — Talapady, Saradka (Bantwal), Nettanige-Mudnuru (Puttur) and Jalsoor (Sullia).  It also made Covid-negative certificates not older than 72 hours must for travellers from Maharashtra, whether they come by road, train or flight. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner KV Rajendra said from Monday, travellers from Kerala will have to enter Karnataka and return via four checkposts and health department teams will screen them. All those entering must furnish a Covid-19 negative certificate obtained 72 hours prior to the journey. Once-in-15-day test must for daily commuters from KeralaDetails of the travellers will be sent to tahsildars, taluk panchayat executive officers and health officials to ensure tracking. Separate data will be maintained of daily commuters from Kerala, including students and employees. They will have to produce Covid-negative certificates and thereon undergo tests once in 15 days, Rajendra said. Travellers from Maharashtra, on the other hand, will be screened retrospectively. Those who have arrived in the past two weeks to Karnataka’s colleges, hospitals, nursing homes, hostels, hotels and lodges will be compulsorily subjected to RT-PCR testing, says a government circular. Only those who have already produced a Covid-negative certificate are exempt from testing. The circular says if there are five or more cases of Covid-19 in hostels, and boarding or residential educational institutions, these will be declared as “containment zones” by health authorities . Health minister K Sudhakar said border districts have been told to take steps to prevent a spread in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/only-4-entry-points-from-kerala-open/articleshow/81132005.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Jammu||Six apply to work as cyber cell volunteers, 5 do not make the grade||CHANDIGARH: To keep a check on cyber crime, objectionable posts against the nation, child pornography and to ensure better coordination among cyber cell police and residents, people have been invited to register as cyber cell volunteers. Cyber cell police said six persons from the city registered themselves but five of them did not mtach requirements. The ministry of home affairs initiated the project named Indian Cyber Coordination centre (I4C) in Jammu and Kashmir last week. MHA also sent letters to all states and UTs asking them to enroll cyber crime volunteers to keep an eye on cyber crime and report to them if they found any objectionably posts, videos and other objectionable material on the internet. Anyone can enroll in three categories: Cyber content volunteer, unlawful content flagger, cyber awareness promoters and cyber expert. Under the category of cyber content volunteer and unlawful content flagger, volunteers will identify illegal and unlawful online content like child pornography, rape, gangrape, terrorism, radicalisation and anti- national activites. In the second category, volunteers will help create awareness about cyber crime among citizens and in cyber expert category, cyber cells need IT experts who can help the police deal with cyber crime, hacking, forensics, forensic data analysis and other cyber crimes. Volunteers are required to furnish personal information like full names, father’s name, residential addresses and e-mail addresses for registration. Rashmi Yadav, DSP, cyber cell, UT police said they received six applications for cyber crime volunteers but five of them were not found to be suitable. One applicant who seemed to be suitable for cyber crime expert will be called for examination in a day or two, said the DSP. After registration, the cyber cell called volunteers for a short interaction and verification. No salary, stipend or posts in the police department will be given in lieu of services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/six-apply-to-work-as-cyber-cell-volunteers-5-do-not-make-the-grade/articleshow/81135268.cms||Pawan Tiwari
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula municipal corporation to tighten noose around vendors using bike carts||PANCHKULA: The Panchkula municipal corporation is going to tighten the noose on those selling vegetables and fruits on illegal modified vehicles or bike carts. The MC is planning a special drive to curb plying of such vehicles in the city. While providing information, MC commissioner R K Singh said some vendors are using such illegal modified vehicles by putting up loudspeakers. While such vehicles are prone to accidents, the corporation also suffers revenue losses. The commissioner said vending zones are being set up at designated places in the city. Along with this, instructions were given to remove vendors selling coconut water and watermelon on the road side. A letter to the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) will also be written and a strict action would be taken against owners of such vehicles. Officials said these are impounded whenever they are caught at check posts. The issue of sale of indigenous medicines by setting up tents on road side also came up in the meeting. Haryana assembly speaker Gyan Chand Gupta asked the Huda as well as the MC officials to look into the matter. Coordinator of the sanitation and maintenance committee D P Soni, co-coordinator D P Singhal, member Ramakant Bhardwaj, executive officer Ashok Kumar, estate officer of Huda Anil Doon, chief architect Hemraj Yadav and other officers were also present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-to-tighten-noose-around-vendors-using-bike-carts/articleshow/81129564.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
February 21, 2021||Srinagar||Six apply to work as cyber cell volunteers, 5 do not make the grade||CHANDIGARH: To keep a check on cyber crime, objectionable posts against the nation, child pornography and to ensure better coordination among cyber cell police and residents, people have been invited to register as cyber cell volunteers. Cyber cell police said six persons from the city registered themselves but five of them did not mtach requirements. The ministry of home affairs initiated the project named Indian Cyber Coordination centre (I4C) in Jammu and Kashmir last week. MHA also sent letters to all states and UTs asking them to enroll cyber crime volunteers to keep an eye on cyber crime and report to them if they found any objectionably posts, videos and other objectionable material on the internet. Anyone can enroll in three categories: Cyber content volunteer, unlawful content flagger, cyber awareness promoters and cyber expert. Under the category of cyber content volunteer and unlawful content flagger, volunteers will identify illegal and unlawful online content like child pornography, rape, gangrape, terrorism, radicalisation and anti- national activites. In the second category, volunteers will help create awareness about cyber crime among citizens and in cyber expert category, cyber cells need IT experts who can help the police deal with cyber crime, hacking, forensics, forensic data analysis and other cyber crimes. Volunteers are required to furnish personal information like full names, father’s name, residential addresses and e-mail addresses for registration. Rashmi Yadav, DSP, cyber cell, UT police said they received six applications for cyber crime volunteers but five of them were not found to be suitable. One applicant who seemed to be suitable for cyber crime expert will be called for examination in a day or two, said the DSP. After registration, the cyber cell called volunteers for a short interaction and verification. No salary, stipend or posts in the police department will be given in lieu of services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/six-apply-to-work-as-cyber-cell-volunteers-5-do-not-make-the-grade/articleshow/81135269.cms||Pawan Tiwari
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Six apply to work as cyber cell volunteers, 5 do not make the grade||CHANDIGARH: To keep a check on cyber crime, objectionable posts against the nation, child pornography and to ensure better coordination among cyber cell police and residents, people have been invited to register as cyber cell volunteers. Cyber cell police said six persons from the city registered themselves but five of them did not mtach requirements. The ministry of home affairs initiated the project named Indian Cyber Coordination centre (I4C) in Jammu and Kashmir last week. MHA also sent letters to all states and UTs asking them to enroll cyber crime volunteers to keep an eye on cyber crime and report to them if they found any objectionably posts, videos and other objectionable material on the internet. Anyone can enroll in three categories: Cyber content volunteer, unlawful content flagger, cyber awareness promoters and cyber expert. Under the category of cyber content volunteer and unlawful content flagger, volunteers will identify illegal and unlawful online content like child pornography, rape, gangrape, terrorism, radicalisation and anti- national activites. In the second category, volunteers will help create awareness about cyber crime among citizens and in cyber expert category, cyber cells need IT experts who can help the police deal with cyber crime, hacking, forensics, forensic data analysis and other cyber crimes. Volunteers are required to furnish personal information like full names, father’s name, residential addresses and e-mail addresses for registration. Rashmi Yadav, DSP, cyber cell, UT police said they received six applications for cyber crime volunteers but five of them were not found to be suitable. One applicant who seemed to be suitable for cyber crime expert will be called for examination in a day or two, said the DSP. After registration, the cyber cell called volunteers for a short interaction and verification. No salary, stipend or posts in the police department will be given in lieu of services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/six-apply-to-work-as-cyber-cell-volunteers-5-do-not-make-the-grade/articleshow/81129582.cms||Pawan Tiwari
February 21, 2021||Dehradun||Four wheeler overturns in Almora; two dead, five hurt||Almora: A commercial four wheeler with seven people on board overturned on the Ramnagar Bhatroujkhan National Highway near Almora-Nainital border on Saturday. The accident claimed the lives of two passengers and left the other five injured. The injured were rushed to the community health centre at Bhatroujkhan. The accident took place at 5.30 am when the vehicle was on its way to Dwarahat from Delhi. According to TOI sources, the driver lost control of the vehicle on the Bhatroujkhan Ramnagar highway and as a consequence, the four wheeler hit a tin shed and crashed into a nearby field. Immediately after, the locals and the police rushed to rescue the passengers. Station officer of Bhatroujkhan, Anees Ahmad, also reached the spot. The injured — including a four-year-old — were undergoing treatment at the time of filing this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-wheeler-overturns-in-almora-two-dead-five-hurt/articleshow/81129585.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Draw for 289 plots at Eco-City II tomorrow||Mohali: The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada) will hold draw for 289 residential plots at Eco City-II, New Chandigarh, on February 22. To promote its schemes, Gmada gives preference to woman and senior citizens to opt for the scheme. Sharing the details, an official spokesperson of Gmada said the list of applicants, who will be eligible to take part in the draw, has already been uploaded on the website gmada.gov.in and the draw of lots will be held on February 22 at the community centre, Purab Premium Apartments, Sector 88, Mohali at 11am. He said results of the draw will be uploaded on the official website of Gmada on February 23, 2021. Notably, Gmada had offered residential plots of 200 sq yards, 300 sq yards, 400 sq yards, 450 sq yards, 500 sq yards, 1,000 sq yards and 2,000 sq yards plots. Tapping all sections of society, Gmada has now come up to offer preference to senior citizens and women for allotment of residential plots in its new scheme. It has announced plans to come up with 289 plots at Eco City-II in New Chandigarh. A senior officer of Gmada said, “The scheme is favorable for those who do not own any flat or housing plots or any such housing property anywhere in his or her name. Preference has been given to senior citizens above the age of 60 years and women applicants. We have ensured that the plots are in close proximity to Medicity, where senior citizens can get immediate medical assistance. The plots will be a few km away from the PGI, which is also another advanced medical facility.” Gmada has kept reserve price of Rs 1.25 crore each for 40 plots measuring 500 square yards with earnest money of Rs 12.5 lakh, 63 residential plots of 1,000 square yards each for Rs 2.5 crore and with earnest money of Rs 25 lakh, residential plots measuring 2,000 square yards for Rs 5 crore with earnest money of Rs 50 lakh. It has also offered smaller area plots, measuring 450 square yards, with reserve price of Rs 1.125 crore for five number plots having earnest money of Rs 11.24 lakh, five number plots measuring 400 square yards with reserve price of Rs one crore having earnest money of Rs 10 lakh, 150 plots measuring 300 square yards with reserve price of Rs 75 lakh having earnest money of Rs 7.5 lakh and 20 plots measuring 200 square yards with reserve price of Rs 50 lakh having earnest money of Rs 5 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/draw-for-289-plots-at-eco-city-ii-tomorrow/articleshow/81129572.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Goa||Coastal body to verify activity in Cortalim creek||Panaji: The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has decided to call for old cadastral plans and a report from the Captain of Ports (CoP) to verify if the water channel of the Cortalim creek has been encroached upon. Fishermen from the village had earlier approached the National Green Tribunal (NGT) stating that fishing rights in the creek were being disrupted by the anchoring of barges and ships brought in for repair to docks and shipyards. The NGT was informed that apart from the disruption of fishing rights, the repair of ships and barges had been causing pollution in the water body due to the dumping of metal, debris and chemicals used in ship-building and repair. The tribunal had consequently directed the GCZMA to inspect the site and later, the directorate of settlement and land records (DSLR) was asked to carry out a survey. As per the report and survey, the NGT had found that there had been a violation of CRZ Notification 2011. “Based on the application filed before the tribunal, the inspection report of the expert member of the GCZMA and the survey report of the DSLR, illegal activity resulting in blatant and serious violation of the CRZ Notification 2011 was noticed. Accordingly, showcause notices were issued,” the coastal authority had noted in its meeting. The alleged violators accordingly told the GCZMA in a meeting last year that barge and ship repair and building activities were being carried out foreshore, which were permitted under the CRZ Notification 2011. It was also argued that the activities were on prior to 1991 and that the DSLR survey was faulty. In a meeting of the GCZMA last month, the alleged violators told the authority, “The structures are very old and are shown in the survey plan.” More time was sought from the authority to produce a copy of the affidavit filed by the CoP before the Supreme Court in the matter. The GCZMA, in the meanwhile, has decided to call for old cadastral plans, a report from the CoP and the Goa State Pollution Control Board to be able to decide on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coastal-body-to-verify-activity-in-cortalim-creek/articleshow/81131698.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||ACP holds meeting on managing traffic in Pinjore, Kalka; challan drive to begin||Panchkula: The assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Panchkula held a meeting with the traffic marshals and the officials of the traffic police with an agenda to manage traffic in Pinjore and Kalka, issue challans to violators at various places in Panchkula and also issuing e-challans through CCTVs. ACP (traffic) Ramesh Gulia suggested managing traffic chaos, which usually occurs on the Pinjore and Kalka roads. He asked the officials to hold meeting with auto and taxi unions and ask them to park vehicles at designated parking lot, else their vehicles will be towed away. The ACP also asked the officials to also talk to the market welfare associations of Kalka and Pinjore to not park their vehicles outside their shops. He directed the traffic city in charge to start a challan drive against violators. He also asked them to take strict action against violators and that nobody should be spared under the law. The assistant commissioner of police also asked the CCTV control room team in charge to issue e-challan to traffic offenders regularly. There are over 454 high-end CCTVs installed in the Panchkula district. ACP (traffic) Ramesh Gulia said, “The public must adhere to the traffic norms. No person will be spared under the law. Instructions have been given to the field staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/acp-holds-meeting-on-managing-traffic-in-pinjore-kalka-challan-drive-to-begin/articleshow/81129589.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Mohali ISBT caretakers fined||Mohali: Chairman and directors of the Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Interstate Terminus in Mohali have been penalised to the tune of Rs two lakh for delaying the possession of the commercial complexes to investors. The Punjab and Haryana high court, while quashing the petition filed by the chairman and directors for relief, directed them to deposit the penalty with the PGIs poor patients’ welfare fund. The chairman and the directors had approached the HC for quashing of the orders of the state consumer disputes redressal commission to penalise the company. They had taken the plea that the company was already under corporate insolvency resolution process. Ruling down their plea and upholding the judgement of the state consumer disputes redressal commission, the HC ordered them to deposit the penalty. Till date, the company fails to pay the default money. With the National Company Law Tribunal’s (NCLT) special bench, Chandigarh in initiating corporate insolvency resolution process of C&C Towers Ltd. of the Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Inter State Bus Terminus (ISBT Mohali) at Phase VI. The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada) has also sought a claim of Rs 89 crore from the company. On the other hand, more than 300 buyers, who have invested around Rs 100 crore for buying commercial properties since 2010 at the Mohali bus terminal-cum-commercial complex, said Gmada is taking the issue lightly and despite the HC directions, the police have not taken action. In December 2019, the Mohali police had arrested one of the directors, Sanjay Gupta. He was arrested from Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-isbt-caretakers-fined/articleshow/81129592.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Dehradun||Kumaon university starts a course in Criminal Science||Dehradun: The Kumaon University has become the first university in Uttarakhand to start a course in criminology. The university will start the Criminal Science course from the next academic session. The students — opting the course — will be taught how to understand the mindset of criminals and the skills required to solve complex criminal cases. An official from the Kumaon University said, “In today’s times, criminal science has gained demand among the students. The universities in the UK or the USA have several courses related to Criminal Science.” The course will be taught at the DSB campus of the university which has been preparing to start such a course for the past 2 years. It has also been learnt that courses related to forensic science will start after a few years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumaon-university-starts-a-course-in-criminal-science/articleshow/81129591.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Hand transplant girl gets sensation in fingers||MUMBAI: Six months after getting a new pair of hands, Mumbai’s first hand transplant patient Monika More has another reason to cheer: she has developed sensation in her fingers and even manages to playfully ‘hit’ her younger brother. “Best of all, the transplanted hands have taken on her skin colour. There was quite a mismatch,” said her mother Kavita More. Monika underwent a bilateral hand transplant on August 28, 2020, seven years after losing her arms falling into a gap between a train and platform. “I have had a fruitful six months, doing two one-hour sessions of physiotherapy daily to gain movement of my hands,” said Monika (24). Her next goals is to be able to grip objects well. “I want to get a job by next year,” she said. Dr Nilesh Satbai, the plastic surgeon who operated on Monika in a 16-hour-long surgery at Global Hospital, Parel, said her progress has been better than expected. As her muscle strength improves, sensation and function of the transplanted arms will improve. “She should be able to start finger movements like gripping things in a couple of months,” he said. Monika, who had started working at a private firm, had not expected to get “new hands”. But, on August 28, 2020, the family of a 35-year-old software professional in Chennai donated his arms after he was declared brain-dead. The male hands with different skin colour and muscular development had worried her mother. “Doctors say even the hand’s bulkiness will reduce over next year.” The progress that Monika, who travels to Global Hospital thrice a week for free physio sessions with her brother, has made is apparent in functional MRI reports. Dr Satbai, who helped raise Rs 22 lakh for Monika’s operation, said her functional MRI scans showed high activity in the brain areas controlling arm movement. As she lived without arms for seven years, the first such scan done after the operation had shown poor activity in the same region. “The scan done last month has given us a lot of hope,” he said. Pune resident Suma Siddanagowder, whose daughter Shreya was the first in India to undergo a bilateral hand transplant with male donation four years ago, said, “Monika is lucky she needed a below-elbow transplant. It is easier to gain movement with development of nerves and muscles,” she said. Her daughter, Shreya, needed above-elbow transplant. She took 18 months to write on her own. Last week, Shreya wrote 3-hour exam on her own. Watch Mumbai's first hand transplant patient makes progress||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hand-transplant-girl-gets-sensation-in-fingers/articleshow/81131715.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 21, 2021||Goa||Two booked for dhirios in Benaulim, released 20 minutes later||Colva: Finally acting on a complaint by People for Animals (PFA), Colva police arrested two bull owners for organising bullfights (dhirio) in Benaulim fields last week. However, both were released just 20 minutes after the arrest, raising questions over whether the arrest was a mere formality. John Fernandes, owner of the bull named ‘Vir’, and Vinay Newton Fernandes, owner of the bull ‘Ramu’, both from Benaulim, were booked under sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. The arrests were carried out at 1.30am and the release took place at 1.51am on February 20. Bail was granted after securing a bond of Rs 5,000 each and a local surety in the like amount. The sections invoked against the accused are for ‘inciting any animal to fight or bait any other animal for providing entertainment’. Clause (n) of section 11 invoked pertains to organising, keeping, using or acting in the management of, any place for animal fighting or for the purpose of baiting any animal or permitting or offering any place to be so used or receiving money for the admission of any other person to any place kept or used for any such purposes. On February 18, advocate and president of People for Animals, Norma Alvares in a written complaint to the police, had requested to register an FIR and investigate bull fights on February 16 in Benaulim fields, where one of bull was brutally attacked and almost killed. The complaint stated that more than 30 different dhirio incidents had been reported to have taken place in the Colva police jurisdiction this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-booked-for-dhirios-in-benaulim-released-20-minutes-later/articleshow/81131700.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Dehradun||Akhilesh Yadav announces Rs 5L for Chamoli woman who saved lives||Dehradun: Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday announced Rs 5 lakh for Mangshri Devi who had not only saved her son's life but also, at least 25 others at Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel plant during the Chamoli flash floods. On February 7, Mangshri Devi after witnessing the flash foods from her village home had immediately dialled her son Vipul Kareni, 27, and in the process saved several lives. A TOI report had recently highlighted her quick call and presence of mind. Mangshri Devi said that she was happy that she could save the lives of her son and many others. Meanwhile, SP spokesperson in Uttarakhand, Satyanarayan Sachan, said the party has already planned to meet the woman and her son. “We have contacted Vipul and soon our team will reach out to the family and felicitate them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/akhilesh-yadav-announces-rs-5l-for-chamoli-woman-who-saved-lives/articleshow/81129597.cms||Shivani Azad
February 21, 2021||Delhi||Old rail containers for schools||New Delhi: South Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Anamika on Saturday said the civic body will use abandoned rail containers as building material in schools and dispensaries. In a virtual meeting with Union minister of railways Piyush Goyal, the mayor asked the rail ministry to provide railway containers, which are not in use or abandoned, for making schools, dispensaries and toilets. She said the minister had assured her of providing the containers at the earliest. SDMC had demanded 100 containers in the first phase. According to the mayor, under this unique initiative, SDMC will be able to ensure health and schools services in unauthorised colonies where civic facilities are not available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/old-rail-containers-for-schools/articleshow/81131702.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Dehradun||One minister, four MLAs in contact with us, claims AAP state in-charge||Dehradun: In a statement which is likely to kick up a political storm in Uttarakhand, state in-charge of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Dinesh Mohaniya on Saturday claimed that one cabinet minister and four MLAs were in "touch with his party and would switch sides well before the assembly polls". Besides, he took a swipe at the Congress party saying that it was time for its former chief minister Harish Rawat to make a graceful exit from politics. “His desire to become CM is forcing him to continue,” he added. Mohaniya, an MLA from Delhi's Sangam Vihar, has been assigned the party's charge in Uttarakhand and has been busy preparing for the 2022 assembly elections. “Four MLAs and one cabinet minister have given their consent. The number is likely to go up even further in the next few months,” Mohaniya said, adding that people and politicians who were looking for a change should join hands with AAP. “The purpose of creating a new state has not been achieved in 20 years. We are dedicated to carry out development work,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-minister-four-mlas-in-contact-with-us-claims-aap-state-in-charge/articleshow/81129596.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 21, 2021||Trichy||MP protests ‘political stunt’ over removal of Gandhiji statue, held||Karur: Congress MP S Jothimani and her 66 supporters were arrested on Saturday for protesting against the removal of the Mahatma Gandhi statue in Karur town. All of them were released in the evening. The bust-sized statue of Mahatma Gandhi at the lighthouse roundabout in Karur was removed by the municipality on February 18, citing renovation of the memorial. However, Jothimani alleged that the statue was in good condition and it was removed in a haphazard manner and the pedestal razed down.She also said that a new pedestal was constructed hurriedly and a new bronze statue of Gandhi was also placed early on Saturday to enable its inauguration by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami during his visit to Karur on Sunday.Jothimani, who sat near the replaced statue was forcibly taken to a police vehicle by the women police after her supporters gathered there.Prior to her arrest, Jothimani told reporters that the bronze statue was installed nearly 70 years ago to mark the Gandhi’s death, and was removed without any valid reasons by the Karur municipality. She also alleged that the construction of the pedestal was of inferior quality due to its hurried construction. “Placing a bronze statue weighing two tonne on the pedestal constructed without following any quality construction procedures, is not advisable,” she said. A municipality official maintained that the statue was shrouded with bushes and the fund for the new statue was mobilized by some organisations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mp-protests-political-stunt-over-removal-of-gandhiji-statue-held/articleshow/81131703.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Trichy||Second wave of Covid unlikely in TN: Min||Trichy: Health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar has said that the chances of a second wave of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu were very remote. He was speaking to reporters at Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) after taking his second shot of Covaxin here on Saturday. “We are in complete control. The doctors and nurses have become experts in handling Covid-19 patients, be they aged or with comorbid conditions. We have brought down the death rate drastically. Initially, it was challenging and we panicked, but we are relaxed now because of the consistent steps taken by the chief minister,” he said.Vijayabaskar had taken the first dose in Chennai on January 22 and visited the hospital for the second dose after completing 28 days. Tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan, hospital dean Dr K Vanitha and others were present. Stating that the state vaccinated 3.53 lakh frontline health workers and workers till Friday, the minister said they had received 14.85 lakh doses of Covishield and 1.89 lakh of Covaxin. Around 10,000 people get vaccinated every day. “I appeal to everyone to get vaccinated as soon as approval comes from the Union government,” he said. The minister said the timing of vaccination will play a key role in completely bringing down Covid-19. “Here we are keeping daily cases below 500. Since we vaccinate everyone when cases are declining, there is a chance of bringing it to nil,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/second-wave-of-covid-unlikely-in-tn-min/articleshow/81131699.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Dehradun||SC dismisses petition of Sherwood College management over principal appointment row, directs to maintain status quo||Dehradun: The Supreme Court, in an interim order dated February 19, directed for status quo to be maintained regarding the management of Sherwood College until the Nainital civil court announces its verdict in the case. The apex court also mentioned that should the civil court fail to announce its judgment in nine months, the parties may approach SC again. The Uttarakhand HC had given the same order on January 27. “Unless the parties get their rights decided by the civil court (pursuant to judgment and order dated March 19, 2014, which has attained finality), status quo shall be maintained by the parties with regard to the affairs of the school.” However, the SC said it hadn’t taken the HC’s observations into account. “We also make it clear that by this order we have stated nothing on the merits,” the order said. The SC’s order, issued by the two-judge bench of Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman and Justice BR Gavai, is a respite for incumbent principal Amandeep Sandhu, who had been suspended by the Agra Diocese in October. The Agra Diocese had appointed Peter Dhiraj Emmanuel as the interim principal but Sandhu maintained that the Lucknow Diocese is responsible for the school’s management and the Agra Diocese has no authority over Sherwood. “The status quo, as of today, (is) to be continued and the trial Court (is) to dispose of the suit within a period of nine months from today (February 19th 2021),” the SC’s order read. Notably, Emmanuel has been denied entry into Sherwood several times and turned away from the gates even when he turned up with police protection. However, the order issued by the Uttarakhand HC granting him police cover was later quashed by the SC, which said decisions regarding the school couldn’t be taken without hearing Sandhu and the Lucknow diocese, who had also applied to be party to the case in the HC. Sherwood College is the alma mater of several famous persons, including Amitabh Bachchan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sc-dismisses-petition-of-sherwood-college-management-over-principal-appointment-row-directs-to-maintain-status-quo/articleshow/81129606.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 21, 2021||Trichy||Paid parking scheme to come up on Karur Bypass Road||Trichy: After implementing paid parking for vehicles in Thillai Nagar, the Trichy Corporation has mooted a study to implement the same on the congested Karur Bypass Road, another major commercial street in the city. The civic body has identified a 500m stretch on either side of the 1km-long bypass road between KT Theatre signal and Annamalai Nagar. Two-wheelers and cars parked will be charged Rs 5 and Rs 20 per hour respectively once the city police issues the no objection certificate. A preliminary study by the contractor has found that the road has the potential to accommodate 500 cars. A source said that 25 CCTV cameras will be installed in the stretch. Meanwhile, residents have sought the corporation to collect the parking fee from commercial complexes without proper parking lots. “Parking regulations and streamlining are needed but collecting the fee only from the public is unfair. Shopping complexes have to pay the fee since they have not provided proper parking space,” S Harish, a resident of Thiruvanaikoil said. A portion of the fee can be borne by the shops as people come there to shop, a resident said. “We will deploy 10 parking fee collectors to regulate the parking. The suggestion to collect a portion of the fee from the shops will be shared with stakeholders,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/paid-parking-scheme-to-come-up-on-karur-bypass-road/articleshow/81131708.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 21, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand takes the ‘adventure route’ to revive tourism industry post-Covid||Dehradun: In order to cope with a lull in the tourism sector with drying up of international tourist arrivals and lean domestic tourist numbers, Uttarakhand, which draws a large chunk of its revenue from the hospitality industry, is now banking on ‘adventure’ to bring things on track. While other Himalayan regions like J&K and Himachal Pradesh — also known for adventure sports activities — are still in the process of opening up tourism in a full-fledged way, Uttarakhand has already organised three national-level adventure sports festivals (in Pauri, Almora and Nainital) post the lockdown since September and is all set to host a national skiing championship in Auli next month. Also, in past four months, almost 60,000 people have done river rafting in the state (in Rishikesh) while over 6,200 taken part in paragliding at various spots near Bhimtal, Bageshwar, and Kotbagh, which experts say is a sizeable number, since November-January is considered ‘off-season’. In a bid to revive the adventure tourism activities, the state government has also set up a separate wing in Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB). The ‘adventure’ wing of the UTDB is being led by Colonel Ashwin Pundir, who holds the post of Addition Chief Executive Officer (ACEO), Adventure Sports. Meanwhile, retired group captain RK Singh has joined the wing as Air Sports Specialist. Also, Anuj Singh and Ranveer Singh Negi have been appointed as water sports specialist and land sports specialist respectively. Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj, who is in favour of exploring every possible way of adventure activities in the state, pointed out that adventure tourism has a major contribution in the overall tourism industry of the state. “We are confident that looking for more and more adventure activities will benefit the state tourism industry. This particular section of the tourism industry is attracting every age group these days and as we already have holistic and spiritual tourism options available in ample, our focus is to look out for maximum potential in adventure tourism,” added Maharaj. Vinayak Kaul, secretary, Adventure Tour Operators Association of India (ATOAI), while talking to TOI maintained that the steps taken by Uttarakhand for the revival of tourism are remarkable. “If we go by the figures presented by the government, 60,000 people have participated in river rafting in the last few months in Uttarakhand. This is a remarkable number given the cold conditions. On the other hand, we are hardly getting to hear any new activity being planned in other Himalayan states — popular for adventure tourism — to attract tourists,” added Kaul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-takes-the-adventure-route-to-revive-tourism-industry-post-covid/articleshow/81129618.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 21, 2021||Trichy||Now, AIADMK campaigns using shop name boards||Trichy: Catching up with DMK in campaigning for the upcoming assembly election, AIADMK has started to sell its campaign through name boards of shops. Promoting the tagline ‘Vetrinadai Podum Thamizhagame’ (Tamil Nadu is taking victorious stride), the ruling party is providing brand new illuminated name boards for shops, predominantly belonging to AIADMK cadres, willing to endorse the schemes launched by their party.AIADMK through their IT wing has identified at least 100 shops in each assembly segment to promote the ruling party’s schemes implemented in the last 10 years. The name boards varying between 18 and 32 square feet in size have the portraits of chief minister Edppadi K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam and the former chief ministers J Jayalalithaa, M G Ramachandran and C N Annadurai. Along with the tagline ‘Vetrinadai Podum Thamizhagame’, the boards display the schemes such as marriage assistance, solar-powered green house and farm loan waiver. “Across the state, there are 25 common contents issued to promote the welfare schemes implemented. The name boards will have the shop’s name printed and can be illuminated,” said M Suresh Kumar, district secretary, IT wing, AIADMK rural south (Trichy). The AIADMK theme name boards were found in Ponmalai and Collector Office road in the city, besides Manapparai. “The chief minister has implemented many beneficial schemes. We wanted to take those to the people through our name board,” said Naganathar Pandi, owner of the tea stall chain in Trichy city. AIADMK’s IT wing claimed that non-members of the party were also provided with the boards if they show willingness. The board, costing around Rs 9,000, were given for free. The strategy to use name boards for campaigning was first opted by DMK on the shops run by people affiliated with DMK. The name boards sport their party president M K Stalin’s ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin’ (Stalin in your constituency) campaign. DMK has planned to sport 300 such boards in each assembly segment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/now-aiadmk-campaigns-using-shop-name-boards/articleshow/81131707.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Lungs travel 11.7 km in 15 minutes across Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Hyderabad traffic police facilitated transport of live organs (lungs) by providing a green channel to an ambulance within the city limits on Saturday. To facilitate non-stop movement of the live organ, the Hyderabad traffic police ensured that the entire 11.7 km stretch between Yashoda Hospital, Malakpet and Yashoda Hospital, Secunderabad, which usually takes about 45 minutes was covered withina timeframe of 15 minutes. Hyderabad additional commissioner of police, traffic, Anil Kumar said, “As it is a live organ, it is necessary to shift it as soon as possible. I spoke to my field officers to arrange the green channel and ensured that the distance was covered within a short span without any hassle.” The medical team carrying live organs left at 11.27am from Yashoda Hospital, Malakpet, and reached Yashoda Hospital, Secunderabad, at 11.42am. Hyderabad traffic police received eight requests for a green channel this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lungs-travel-11-7-km-in-15-mts-across-city/articleshow/81131710.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||No major injury on Midda: Initial report||Kolkata: Autopsy surgeons have agreed with Lalbazar’s findings and stated in their initial report that no major internal or external injury was noticed on the body of DYFI activist Moidul Islam Midda (31), who died after attending the Left’s Nabanna Abhiyan on February 11. The only injury on his body was a cut on his knee, the post-mortem found. The “microscopic observation” of his vital organs, too, did not indicate any injury inflicted externally. The postmortem report is, however, not final and not over. “Histopathological reports will arrive in a couple of weeks. After that doctors can find the exact cause of death,” said a Lalbazar officer. The report, claimed sources, mentioned an enlarged heart, water in the pleura (vital part of the respiratory tract) and that Midda’s kidneys were damaged. “We are not autopsy experts and can’t ascertain how Midda died. Our probe is on and we are finding out what transpired till Midda was picked up in an ambulance 600m from the clash spot . The video, where he is seen lying on the road, is now being studied, apart from stored footage,” said a detective department officer. The PIL filed in the Calcutta HC by SFI and DYFI is likely to be heard early next week. Left leaders had alleged Midda was thrashed by cops and he suffered injuries to the head on February 11. MLA and minister from Kotulpur in Bankura Shyamal Santra on Friday went to Midda’s home and handed an appointment letter to his wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-major-injury-on-midda-initial-report/articleshow/81130490.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 21, 2021||Goa||Farmers across state fear crop loss, want compensation||Poinguinim/Saligao: Mango and cashew farmers across the state are a worried lot. The unseasonal showers the state has been witnessing could hamper the yield of the two favourite summer fruits, they fear. Both crops are currently at the crucial flowering stage. In the hinterland areas, especially in and Gaondongrim, where the showers were heavier, farmers are very disappointed. Zonal agriculture officer Kirtiraj Naik Gaonkar told TOI that such unseasonal rains will damage pollination and fruit-setting in mango and cashew crops as well. He said that the chilli crop, also in the flowering stage, could also be damaged. The crops in the interior and hilly areas will be affected as it mostly rained in those areas, as per the reports received, he said. Director of agriculture Nevil Alphonso, however, said that since the showers were not heavy, the damage could be less. However, there will be less flowering, he warned, adding that if the showers continue, there may be damage to the chilli crop. Meanwhile, in North Goa, farmers of Guirim’s St Anthony ward have already demanded for crop loss compensation from the agriculture department. Around 50 farmers who were cultivating their fields here since November, said they were already affected as the irrigation canal coming from Tillari was damaged last month on the Maharashtra side due to which they did not have sufficient water to irrigate their fields and were dependent on tankers. The unseasonal rain wreaked havoc and damaged their crops, one farmer, Edward D’Souza, said. “The rain was accompanied by gusty winds and all our hard work has gone in vain. We demand that the government compensates us to help overcome this loss,” he said. Another farmer, Ramesh Bicholkar, said that he had grown a lot of vegetables and other crops, which have been damaged. He said he hopes the agriculture department will pay heed to the farmers’ plea for compensation. Around 50 farmers who were cultivating their fields here since November last year, said they were already affected as the irrigation canal coming from Tillari was damaged last month||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/farmers-across-state-fear-crop-loss-want-compensation/articleshow/81131729.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Thane||Violation of Covid norms: 341 Thane auto drivers fined||THANE: Over 300 autorickshaw drivers were booked by the Thane traffic department on Friday for violating social distancing norms and plying more than two passengers. It was seen that out of the 341 autorickshaw drivers booked, most of them were from Narpoli in Dombivli. A total fine amount of Rs 1.7 lakh was collected from the offenders. “When Covid cases had reduced, share autos and other autos had started accommodating three passengers but as the cases have seen a rise there is a need to maintain social distancing. Not only autorickshaws, but also other vehicles will have to follow these rules, else action will be taken,” said Balasaheb Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Thane traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/violation-of-covid-norms-341-thane-auto-drivers-fined/articleshow/81130548.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
February 21, 2021||Trichy||IndiGo to operate spl Trichy-Kuwait weekly service||Trichy:IndiGo Air will operate a weekly special flight to Trichy from Kuwait during March. This is seen as an effort to tap a potential market in the wake of Trichy airport handling 45 Vande Bharat flights bringing back 5,950 Tamils stranded in that country during the pandemic.Sources said the airline will operate the service under the Air Bubble agreement between the two countries and booking has begun. Flight (6E 8784) will depart at 12 pm from Kuwait on Tuesdays and reach Trichy at 7.25 pm. Air India Express is operating a weekly service to Kuwait on Thursdays under Vande Bharat Mission. IndiGo has been operating weekly two services to Dubai under the Air Bubble agreement and had brought back 499 passengers from there on three charter flights, officials added. This apart, Kuwait Airways operated eight services carrying 909 passengers to Trichy while Jazeera Airways brought back 1,311passengers on eight flights. Air India provided six services to bring 688 passengers and Air India Express, 20 services to fly back 2,543 passengers.Ever since the ministry of external affairs gave nod to operate repatriate flights from India to various countries under Vande Bharat mission, Trichy airport has handled 1.05 lakh passengers on 685 flights.The erstwhile Indian Airlines has been operating two services to Kuwait from Trichy on Tuesdays and Saturdays. Thereafter, Air India Express operated services to the country, but stopped them in 2007 citing operational reasons. However, thousands of passengers belonging to the central region are employed in Kuwait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/indigo-to-operate-spl-trichy-kuwait-weekly-service/articleshow/81131712.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 21, 2021||Trichy||Farmers’ outfit to field candidates in all 234 seats||Ariyalur: The federation of farmers welfare organisations has announced its intention to field candidates in all the 234 assembly segments in the upcoming assembly election.In a meeting held at Mudikondan village in Ariyalur district on Saturday, the federation, under the banner Tamilaga Makkal Nallatchi Kootamaippu, said the candidates will promise to fulfil the farmers’ centric assurances by signing in the stamp paper, failing which, people can initiate legal action against the candidates.“No political party is concerned about the farmers and farm workers, so we have planned to face the election by ourselves. We have identified candidates for 18 constituencies including Ariyalur, Perambalur and Thanjavur now, soon other farmer welfare organisations will be brought to the fold,” Thanga Shanmugasundaram, convener of the federation said.The federation said that district-specific budget promoting area-specific growth and facilitating non-conventional energy resources such as solar panels for power generation for farmers will top their assurances. It also released a preliminary list of 131 assurances concerning agriculture, employment, water management sectors and women self-help groups. ”Tamilaga Makkal Nallatchi Kootamaippu will find like-minded people and activists across the state to focus on soil management activities. Such measures will improve farmers’ income. The revival of organic and traditional farming will be focussed,” Shanmugasundaram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-outfit-to-field-candidates-in-all-234-seats/articleshow/81131709.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Goa||‘Messy poll process shows CM’s lack of leadership’||Panaji: The backlash against the government over the reservation and delimitation exercise for municipal elections proves that chief minister Pramod Sawant lacks administrative acumen and leadership skills, Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte said. “The BJP’s attempt to save humiliation of a devastating defeat during the municipal polls has forced them to tailor-make ward reservations. It’s a messy state of affairs. And, the entire controversy and mess around the upcoming municipal elections is purely due to lack of leadership and administrative acumen of Pramod Sawant,” he said. Nine different petitions have been filed before the high court against the government’s delimitation process and reservation of wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/messy-poll-process-shows-cms-lack-of-leadership/articleshow/81131711.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Delhi||Marriage proposal rebuffed, man kills teen with hammer in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 17-year-old girl was bludgeoned to death by a man after she turned down his marriage proposal. Laik Khan had been pressuring the girl, Neetu, to get married to him but she had been refusing. On Friday evening, he is alleged to have come to her house in northwest Delhi’s Rohini and attacked the girl with a hammer. The cops have formed six teams to pursue Khan, who absconded after the crime, with the Crime Branch too to assist in the case. Police received a call from a hospital informing them about a possible murder. A police team reached the hospital while another visited the crime scene. A case of murder was registered based on the complaint of Neetu’s cousin, Kaushal Kumar. Speaking to TOI, Kaushal said “I had gone to my sister’s house around 5pm on Friday. Laik Khan also arrived to talk to her. For two-three months, he had been pressuring her to marry him, but she only considered him a friend. Around 6pm, he gave me Rs 200 and asked me to bring chicken and vegetables for dinner. When I returned around 7.45pm, I saw Laik locking the door and hurriedly leaving with a hammer. I asked him to wait, but he left hurriedly.” Kaushal called Neetu on her phone and could hear it ring. “As we were breaking down the door, Neetu’s mother also returned from some work she had. We used a hammer to break through, and inside saw Neetu lying in a pool of blood with injuries on her face and head,” said Kaushal. “We took her to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital, where doctors declared her dead on arrival.” Kaushal alleged that Khan had attacked Neetu because she had turned him down. “He used to visit our home and had even stayed with us earlier,” he added. “Neetu had told her mother about his proposal and her refusal.” PK Mishra, DCP (Rohini), said, “The girl’s family earlier used to stay in Bawana where the accused was their neighbour. The families of both were known to each other. Laik Khan used to visit the girl’s home often and had even stayed at her house for around a month. The accused killed the girl, who was studying in Class XI, after she refused to marry him.” Neetu’s mother, Rani Devi, was distraught and wanted the accused caught and punished. “Neetu had told me he harassed her and had threatened to kill her. I was out on some work when he came to the house and sent Kaushal to get food,” said Devi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/marriage-proposal-rebuffed-man-kills-teen-with-hammer/articleshow/81131752.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Protest held to express solidarity with Disha Ravi||Hyderabad: A group of citizens gathered at People’s Plaza on Necklace Road on Saturday, to express solidarity with climate change activist Disha Ravi and demand her immediate release. The meet was organised by Swecha, an NGO that was formerly called the Free Software Foundation of Andhra Pradesh, against the arrest of the 22-year-old climate change activist who was taken into custody by the Delhi police on February 13. “All she did was ask people to read an article on farmers by the People’s Archive of Rural India (PARI). This is not a good direction for democracy. We urge the authorities to drop all charges against her and see that she is released immediately”, said Kiran Chandra, a member of Swecha. Five days after the arrest by Delhi Police, Disha Ravi was produced in front of the Patiala House Court in Delhi on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protest-held-to-express-solidarity-with-disha-ravi/articleshow/81130489.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Goa||Rain could affect incubation of turtle eggs at beaches||Poinguinim: The Olive Ridley turtle nesting in Goa has had a late but encouraging start this season. However, there are now fears that the unseasonable showers being witnessed in the state may affect the incubation process. Marine life enthusiasts were ecstatic after witnessing a surge in Olive Ridley turtle pits in beach stretches across the state. Officials from the wildlife division of the Canacona forest department have been protecting the turtle eggs since the first week of January, when the first nest was created by the flippered creatures at Agonda beach on January 7. At Agonda, forest officials led by Ajay Pagi and assisted by Kapil Bugde and Vithalkant Desai protected as many as 19 turtle pits. The latest pit with 133 eggs was protected on Saturday at 4am, which have been safely relocated in the enclosures at the incubation sites. Range forest officer (wildlife) Vikramaditya Gaonkar said that Agonda beach has 19 turtle pits with 2,113 eggs protected at the nursery for incubation. Galgibaga beach has two pits this season, with 37 hatchlings from the first pit released into the sea. On these two beaches of Canacona, there are 21 turtle nesting pits with 2,360 eggs, he said. Gaonkar said the sudden climatic change that brought rain will dampen the sand, which may not be helpful in the incubation process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rain-could-affect-incubation-of-turtle-eggs-at-beaches/articleshow/81131744.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Eight rural schools closed after students test positive||NAGPUR: Eight rural area schools were shut down this week after some students and teachers tested positive for Covid-19. These schools will remain closed for at least 10 days and the affected people will be tested again. Nagpur district education officer Chintaman Vanjari said, “A total of around 35 students in Hingna and Saoner taluka tested positive. We have also received reports of four teachers, from those schools, also tested positive. As per the safety protocols issued by the government, we have shut these schools down for 10 days.” While there has a been a rise in positive cases in the district for the last one week, the attendance figures overall are not getting affected. The last updated attendance on February18 shows that since the beginning of the year, attendance in schools has been rising steadily.  Vanjari said, “Schools are taking all precautions and we keep guiding them about safety protocols as well. The Covid guidelines about maintaining social distancing, washing hands regularly etc is something which is being practised by all.” As of now in Nagpur, Classes V-XII are allowed to open for physical learning. Many academics feel that at least Std V-VIII should be closed down, considering spike in the cases. Bhola High School principal Premlata Tiwari said, “Unlike SSC and HSC students, those from Std V-VIII don’t have to worry about board exams. So, the state government should close classes for all of them.” She further said the rules of who gets tested must also be changed. “While teachers have to mandatorily get themselves tested, the same rule does not apply for students who can be asymptomatic carriers as they come from different areas and we do not know what the Covid-19 situation in that area is,” Tiwari said.  Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA) general secretary Ashok Gavhankar said testing for all is the only way forward. “We have been saying this all along that no one should be allowed back on campus till testing is done. But now we have a situation where almost 50 lakh students are back on campus in Maharashtra without mandatory testing. The risk to teachers and fellow students is enormous,” Gavhankar said. STATISTICS: Attendance Figures. Feb 18. Nagpur district. STD V-VIII: 88,924 (out of 3,78,022) STD IX-XII: 1,25,698 (out of 2,72,870)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-rural-schools-closed-after-students-test-positive/articleshow/81129643.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Swachh Survekshan ’21: Hyd tops citizen feedback category||Hyderabad: The city topped the citizen feedback category in the central government survey which assesses the cleanest and dirtiest cities in the country. As per Swachh Bharat records, 10,10,729 people from the city logged onto the Swachhata App or visited the website and rated the sanitation levels here. Ahmedabad came second followed by Visakhapatnam, Bhopal, and Prayagraj. In Swachh Survekshan 2021 (SS2021), citizen feedback will carry 1,800 marks out of 6,000. People answered questions related to cleanliness level in their neighbourhood, sanitation in commercial/public areas, waste segregation, public toilets and grievance reddressal. Final ranks will given in March. But some say civic authorities need to address certain issues like private land parcels caught in legal tangles, lack of public washrooms, waste segregation and sanitation along commercial stretches to achieve a high rank. GHMC officials are expecting a good rank this year. “The GHMC retained te ODF (open defecation free) certification this year too. We have also applied for water plus city certification where cities are ranked for treatment of sewage water,” said Ravi Kanth, GHMC assistant medical officer for health Jubliee Hills circle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/swachh-survekshan-21-hyd-tops-citizen-feedback-category/articleshow/81130506.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 21, 2021||Trichy||Plea to post qualified TET candidates in thousands of vacancies||Trichy: Members of Teachers Eligibility Test (TET) Qualified Candidate’s Welfare Association have appealed to the state government to recruit all of them in government schools in a phased manner. Stating that thousands of teachers’ posts have been vacant since 2013, the functionaries of the association urged the government to start filling the vacancies immediately.Speaking to reporters, M Ilangovan, state coordinator of the association, said that TET is being conducted by the state government since 2012. Around one lakh candidates have so far cleared the examination held five times ever since 2012. However, none of them have been appointed as teachers in the last eight years as all the secondary grade and BT assistant teachers have been remaining idle, Ilangovan said.“Despite repeated appeals put forth before the school education minister and also with the chief minister, nothing has happened all these years and the condition of their life has been same without any progress,” he added.“So far, we have conducted 22 hunger strikes, processions, road blockades and sit-in protests to bring to the notice of the state government. We also staged a protest by handing over our TET certificates to the government itself,” he added.“During the tenure of J Jayalalithaa, 40,000 candidates who cleared TET were appointed in schools across the state. However, after Edappadi K Palaniswami took over office as chief minister, not even a single teacher was appointed in any of the schools in the state. Rather, the government insisted us to write the examination again,” he added.“It is not fair asking us to appear for the examination again. It is creating depression among candidates who already cleared the examinations after undergoing several ordeals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plea-to-post-qualified-tet-candidates-in-thousands-of-vacancies/articleshow/81131726.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Goa||Cong slams govt for high gas prices||Panaji: Criticising BJP for the increase in domestic gas and fuel prices, the Congress said that the rise in prices have put a dent in the budget of the common man. Congress’ women’s wing held a protest in the state capital on Saturday demanding the prices to be reduced immediately. The Goa Pradesh Mahila Congress held a protest march and went on to cook on firewood even as traffic passed inches away from them. “BJP, both at the Centre and the state, has forced us to come onto the streets and protest against the cylinder prices. Today the price for a gas cylinder, which is a necessity and not a luxury, is at Rs 782,” president of Goa Mahila Congress, Pratima Coutinho, said. “This government has no right to continue. Are these the promised achhe din?” she added. The steep rise in gas prices, which were at close to half of what they are today, prompted the Congress workers to take a dig at BJP, particularly at Union minister Smriti Irani. In the year 2014, Irani had participated in a protest against rising fuel prices and had castigated the UPA for its failure to curb fuel prices. “What is Smriti Irani, the drama queen, doing today when the gas prices have gone up? She was crying when the gas cylinder price was around Rs 400. Today it is close to Rs 800 and she is laughing. Where is the BJP women’s wing?” Coutinho said. Congress said that aside from driving up inflationary trends, the rise in fuel prices will also prompt poor women to once again use firewood to cook. “During the pandemic, where people have lost their jobs and are struggling, the government should reduce the cylinder prices. Don’t force women to go back to firewood stoves,” Coutinho said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-slams-govt-for-high-gas-prices/articleshow/81131757.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad mayor to take charge tomorrow||HYDERABAD: Gadwal Vijaya Laxmi will formally take charge as mayor of Hyderabad on February 22 after performing a puja at 9.30 pm in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) office. She will use the existing chambers for the mayor’s office located on the seventh floor of the head office. As per GHMC records, there has been no written request made by the mayor for a new vehicle. The mayor invited TRS leaders for the oath-taking ceremony and formally met several leaders on Saturday, including finance minister Harish Rao. She also met former mayor Bonthu Rammohan and his wife Bonthu Sridevi, Cherlapally corporator. Sridevi was gunning for the mayor’s seat before CM Chandrasekhar Rao decided in favour of Laxmi. The new mayor also started TRS party membership drive in Banjara Hills ward (from where she was elected as a corporator). This week, Laxmi also met animal husbandary minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav and endowments minister A Indrakaran Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mayor-to-take-charge-tomorrow/articleshow/81131755.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||Mutation relief for man after ‘Talk to KMC’||Kolkata: A team from the KMC assessment department will visit senior citizen Sugata Ranjan Dasgupta at his Bondel Road home to solve problems over the issuance of mutation certificate for his property. Dasgupta on Saturday called KMC board of administrators (BoA) during “Talk to the KMC” programme and expressed his inability to visit the civic headquarters as he recently fractured his leg. “We have officials who are ready to serve citizens. If they need to visit the citizens in need, they won’t hesitate,” BoA chairman Firhad Hakim told Dasgupta, even as he asked a special commissioner to go to Dasgupta’s home for the problem. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mutation-relief-for-man-after-talk-to-kmc/articleshow/81130530.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Goa||Delhi woman files rape complaint||CALANGUTE: A woman from Delhi has alleged that the owner of a popular beachside restaurant in Calangute had raped her. The complaint has been lodged with the Delhi police. Although a team of Delhi police visited Goa a few days ago, it returned without making any arrests, Calangute police said. According to Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martins, the alleged rape is said to have occurred in 2009. The Delhi woman, he said, is an owner of a beachside property in Calangute. The restaurant of the alleged accused is located next to this property. In November, some persons had damaged a portion of the popular beachside restaurant, following which the owner of the restaurant lodged a complaint against the Delhi owner of the adjacent property. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/delhi-woman-files-rape-plaint/articleshow/81131773.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Covid-19 cases surpass January count in 20 days of February||NAGPUR: February, the month that began with a ray of hope with fewer Covid-19 cases and more recoveries, has witnessed a complete flip in last seven days. With more than 2,000 cases reported for the third day in a row on Saturday, Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 cases in the month of February reached 22,428, surpassing January’s caseload of 21,065. More than half of the cases in February have been reported in the last seven days (from February 14 to 20). With eight days more to go, February might surpass 52,177 cases reported in December 2020. The sudden surge in cases due to new mutations of virus has resulted in lockdown-like restrictions in most districts of Vidarbha. February 21 will be the first Sunday of the New Year on which more than half of Vidarbha will observe complete shutdown of markets, shops and businesses. On Saturday, 2,379 cases were reported in Vidarbha. More than 2,300 cases were last reported on October 13, 2020. Highest cases of the day came from Amravati where 894 patients were detected positive. These include 727 tested in the city through RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests and 163 cases added by the ICMR authorities. Amravati conducted 2,131 tests on Saturday, which means the positivity rate was more than 34%. Nagpur reported 725 cases of the 9,443 tests conducted in district. The positivity rate is still under 10%. Buldhana reported 215 positive cases out of 1,030 tests done in a day. Akola conducted 813 tests and 200 reported positive. In Yavatmal, 145 out of 449 samples tested positive. Cases also came from Washim (93), Wardha (56), Chandrapur (22), Bhandara (20), Gondia (6), and Gadchiroli (3) which took total caseload of Vidarbha to 2,96,136. Though recoveries also reported a good surge and almost doubled as compared to Friday, the recovery rate of Vidarbha has gone down. Total 1,103 recoveries on Saturday came from Nagpur (502), Amravati (159), Wardha (150), Buldhana (101), Yavatmal (81), Akola (75), Chandrapur (18), Washim (9), Bhandara (6), Gondia (2), and Gadchiroli (0). At 24, Vidarbha reported highest death toll of the month of February. Amravati, which is worst-hit at present, reported seven deaths in a day, followed by Nagpur (6), Akola (4), Buldhana (3), Wardha (2), and Yavatmal (2). Vidarbha’s death toll reached 7205. Akola: The district reported 200 new cases, 75 recoveries and 4 deaths. The deceased include a 30-year-old woman, 73-year-old woman, 80-year-old woman and 75 year-old man. Except one patient who was admitted on February 9, all three were admitted between February 17 and 19 which means they were reported in critical condition. Akola now has 13,593 total cases, 11,496 recoveries, 352 deaths and 1,745 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district reported three deaths on Saturday. This took Buldhana’s death toll to 186. Total 215 new cases and 101 recoveries took Buldhana’s total caseload to 15,845 and recovery count to 14,496. Washim: With 93 new cases, Washim’s total caseload reached 7,648. No death was reported on Saturday. Gadchiroli: The district reported three new cases and no recoveries on Saturday. Gondia: The district saw six new cases and two recoveries. Gondia now has 14,322 cases. Bhandara: Out of 541 tests, Bhandara reported 20 cases positive. Six patients recovered in a day. Wardha: A 63-year-old man and a 80-year-old woman from Wardha died due to coronavirus on Saturday, taking the toll to 326 while new 56 cases were reported. Yavatmal: The district recorded two deaths. There are 929 active patients undergoing treatment. Chandrapur: There were 22 new cases and 18 recoveries in Chandrapur on Saturday. Total caseload rose to 23,339. Amravati: Even as the district reeled into a 36-hour lockdown from 8pm on Saturday, an all-time high spike of 727 and seven deaths took the district’s caseload to 28,815 and toll to 460.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-cases-surpass-january-count-in-20-days-of-february/articleshow/81129649.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 21, 2021||Kochi||Mediation talks between govt, protesters end on positive note||Thiruvananthapuram: The meeting convened by additional chief secretary T K Jose and ADGP Manoj Abraham with the representatives of PSC rank holders to address their complaints ended on a positive note on Saturday. The representatives, including the ones from last-grade servant and CPO lists who attended the meeting held at the conference hall in Secretariat, expressed hope as government’s representatives agreed to look into their concerns in a timely manner and take appropriate steps. The last-grade servant rank holders were represented by Laya Rajesh, R Vinesh Chandran and Praveen Kumar. Chandran said their demand to cancel all temporary appointments and using their rank list to fill the vacancies –also the ones made under compassionate appointment – creation of office assistant post in higher secondary board and regulating the working hours of night watchmen were heard in a compassionate manner. Jose and Abraham replied that they will hold talks with officials of the departments concerned. The demands, entered into the minutes of the meeting, would be presented before the cabinet for further action, said the representatives of rank holders. The concerns of CPO rank holders were also heard in a similar manner. They were represented by Vishnu S, Vishnu M and Shiyas. Their main demand was to use the special powers of the cabinet to either extend the validity of their rank list (which ended on June 30, 2020) for three years. Else, the government could use it until another rank list comes into existence to fill the 2,000 vacancies reported under State Industrial Security Force and 1,200 vacancies for temporary trainees that were reported shortly after the validity of their rank list expired. They said the government could fill vacancies, with retrospective effect, using an existing government order in 2020 that prescribes provisions to report anticipatory vacancies in battalions for the next 18 months. They also pointed out that there were discrepancies in figures, related to vacancies, reported by the government and PSC officials. Jose and Abraham promised to look into these issues and get back by Monday. Meanwhile, rank holders said they will continue their agitation. The solidarity fast by Youth Congress leaders Shafi Parambil and K S Sabarinadhan also continued as they rejected the suggestion of former CM Oommen Chandy to call off the strike after mediation talks began on Saturday. A mock PSC test was conducted by Youth Congress workers in front of the protest venue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mediation-talks-between-govt-protesters-end-on-positive-note/articleshow/81129657.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Delhi||AAP and BJP spar over MP-MLA fund proposal||New Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party functionary Durgesh Pathak on Saturday claimed that the BJP-led South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) is proposing withdrawing 10% of the amount from MP and MLA funds. “Till now, BJP councilors took a 10% cut from contractors, but now they also want a legal cut of the MP-MLA funds,” Pathak alleged in a press conference. AAP councillors will oppose the proposal in the house, take it to the public and demand its withdrawal. The party said that said the move will hit the development work done through MP-MLA funds. Pathak said people go to their MLAs and ask them to get work done like construction and repair of roads, sewers, CCTV cameras, etc. “But BJP wants the money that is used for the development work,” he said, adding that it was equal to robbing the fund. Leader of House in SDMC Narendra Chawla said the allegations were baseless and the AAP functionary had failed to understand the proposal before making the allegations. “The decision to charge 10% service tax on executing development projects through MP and MLA local area development funds has been taken to ensure timely payment of salary of SDMC employees,” said Chawla. “If AAP and Delhi is concerned about interest of corporation employees, they must release corporations’ outstanding funds,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-and-bjp-spar-over-mp-mla-fund-proposal/articleshow/81131783.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Rise in asthma cases as mask usage dips||Hyderabad: With usage of masks going down, the last one week has seen an increase in asthma cases in the city apart from a slow increase in Covid-19 cases. Interestingly, the typical season when patients of asthma and respiratory illnesses are seen from November to January, there was no upswing in these cases seen this year. Experts ascribe the drastic reduction to Covid precautions and usage of masks, apart from the seasonal factor. The number of asthma cases recorded at Chest Hospital has seen a jump of 25%-30%. “The numbers have gone up from 100 per day to 125-130 per day since the last 5-7 days. While usually the seasonal transition, which is summer to winter or winter to summer triggers cases of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary distress (COPD), the recent climate change has triggered cases. Also, with many people giving up usage of masks, which leaves them exposed to dust, is triggering cases,” said Dr Mahaboob Khan, superintendent, Chest Hospital. Covid-19 cases too are slowly crawling up once again. “While earlier we were seeing a daily decrease of 2 cases coming to Gandhi Hospital, it has now reversed to a daily addition of 2 cases and these are serious cases who are admitted with respiratory distress,” said Dr M Raja Rao, superintendent, Gandhi Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rise-in-asthma-cases-as-mask-usage-dips/articleshow/81131776.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 21, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Shooting all odds, champions on the arena & off it||BHOPAL: Poverty, struggle, limited resources — these shooters of Madhya Pradesh shooting academy have seen it all from close quarters and yet set an example by carving a niche for themselves at the national level. NRAI recently released the names of those in Indian team who would participate in the next shooting World Cup; among these, five are from the state. Four of these shooters-Sunidhi Chauhan (3P Rifle and mixed 3P event ), Manisha Keer (trap and team event), Chinki Yadav (25 m sports pistol) and Asihwary Pratap Singh Tomar (3P rifle, 10 m (MQS) air rifle, mixed 3P event) - come from a humble background. Sunidhi's father R S Chauhan is a factory worker in Govindpura industrial area. Manisha is a daughter of a fisherman, while Chinki's father Mehtab Yadav is an electrician. Khargone's Aishwary belongs to a farmer's family. Talking to TOI, Sunidhi said, "Shooting is an expensive game. Had there not been MP shooting academy, holding a gun in my hand would have been merely a dream for me." She entered the sport after she was spotted by her NCC commanding officer DC Pandey. "My family has been supportive but there was a need for sports related support, which was given by Pandey sir. I’m really thankful to him. Representing India in the World Cup is no less than a dream come true," said Sunidhi. Chinki’s father Mehtab Singh Yadav has been associated with the sports department for the last 25 years. Recalling the day when Chinki had joined the shooting academy in 2012, he said, “As my home is inside the stadium; Chinki used to see others playing different games. She wanted to join summer camp; I didn’t know at that time that one decision would create a star in my family.” Soon after joining the academy, Chinki started attracting the attention of the coaches. “She was among few shooters selected after talent hunt for the shooting academy. She later took part in the national championship and won the medals in several contests,” said Yadav. Seven years ago, Manisha Keer used to help her father catch fish, which they sold together in Bhopal markets. Now, she is shooting for glory. Two years ago Manisha had even equalled the junior world record at ISSF World Championships at Changwon, Korea, and bagged silver for the country. Manisha was spotted by MP Shooting Academy in 2104. She was a natural with the gun and made her presence felt at the state and national level. Farmer's son Aishwary had bagged India’s 13th Olympic quota in shooting with a bronze medal in men’s 50m rifle 3 positions at the 14th Asian Championship in 2019. Hailing from tiny Ratanpur village in Khargone district with the population of 1500, Aishwary had never thought of making it big in shooting arena. He joined the MP shooting academy in 2015, and since then, he has been scaling heights in shooting. Sports minister Yashodhara Raje Scindia said, "These shooters have proved that MP can do wonders. We have given them facilities and they have made the state proud. I am waiting for the day when they will win more medals for the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shooting-all-odds-they-clinch-medals-at-ntnl-event/articleshow/81130556.cms||Ramendra Singh
February 21, 2021||Trichy||DMK will back Cong in floor test: MP||Pudukottai: Maintaining that there was no wedge in the DMK-Congress alliance, Trichy Lok Sabha MP Su Thirunavukkarasar has exuded confidence that the DMK will support the Congress in the floor test of the Puducherry assembly. Taking part in a demonstration against the fuel price hike in Pudukottai on Saturday, Thirunavukkarasar said that the BJP, which is hell-bent on capturing the government by illegal means, will not succeed in its attempt. “Congress will prove its majority in the floor test,” he said. Earlier, Thirunavukkarasar condemned the removal of the Mahatma Gandhi statue in Karur and the arrest of MP S Jothimani for protesting against the removal. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-will-back-cong-in-floor-test-mp/articleshow/81131774.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Revisiting Nankana Sahib massacre after 100 years||Jalandhar: The Nanakana Sahib massacre was the bloodiest in history of Gurdwara Reform Movement. It occurred less than two years after the Jallianwala Bagh massacre on April 13, 1919, with one crucial difference — the British colonial government was responsible for Jallianwala Bagh massacre and Mahant Narain Das and his private army massacred Sikhs within gurdwara precincts on the morning of February 20, 1921. The first attack by the Mahants and their accomplices on the Sikhs was in Tarn Taran gurdwara on January 25, 1921, in which two Sikhs were killed and several were injured. Less than four weeks later, worried about losing control over cash-rich gurdwaras they massacred over 150 Sikhs in Nankana Sahib. Maharaja Ranjit Singh had attached a huge estate with the Nanakana Sahib gurdwara and the wealth of the estate is recorded in the literature of those days. It was commonly known that the property attached to Nankana Sahib was worth crores and its annual income was in lakhs. With the Mahants, especially Narain Das and his two predecessors Sadhu Ram and Kishan Das, indulging in all kinds of moral and legal corruption, anger, and disgust against outrageous acts like rapes of girls and women in the gurdwara complex and organising raunchy dances in Janam Asthaan — the birthplace of Guru Nanak — was growing in the Sikh community. High income from the Nankana Sahib gurdwara and its estate gave Narain Das financial capacity to hire criminals and manage local officials whose failure became evident when the massacre happened in the morning of February 20, 1921 even as local authorities were aware of the tension brewing between the Akalis and the mahant. Around 150 Sikhs (one report put the figure at 168) were butchered by Mahant Narain Das and his hired criminals and they burnt the bodies of those massacred to destroy evidence. Lachhman Singh of Dharowali village, Gurdaspur district, who was leading the jatha of Sikhs was tied to a tree in an injured state and burnt alive. The control of the gurdwara was handed over to the Akali leaders on February 21 when the Lahore commissioner gave the keys to them. A collective cremation of the remaining parts of the bodies was held on February 23. Narain Das and his seven accomplices were later sentenced to death by the trial court on October 12, 1921. However, on March 3, 1922, the high court converted it to life term and he was released in 1930.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/revisiting-nankana-sahib-massacre-after-100-years/articleshow/81130566.cms||IP Singh
February 21, 2021||Goa||Goa gets Rs 20 crore to meet GST shortfall||PANAJI: Goa received Rs 20.3 crore as part of the 17th instalment of the funds disbursed to meet the shortfall in goods and services tax (GST) compensation owed to states. The Union ministry of finance on Friday, released the weekly instalment of Rs 5,000 crore to states that have seen a shortfall in GST collections due to the Covid-19 pandemic. With the latest disbursal, the total amount released to Goa by the Centre stands at Rs 807.89 crore. According to the Centre, 91% of the estimated GST compensation shortfall has been released to states and union territories. The central government had set up a special borrowing window in October 2020, to meet the estimated shortfall of Rs 1.1 lakh crore in revenue arising on account of implementation of GST. The amount has been borrowed this week at an interest rate of 5.59% for a term of five years. The funds will be repaid through the compensation cess collected on certain luxury items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-gets-rs-20cr-to-meet-gst-shortfall/articleshow/81131777.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Bhopal||9,940 get 2nd jab in MP, districts with dedicated focus perform better||BHOPAL: Exactly 35 calendar days after the first vaccine shot against Covid-19, the second jab of the vaccine was administered to health care workers across Madhya Pradesh, on Saturday. Districts that mostly catered to second dose of vaccination fared well. Health department attempt was to cater to provide first dose of frontline workers and remaining health workers along with second dose for beneficiaries. Second dose was administered in 13 districts of Madhya Pradesh. It includes, Alirajpur, Bhind, Bhopal, Chhatarpur, Dhar, Dindori, Indore, Jhabua, Narsinghpur, Sehore, Shajapur, Sheopur and Ujjain. The second shot of the vaccine is expected to provide more complete immunity against Covid-19. In these 13 districts, every second inoculation shot on Saturday was to a health worker who came for the second shot of the vaccine. Shahjapur district administered most number of second doses: 694. “Except for those with contraindications, we have inoculated all registered beneficiaries for first dose,” said Shahjapur chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Dr Raju Nidharia. Only 4% of the day’s vaccination was administered as first dose. It was to RPF employees, he added. District has achieved 94% vaccination of 8950 people since the drive began on January 16 in MP. The second shot can be administered 28 days after the first inoculation. Antibodies give immunity against Covid-19 infection develop after crucial second shot. 450 second vaccine shots were administered in Dhar district. Like Shahjapur, here too the number of people listed for second dose was higher than those called for first dose on Saturday. Dedicated focus on second dose administration only lead to a visible impact of a higher turnout in Alirajpur and Dindori district too. “Proper communication channel was established and almost all of the shortlisted were administered the second dose,” said Dhar chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Dr RC Panika. Around 150 were administered the first dose on Saturday, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/9940-get-2nd-jab-in-mp-dists-with-dedicated-focus-perform-better/articleshow/81130582.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: DMK will waive bank loans taken by SHGs, says M K Stalin||COIMBATORE: DMK will waive loans taken by self-help groups and jewellery loans of up to five sovereigns availed by the poor, farmers and women from primary agricultural credit societies (Pacs) once it comes to power, party president M K Stalin said here on Saturday. Addressing party cadres at the ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin’ (Stalin in your constituency) event at Achipatti in Pollachi, the DMK chief said the state government failed to help SHGs. “There were no special schemes for women or focus on women’s empowerment. I wonder if chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is releasing the pent-up anger towards late chief minister Jayalalithaa and her close aide V K Saikala on the womenfolk. While the government claims it respects women, it has given them only tears and struggles,” he said. DMK will keep its focus on the welfare of women and children, Stalin said. “SHGs’ loans availed from Pacs will be waived. I would not be surprised if the state government makes a similar announcement as Palaniswami has a habit of copying me.” The AIADMK government killed 13 people, who protested against Sterlite Copper in Thoothukudi, the DMK chief said. “Several students ended their lives due to the NEET examination. A Chennai woman died due to AIADMK’s banner culture and another woman lost her leg in Coimbatore. The government did not help the women who protested against Tasmac outlet and even attacked them. It also attacked disabled women, teachers and students, who protested for their rights.” If the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe fails to deliver justice to the survivors of the Pollachi sexual assault case, his government will take action against the AIADMK men involved, Stalin said. “The guilty cannot escape from the rule of law or Stalin’s hands.” “While AIADMK and Palaniswami insist that party cadres were not involved in the case, CBI arrested AIADMK cadres. How can the ruling party publish advertisements claiming that is it protecting women?” he said. Later speaking at Dharapuram in Tirupur district, Stalin said that the Cauvery -Gundar river link project was announced by the DMK government in 2008. “Late chief minister M Karunanidhi allotted Rs 165 crore for the project. But now, Palaniswami is planning to lay foundation stone.” “Tamil Nadu’s debt is mounting every day. This is the only achievement of Palaniswami. The debt was around Rs 1 lakh crore in 2011 and is now about Rs 5 lakh crore,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-will-waive-bank-loans-taken-by-shgs-says-stalin/articleshow/81130574.cms||A Subburaj
February 21, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Congress divided over Mani C Kappan’s identity||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: There is no consensus among the Congress state leadership on how to accommodate rebel NCP leader Mani C Kappan in the UDF. The split was wide open in the KPCC election committee meeting held on Saturday. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, who have been insisting that Kappan should join Congress and contest from Pala on ‘hand’ symbol, repeated his argument in the election committee meeting. While Mullappally argued that Kappan’s candidature will electrify the Kottayam district Congress committee and would help the neighbouring constituencies, working president Kodikkunnil Suresh supported the argument and said accommodating rebel NCP unit as a separate party would agitate Sharad Pawar-led NCP, which is a strong UPA constituent in the national level. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, who is learnt to have assured Kappan that his new party would be inducted as a UDF constituent, said only a new party could help attract more disgruntled leaders from the LDF. Chennithala is learnt to have told the meeting that Kappan could bring to the fold a few more leaders from other LDF constituents if he led a new regional party. Kappan, who was expelled from the NCP after his participation in Chennithala’s Aiswarya Kerala Yatra at Pala last Sunday, is in the process of forming Kerala NCP with a handful of leaders from the NCP unit. Kappan is still confident of the UDF accrediting his party as a constituent. Apart from Pala, the party would demand Kayamkulam and one constituency in Malabar to contest. After Saturday’s meeting, KPCC election committee chairman Oommen Chandy told reporters that a decision on Kappan would be taken by the UDF high power committee. The KPCC panel also discussed about Kerala Congress (P J Joseph) faction’s demand for 12 assembly seats. It is learnt that the leaders were unanimous in their opinion to restrict Joseph group to eight or nine constituencies. Seat sharing talks between UDF constituents will be concluded before the end of this month. The Congress hopes to publish the first list of candidates by the first week of March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/congress-divided-over-mani-c-kappans-identity/articleshow/81129664.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Four-wheelers cause chaos on Mettupalayam Road||Coimbatore: While the highways department has banned four-wheelers from using a 500m-stretch on Mettupalayam Road to finish some critical work of Kavundampalayam flyover, motorists continue to use the stretch by finding gap between the barricades that were placed to block their entry, jamming either side of the flyover with vehicles during peak hours.In the first week of January, the highways department had closed the stretch from GN Mills to Ganga Hospital on Mettupalayam Road for four-wheelers and other heavy vehicles for two months to speed up flyover work by bringing in large cranes and other equipment.Except for ambulances and two-wheelers, all other vehicles were asked to take a diversion to Thadagam Road or Vellakinar, Udayampalayam and Maniakaranpalayam route.However, many four-wheelers have been entering the stretch through the gap between the concrete barriers for the past four days. Initially, vehicles were requested take a diversion from Sai Baba Colony through NSR Road. “They are entering the stretch before the TNSTC corporation gate on Mettupalayam Road, drive on the wrong side for 50m or so and then get back to their side of the road. What they don’t realize is that they would get stuck in a massive traffic jam on either side of the flyover, as barricades have been placed in a way to allow only one four-wheeler through at a time,” said a supervising engineer of the flyover.Sivasamy, a resident of Srivari Apartments that is located within the closed stretch of the road, said the four-wheelers, which flout the diversion rules, were causing a huge inconvenience to the local residents as well.Highways engineers said the complete disregard for the traffic diversion was also delaying their work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-wheelers-cause-chaos-on-mettupalayam-road/articleshow/81130559.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Options galore for city’s vegan foodies||Coimbatore: Gone are the days when vegans in the city struggled to maintain a diet without animal-derived ingredients.Manav Mehta, co-founder of Humane Animal Society, who began adopting vegan lifestyle three years ago, says options in Coimbatore were negligible. “We were confined to replacing ghee with oil and googling ways to replace curd, also an essential in our diet.”While the vegan community here is growing, options available to them have also spiked in the last 18 months. “While our Facebook group has 120 people, we have started Vegan Transition Group on WhatsApp to help the growing number of people, who are curious and wanting to adopt this lifestyle,” says Mehta.Thanks to such initiatives, new adopters of the lifestyle do not have to struggle much. For Selvi, a retired doctor, adopting the vegan lifestyle for six months was ‘simple’. “When I turned vegan, giving up cow’s milk which I used in my filter coffee and also curd, was difficult. Nothing worked for coffee, including almond milk and cashew milk. But once I began using Goodmylk and curd, which are peanut-based, I was alright. I now make vegan curd at home.”Earth Story, the city’s first plant-based convenience store, offers vegan ghee, cheese, five varieties of plant-based milk, curd, mayonnaise, ice creams, marshmallows and varieties of tofu like smoked tofu, plain tofu, tofu patties and Himalayan tofu. “They vary in texture and thus can either have a cheesy or meaty texture depending on the dish being prepared,” says one of the founders, Indu B.For those with the sweet tooth, there are a few vegan home bakers in the city. Rozat Abbas Calcuttawala, under her brand Nourish, has introduced eight varieties of vegan cakes. “I make strawberry dark chocolate cake, chocolate cake muggings and pineapple upside down cake by replacing maida with almond, oats or millet flour, eggs with flax seeds, oil and butter with cashew and almond and white sugar with jaggery or dates powder,” she says. Sai Sathvigaa, another city-based vegan baker, launched her desserts-- peanut butter cocoa cupcakes, Oreo brownies, vegan blondies and banana walnut cake last October.There are several ice cream stores and brands with vegan options including Gelato Factory, Whitecub, Papacream and Cocolicious.Many Coimbatorians adopt vegan diet for reasons besides taking a stand against animal cruelty, says Indu. “We get a lot of customers who adopted the vegan diet because they have allergies, lactose intolerance or can’t digest animal protein after an age or health issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/options-galore-for-citys-vegan-foodies/articleshow/81130581.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||3 HP officials charge-sheeted||Shimla: The state Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau has filed a chargesheet against three persons, including former pradhan, existing pradhan of Gram Panchayat Khairian and then secretary in Kangra district before the court of special judge, Dharamshala for cheating, falsification of records and corruption after obtaining prosecution sanction. A case was registered in 2016 at Vigilance Bureau police station, Dharamshala on the allegation of misuse of government funds by the former pradhan for construction of a well in his house through MNREGA funds and construction of a road to the house of the former pradhan through forest land without obtaining NoC of the forest department using government funds. According to Vigilance Bureau officials, investigation has revealed that the former pradhan, in connivance with the then pradhan, and secretary of Gram Panchayat Khariyan constructed a well through MNREGA funds on his private property and ensured its exclusive use by erecting a fence around it to restrict entry of other people. “If the well was to be constructed on private property with MNREGA funds, the land should have been transferred to the government,” said officials. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-hp-officials-charge-sheeted/articleshow/81130588.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Amend law to ensure small landowners get surplus land’||Chandigarh: Finding lacunae in provisions of Punjab Security of Land Tenures Act, 1953, a Haryana revenue court has asked the state revenue department to plug the loophole which is being manipulated to get the benefit of priority accommodation on surplus land. “The revenue department through its additional chief secretary is advised to plug the loophole in Section 9-A of the Punjab Security of Land Tenures Act, 1953 so that only a bona fide tenant of a small landowner gets the benefit of priority accommodation on the surplus area under Section 9-A of the act of 1953,” observed the revenue court headed by Ashok Khemka, financial commissioner, Haryana. Khemka also observed that due to rapid urbanisation, large parts of agricultural land in the state are leased out for cultivation on an annual basis without making entries in revenue records and such contracts do not establish a landlord-tenant relationship between the parties. Khemka passed these orders in his capacity as the financial commissioner in a case related to revenue matters from Yamunanagar district of Haryana. The matter had reached before the revenue court in the wake of a revision petition filed by Milap Singh, a resident of Hundewala village in Yamunanagar district against six private individuals of Hundewala village and an advocate of Jagadhari`, which is also in Yamunanagar district. He had sought directions to set aside the order dated January 24, 2013, of Yamunanagar collector and order dated April 4, 2014, of the commissioner, Ambala division, and for upholding the order dated July 26, 2012 in the case passed by the assistant collector (first grade), Yamunanagar. A prayer was made for taking legal action against the private individuals who were impleaded as respondents for committing fraud to grab land in Hundewala village declared surplus from the lands of Bharat Starch and Chemical Limited. It was alleged that the land of Bharat Starch and Chemical Limited was declared surplus, out of which 26 kanal and 10 marla land was allotted to Ramsarup, father of Kuldeep Kumar, and Jagmal Singh who were impleaded as opposite party-1 and 2 in the case. It was alleged that in 2011, all the respondents — Kuldeep Kumar, Jagmal, Ajaib Kaur, Ramali Devi, Jasmeri Devi, Shyam Pyari — came to know that the state would allot remaining surplus land to landless persons after which they hatched a conspiracy and filed an application for ejectment against Kuldeep and Jagmal Singh in the court of the assistant collector (first grade), which was dismissed on July 26, 2012. It was averred in the petition that Kuldeep Kumar and Jagmal never cultivated the land of respondents Ajaib Kaur, Ramali Devi, Jasmeri Devi and Shyam Pyari as tenants and there was no entry to revenue records in their names. The respondents have played a fraud by filing a false case for eviction against the respondent, Kuldeep and Jagmal because a tenant evicted under Clause (1) of Section 9 (1) is given priority in the allotment of surplus land under Section 9-A of the 1953 Act. Because there were no entries in the revenue records, so the assistant collector did not accept the alleged agreement dated August 14, 2010 between the parties and the eviction petition was dismissed vide order dated July 26, 2012. However, their appeal against the assistant collector’s order was accepted by the collector and commissioner. After hearing the revision petition against the commissioner’s order, the financial commissioner’s court headed by Khemka observed that in the absence of entries in Khasra girdawari and jamabandi (revenue records), a revenue officer cannot presume a landowner-tenant relationship. Moreover in this particular case, fraud is apparent. A fraudulent eviction has been sought under Clause (i) of Section 9 (1) with the motive to grab surplus land under Section 9-A, the financial commissioner observed while setting aside the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amend-law-to-ensure-small-landowners-get-surplus-land/articleshow/81130579.cms||Ajay Sura
February 21, 2021||Goa||Implementation of reforms key to pull investments, says Indo-US trade body||Panaji: The Goa government’s drive towards ease of doing business reforms and initiatives to attract new investment depend on actual implementation of the policies and regulatory reforms, the Indo-American Chamber of Commerce (IACC) stated in a report presented to the state government on Friday. IACC has recommended that the state must adopt a constructive, adaptive, robust and efficient (CARE) approach while bringing in business reforms. IACC, which held deliberations with leaders from Goan industries, identified lack of digitisation and e-processing, lack of infrastructure, transparency and accountability as challenges for existing as well as new businesses. IACC along with Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co prepared a white paper on ease of doing business for Goa, which was submitted to chief minister Pramod Sawant. Sawant said that the recommendations and ideas will surely help the state prepare a long-term approach in ease of doing business. “The success of the initiatives taken to encourage growth of the existing industries and to attract new investment lies in the actual implementation of the policies and regulatory reforms that are brought in the state of Goa,” the report stated while recommending that Goa’s socio-economic, ecological and cultural heritage should go hand-in-hand with business-friendliness and supportive regulatory environment. The report states that it is important for the Goa government to address the concerns that are industry specific, provide necessary infrastructure and utility support for new industries as well as for existing industries to grow. “We analysed the extensive data collated by IACC through a questionnaire from 26 top industry leaders from across diverse sectors who participated in the high level round table deliberation on ease of doing business which was held on January 14, this year,” Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co partner Radhika Dudhat said. Goa was ranked 24th in the state-wise rankings for ease of doing business announced in 2020 based on Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP). “While Goa’s ecosystem can sustain industrial development at all levels, the state needs to give them an extra push with business-friendly reforms,” IACC (West) first vice-president and Ease of Doing Business Committee chairman Saurabh Shah said. While calling for permissions to be granted in a time-bound manner, the report states that government and regulatory authorities should be made accountable for delays with punitive action being taken for the delays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/implementation-of-reforms-key-to-pull-investments-says-indo-us-trade-body/articleshow/81131780.cms||Newton Sequeira
February 21, 2021||Indore||9,940 get 2nd jab in MP, districts with dedicated focus perform better||BHOPAL: Exactly 35 calendar days after the first vaccine shot against Covid-19, the second jab of the vaccine was administered to health care workers across Madhya Pradesh, on Saturday. Districts that mostly catered to second dose of vaccination fared well. Health department attempt was to cater to provide first dose of frontline workers and remaining health workers along with second dose for beneficiaries. Second dose was administered in 13 districts of Madhya Pradesh. It includes, Alirajpur, Bhind, Bhopal, Chhatarpur, Dhar, Dindori, Indore, Jhabua, Narsinghpur, Sehore, Shajapur, Sheopur and Ujjain. The second shot of the vaccine is expected to provide more complete immunity against Covid-19. In these 13 districts, every second inoculation shot on Saturday was to a health worker who came for the second shot of the vaccine. Shahjapur district administered most number of second doses: 694. “Except for those with contraindications, we have inoculated all registered beneficiaries for first dose,” said Shahjapur chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Dr Raju Nidharia. Only 4% of the day’s vaccination was administered as first dose. It was to RPF employees, he added. District has achieved 94% vaccination of 8950 people since the drive began on January 16 in MP. The second shot can be administered 28 days after the first inoculation. Antibodies give immunity against Covid-19 infection develop after crucial second shot. 450 second vaccine shots were administered in Dhar district. Like Shahjapur, here too the number of people listed for second dose was higher than those called for first dose on Saturday. Dedicated focus on second dose administration only lead to a visible impact of a higher turnout in Alirajpur and Dindori district too. “Proper communication channel was established and almost all of the shortlisted were administered the second dose,” said Dhar chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Dr RC Panika. Around 150 were administered the first dose on Saturday, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/9940-get-2nd-jab-in-mp-dists-with-dedicated-focus-perform-better/articleshow/81132739.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 21, 2021||Bhopal||Khajuraho Fest is not merely an event, but an invocation: Min||Bhopal: The 47th edition of Khajuraho Dance Festival began on Saturday on a high note. Culture minister Usha Thakur lit the traditional lamp in the presence of principal secretary, culture, Sheo Shekhar Shukla. Speaking on the occasion, culture minister said, “Khajuraho is the priceless saga of our heritage; it is the depiction of Indian ethos and quintessence. It is the confluence of Shiva, Shakya and Vaishnav, and a glimpse into the Vedic philosophy that traverses from physical to spiritual. It is not merely a dance festival, but also an invocation and meditation.” On this occasion, 10 artistes of different genres were felicitated and awarded by Ustad Allauddin Khan Sangeet Evam Kala Academy, Bhopal, they were also given a cash award of Rs 51000 each. At the inaugural event, many senior bureaucrats and who’s who of the region were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/khajuraho-fest-is-not-merely-an-event-but-an-invocation-min/articleshow/81130630.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Goa||Complaintover Bainajetty work||Vasco: A complaint has been filed with Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Desai alleging illegalities in the ongoing construction work of a marine jetty at Baina beach. The NGO, Goa First, has written to the deputy collector raising concerns over public safety while construction of the jetty is being undertaken by Drishti Marine. “No signboards have been erected at the construction site depicting permissions from any of the authorities nor construction details are mentioned by the project proponent,” reads the letter of complaint. The organisation said that no precautionary measures have been put in place while using domestic LPG cylinders and cutters.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/complaintover-bainajetty-work/articleshow/81131784.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Cops detain man under Goondas Act||Coimbatore: The Tirupur police have detained a 38-year-old history-sheeter under the Goondas Act on Saturday.A police officer said S Babu, alias Veechu Babu alias Sheikh Mohamed, of Kangeyam Cross road, was arrested recently for attempting to murder Sahul Hameed, of Tirupur, on January 11 over previous enmity.“He has five robbery cases and one theft case pending against him at Tirupur North police station, four robbery cases at Tirupur central police station, one robbery case at Veerapandi police station, and one attempt to murder and a robbery case at Tirupur South police station,” the officer said. Based on his criminal record, police officials prepared a detailed report against Babu and requested Tirupur city police commissioner G Karthikeyan to detain him under the Goondas A copy of the order was served on him at the Coimbatore Central Prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cops-detain-man-under-goondas-act/articleshow/81130608.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Gadchiroli officer takes community forest rights to Naxal hotbed of Abujhmadh||NAGPUR: Manuj Jindal, 32, a 2017-batch IAS officer, has ventured into the hilly and forested Maoist bastion of Abujhmadh — on the Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border — to empower tribal population with community forest rights (CFR). In doing so, he has defied the threatening presence of the red guerrillas in a region where government officers rarely dare to go. Jindal successfully helped sensitive south Gadchiroli’s Bhamragad and Etapalli sub-divisions benefit from CFR. The area is as big as Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai combined. Jindal is in his first posting as a probation officer in the post of sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) in Etapalli. After ensuring the state’s easternmost tribal hamlets — mostly accessible by foot — get their CFR, Jindal has ensured that almost 1.5 lakh people of 296 villages of Etapalli and Bhamragad get benefit from the forest produce paving for more comprehensive socio-economic developments. The IAS officer’s relentless toil has now helped the two sub-divisions set a nationwide benchmark. The tribal population here had been unable to use the forest-based resources as most of the forests are earmarked as reserved and protected. Banker-turned-IAS officer Jindal said there was huge pendency in the distribution of the CFR which would help the tribals use the forest resources to create their source of livelihood instead of leading a traditional life of hunting. “The CFR would help them adopt several economically viable activities like cutting bamboos, collect tendu leaves, engage in fishing, gather mohua leaves and fruits and also medicinal herbs, plants and fruits with which they can boost incomes,” he said. “In Binagunda, Kuwakodi, Permalbhatti and Fodewada, which are part of Abujhmadh, the CFRs were pending for the last 10 years or so with various issues hindering the process. We had to visit theses places, meet the tribal population and create awareness among them regarding CFR and also show them how to complete the formalities,” says Jindal. “After the recession following Covid, we had started to work on the pendency of forest rights. The kotwals, tehsildars and gram sevaks were trained and groomed to manage the works of the CFR and also get the procedures completed to enable the tribal population receive the rights. The village-level forest rights committees too were taken into the fold and awareness was created among them regarding the formalities and benefits of the CFR,” said Jindal. Jindal added that the stakeholders like forest and revenue departments were motivated to work collaboratively on the issue of helping the tribal population get the CFR processes completed. He now aims to ensure that the tribals are trained to better manage and conserve the forest while reaping the benefits of the produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadchiroli-officer-takes-cfr-to-naxal-hotbed-of-abujhmadh/articleshow/81130639.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||Metro to start services till Dakshineswar from Tue||Kolkata: From Tuesday, commuters will be able to travel 32km — from Kavi Subhas to Dakshineswar — in a little more than an hour for just Rs 25. But do be careful. Not all trains will take you to Dakshineswar. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will remotely flag off the 4km Dakshineswar extension of the north-south corridor from Hooghly’s Dunlop grounds on Monday. Commercial operations will start from 7am on Tuesday. From that day, Metro Railway will add another four services to its existing 240. But only 158 of these 244 services (79 Up and 79 Down) will be end-to-end — Dakshineswar to Kavi Subhas — services. The 7am to 9.30pm timetable for the Dakshineswar-Kavi Subhas corridor has been drawn to accommodate different train frequencies between Kavi Subhas and Dum Dum — the key stretch used by people taking the north-south Metro – and the new extended stretch till Dakshineswar. For instance, there may be eight services from Dum Dum to Kavi Subhas stations between 8am and 9am but only four from Dakshineswar to Kavi Subhas during the same time. “One must check time-table scroll carefully,” a Metro official said. Speaking to TOI earlier, Metro general Manoj Joshi had explained, “We will be starting with less services up to Dakshineswar. Depending on footfall, we may add more services. In pre-pandemic times, around 50,000 commuters were expected to be added to the then 6.5 lakh daily count. But in Covid times, we don’t know how many will actually avail the Metro from Dakshineswar and Baranagar stations.” The number of services will be 102 on Sundays for the entire stretch till Dakshineswar. Metro Railway will be extending assistance to Dakshineswar-bound commuters so they are spared of the trouble of disembarking in the middle of their journey or at Dum Dum or Noapara and to board trains to Dakshineswar. “The rake will indicate whether it is Dakshineswar or Dum Dum-bound. The passenger address system (PAS) will keep making announcements,” said a station superintendent. Currently, of the 240 services, 181 (91 Up and 90 Down) are available between Noapara and Kavi Subhas. In the absence of Tallah bridge, Noapara has become one of the busiest stations, registering high footfalls. But many of those coming to Noapara may prefer to use the new Baranagar station now. Several commuters from the suburbs are expected to avail the Metro from the two new stations. Passengers of Howrah-Burdwan main and chord lines, Howrah-Katwa line and Howrah-Tarakeswar branch of Eastern Railway (ER) can simply cross Bally Bridge to come to Dakshineswar Metro station. The new stations are located right next to ER’s Baranagar and Dakshineswar stations and the Belghoria Expressway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-to-start-services-till-dakshineswar-from-tue/articleshow/81129670.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: 63,ooo healthcare workers have four days to take first dose||NAGPUR: A 1,17,072 (65.04%) of around 1.80 lakh registered healthcare workers (HCW) took the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in 11 districts of Vidarbha on Saturday, the last scheduled date. However, the central government has reportedly decided to continue the first dose for HCWs till February 25 as a mop-up round to give another chance for the around 63,000 in the region who are yet to take the jab. As per officials of the region, the state government on Thursday had conveyed to all districts that Saturday will be the last day for the first dose of registered HCWs. Around 1.80 lakh HCWs had registered for vaccination in the region. The programme started on January 16. Six districts of Nagpur division has fared better than the five districts of Amravati division. Of the total registered 1,08,739 HCWs, 73,971 (68%) availed the benefit. Though the exact number is not known, around 71,500 HCWs had registered in Amravati division of whom 43,101 (60%) availed the benefit. In Nagpur division, Nagpur district had a poor show with 27,948 (59.24%) of 47,175 HCWs taking the jab. Considering that it was the last date, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi directed the officials to encourage HCWs to vaccinate. The team led by NMC medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar then prepared a list of pending HCWs and even contacted their institutions. A 1,696 HCWs turned up on Saturday, a huge number when compared with the turnout over the last few days. In the last week, less than 600 per day took the vaccine in the city. Lowest achievement is of government medical college and hospital (GMCH) which is the only centre in the district for Covaxin. Only 1,513 (29%) of registered 5,210 HCW turned up for the inoculation. Bhandara district had distinction of leading the table with 6,765 (82.88%) of 8,162 taking the first dose. It was followed by Chandrapur 13,301 (78.79%) of 16,882, Wardha 12,733 (73%) of 17,426, Gondia 6,381 (70.85%) of 9,006 and Gadchiroli 6,843 (67.83%) of 10,088. Dr Chilkar informed that from now there will be no scheduling of HCWs at vaccination centres or sending out of messages. “HCWs can visit any centre and take the jab till further orders of the government. We will continue calling the institutions so that all registered are vaccinated,” he said. A 35% of HCWs did not turn up despite registering for the vaccination. Some had tested positive. The government is yet to announce if they will get another chance. Also, a few HCWs had submitted details for registration after the government stopped doing so. The first dose for HCWs was over 36 days but vaccination days was only 25 in the region. The state’s deadline for the first dose was February 14 so that the second dose could begin on the next day. Due to the delay caused by HCWs not turning up, the government is running the first dose of HCW simultaneously with second dose and the first dose of frontline workers (FLW).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/63k-hcws-have-4-days-to-take-first-dose/articleshow/81129667.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: All Sharjah flyers in Seven-day quarantine get discharge as test negative||NAGPUR: Twenty three air passengers of Sharjah flight were discharged from seven-day institutional quarantine on Saturday as reports of all of them were negative for Covid-19. Second flight from Sharjah was supposed to arrive in the city on Sunday early morning but got cancelled. The officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) told TOI that RT-PCR results of 10 flyers in institutional quarantine were received on Saturday and all were negative. “There were 23 flyers in institutional quarantine of which 15 were in private hotels, seven in VNIT hostel and one in a hostel of a medical institution. Reports of 13 were negative on Friday. All were allowed to go home on Saturday,” they said. Among 23 in institutional quarantine, 18 were residents of the city, one of Kamptee, two of Mumbai and one each from UP and MP. Total 60 persons had arrived in the flight on February 14. Thirty seven were given exemption from institutional quarantine for five different reasons. Eighteen of 37 were residents of other cities. Remaining 19 were residents of the city. NMC officials said RT-PCR results of 17 persons, who were in home quarantine in the city, were received and all were negative. “Reports of two persons are awaited.” Two international flights operate from the city airport, of which one is for Sharjah and another for Doha. Operation of two flights was stopped on March 24 following the pandemic. Sharjah flight resumed weekly a few days back. It used to operate daily before the pandemic. The second flight from Sharjah was supposed to arrive on February 21. As per airport officials, the flight was cancelled for operational reasons. Next flight will come on February 28. Decision on whether to start daily operations of flight is likely to be taken on March 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-sharjah-flyers-in-7-day-quarantine-get-discharge-as-test-ve/articleshow/81129663.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Nitin Raut cancels son’s post-wedding reception||NAGPUR: In view of rising cases in Nagpur, energy minister Nitin Raut has cancelled the post-wedding reception of his son Kunal and daughter-in-law Akansha. It was scheduled on Sunday, where a large number of dignitaries was expected to arrive. Raut said, “We’ve decided to cancel the event to avoid any further spread. As a guardian minister, I want to set an example for others. I would appeal to the citizens to remain careful and compulsorily use masks and sanitisers while venturing out of their homes.” The minister issued instructions to the administration to keep a close watch on the situation and take measures accordingly to prevent spread of the deadly disease. “Currently, we haven’t decided on anything like a lockdown. We will meet next week to gauge the situation and then take a decision,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/raut-cancels-sons-post-wedding-reception/articleshow/81129187.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 21, 2021||India||Covid cases increase for 6th day to 14k||NEW DELHI: Fresh Covid-19 cases in the country continued to rise for the sixth consecutive day, with 14,317 new infections recorded on Saturday, the highest in 28 days. For the second day in a row, Maharashtra reported more than 6,000 Covid-19 cases and Mumbai over 800. Daily cases in the state touched an 86-day high of 6,281 cases, the highest since November 26 (6,406 cases). The seven-day rolling aver- age of daily cases has now been rising for the past six days, having increased by nearly 1,000 during this period. Maharashtra is in the midst of a sharp spike in the pandemic, having recorded a jump of 58% in cases in the past 14 days. Kerala logged 4,650 new infections on Saturday as compared with 4,585 on the previous day. The death toll from the virus in the country decreased marginally to 89 after crossing 100 on the previous day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-cases-increase-for-6th-day-to-14k/articleshow/81132319.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Trichy||Dindigul district to have 570 additional polling booths||Dindigul: The district will get 570 additional polling stations and have a total of 2,673 polling stations for the ensuing assembly election. This is to ensure social distancing as Covid-19 restrictions are in place and precaution should be exerted while voting, Dindigul district collector M Vijayalakshmi told representatives of political parties at an all all-party meeting on Saturday.The meeting was held to discusss the establishment of additional polling booths in places where there are more than 1,050 voters.The electoral roll, with January 1, 2021 as the qualifying date was released on January 20. As per the roll, the seven assembly segments in Dindigul district have a total of 18,73,438 voters.With elections due to be held in next few months, preparations are underway in the district. The administration has been instructed that polling booths with more than 1,050 voters should be divided and that a sub-polling booth established in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dindigul-district-to-have-570-additional-polling-booths/articleshow/81131787.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Doctors take fresh Covid guard, issue new advisories & recommend tests||KOLKATA: As Covid numbers rise in other states, doctors in Kolkata have started taking fresh guard against the virus even as they warn that a spurt can’t be ruled out and prevention measures need to be tightened again. ‘Response fatigue’, health workers admit, has made them lax which could be dangerous since several new strains are on the prowl. Tests are again being recommended to patients with even the slightest of symptoms. Hospitals are issuing fresh advisories for patients and doctors. On February 20, Maharashtra recorded 3,909 additional active cases while Karnataka had 90. In Bengal, the number has been dipping but a sharp rise in other states is likely to have an impact here, felt experts. “Since international travellers are being screened and tested, we have so far managed to keep the UK and South African strains at bay. But the RT-PCR test doesn’t have 100% efficacy and even a single infected individual is enough to trigger a fresh spurt. So, a surge could be imminent and it’s time we got ready to encounter it,” said Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education & Research (IPGMER) professor Diptendra Sarkar. Belle Vue Clinic internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain said he plans to be more careful when he rejoins duty at the Covid ward next week after an illness-induced break. “Strains are multiplying and the vaccine is yet to cover a substantial section of the population. We must go back to the treatment and diagnosis pattern followed at the beginning of the pandemic,” said Jain. Sarkar said “It’s been a year and everyone is suffering from response fatigue. We can’t afford it, though, and all precautions — both in terms of treatment and prevention — need to continue.” CMRI Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar said he has started sanitizing his hands more often and keeping his mask on till he leaves work. “Till a week back, I would desist from recommending a Covid test unless a patient had very pronounced symptoms. Rather, I would treat them for asthma or a non-Covid lung infection. But now I have gone back to the practice of recommending a test to anyone with the slightest of symptoms,” said Dhar. The spurt in transmission and the new strains could strike Bengal in two-three weeks, according to Peerless Hospital microbiologist Bhaskar Narayan Choudhury. Positivity rate at Peerless Hospital’s lab, that had touched 40% in October, has dropped to 2%-3%. “But everyone has become lax and masks are often being discarded even on hospital premises. This will hasten a spurt which now seems imminent,” said Choudhury. Peerless Hospital plans to persist with 48 Covid beds even though more than half of them are vacant. “We have nine patients now and had a Covid death on Saturday. We will not squeeze the ward any further,” said CEO Sudipta Mitra. AMRI Hospitals will continue with 75 beds at its Salt Lake and Dhakuria units. “Only a third of Covid beds are now occupied but we must wait till the numbers slide in some other states,” said CEO Rupak Barua. Belle Vue Clinic, that now has 33 Covid beds, is preparing to add 26 across an entire floor dedicated to Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/docs-take-fresh-covid-guard-issue-new-advisories-recommend-tests/articleshow/81129701.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Private hospital director booked for charging patients more but maintaining ‘low’ record||NAGPUR: Meditrina Hospital director Dr Sameer Paltewar has been booked for allegedly showing bills of some patients lower than the actual on hospital records. This is the second offence registered against Dr Paltewar. Sitabuldi police on Saturday registered an offence under section 406, 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 of IPC and 66 (C) of IT Act against Dr Paltewar. A complaint was lodged by another director of the hospital Ganesh Chakkarwar who is a tax consultant. Chakkarwar holds 33% shares in VRG Healthcare Private Limited which runs the Meditrina Hospital. Dr Sameer Paltewar and Sonali Paltewar, both directors, own the remaining. According to the FIR, Chakkarwar in his complaint said, “A bill of Rs2.86 lakh was recovered from a patient from Bhandara but on hospital records only Rs73,600 was recorded. Similarly, bill of a patient from Ramtek was Rs3,62,880 but shown as Rs1,37,880. A Bhadrawati patient paid Rs2,99,693 but only Rs2,00,693 was recorded. Dr Paltewar and his associates have cheated the hospital, patients and also forged documents and entries.” Police commissioner Amitesh Kumar told TOI that income tax department will be informed about the case. According to police sources, the financial irregularities could be around Rs40 crore. In 2019, an offence was registered against Dr Paltewar for alleged irregularities in the state government’s Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY). The government had then removed Meditrina Hospital from the panel list of MJPJAY. West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre had demanded that the government conduct a detailed inquiry and register an offence in the MJPJAY case. Thakre had wanted the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to cancel the hospital registration. The civic body had formed a committee to conduct an inquiry but it is yet to submit a report||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hosp-dir-booked-for-charging-patients-more-but-maintaining-low-record/articleshow/81129674.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: MahaMetro postpones meeting its solar target||NAGPUR: MahaMetro seems to have postponed the target of meeting 65% of its power requirement from solar energy. It had set a target of installing 14 megawatt (MW) for phase I of Nagpur Metro project but so far, only 2MW has been installed. Another 2MW is in the process of installation. Of the four reaches, two are operational — Reach I (Sitabuldi to Khapri) and Reach III (Sitabuldi to Lokmanya Nagar). Most of the stations on these reaches are operational. Ideally, MahaMetro’s installed solar capacity should have been 7MW. However, it has no immediate plans to increase its solar capacity beyond 4MW. A spokesperson said that the remaining 10MW would be installed after completion of the entire phase I. The spokesperson was unable to confirm how much power requirement was being met by solar at present. "Our power consumption is 9 million units (MU) per year at present. It is difficult to say what percentage of it is being met by solar," he added. A MahaMetro official blamed the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL)’s policy for low solar capacity of the agency. "We wanted a single agency to install 14MW on our stations, depots, offices and other locations. However, MSEDCL told us that we could not go in for more than 1MW for captive consumption,” he said. The official added, “We filed a petition in Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) seeking exemption, but could not succeed. We now have to float individual tenders for each station, which is a cumbersome process." MahaMetro has taken several green initiatives and aims to become the greenest Metro in the country. With the help of Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) it has installed biodigesters in all stations to process the waste generated in washrooms. The Metro Bhavan has been awarded platinum rating, the highest one given by Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). Trains on Sitabuldi-Lokmanya Nagar line from 6.30am from MondayIn view of the increasing Nagpur Metro ridership, MahaMetro has decided to start the trains on Sitabuldi-Lokmanya Nagar line from 6.30am instead of 8am from Monday. The first train will depart from both, Sitabuldi and Lokmanya Nagar at 6.30am. The timing of the last train will continue to be 8pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/metro-postpones-meeting-its-solar-target/articleshow/81130673.cms||Ashish Roy
February 21, 2021||Bhopal||Cong calls fuel protest a success||Bhopal: State Congress on Saturday claimed that the half-day bandh called by former chief minister Kamal Nath, to protest the increase in fuel and LPG prices, was successful. The bandh was largely peaceful with some stray incidents reported from Bairagarh here and Ujjain. In a video message, state Congress president Kamal Nath thanked the people of the state for the success of the bandh. “I thank the people of Madhya Pradesh for supporting the half-day bandh called by Congress party and making it successful,” Kamal Nath said in a video message. “Today, every section of society is distressed. The increase in the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG are historic. Even the neighbouring countries do not have these kind of prices. The government does not pay attention to these basic and fundamental needs of the people. Congress stands with the common man and will in future. We will launch a big movement soon with the participation of the people,” he said. From the early morning hours on Saturday, Congress leaders and workers hit the streets and asked traders to down their shutters and observe the bandh. Congress workers took out bike rallies in several parts of the state. Former chief minister and Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh walked through the main markets of Bhopal requesting traders to support the bandh. In the old Bhopal area, Digvijaya Singh was seen with large number of Congress workers at Peer Gate, Chowk Bazar, Mangalwara, Chavni area, Jinsi Square, Shabban Square and then reached Roshanpura Square in the New Market stretch. Here, Digvijaya Singh released black balloons in the sky to protest fuel and LPG price increase against the BJP governments at the Centre and state. Former minister and MLA from Bhopal South-West constituency PC Sharma was arrested by the police in the Habibgunj police station area. Sharma was asking traders to observe the bandh with his supporters. In Bairagarh, a police contingent was posted after BJP and Congress workers clashed over the closure of shops. State BJP, however, said that the bandh was a failure. Home minister Narottam Mishra said, “Congress should protest in Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan also.” Minister for medical education Vishwas Sarang said, “The Congress’ bandh proved to a mega flop event. Our question is why does the Congress not reduce VAT on fuels in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh where they have governments? People of Madhya Pradesh have rejected their bandh call. They talk of inflation and do not know that a day’s bandh means no earnings for vendors, small traders. Arson and mayhem is never accepted in Madhya Pradesh.” Meanwhile, the association of the petrol pump owners alleged that Congress workers forced some pumps to shut down on Saturday morning. “They were indulging in dadagiri (hooliganisam),” said association president Ajay Singh in a video released by him in the morning. In the morning on Saturday, Congress workers reached some petrol pumps and shouted slogans. They asked the pump operators to shut down the pumps. Singh said that it happened at two petrol pumps of Bhopal. In Vidisha, two Congress workers were arrested by police in Vidisha district for allegedly forcing shopkeepers to down their shutters in favour of the half-day bandh. Police said that the Congress workers tried to close a sweet shop at the sabji mandi bus stand. They asked shop owner Pramod Chaurasia to close the doors, but he resisted leading to a dispute. Congress leaders Davendra Rathore and Ajay Katare were booked under various sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-calls-fuel-protest-a-success/articleshow/81130652.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kochi||KSRTC pay revision in June: CM||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced that pay revision will be implemented in KSRTC this year itself. He said after discussions with trade unions, the revised pay structure will be implemented in the corporation in June 2021. Pay revision in the ailing PSU has been pending since 2016. Nine instalments of DA are pending since July 1, 2016. Three of the pending instalments of DA will be issued in March, said Vijayan. "The government is spending Rs 1,500 to Rs 1,700 crores every year on KSRTC. From November, an additional amount of Rs 65 crore per month was given to KSRTC for providing interim relief to employees. A major restructuring plan, KSRTC 2.0, has been launched with a vision to reduce the corporation’s dependability on government in another three years. This can be achieved only with the wholehearted cooperation of employees," said the chief minister. Addressing the demand for timely promotion of KSRTC employees, Vijayan said the corporation is not in a position to promote all eligible persons. "However, at least 10% promotions will be issued in each section. Those who are waiting to be appointed on compassionate grounds will be recruited to driver and conductor vacancies. There will be steps to recruit empanelled drivers and conductors who had completed 10 years but were relieved in KURTC and K-Swift," he said. The government will also provide Rs 225 crore to the corporation to settle arrears of LIC and loan payment by employees, which the corporation had deducted from their salary. The loans, worth Rs 3200 crore, provided by the state government will be adjusted as equities. The CM said new schemes like launching 76 petrol-diesel pumps in KSRTC depots, where public can access pumps, will help reduce loss of the corporation. Administrative offices and major depots will be reorganized (one per each district). Proposals to start a commercial complex at Vikas Bhavan depot in association with KIIFB and a hotel in Munnar in association with KTDC were also approved by the government. Shop on wheels and logistics are other projects which are expected to fetch additional revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ksrtc-pay-revision-in-june-cm/articleshow/81129692.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Fees revised for courses at Perundurai med college||Erode: The fee structure for various courses at the IRT-Perundurai Medical College was revised on par with the government medical colleges. The name of college was also changed as the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital (GEMCH), as per an order issued by the state health secretary office on Saturday.The move comes after repeated protests and representations from students and parents. In 1986, the state government handed over 344.36 acres of land in Perundurai to the Institute of Road Transport (IRT) for setting up a medical college. The college received Centre’s nod and started admitting 100 students from 2017.In September 2017, as the financial position of the state transport undertakings was weak, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced that the government will rename the hospital as the Erode Government Medical College and Hospital. Subsequently, employees of the hospital were brought under the government. However, the college management continued to collect Rs 3.85 lakh towards annual fee, while the government colleges were collecting Rs 13,610. As per the revised fee structure, annual fee for MBBS course is Rs 13,610. Students of diploma in nursing will receive a stipend of Rs 600 per month in the first year, Rs 700 in the second year and Rs 800 in the third year. The health department also revised fees for another 15 para-medical and certificate courses.The order mentioned that the revised fee structure will come to effect from Saturday onwards. “The students who paid fees as per earlier fee structure will not be refunded. Likewise, unpaid fee for period prior to the order will be charged as per the earlier fee structure,” it said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fees-revised-for-courses-at-perundurai-med-college/articleshow/81130648.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kochi||Lakshadweep to have own fuel stations||KOCHI: The long-pending dream of Lakshadweep natives to have fuel pumps in their archipelago is set to come true soon as a newly built 700MT oil tanker vessel M V Thilaakkam was delivered to Lakshadweep administration in Kochi on Friday. The protocol of delivery and acceptance of the newly constructed tanker vessel was signed on Friday at Kochi between the builder Vijai Marine Services Pvt Ltd and the owner Lakshadweep administration. The administration was represented by Shakeel Ahmed M K, deputy director, directorate of port shipping and aviation, and the builder was represented by Haresh Chawla. The signing was in the presence of Sonika Singh, special secretary (coordination) at Kochi. A senior official said that the vessel would tremendously improve fuel efficiency. “Now, the fuel is loaded onto vessels after getting filled into barrels in a filling yard. This can cause time loss and loss of fuel due to spillage. Since the entire archipelago is supplied with diesel-generated electricity, the quantity of diesel required is huge and transportation through this method was always an issue. Hence, the new vessel into which the fuel can be transferred directly is set to tremendously improve the efficiency,” said an official. The vessel has 62.00m length and 2.50m draught with a designed speed of 11.00 knots. The vessel is having separate tanks for carrying 317.700 MT of HSD (high speed diesel), 47.900MT of ATF (Aviation Turbine Fuel), 41.100 MT of Kerosene and 45.500MT of Petrol. The vessel is also a step towards the islands having its own fuel pumps. “The fuel for vehicles of islanders is now provided by transferring it into cans from barrels. This process would also be replaced with fuel pumping stations as well, as the setting up of pumps and storage stations are in the final stages at Kavaratti and Minicoy islands,” said an official. The official added that once the vessel starts operations, fuel can be collected from the mainland and transferred to the storage facilities at the islands directly. “A few more agreements with fuel companies and procedures are to be completed in connection with the project and we are expecting the whole system to be up and running in the coming months,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dweep-to-have-own-fuel-stations/articleshow/81129703.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Goa||Complaint over Baina jetty work||Vasco: A complaint has been filed with Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Desai alleging illegalities in the ongoing construction work of a marine jetty at Baina beach. The NGO, Goa First, has written to the deputy collector raising concerns over public safety while construction of the jetty is being undertaken by Drishti Marine. “No signboards have been erected at the construction site depicting permissions from any of the authorities nor construction details are mentioned by the project proponent,” reads the letter of complaint. The organisation said that no precautionary measures have been put in place while using domestic LPG cylinders and cutters.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/complaint-over-baina-jetty-work/articleshow/81131786.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Not responsible if Pondy CM fails to prove majority: BJP||Tirupur: The lieutenant governor of Puducherry or BJP would not be responsible if Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy fails to prove majority in the assembly, senior BJP leader L Ganesan said here on Saturday. “We can’t do anything if Congress cadres jump ship and Narayanasamy fails to prove majority. The last Congress government in south is on the verge of crumbling. It might be due to the recent visit of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to Puducherry and his ill-fortune,” Ganesan, who was in Tirupur to chair a meeting with party cadres to discuss the arrangements needed to be made for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Coimbatore on Thursday, told reporters. Speaking about the rising fuel prices, the BJP leader said that the central government is forced to collect tax from the public to repay the loans obtained during the Congress rule, which is at Rs 24 lakh crore. “The PM will take necessary steps to control the prices,” he said.The PM holding hands of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam in Chennai was a symbolic gesture to show that the alliance is strong, Ganesan said. On the return of expelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala to Chennai, Ganesan said that only AMMK cadres welcomed her, not the people of Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/not-responsible-if-pondy-cm-fails-to-prove-majority-bjp/articleshow/81130644.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Salem||Ginger price falls due to surplus arrival||Salem: Due to high arrival, ginger price fell in markets across Salem district. While the price of ginger was around Rs 80 a kg in January, now the price of three kilograms of the spice is Rs 100.“Assam, the largest ginger producer in the country, has seen abundant production this year. About 150 tonnes of ginger were transported from Assam to Karnataka in the second week of February and half of that was diverted to Tamil Nadu,” said M Suresh, a wholesale ginger merchant in Bengaluru. Since the stock arrived is larger than other years, ginger merchants in the district decided to dispose of it and hired autorickaws and started going to villages and towns for sales, said K Sulaiman, a merchant. “Large ginger arrivals have helped to bring down the price. I am able to sell 100kg of ginger every day,” he added.The next shipment will come only in 2022, Suresh said, as ginger is annual crop and cultivated in summer and harvested in winter. The price will increase again slowly as the stock gets depleted and most of the merchants would clear their stocks in four months. “A few wholesale merchants will store a part of the stock and continue to sell it till the next arrival,” Suresh added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/ginger-price-falls-due-to-surplus-arrival/articleshow/81130656.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Cops to conduct antigen test before arresting anyone: CP Amitesh Kumar||NAGPUR: City police chief Amitesh Kumar on Saturday informed the cops would conduct rapid antigen tests before taking anyone into custody. If he or she tests negative, they shall be referred to quarantine centres for two weeks, he said. The city police are now in the process of procuring test kits for the force. The CP also said the cops would now visit marriage venues, eateries and bars to check violations of Covid norms. “We have revived the actions on non-use of masks and have come down heavily on those organizers, hotel and bar owners who are violating norms,” said the top cop. Kumar said in the backdrop of the two elaborate anti-crime drives, ‘Operations wash out’ and ‘Operations crackdown’, there is a need to protect the force from the fresh resurgence of Covid-19. The cops had also launched schemes like ensuring ‘visible’ police presence at 110 places, joint nakabandis of traffic and police stations and ‘dattak yojanas’ of around 4,500 murder accused. “At present, 67 cops are recuperating from coronavirus. Though we have also started procurement of medicines and other materials required to fight the disease apart from keeping our hospital facility ready, there is a need to take precautions too. Until our kits arrive, the accused would be taken to antigen testing centres to rule out Covid first,” he said. “The zonal DCPs have been instructed to take regular camps at police stations and get testing done of the personnel apart from following exercises like contact tracing,” he said. Kumar said a deadline of March 31 has been set to bulldoze crime, organized syndicates and gangsters in the coming days following the exhaustive ‘surveillance list’ which has been prepared. “In last six months, 20 goons were slapped with stringent MPDA setting a benchmark while another 250 goons were sent to jail. MCOCA is being invoked against top gangs including that of Santosh Ambekar. Around 465 persons were slapped with preventive actions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cp-cops-to-conduct-antigen-test-before-arresting-anyone/articleshow/81129702.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 21, 2021||Kochi||Lullaby contest in memory of poet||Alappuzha: To commemorate the birth anniversary of Carnatic music maestro Irayimman Thampi, Thanneermukkom grama panchayat in Cherthala is planning to conduct a state-level lullaby singing and writing competition at Naduvile Kovilakam, the ancestral home of Thampi, on October 19 every year. Thampi, who wrote ageless lullabies like ‘Omanathinkal kidavo, was a poet laureate in Swathi Thirunal’s court. The panchayat is also planning to improve facilities at the Kovilakam to transform it into a prominent tourist destination. In the budget presented for 2021-22, the panchayat has announced a project in this regard. “A sum of Rs 1 lakh has been set aside for the basic works of the project. More funds will be allotted from the plan funds of the panchayat for the execution of the project. From this year, we will give ‘Omanathinkal Purasakaram’ to those win in the lullaby singing and writing competition,” said panchayat vice -president Praveen G Panicker. The ‘Kovilakam’ was taken over by the archaeology department on September 22, 2008, from the family of Thampi and declared as a protected monument.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lullaby-contest-in-memory-of-poet/articleshow/81129713.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Madurai||Trade bodies urge govts to reduce tax on fuel||Madurai: The Tamilnadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has urged the central government to reduce the excise duty and value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to bring down their prices. In a statement, president of the chamber N Jegatheesan said that the rise in petrol and diesel prices has led to a significant increase in the prices of essential commodities and other consumable products. The trade and industry and general public are facing a huge impact on their daily lives, due to the price hike. Due to continuous hike in petrol and diesel prices, public transport truck operators have now announced a 25% increase in their freight charges. This will increase the lorry freight substantially. Due to this, prices of all essential commodities will go up and vegetables, fruits brought by farmers by vehicles to the daily market will also go up. Already, the trade and industry and general public have been impacted due to the Covid-19 pandemic over the past year, the hike would further weaken them. Hence, it urged the Union and state governments to take immediate consideration of the increasing price of petrol and diesel and take immediate steps to reduce the excise duty and VAT levied on the prices of petrol and diesel and save the trade and industry and general public. Meanwhile, Empower India centre for consumer and environmental education, research and advocacy has questioned the petrol price hike despite adding 10% ethanol to a litre of fuel and urged the governments to reduce tax on fuel. Stating that petrol price should have dropped due to adding ethanol, the consumer body also condemned the artificial inflation of ethanol price by taking advantage of the scenario. Executive director of the consumer body, A Shankar said that fuel price hike has reflected an increase in the price of essential commodities and has come as a big blow for the consumers, especially those belonging to the economically weaker sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/trade-bodies-urge-govts-to-reduce-tax-on-fuel/articleshow/81131797.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s best vaccination day with turnout 133% of target||MUMBAI: Even as the demand to start the third phase of vaccination at the earliest grew, the city witnessed a record number of healthcare and frontline workers — 133% of the day’s target — turning out for the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday. In Maharashtra, 37,030 people got vaccinated. Of these, 13,914 were from Mumbai. “We have done a lot of microplanning, coordinating with various government departments to ensure that their staff come in batches to get vaccinated,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. The BMC had managed 100% turnout on Thursday too. Experts said this could be a reflection of the growing acceptance of vaccination, especially with a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases across many states, including Maharashtra. “We have a unique window of opportunity to beat Covid using mass vaccination. We need to start vaccinating proactively to ensure we cover the entire country at the earliest,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state task force on Covid. On Friday, Dr Subhash Salunke, who is a technical advisor to the state government touring the new Covid hot spots in Vidarbha, said the state would write to the Centre to allow Maharashtra to start the third phase of vaccination before March. The Centre wants to start the third phase covering people over 50 years of age and those younger with chronic diseases by March 1, but there have been no directives so far to the states on how to go about the drive. On Saturday, state director of health services, Dr Archana Patil said: “Our focus is on vaccinating the maximum number of healthcare and frontline workers before March 1.” Maharashtra has covered a little over 55% of its healthcare workers so far. Around 8.9 lakh healthcare and frontline workers have been vaccinated. On Saturday, the number of frontline workers vaccinated was 9,470, more than double of the 4,444 healthcare workers vaccinated in Mumbai. In the state, more healthcare workers (23,546) than frontline workers (13,484) turned up. The BMC has allowed two more private hospitals, Fortis in Mulund and Nanavati in Juhu, to vaccinate their own staff, taking their number to seven. Many doctors say the best way to check the rising Covid-19 graph is to start vaccinating the vulnerable population, especially the 50-plus and younger people with chronic diseases. Dr Gautam Bhansali , a state government Covid task force member, said: “We have to carry out vaccination like a surgical strike, vaccinate senior citizens and vulnerable population in big numbers. It will require only 10 days to cover a big chunk of this population.” Stepping up vaccination will help cut the chain of transmission, said Dr Bhansali. “It will also bring down the mortality rate and ensure that even if people get Covid-19 later on, it would be very mild,” he said. A senior doctor said states should be allowed to plan their own vaccination drives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/citys-best-vaccination-day-with-turnout-133-of-target/articleshow/81130750.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 21, 2021||Goa||Goa: Lady PSIs should probe child, women crimes, police urged||PANAJI: With the rise in crime against women and children, the state government’s victim assistance unit (VAU) has written to Goa police stating that all women police sub-inspectors should be assigned to police stations to investigate specific cases related to women and children. VAU said that at least one such woman PSI should be posted at every police station to deal only with cases concerning women and children. VAU coordinator Emidio Pinho, in a letter to Goa police, said that currently, all women PSIs working at police stations are assigned general cases including, theft, dacoity, unnatural death, etc. “This leads to women officers not being able to devote enough time to cases of children and women, not only delaying the filing of charge sheets but also impacting the quality of investigation,” said Pinho. “The whole purpose of having women officers was to handle cases relating to children and women. Presently, the purpose for which they are appointed is not met due to the officer handling other cases.” He also said that there is no equal distribution of women PSIs at police stations. “We have handled cases at Pernem and Anjuna where the PSI from Mapusa was deputed as an investigation officer,” he wrote. “This has further burdened those dealing with cases not only at their police station, but also at other stations.” VAU said that young, newly-appointed officers choose to remain posted inside branches and not get into the police station due to the workload. “This should be checked, and newly-appointed officers of PSI rank should be only allocated to active police stations, so that they not only gain experience but also guide officers once they are promoted to the rank of police inspector.” He said that a woman police officer was allocated for the VAU, but to date, she has not been relieved by the police station concerned. The VAU, set up in March 2014, provides holistic support, medical examination for sexual offences, free legal aid, counselling, home visits, enrollment in formal and non-formal education, and job placements for victims – both boys and girls, including their families. All these services are made available for every victim under one roof.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lady-psis-should-probe-child-women-crimes-police-urged/articleshow/81131788.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Pregnant woman kills husband for insisting on sex||ERODE: A 21-year-old pregnant woman surrendered before Andhiyur village administrative officer (VAO) here on Friday evening saying that she had killed her husband by giving food laced with insecticides. VAO Muruganandham later handed her over to the police. Police said A Mythily, of Periyamolapalayam village, married N Nandha Kumar, 33, of Kaliannan Thottam near Andhiyur eight months ago. Nandha Kumar, a farmer, had married a woman two years ago and divorced her within four months. “Mythily became pregnant five months ago. Even after this, it seems Nandha Kumar compelled her to have sex with him and tortured her. So Mythily decided to kill him and gave insecticide-laced food on January 28,” S Ravi, inspector attached with the Andhiyur police station, said after questioning Mythily. Nandha Kumar developed some health complications and was admitted to a private hospital in Andhiyur on January 31. “He died without responding to the treatment at the hospital on February 15,” the inspector added. After the death, the hospital management alerted the police, who registered a case and initiated an inquiry. Meanwhile, Mythily surrendered to the VAO and confessed to her crime. Based on her statements, the police arrested Mythily and lodged her at the district prison in Gobichettipalayam under judicial custody for 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/woman-kills-hubby-surrenders-before-vao/articleshow/81130671.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Goa||Budgetary support must for the old: RTI awardee||Panaji: National RTI awardee and social activist Rajan Ghate appealed to chief minister Pramod Sawant for budgetary support for senior citizens’ welfare, for a commission to address their problems and for district-wise police stations to handle issues of their maintenance and violence against them. “India’s population of senior citizens stands at an average level of 7%, while Goa has the highest average of senior citizens at 12%,” he stated in a letter to the chief minister, opposition leader, minister of social welfare and chief secretary. Children of senior citizens face acute difficulties in handling situations when their aged parents are bedridden at homes and don’t possess necessary resources economically to handle these situations. As a result, they tend to neglect their parents’ needs, he said. “As a matter of responsibility, the Goa government needs to take urgent initiatives and introduce the concept of ‘halfway homes’ for bedridden senior citizens taluka-wise, in addition to old age homes,” he said, while pressing for the setting up of a commission for senior citizens in Goa to take immediately address urgent day-to-day issues, including harassment and assaults on them. “A counselling cell for senior citizens and their children is the necessity of the time. This will handle issues and ensure effective implementation of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007,” he stated. Ghate also pressed for 50% concession to senior citizens for interstate travel in Maharashtra and Karnataka, and district-wise police stations for senior citizens for effective handling of criminal cases on a timely basis as well as issues pertaining to compliance of the maintenance Act. “In the course of my discussions with the senior citizens in Goa, they expressed and complained about their needs of various kinds, and expected the government to take up the issues on urgent basis in order to enable them to lead a normal life. We have been repeatedly bringing these facts to the knowledge of the government. However, the necessary response from is awaited,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/budgetary-support-must-for-the-old-rti-awardee/articleshow/81131794.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||160 Covid cases, no deaths in T||Hyderabad: Telangana on Saturday recorded 157 new cases of Covid-19 and no new deaths. This is the third time since the pandemic reached the peak that not a single death has been recorded. The total number of cases so far is 2,97,435 while the death toll is 1,623. With a total of 1,715 active cases in the state, bed usage in government and private hospitals is between 5%-6% now. So far, a total of 2,94,097 patients in the state have recovered from the infection. On Saturday, 23,702 samples were tested across the state. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/160-covid-cases-no-deaths-in-t/articleshow/81131790.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Ludhiana||AAP protests, accuses Cong of using influence in polls||Ludhiana: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday staged a protest in front of the office of the Jagraon senior superintendent of police (SSP) against the FIR registered by the police against the party’s senior leader and deputy leader of opposition in the Punjab Assembly, Sarabjit Kaur Manuke, and other party activists. The protest was joined by leader of opposition in assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, Sarabjit Kaur Manuke, MLA and farmer wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan, MLA and youth wing president Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer, and MLAs Jagtar Singh Jagga Hissowal, Amarjeet Singh Sandoya and Baldev Singh Jaito. Besides, Malwa (East) joint secretary Amandeep Singh Mohi, Ludhiana district president Suresh Goyal and Ludhiana district secretary Sharan Pal Singh Makkar and a large number of party volunteers also took part. The AAP leaders alleged that in the municipal body polls, the ruling Congress used every possible means to ‘loot’ the elections, thereby undermining the values of democracy. The leaders said in the Jagraon council elections, when Manuke noticed the discrepancies in the counting of votes, she opposed it. “It was surprising that the dates of EVMs did not match and they were different,” said a party leader. "Some machines showed Congress candidates as the winners and seals of some machines were tampered with. When a recount was demanded, the SDM did not find it appropriate under the pressure of the government," the leader alleged. Under these circumstances, deputy leader of opposition Sarabjit Kaur Manuke was ‘forced’ to stage a protest on the highway, along with the party volunteers, seeking recounting. The APP leaders claimed that instead of the administration going for a recount of votes, a case was registered against Manuke and her associates. The leaders said the democratically-elected Punjab government of Captain Amarinder Singh is becoming more and more ‘dictatorial’, similar to the central government. The leaders further alleged that at about 200 places in Punjab, vandalism and booth capturing was done, but re-elections were conducted at only five booths. On raising the voice against the Congress government-supported hooliganism, a case was registered against them, they claimed. "The Congress used every possible means to win the elections and destroy democracy. These incidents were also brought to the notice of the State Election Commission and other officials concerned, but no action was taken," said a senior AAP leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/aap-protests-accuses-cong-of-using-influence-in-polls/articleshow/81129712.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Bid to smuggle 2,300kg ration rice thwarted||Coimbatore: A native of Dindugal was arrested at Sulur on the outskirts of the city while trying to smuggle 2,300kg ration rice to neighbouring Kerala state from the district.Police said they were tipped about the smuggling and had conducted a vehicle check on Coimbatore-Palakkad road near Sulur on Friday. “We stopped and checked two vehicles on suspicion and found 56 sacks full of ration rice. We managed to catch the driver of one of the vehicles, while the other one escaped from the spot,” a police officer said.He identified the arrested as Karthik, of Dindugal district. “During inquiry, Karthik confessed that he, along with his friend Thangapandi, was planning to smuggle the ration rice to Kerala.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bid-to-smuggle-2300kg-ration-rice-thwarted/articleshow/81130685.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: 75% health workers take the shot till Saturday deadline; ‘mop-up’ starts today||KOLKATA: Till Saturday, which was the deadline for healthcare workers to take the Covid-19 vaccine, around 75% of them have received the shot in the state. All hospitals will get a five day mop-up window to inoculate those who have not yet taken the jab. “We expect the percentage to go up to around 85% by the end of the five day mop-up window. We are trying to encourage the last lot of health workers to take the vaccine unless they have contraindications,” said Ashim Das Malakar, state health and family welfare officer. The state had rolled out the inoculation programme for close to 6.5 lakh health workers on January 16. Despite technical glitches, the first 10 days saw an encouraging turnout, ranging between 70% and 87%. “We are trying to get as many health workers as possible during the mop-up period. All departments are being informed,” said IPGMER director Manimoy Banerjee. Around 85%-90% of private sector health workers will have received the first shot of Covid vaccine when the exercise ends on Saturday. At 65%-75%, the percentage is lower across government hospitals. Infectious Diseases & Beliaghata General Hospital (ID&BG) has been holding sensitization programme so that the 350-plus out of its 1,287 workers who have skipped the dose take the first shot. “Apart from a few who have contraindications, those still left are Group D and scavenging staff. We are sensitizing them on their apprehensions,” said community medicine specialist Sanjib Bandypadhyay, vaccination site supervisor at ID&BG. “We expect to vaccinate 95% of our workers by the end of the mop-up round,” said Manju Banerjee, principal of Medical College Hospital, Kolkata. “We have covered almost 98% of our 2,000 workers for the first dose,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. “Around 10% of our workers who are yet to get vaccinated will be covered by February 25,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/around-75-of-hcws-take-first-shot/articleshow/81129709.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: District administrations seek influential persons’ help to contain Covid-19 spread||NAGPUR: In order to curb sudden surge of Covid-19 cases, the district administrations of Nagpur, Akola and Yavatmal have decided to approach all influential personalities of society and urge them to convince people to stay away from crowded events. In Nagpur, district collector, civil surgeon, district health officer and divisional deputy director (health services) have issued a joint appeal addressed to local corporators, party functionaries, MLAs, MLCs and all others who are influential in their respective areas urging them to use their local influence and convince people to abstain crowd. “You have many workers who take your words as commands. You can include them in this campaign and start appealing people to avoid crowd, follow Covid-related norms and get themselves tested as soon as they develop any symptoms,” reads the letter, copies of which are being circulated to all public representatives as well as local political functionaries of all parties. Interestingly, political functionaries are blamed for not following the Covid restrictions themselves in their events, rallies and processions. In Akola, district collector Jitendra Papalkar conducted a meeting with religious functionaries. “Religious personalities have a place of honour in society. People listen to what they say. They have influence in the masses. I appealed them to use this effect to create awareness among the masses,” Papalkar said. The health administration in Akola appealed religious gurus to protect places of worship and ban entry to devotees coming without masks. “We also expect that they should encourage people to follow the preventive measures and use the loudspeakers at religious places to provide information to people,” Akola Municipal Corporation’s medical officer Dr Farukh Sheikh said. In Yavatmal, district collector M Devendra Singh took streets on Friday night and especially stopped those riding bikes and driving cars in full speed without wearing masks. “The collector along with his team, stood at the bus station square and stopped those bullies who ride bikes in full speed. He also stopped some cars, fined the drivers and also handed over masks to them,” said a senior official. The move of making bullies to wear masks by stopping them in public is unique and it may influence others to wear masks. Yavatmal, Akola, Amravati are going to observe a 24-hours weekend shutdown on Sunday. Adding to it, such unique steps taken by the district collectors will also play important role in controlling the spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dist-admins-seek-influential-persons-help-to-contain-covid-spread/articleshow/81129706.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Lockdown effect: Bordharan gate to be closed on Sunday||NAGPUR: The forest department has announced the closure of Bor Tiger Reserve (TR)’s Bordharan gate on Sunday, following Wardha district collector’s weekend lockdown orders. This decision by the forest department will continue to remain in effect till further orders. To partially offset this, Adegaon gate, which comes under Nagpur district, will be opened from February 23 onwards. In Wardha, the weekend lockdown begins from Saturday, 8pm and shall continue till Monday morning. This effectively rules out any chances of Sunday safari in either morning or evening slots. And with Bor TR’s weekly holiday being a Monday, the closure from Wardha side gets extended. This means that from Wardha district’s Bordharan gate, safari bookings will be done from Tuesdays to Saturdays only. From Nagpur district’s Adegaon gate, safaris can be booked from Tuesday to Sunday. Ravikiran Govekar, Pench chief conservator of forests (CCF) and field director said booking for Adegaon gate will initially be offline only. “At least for the inaugural week the safari bookings will have to be made offline. The online booking facility shall be operational a week after that,” said Govekar. He added that some minor changes need to be made in the online booking facility, which won’t take too long. “Adegaon gate had been closed till now for tourists. Since it’s in Nagpur district we can operate on Sundays as well,” said Govekar. Those who had already done safari booking for Sunday at Bordharan gate will get a refund. Forest officials added that tourists have to ensure that all safety norms for Covid-19 are being followed. The recent spike in Covid-19 cases led to authorities in Wardha district going for a weekend lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-effect-bordharan-gate-to-be-closed-on-sunday/articleshow/81129711.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Foreign currency worth Rs 9.7L seized||Hyderabad: Security personnel recovered Rs 9.7 lakh worth unaccounted foreign currency from a Sharjah-bound passenger at RGI Airport on Friday. The international air passenger, who was bound for Sharjah, came to RGI Airport. When his baggage was scanned by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel, they found foreign currency. When the passenger was asked to produce supporting documents, the passenger failed. Immediately, he was taken into custody and officials counted the currency and found Saudi Arabia’s riyals and Australian dollars equivalent to Rs 9.77 lakhs. They immediately seized the currency. It is learnt that the passenger, a resident of the Old City, bought the currency through local agents in city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/foreign-currency-worth-rs-9-7l-seized/articleshow/81130683.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Chequered’ career: Babu now in ‘direct graft transfer’ case||AHMEDABAD: A collector who has been accused by an Ahmedabad businessman of demanding Rs 5 lakh through cheque for a firearm licence now faces the charge of asking for Rs 4.98 lakh for clothes from another applicant. This time too there was no under the table strategy — the collector allegedly wanted the money through bank deposits! In the fresh case, a man has filed a plea with the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) Gujarat, stating that the Rs 4.98 lakh was sought when he approached the collector for a weapon licence in June 2019. The complainant paid up and got the licence. But then, according to the complainant, in September 2020, a team of the geology department approached him and said it wanted to survey his land where he mined for sand and minerals. The complainant said the team included a geologist who is a close aide of the collector. The geologist demanded another Rs 5 lakh, the complainant said. When the complainant refused to cough up the money this time, not only was his weapon licence cancelled, but he was also allegedly slapped with a fine of Rs 23.46 lakh. These claims are made in the plea sent to the ACB on February 6. As for the gun licence, the complainant said: “The district collector told me to pay Rs 49,000 twice in two different transactions to an account of a nationalized bank in Surat.” He goes on to say: “The collector told me that he had bought clothes worth Rs 1 lakh so he needed the money.” The complainant said the collector later told him that the PI and the SP concerned had given negative feedback on the application for the weapon licence, but he would manage the affairs for more money. In the end, the complainant said he had paid Rs 49,000 in five different bank transactions to the collector. After the dispute with the geologist, the complainant came to know on September 6, 2020, that his weapon licence had been cancelled. The complainant inquired with a district development officer and found that his licence had been scrapped on the instruction of the collector. The complainant said that he then inquired into the alleged illegal transactions of the collector and found that Rs 72 lakh had been transferred into an account relating to the Sujalam Sufalam scheme. “The vigilance agencies should determine why the money was transferred into the Sujalam Sufalam account from the account of the collector,” he said. An inquiry in the case has been handed over to a senior ACB officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chequered-career-babu-now-in-direct-graft-transfer-case/articleshow/81130700.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Take steps to develop Tamil, forum tells govt||Coimbatore: Members of the Coimbatore Tamil Sangam staged a protest near Red Fields in the city on Saturday, pressing their demand to develop Tamil language in the state.S Duraisamy, president of the Tamil Sangam, said the state government should start teaching students in their mother tongue (Tamil) up to Class VIII in all schools. “Presently, many schools teach students in English while offering Tamil, Hindi or French as their second language. As a result, many students do not prefer to study Tamil.” He said the government should also give preference to those who studied in Tamil while filing vacant posts in government departments, by taking a leaf out of the Maharashtra government, which allot about 80% posts for the people who studied in Marathi. The protesters also demanded the government to start using Tamil in all the government and court documents. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/take-steps-to-develop-tamil-forum-tells-govt/articleshow/81130724.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||Suburban trains get on the app track||Kolkata: Eastern Railway’s Sealdah division announced the launch of the “Sealdah Suburban Tracking System”, an android app that will allow users to keep track of trains, their speeds and the time they would take to reach a station. “The app is based on our internal SSTS server of Sealdah division. Riders can use the app to find out about delays and unscheduled stops. This will allow people to plan. The app will be upgraded according to passenger feedback. We expect nearly 20 lakh passengers to take advantage of this development. The app is being maintained by the IT cell of Sealdah division,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suburban-trains-get-on-the-app-track/articleshow/81129714.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Madurai||Rain in southern dists bring respite||Madurai: Madurai and southern districts on Saturday woke up to a cloudy morning with many parts of the district experiencing rainfall in the afternoon and evenings. The day remained cloudy for the most part of the day in districts including Madurai, some parts of Theni, Virudhunagar, Tenkasi among others. Madurai had been experiencing hot days for the past few days with temperatures ranging between 34 to 36 degree Celcius. With few minutes of heavy rainfall in many parts of the city on Saturday including K K Nagar, Anna Nagar and Teppakulam, some roads become muddy. Periyakulam in Theni district also experienced moderate rainfall. The region recorded 9 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours ending at 8 am on Saturday. Sothuparai in the district recorded the highest of 60 mm of rainfall and Vaigai dam 1.4 mm. Meanwhile, the water level in the Vaigai dam stood at 67.29 feet with an inflow of 454 cusecs and discharge stood at 669 cusecs. Mullaperiyar dam had just 235 cusecs of inflow. The dam’s water level stood at 128.65 feet. In Tenkasi people were prevented from bathing in the main falls of Courtallum falls due to heavy flow. Sources said that this was unusual weather as the region usually experiences dry weather during this season. The other parts of the district remained dry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rain-in-southern-dists-bring-respite/articleshow/81131816.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Goa||Unseasonal rain continues, but intensity reduces||Panaji: Sakhali and Sanguem recorded the highest rainfall of 13.8mm and 13.2mm respectively during Friday’s unseasonal showers. The mid-land centres of Quepem and Ponda recorded 11.2mm and 10.8mm rain till Saturday morning. Canacona received 8.5mm while other centres recorded rain on a lesser scale. Figures of Valpoi and Margao centres were unavailable. The anomalous unseasonal rain during winter is the effect of a persisting trough spanning from north Kerala to central Maharashtra. The trough continued to pass over south Konkan while on Friday, a circulation in Maharashtra exerted a combo effect on the weather. “There is possibility of light rain or thunderstorms over Goa for two more days,” an IMD official said. Cloudy conditions eased during night hours and early morning while the mercury, which had dropped a degree below normal level, to 19 degrees Celsius, during mid-February, went down slightly again on Saturday morning. This year, the winter has seen a few unusual turns. The first month witnessed light rain for a few days. One of the days was unusually wet, while the month ended as the warmest in three decades. Though it may have caused a surprise, the mercury remained stuck at above 20 degrees Celsius almost throughout the month. In February, it dipped slightly, but it went below normal only around mid-month. The maximum temperature has been in the normal range, though for a day, it crossed 35 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unseasonal-rain-continues-but-intensity-reduces/articleshow/81131803.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Ludhiana||Seniors make city traffic cop’s birthday special||Ludhiana: Traffic cop Rajinder Kaur, 30, who has been in the police force for the past eight years, had spent most of her birthdays performing her duty on the city roads, until her seniors decided to give her a surprise this year. They wished her on birthday with a bouquet and a pack of sweets. In a bid to encourage the force and make them feel special, the Ludhiana city police has started the initiative of celebrating the birthdays of the traffic cops in this unique way. Speaking with TOI, Rajinder Kaur, who is deputed at Aarti Chowk, said, “Working in the police force gives a sense of pride. But, in the last eight years, I had never felt so special, that too on my birthday. Earlier, we would ask for a day off on our birthday. At times, the leave was approved and declined sometimes. On Thursday, when I was on duty, traffic zone-III in-charge ASI Mohan Singh came with a bouquet and ASI Satnam Singh brought sweets to celebrate my birthday.” She continued, “I am from Bathinda and live in Ludhiana alone at the police quarters. Staying away from the family on birthdays would always make me feel low. However, this year I did not feel that I am alone. This gesture of our senior officials is overwhelming and gave me a feeling of having a family away from my home.” She was also given a day off on Friday. Joint commissioner of police-city Deepak Pareek, who also heads the traffic police, said, “Traffic personnel work in the field for long hours and have stressful duty amid noisy and polluted environment. To appreciate their contribution towards the police force and the society and to encourage them, the Ludhiana police has started the initiative to celebrate their birthdays.” The JCP further said, “We give them a bouquet, a box of sweets and a personal message in writing from the CP Sir, wishing the traffic personnel on their special day. At times, we get harsh on the traffic cops when traffic jams are not cleared for a long time. But, we also have to be nice to them and encourage them with such gestures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/seniors-make-city-traffic-cops-birthday-special/articleshow/81129716.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Sewage plant leaves residents of gated community worried||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu pollution control board (TNPCB) has submitted a report before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) regarding a sewage treatment plant set up by a leading real estate developer at a gated community in Vellanaipatti in Annur, flouting environmental norms. Though the board had declined permission to operate the 125 KLD plant from June, 30, 2017 after receiving complaints from residents, it is being operated without proper license, the report said. The plant was constructed on the open space reserve (OSR) land of the layout, which has 126 sites, without following guidelines and as a result, residents complained of foul smell, loud noise and water pollution, the report said. TNPCB officials inspected the plant on February 8 and submitted status report before the Tribunal on February 11.The officials found that the unit pumped raw sewage from collection-cum-equalization tank without any treatment using flexible hoses, the report said. “The settling tank was not revamped and not provided with an observation platform. In settling tank and filter feed tank, carryover biosludge was found floating, which indicates inefficient operation and maintenance of STP. The unit has not log books. Even though it has provided two sludge drying beds, no sludge was present. The unit has not provided dual piping system to reuse the treated water for toilet flushing and it has provided provision of fresh water pipe to dilute treated water in the final treated water tank. It is constructed below the ground level and the ground water seepage is observed inside the plant.” Petitioner C P Senthil blamed the board for allowing to function the plant without license. “As per norms, STPs should not be set up in a DTCP approved layout for individual houses.”Recently, a show-cause notice was issued to the developer, asking why the board should not levy a penalty and recover environmental compensation worth Rs 2.51 crore as suggested by the joint committee and Rs 20,000 per day for non-compliance from August 19, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sewage-plant-leaves-residents-of-gated-community-worried/articleshow/81130708.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||300km of defunct cable removed from 4km stretch||Kolkata: The cable clean-up drive along the 4km stretch of Kasba connector has led to removal of 300km of defunct cable weighing close to 30 tonne. The clean-up that began over a month ago was completed on Saturday with 10 garbage trucks picking up the last stack of defunct cables. “When we started the work on January 4, we did not anticipate the volume of defunct cables that would emerge. In some stretches, there were 80-100 cables of which only 30 to 40 were operational. Now, the stretch is much neater than before. Also, the cables that are functional are more secure because they have been bunched and taped,” said Tapash Das, convenor of All Bengal Cable TV & Broadband Operators United Forum that carried out the work following a plea from KMC board of administrators chairman Firhad Hakim. The mesh of cables are not just an eyesore, they also pose a threat to pedestrians and motorists when they get severed and hang loose. Experts have said the cables were responsible for the uprooting of hundreds of electricity poles and trees during cyclone Amphan. The forum said it could clean up the overhead cable mess in the rest of the state if local municipal authorities, multi-service operators, internet service providers and cellphone operators stepped forward to support them with equipment and men. “KMC provided hydraulic ladders while the technical staff of MSOs helped with cutters, saws and other equipment. Between January 4 and February 15, around 20 men worked daily except for a seven-day break in between. We now have the expertise to do the clean-up in the rest of the city,” said Das. Following the completion of this project, similar drives are expected to be taken up on Park Street and Camac Street. On Harish Mukherjee Road, a pilot project is under way to shift the cables underground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/300km-of-defunct-cable-removed-from-4km-stretch/articleshow/81129717.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Man found dead in Afzalgunj||Hyderabad: An unknown person’s dead body was found in Afzalgunj near a park. Police said that it was a male dead body. Police said that there were no injuries on his body. Officials are trying to identify the person besides finding out the cause of death based on post mortem examination. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-found-dead-in-afzalgunj/articleshow/81131815.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Delhi||Ex-Congress councillor Parcha joins AAP||New Delhi: Influenced by AAP government’s work, former Congress councillor Anjana Parcha along with her supporters joined Aam Aadmi Party in the presence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday. “I am very impressed and motivated with the work done by the AAP government and want to support the CM ,” Parcha said . General secretary of Delhi Youth Congress Kapil Sharma from Shahdara, Youth Congress president from Shakurbasti Arun Patni and several others also joined the party. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ex-congress-councillor-parcha-joins-aap/articleshow/81131823.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Govt be ready, Covid gaining momentum: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Saturday asked the state government and all other authorities to be ready to deal with the Covid-19 situation as it is gaining momentum once again, and remarked that “this  and the carefree attitude has spoiled the show once again”. While delivering a verdict on a plea filed by 300 MBBS students, who are reluctant to join Covid duty, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala said that it has reminded the state government that it is this election and the carefree attitude which has again spoiled the show. “We want the government and all other authorities to be ready on all fronts because we do not know how the virus is going to act again,” the judges said. The high court has also asked the state government to consider amending the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897. “This is a very old Act and we want the government to look into and consider amending it from that angle,” the court said. The case involved doctors, who obtained the MBBS degree last year and now planning to appear in NEET for post-graduate studies. They have objected to the state government’s order to join Covid duty. They said that they are ready to forfeit their bond by paying the amount instead. Their advocate Anshin Desai had complained that policemen knock on the doors of these doctors to inquire if they were joining Covid duty. He submitted that the students would face problems in preparation for NEET, if they are tasked with Covid duty. Moreover, the virus transmission has also reduced a lot. In response to this, the court said that the police would definitely not involve themselves in this matter. “If at all the students decide not to report for (Covid-19) duty, police will involve itself only if the concerned authority deems it fit to take appropriate action in accordance with law,” the judges said. They told advocate Desai that since the students had expressed apprehension, the court has taken care of the issue that the police should not harass them. The court also said that it has tried to strike a balance so that students’ interest remains protected and they can prepare themselves for NEET. “At the same time, we expect the students to cooperate (with the government),” the judges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-be-ready-covid-gaining-momentum-hc/articleshow/81130734.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Taxi driver turns Good Samaritan, returns bag with 50 sovereigns gold||Coimbatore: In a huge relief to a family, a call taxi owner cum driver handed over a bag containing 50 sovereigns of gold, which the family had left behind in his vehicle on Friday, to the Race Course (crime) police here on Saturday.A police officer said Bobby, 46, of Saibaba Colony, had picked up four of the family from Goldwins in his call taxi, which was attached to a private cab operator, on Friday morning and dropped them at the KG Hospital. “The passengers, however, forgot to take one of their bags from the taxi’s trunk, which Bobby also did not check.”Only on Saturday morning did the family realize that one of their bags was missing. They contacted Bobby, who checked the trunk of the car and found the bag containing gold ornaments. “He immediately visited the city police commissioner’s office and he was asked to handover the gold ornaments to Sujatha, inspector of police (crime), Race Course station,” the officer said.While two women came to police station to reclaim the lost bag containing gold, the call taxi owner told police that he could identify only one person, who travelled in the co-passenger seat. Police subsequently did not handover the gold to the women.Later, an elderly man, who travelled in the co-passenger seat, was brought to the police station from the KG Hospital. “Bobby identified the passenger and handed over the gold ornaments to him, who was a retired revenue department officer,” the officer said.City police officials and the family appreciated the call taxi owner’s sincerity and thanked him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/taxi-driver-turns-good-samaritan-returns-bag-with-50-sovereigns-gold/articleshow/81130746.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Madurai||Congress cadres held||Madurai: Cadres from the Congress party, who tried to take out a rally in Madurai on Saturday to condemn the fuel price hike, were stopped by the police and arrested. A large number of cadres gathered at the Kattabomman Statue at Periyar. They tried to hold a protest at the Indira Gandhi statue in Jhansi Rani park by undertaking a silent march. However, a posse of police personnel deployed there stopped them using barricades. Tense moment prevailed as Congress cadres tried to go past the barricades. Madurai district Congress president V Karthikeyan said that they approached the city police for permission on February 15 for a peaceful march and protest. At the last moment that permission was rejected. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/congress-cadres-held/articleshow/81131824.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Panchayat secy suspended for amassing assets||Coimbatore: District collector K Rajamani has placed Kariyampalayam village panchayat secretary under suspension for amassing disproportionate assets to the tune of Rs 89.18 lakh. Earlier, the collector had ordered the rural development and panchayat raj department to conduct a detailed investigation into a series of complaints that he had received against M Karthikeyan, Kariyampalayam panchayat secretary, stating he had accumulated assets and pecuniary resources worth about Rs 89.18 lakh in his name and in the name of his family members during his earlier stint as the secretary of Kunnathur village panchayat between April 1, 2013 and December 31, 2019.According to an official source, Karthikeyan, a resident of Kattampatti village panchayat, became the secretary of Kunnathur village panchayat in 2013. Since the state government failed to conduct the local body election in 2016, he continued in the position till December 2019. “During this period, he was involved in corruption and had earned lakhs of rupees by violating rules.”Karthikeyan, the source said, had constructed a house at a cost of more than sRs 50 lakh in his village and bought land in his name and his wife’s name in and around the village.Former Kunnathur village panchayat president had also lodged a complaint against Karthikeyan with the district collector. In January 2020, Karthikeyan was transferred to Kanjampatti village panchayat and then to Kariyampalayam village panchayat three months ago, the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/panchayat-secy-suspended-for-amassing-assets/articleshow/81130774.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Coimbatore||Shop owner ends up in jail for misusing brand name||Coimbatore: Sleuths attached to the Intellectual Property Right Enforcement Cell have arrested a 35-year-old shop owner for misusing a brand name to sell electric wires. They also have seized electric wires worth Rs 14.50 lakh from him.An investigation officer said the fraud came to light when Rajkumar, a staff with IKON Outsourcing Private Limited, New Delhi, conducted a marketing survey for V-Guard at Kattoor and surrounding areas in the city on Friday. “He visited Bhagwati Electricals shop and found non-branded wires were being sold in the name of V-Guard,” the officer said.Immediately, Rajkumar lodged a complaint with the district chapter of the Intellectual Property Right Enforcement Cell, which registered a case against the shop owner, Anoop Singh, 35, a native of Rajasthan, under Sections 486 (selling goods marked with a counterfeit property mark) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and 51 (b) (i) read with 63 (a) of the Copy Right Act, 1957, and arrested him.Officials also seized electrical wires worth Rs 14.50 lakh from the shop. Anoop Singh was later produced before a judicial magistrate court, which remanded him in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shop-owner-ends-up-in-jail-for-misusing-brand-name/articleshow/81130766.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||Dhakuria hosp unit to become non-Cov wing||Kolkata: The annexe building of AMRI Hospital at Dhakuria — that was reopened after a decade as a Covid unit in January — is set to be turned into a non-Covid wing in March. The section, which has 50 beds, may not be needed as a Covid unit since the numbers have dropped sharply, said AMRI authorities. But they added the conversion may not happen if there’s a surge in number of Covid patients over the next few weeks. “We are keeping an eye on the Covid situation. More than the half the beds are now vacant,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dhakuria-hosp-unit-to-become-non-cov-wing/articleshow/81129720.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Kidney transplant from recovered coronavirus patients safe’||AHMEDABAD: Can potential kidney donors continue with the process if they contract Covid-19 infection? What are the chances of viral infection spread in the recipient even though the donor has recovered from the pandemic? One of the first studies across India to assess the success rate of kidney transplants from recovered Covid-19 patients revealed that the recipients did not face any major issues, and acute rejection was reported only in 6.6% of 75 selected cases. The study took into consideration patients from 22 centres across India, including four from Gujarat, from where eight cases were selected. Dr Vivek Kute, professor of nephrology at IKDRC-ITS and secretary of Indian Society of Organ Transplantation, said that the study covered July 2020 to January 2021 period. “Out of the 75 donors, 23% were asymptomatic, 48% had mild symptoms, 20% had moderate and 9% had severe symptoms. Patient and graft survival was 100% and the follow-up also recorded good results,” he said. He added that the risk benefit analysis with normal creatinine levels for 44 days were taken into consideration. “We have to live with Covid-19 in 2021 and continue transplantation services with all preventive measures as mortality on dialysis is relatively high,” said Dr Vineet Mishra, IKDRC director. Delhi-based senior renal transplant surgeon Sandeep Guleria, who is also one of the authors of the study, said the study showed that if someone has recovered from Covid-19 fully and all the tests are normal, the person is a good candidate for donation. “Thus, if the patients of kidney diseases are on dialysis for long, transplant is a better option. The patients should not fear about the possible transmission of infection,” he said. The initial phase of pandemic witnessed a lot of apprehension about transplants, which had come to a grinding halt due to its immuno-suppressant nature. “As the donors are decided well in advance to understand compatibility and to fulfill legal requirements, such questions came often to the experts,” said an IKDRC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kidney-transplant-from-recovered-corona-patients-safe/articleshow/81130787.cms||Parth Shastri
February 21, 2021||Madurai||Usilampatti back in focus after baby girl’s murder||Madurai: The female infanticide incidents reported in Madurai district could be just the tip of the iceberg, say activists who have urged the authorities to carry out widespread sensitisation among people to protect girl children. Madurai district police have confirmed that the seven-day-old child from K Paraipatti village was murdered and they arrested her grandmother Nagammal in this connection. Police are questioning the parents of the child, Chinnasamy and Sivapriyanka. Usilampatti, once notorious for female infanticides, have not reported any such incidents for many years. Three suspected female infanticides were reported in Madurai district in just one year with two of them from Usilampatti. Activists suspect that social malady is rearing its ugly head again after a gap. A one-month-old female child was murdered and buried next to its house in Pullaneri village near Checkanurani on March 2 last year. Police arrested the child’s father, S Vairamuthu, mother Sowmiya and Vairamuthu’s father S Singam after exhuming the child’s body. In another incident, a new born female child was murdered by her father K Davamani and Davamani’s mother K Pandiammal in Sholavandan in May 14. They were arrested three days after the incident. Rural district secretary of the All-India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) C Muthurani said, “Sex selective abortions and female infanticides continue to take place in Madurai, especially in Usilampatti. Government agencies should create awareness among villagers to stop female infanticides,” she said. “Parents think that children will suffer at homes. The government should take steps to change the mindset of people. Measures should be taken to end the dowry system since it is one of the main reasons why parents hate female children.” Additional superintendent of police S Vanitha (crime against women and children) said that villagers were aware of the consequences of female infanticide and availability of adoption agencies, but they are not coming forward to utilize it. In the K Paraipatti case, the family members were well aware of the consequences of infanticide. The baby was smothered as they thought they would be caught by police if they fed the baby with cactus milk. Village-level committees and block-level committees are conducting monthly awareness activities. “People are reluctant to approach the adoption agencies due to social stigma,” she said. B Pandiaraja, member, Child Welfare Committee, said that the number of babies handed over to the adoption agencies has increased in the last two years due to the awareness created among people in Madurai district. Adoption agencies received 27 children in 2020, an increase by 10 compared to its previous year. Best care is being given to children in homes, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/usilampatti-back-in-focus-after-baby-girls-murder/articleshow/81131833.cms||V Devanathan
February 21, 2021||Madurai||Farmers urge govt to speed up paddy procurement||Madurai: Farmers at Athoor and Sithaiyankottai in Dindigul district have been forced to store their harvested paddy in the open, and they appealed to the government to open procurement centres in a full-fledged manner and procure paddy. Athoor, Sithaiyankottai, Narasingapuram, Alagarnayakkanpatti, Sedappatti and Ayyampalayam in the district are known as the paddy bowl of Dindigul. A variety of paddy including I R-50, Ko-43, Ko-45, LLR, Akshaya, RMR-477 are cultivated in the region on more than 3,000 acres of land. Every year the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation establishes paddy procurement centres in the region when the harvesting season begins. But, this year there was a delay in opening the procurement centres and the farmers who brought the paddy had to leave it in the open in Athoor, which was opened only on Friday. Sithaiyankottai, however, has a shed for the procurement process. But essential facilities such as dryers have not been brought and the farmers who took paddy to the centre have also left them in the open. “The process should be made faster, so that the farmers do not incur loss,” said Selvam, a farmer. The farmers said that they were forced to spread paddy on tarpaulin sheets at these centres, but as there is dew in the morning, there are chances of the paddy becoming wet again and gaining weight. “It could also lead to attracting diseases,” said Pandiselvam, a farmer. Sudden rains could also damage the paddy. The farmers allege that private agents are approaching them and asking for paddy offering very low prices. “If the procurement centres were opened, it would be very helpful, as this year’s produce had been less by 30 to 40 bags for about 1.5 acres whereas they used to get about 60 to 70 bags in the previous years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/farmers-urge-govt-to-speed-up-paddy-procurement/articleshow/81131826.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||February test positivity rate lowest for Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In the past 20 days, Gujarat recorded 4,965 new positive cases. The cases were found from 6.13 lakh tests conducted, giving the test positivity rate (Covid-19 positive cases per 100 tests conducted) of 0.8%. It’s the lowest monthly TPR for Gujarat since the start of the pandemic. To put this in perspective, Gujarat’s average TPR for Covid-19 is 2.3%. However, a data tabled in the Lok Sabha last week revealed that the TPR drop in Gujarat was lower than the national average. Against the monthly TPR drop of 0.8% in five months (from August to January) for Gujarat – from 3.1%to 2.3% - the national figure showed a drop of 2 per cent — from 8.3% to 6.3% — in the same period. The data also revealed that 76% of Covid-19 detection tests conducted in Gujarat were rapid antigen tests (RAT). Only 23% were RT-PCR, whereas remaining 1% were of other means such as CBNAAT. RAT accounted for 48% of tests in India and 49% were RT-PCR. The data covered 90.4 lakh tests in Gujarat out of which 20.8 lakh were RT-PCR and 69.1 lakh were RAT. Gujarat’s dependence on RAT was the third-highest in India after Telangana (84%) and Bihar (82%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/february-test-positivity-rate-lowest-for-gujarat/articleshow/81130805.cms||Parth Shastri
February 21, 2021||Dehradun||Three more bodies retrieved from Tapovan-Vishnugad site, authorities on alert after rainfall prediction||DEHRADUN: With the Met department predicting rains in Uttarakhand’s upper reaches on February 24 and 25, authorities in disaster-hit Chamoli district are on alert mode. Chamoli district magistrate Swati Bhadoria told TOI, “We discussed the risks associated with the rainfall prediction in a meeting with the NDRF, SDRF, NTPC and Army officers on Saturday. Even though the forecast doesn’t predict heavy rains, we will not take any chances.” The NTPC, with the help of NDRF, set up a measuring board to track the water level in Dhauliganga on Saturday. NDRF deputy commandant Abhay Pratap Singh said, “As the NTPC team faced difficulties dragging the board down the river, our team helped them. The search and rescue operations are on as usual.” The SDRF had already installed a similar device, an early warning system, in Raini village. DM Bhadoria said that the system, which sends out an alarm when the Rishiganga river in Dhauliganga breaches a certain mark, will be tried out on Sunday morning. In case of heavy rainfall, rescue operations may be put on hold. With three more bodies retrieved from the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project site on Saturday, the count reached 65. A total of 139 persons continue to be missing. Meanwhile, the joint team of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), which had gone to the newly-formed lake on February 17 returned to Joshimath on Saturday and informed that the water is not in an “alarming condition presently”. PRO, ITBP, Vivek Pandey told TOI, “A trail of mud, sand and huge boulders leading up to the lake from the front make it very difficult to reach. One has to access it from the back and the journey can be taken only early in the morning. The team had to take the Raunthi Gadhera route, which is a tough trek. The lake is roughly 500 metre long and 250 metre wide and the water is flowing out at a good speed. Creating more openings can be a concern because of the slurry ahead of it. It will take some time for the water to flow naturally out of the lake.” A second team comprising experts from Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC) and Geological Survey of India (GSI) is expected to reach and inspect the lake on Sunday morning. “Once surveys of all agencies are complete, reports will be assessed for future course of action,” Pandey added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-more-bodies-retrieved-from-tapovan-vishnugad-site-authorities-on-alert-after-rainfall-prediction/articleshow/81129725.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Plush areas near Ghodbunder Road account for a quarter of Thane cases||THANE: The upscale areas within the Thane corporation limits have registered the highest volume of Covid positive patients over the last few days compared to other localities, reveal municipal records. A tally of Covid cases reported in the Thane area reveals the Majiwada-Manpada ward that comprises plush localities centres around Ghodbunder road to have seen nearly 25% of the total cases reported among the nine administrative zones here in the last one week. The Saturday Covid records also recorded 54 cases here as against the total 147 in the city. Meanwhile, Vartak Nagar that is known for its upper and middle class settlements touched a close second followed by Kalwa. In stark contrast, areas like Lokmanya Nagar and Wagle wards that were once the hotspots here have recorded very low cases of Corona patients in the last few days. Mumbra once again recorded zero cases. Officials largely blamed the lack of safety measures being followed by residents and said they have now started taking corrective measures. “It is evident that residents haven’t taken adequate precautions leading to a rise in numbers. The Ghodbunder and surrounding stretch witnesses a lot of thoroughfare and there could be possibilities of unwary residents picking up infections and spreading them. Plus many failed to wear masks regularly or even follow safety measures,” said an official requesting anonymity. Municipal commissioner, Dr Vipin Sharma, on Friday said they were closely monitoring the situation and also holding meetings with the police to work out steps for effective Covid management. Officials denied there were any immediate possibility of enforcing lockdown here and said they would wait and analyse the situation over the next few days. “Traders and commercial unit owners have been strictly instructed to observe safety measures or face penal action. Special drives are also being conducted to ensure those endangering others by not wearing masks are penalised,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/plush-areas-near-ghodbunder-road-account-for-a-quarter-of-thane-cases/articleshow/81130799.cms||Manoj Badgeri
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Consumer forum fines telco for SIM mix up||Hyderabad: A district consumer forum here has directed Bharti Airtel Limited and Balaji Communications to pay about Rs 2.4 lakh to a consumer for blocking his original SIM card and issuing a duplicate one to a third party without proper verification. The duplicate SIM was said to be used to siphon Rs 2.19 lakh from his bank account while the victim was abroad. Satyajit Suri, the complainant, submitted that his employer National Institute for Smart Government opened a savings bank account with the State Bank of India (SBI) for crediting salaries and other emoluments, in addition to providing a connected usage group SIM card for official use. Suri said that on September 16, 2011, while he was in the United States on study leave, he noticed that Rs 2.19 lakh had been transferred from his account through internet banking to some unknown accounts on September 12. He said that he immediately communicated the same to his employer and requested to file a police complaint. Parallelly, Suri said that he also dropped several mails to SBI requesting them to initiate prompt action. Suri said that through Bharati Airtel, he came to know that Balaji Communications had issued a duplicate SIM after clocking the original SIM issued to the complainant, before the occurrence of fraudulent transactions. SBI, in its written version, submitted that it had furnished all particulars of transactions made from the complainant’s account number to other accounts as a dutiful and prudent banker and discharged its responsibilities to the complainant as a banker. Bharati Airtel, meanwhile, took preliminary objection on the maintainability of the complaint and submitted that the complainant has approached this Forum without exhausting his remedy available as per the Telecom Consumer Protection and Redressal of Grievances Regulation 2007 and also Sec.7B of the Telegraph Act, 1885. It denied all averments of the complainant. Balaji Communications failed to file a written version.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/consumer-forum-fines-telco-for-sim-mix-up/articleshow/81130824.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Deliver timely justice: SC judge||Ahmedabad: Justice M R Shah of the Supreme Court on Saturday exhorted the judges of the state to deliver timely justice for the common man and put stress on the alternative dispute resolution system to achieve the goal of quick justice delivery. Speaking during a seminar on Alternative Dispute Resolution – Way to Serve a Common Man after inauguration of HC’s arbitration centre, Justice Shah said that alternative dispute resolution methods are the need of the day because the backlog and docket management is difficult and the wait for justice is getting longer. Justice Shah cited examples of motor vehicle accident claims and labour disputes in which people are made to wait for a decade and victims’ children grow old by the time courts fix compensation. “Put yourself in the shoes of those persons who are suffering, and then try to deliver justice. I am lucky that God has given me this position to do justice. You have to thank God for giving you this opportunity to serve the country, to serve the common man.” Justice Shah further said, “If we do not think about the common man, people will start losing faith in the institution (of judiciary). Then what will happen? There will be a failure of rule of law. The country will not progress.” He urged all judges to organize legal camps and reach out to people by holding camps at taluka and village levels. Gujarat high court’s chief justice Vikram Nath, Justice Vineet Kothari, Justice M R Chhaya and Justice J B Pardiwala expressed their views about alternate justice delivery system during the seminar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/deliver-timely-justice-sc-judge/articleshow/81130847.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Asymptomatic patients to be in Covid care centres for violating home isolation||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has ruled out compulsory admission of all asymptomatic positive patients in Covid care centres (CCCs). On the other hand, the Amravati administration is insisting that all such patients move to the government facilities for better monitoring and ensuring they don’t breach home isolation. Despite an uptick in cases, the NMC is taking measure like stamping hand of patients in home isolation, which it assumes will be enough to ensure they don’t violate norms. The Amravati health authorities have found home isolation violation as the major cause of rapid resurgence in Covid cases there. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI that the CCCs would be only for those who don’t have space for home isolation or in case asymptomatic patients in home isolation violate the norms. In case asymptomatic patients with home quarantine stamp are found venturing out, the civic chief said such persons will be shifted to institutional quarantine. Currently, the city has only one CCC for local patients at Pachpaoli police quarters. The one at VNIT hostel is reserved for Sharjah returnees in case they refuse to go for paid quarantine at a hotel. When the cases were declining, the NMC had agreed to give up MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan, Vanamati, Symbiosis and other properties where quarantine centres and CCCs had been operational since March 2020. District collector Ravindra Thakare told TOI that the administration was contemplating declaring containment zones to ensure people follow home isolation. “We are running three CCCs and instructions have been given to start more if needed. We are going to declare containment zones and seal a couple of houses where high cases surface. In case anyone doesn’t have enough space at home, they can opt for CCC,” he said. Vidarbha Hospital Association (VHA) secretary Dr Alok Umre sounded sceptical that people will be ready to go in CCC or get tested at all. “Though I feel CCC must be started, I doubt if people will respond. Besides facing manpower crisis, the administration is also feeling fatigued,” he said. Consulting pulmonologist at Kingsway Hospitals, Dr Vikram Rathi, said it is difficult to start the facilities again, but the administration can certainly track all positive patients and make them aware that they can spread the disease. “Through such awareness, patients must be asked to stay in isolation for two weeks. If needed, administration should keep them in CCC also. But the CCC measure can instill fear that patients will be put in quarantine centre. So, people are not going for tests. Best is to track all patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/asymptomatic-patients-to-be-in-ccc-for-violating-home-isolation/articleshow/81130811.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 21, 2021||Madurai||Woman, 70, dies in gas cylinder explosion||Kanyakumari: A 70-year-old woman was killed when the gas cylinder in her house exploded following an electric short circuit on Friday night. The victim has been identified as Arumugam of Thalavai Street in Nagercoil. Police said that the woman was residing alone in her house after her husband’s death. Her children are married and live elsewhere. On Friday night, she was fast asleep when an electric short circuit triggered the flames and spread all over the house. The gas cylinder also went off. She suffered severe burn injuries and died on the spot. Since her house is in a thickly-populated narrow lane it took time for the fire and rescue services personnel to reach the spot and put off the flames. The Kottar police retrieved her body and sent it to the Kanyakumari Government Medical College Hospital for autopsy. A case of unnatural death was registered and inquiries were underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-70-dies-in-gas-cylinder-explosion/articleshow/81131851.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Lifesciences event BioAsia in virtual avataar this year||Hyderabad: Call it the Covid-19 effect if you will, but the pandemic has put the spotlight firmly on vaccine capital Hyderabad and the biggest beneficiary of this attention seems to have been annual lifesciences and healthcare conclave BioAsia, the 18th edition of which will be held next week. BioAsia, which started in 2004 as a fledgling event, has really come into its own this year as a global gathering of the best minds in the field with big-ticket speakers right from Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella to top honchos from WHO, Gates Foundation, US Food & Drug Administration, UNICEF and CEPI. The event has seen participation by around 250 registered delegates and nearly 40 speakers from 10 countries in the initial years to over 3,000 delegates and 90 high profile speakers from 50 countries in 2020. BioAsia, 2021, being held on the theme ‘Move the Needle’ from February 22 to 23, expects participation from around 30,000 life sciences professionals, one and a half times the number of participants (20,000) it saw in all these 17 years. While admitting that Covid-19 has had a major role to play in catapulting BioAsia onto the global stage as it goes virtual this year, Telangana industries and ITE&C principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan pointed out that another key reason is the emergence of Hyderabad lifesciences cluster Genome Valley as one of the largest, most dynamic and vibrant lifesciences clusters in the world. Hyderabad’s Genome Valley houses vaccine makers like Bharat Biotech, Biological E and Indian Immunologicals Ltd that are developing Covid-19 vaccines, in addition to a host of other biotech and agri biotech players. “It has always had an international character with experts involved in cutting edge work speaking at the event. Also, though the Telangana government is the main organiser and there are also four Union ministries involved, no one sees it as a government event because there are industry associations involved as well. It is this collaborative and participative approach that has ensured BioAsia has grown organically over the years,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lifesciences-event-bioasia-in-virtual-avataar-this-year/articleshow/81131850.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Aurangabad||Cops break down caste-divide in Maharashtra’s Phutana village||AURANGABAD: For the first time in the history of the Phutana village, located in the Kalamnuri tehsil of Hingoli district, about 260 km from here, members of upper and lower caste communities will draw water from the same well following the intervention of the Hingoli police and district administration. The caste-divide in the village, which has an approximate population of 1,500, runs deep. Upper caste residents do not go to the well reserved for the lower caste families, while the lower caste members are not permitted to draw water from the well marked for the upper castes. The village has 60 houses belonging to lower caste families and over 200 houses of upper caste families. There are only two wells for drinking water. The Akhada Balapur police station’s assistant inspector Ravi Hundekar said: “The first incident of clash between the upper and lower castes over water was reported about 15 years ago.” The latest trigger was when some guests (of a lower caste family) from another village had come to Phutana to attend a wedding. Not knowing about the separation of wells, the guests had gone to the upper caste well Gyanaji Sonale, a 68-year-old scheduled caste marginal farmer said: “Like us, our parents and forefathers too had suffered this discrimination. But the young generation is different and is not ready to tolerate such injustices. The incident of the guests being insulted had prompted the younger members of the community to go to the police station to lodge a complaint.” Not taking any chance, Hundekar alerted his seniors. Superintendent of police Rakesh Kalasagar told TOI: “I was stunned to know that lower caste people were not being allowed to draw water from a particular well marked for the upper castes. We are firm on breaking this tradition and ensuring equitable distribution of water from a common well.” He alerted Nanded range DIGP Nisar Tamboli, district collector Ruchesh Jaywanshi, following which a team of deputy superintendent of police Wasim Hashmi and tehsildar Mayur Khengde were sent to the spot to probe the incident and prepare a detailed report. The report revealed that there are two very old wells in the village. Both dry up between March and June. Two pipelines take water from the Kayadu river and fill the two wells during this time. Currently, the well belonging to the lower caste families has gone dry and the pipeline too has suffered damages. Muddy and stinky water has polluted their well. Tamboli said: “We have asked the village GP to construct a water tank that will be filled with water from the upper caste well. Villagers will take water from this tank.” Vijay Kadam, the village deputy sarpanch who belongs to the upper caste, said, “After the police and revenue officials convinced them, people from 'our side' have agreed to share the water.” Newly elected sarpanch Radhabai’s husband Dattarao Kadam said: “As per the agreement, a resolution to share water from the upper caste well will be passed in the GP meeting scheduled in the next few days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cops-dilute-caste-divide-in-hingoli-village-well/articleshow/81129229.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 21, 2021||Delhi||EOW files case against 2 NGOs for irregularities||New Delhi: Days after booking two NGOs run by retired IAS officer Harsh Mander under the Juvenile Justice Act, Delhi Police's Economic Offences Wing registered another case against the two NGOs on Thursday for alleged financial irregularities. The child welfare NGOs — Umeed Aman Ghar and Khushi Rainbow Home, both based in south Delhi — were established by Centre for Equity Studies, which is being run by trustee member Mander, a former Indian Administrative Service officer. A senior police officer said a case had been registered for alleged financial irregularities and these are being looked into. According to the FIR, a complaint was received from National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on February 5, requesting the cops to investigate the two homes for children. The FIR states, “It is informed that during the inspection and inquiry of NCPCR, it has been observed that these homes have been receiving funds from multiple sources, including the state government and private NGOs. Keeping in view the observations made by NCPCR, especially those related to financial irregularities, NCPCR asked these two homes and their parent NGO, the Centre for Equity Studies, to submit documents related to the financial grants received by them.” Speaking to TOI, Priyank Kanoongo, chairperson, NCPCR, said, “In our report, we said that the money received by NGO ARUN was allegedly received from Islamic Relief Worldwide. From that NGO, the money was given to Rainbow Homes in the name of Umeed Aman Ghar CCI, the address of which is stated to be at 24 Adhchini in south Delhi. The same address is also shared by the Centre for Equity Studies.” Earlier this month, Delhi Police had filed a case against the two NGOs under Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act over alleged violations of rules governing such bodies. The case was registered under sections 75 (cruelty to children) and 83(2) (use of children in illegal activities) of the Juvenile Justice Act, while also invoking Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. The case had been registered at Mehrauli police station on a complaint received by the registrar of NCPCR. A police officer said that the case was lodged after an inspection of the two children’s home by teams of NCPCR in October 2020. The matter is currently being probed. TOI tried to reach out to Mander for his version but there was no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eow-files-case-against-2-ngos-for-irregularities/articleshow/81131858.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Civic activities release 7 lakh tonnes of CO2 a yr: WB report||Ahmedabad: Each year, municipal activities in Ahmedabad — right from pumping water to your taps, treating drainage, collecting garbage, operating public transport, running hospitals to lighting up street lamps — release 7 lakh tonnes of carbon dioxide into our atmosphere. Embarking on a decarbonisation pathway is a must for the city, according to a recent World Bank report by Madhu Bharti and Shagun Mehrotra.Since 2009, the AMC has been aiming at cutting down energy consumption. “We are far from achieving our carbon neutral goals of even reducing carbon emissions by 54% by 2025. The commitments were made in 2019,” says a senior AMC official. With the introduction of the BRT in the city between 2009 and 2018, the modal share of public transport has only grown from 12 to 17 percent. Even new CNG or battery-operated buses could not attract car and bike owners to the bus system, which has also led to larger portion of carbon emissions. “Ahmedabad has de-carbonized its urban mobility with an average trip length of about 5km. However, logistic issues of last-mile connectivity and accessibility of bus stands from residential catchment areas are main reasons why public transport is yet to gain traction,” adds the AMC official. The modal share of public transport has nearly doubled in the last decade and is expected to grow further with up-zoning — increasing FSI — along transport routes. Non-motorized transport — walking and cycling — accounts for 46% of the modal share, claims the World Bank report. The AMC official added, “Several construction schedules have overlapped and new areas were included within the AMC limits late last year which has led to shifting of priorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civic-activities-release-7-lakh-tonnes-of-co2-a-yr-wb-report/articleshow/81130885.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Man tries to reschedule flight ticket, duped of Rs 1 lakh||AURANGABAD: A 29-year-old executive with a private company has turned out to be the latest victim of online fraud after he made an attempt to reschedule his flight. Cyber crime police said that Pawankumar Jat, a resident of the Garkheda area in Aurangabad city, searched for customer care number for rescheduling his Aurangabad to Delhi flight and dialled on the number he got through internet search engine. During the conversation, the suspect, claiming to be customer care executive of the airline, asked Jat to download two different mobile-based applications. Within no time of doing it, an amount of Rs 1 lakh was debited from Jat’s bank account. Cyber inspector Geeta Bagwade said that the alleged cheating took place on the afternoon of February 10 while the offence was registered only on Friday evening. Bagwade, while appealing the citizens to abstain from doing a google search for finding out customer care number of different services, said, “The suspect fraudsters using loopholes in the internet search engines, get their numbers flashed on the websites. As soon as a gullible person dials their number, they either make the customer download some suspicious applications or on the pretext of checking their credentials, ask for OTP, bank account and debit or credit card details.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-tries-to-reschedule-flight-ticket-duped-of-rs-1l/articleshow/81129236.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt, Opposition in blame game over rising Covid cases||MUMBAI: A war of words broke out between Maha Vikas Aghadi government and BJP over a surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. Sena mouthpiece Saamana’s editorial slammed BJP, saying the Opposition was “threatening” to protest if sectors were not opened up. And now that people have been behaving carelessly and cases are going up, will the Opposition take responsibility for it, asked the editorial. “Before raising the issue, the Opposition needs to understand the pandemic situation in the state. And now with cases rising will they take responsibility for it?” said the editorial. Cabinet minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said BJP was demanding unlocking everything soon. “Once that was done, people started gathering in thousands. Just yesterday, there were 10,000 people at an event by a BJP leader in Jamner. We have to abide by government rules, or cases are bound to go up,” said Malik. BJP slammed the government and said that it had failed to control the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-oppn-in-blame-game-over-rising-covid-cases/articleshow/81130871.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Aurangabad||Religious leaders join Kham River restoration drive||Aurangabad: Religious leaders from different faiths on Saturday joined hands with the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in its ongoing drive aimed at the restoration of Kham River. Jesse Reverend, Timthi Sharad, R B Gaikwad, Hafiz Abdul Hamid, Dattaprasad Joshi, Mangesh Kulkarni, Ramkrushna Banegaokar, Bhadant Mahathero Harshabodhi, Mandider Sinh Granthi and Raja Sinh Granthi were among the religious leaders who have jointly appealed to citizens living on the banks of river not to throw garbage into Kham River. The drive, which covered portion of river flowing behind the main bus-stand area, saw plantation of different saplings of indigenous varieties on the banks of river in presence of these leaders along with citizens, students and volunteers of different NGOs. Speaking on the occasion, AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey said that the civic administration aims to achieve accomplishment of maximum works planned under the restoration of Kham River before end of May 15. “The river cannot be restored alone with the efforts of the civic administration and citizens of Aurangabad have to take part restoring the old glory of Kham River. Besides avoiding open dumping of waste into the river, citizens should join hands with conservation of saplings planted on the banks of river,” he said. The local civic body has announced weekly public participation from 7 am to 10 am on Saturday to clean different stretches of the river with three drives held so far since February 6, evoking good response from citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/religious-leaders-join-kham-river-restoration-drive/articleshow/81129243.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Bareilly||Bareilly: Fire-fighting arrangements in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve to be completed by March 15||PILIBHIT: Intending to protect the forest and wildlife of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve during the forthcoming summer season, PTR deputy director Naveen Khandelwal has issued directions to all range officers to complete the fire lines making work positively by March 15. The work was initiated following an annual exercise on February 15. Khandelwal has, meanwhile, filed a requisition for 50 fire suits to the state forest administration, especially about the deaths of a forest guard and a forester in the Pauri forest division in Uttarakhand on February 11, who had slipped down from a cliff while dousing the fire in the jungle. Notably, the open boundaries of PTR stretched over 730 square kilometres are highly susceptible to fire as the farmers in adjoining agricultural fields tend burning stubbles during summer despite a ban by the national green tribunal (NGT). As a result, dozens of cases of fire in the forest have, so far, been reported. Khandelwal said he would hold a workshop of forest personnel and field forest staff on March 22 for the revision of their training on fire-fighting strategies, following which a ‘van chetna’ campaign would be launched under which residents of all 275 villages falling under the eco-sensitive zone of PTR would be coordinated for saving the forest from fires by giving up their habits of throwing the burning bidi (smoking stick) or burning fire near the forest area. The villagers would also be encouraged to communicate any information on fire in the forest to officials, he said. Regarding the available fire fighting resources, he said PTR had three fire suits in all five range areas while there was a need for 10 suits in every range. “We have three tankers of 5,000 litres’ capacity with pumping units and five petrol driven leaf blowers as against the needed 10 blowers at least,” he said. The fire lines would be made in the total length of around 3,000 km with a gap of 9 to 12 feet between the two lines to stop the fire from creeping, said Khandelwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fire-fighting-arrangements-in-ptr-to-be-completed-by-march-15/articleshow/81129242.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Can’t divide family pension among two wives of deceased soldier: HC||Chandigarh: In a peculiar case, where the widow of a soldier wanted to share half of her family pension with her husband’s ex-wife, the Punjab and Haryana high court made it clear that it cannot pass such an order on account of lack of any provisions in rules. The HC also observed that even if such a request is accepted, two marriages of the petitioner’s husband are in clear violation of the Hindu Marriage Act. “Counsel for the petitioner is unable to deny that even if marriage of the petitioner’s husband with respondent no 3 (second wife) is to be accepted to have been solemnised (though, there is no proof of the same on record), the same is in clear cut violation of the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act. Counsel for the petitioner is unable to point out any rule, regulation or provision, which envisages release of pension to respondent no 3 (second wife), as is sought,” observed Justice Lisa Gill of the HC. Justice Gill passed these orders while dismissing a petition filed by Dhanpati Devi, a resident of Sonepat district of Haryana. She was married to one Bhai Ram, a sub-inspector with the Border Security Force (BSF). SI Bhai Ram voluntarily retired from service on March 31, 1990 and passed away on December 9, 2019. On February 20, 2020, an application was moved by the petitioner to BSF authorities stating that her cousin was also married to her husband Bhai Ram on July 7, 1977 and she has no objection if half of her pension is released to her cousin. The request was rejected by authorities through an order dated August 10, 2020, while observing that as per service record of the deceased employee, he has nominated his wife Dhanpati and no other woman has been mentioned as his wife. Aggrieved by the decision of BSF authorities, Dhanpati moved a petition before the high court seeking directions to quash the order dated August 10, 2020 and grant half pension to her cousin, who was once married to her husband. Hearing all the parties, the HC observed that not only were the two marriages of the petitioner’s deceased husband against the Hindu Marriage Act, but also that there are no provisions or regulations under which such kind of pension can be ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cant-divide-family-pension-among-two-wives-of-deceased-soldier-hc/articleshow/81130890.cms||Ajay Sura
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Smart cameras to manage traffic in Karnal||By: Amit Kumar KARNAL: With 472 cameras being installed at 35 busy junctions under the smart city project in Karnal city, traffic in the city and will be closely monitored and those jumping red light will be caught. An official said the “smart cameras” have two functions; red light violation detection (RVLD) system and automatic number plate recognition (ANPR). The cameras will be powered by optical character recognition technology to read number plates of violating vehicles and generate e-challan automatically. Besides, adaptive traffic control systems (a sensor) are also being installed on the same location, which will help regulate traffic in different areas. This system will calibrate itself on the basis of coming traffic and adjust signals accordingly. The cameras and other equipment will be linked with the integrated command and control centre (ICCC) being set up at the new office of Karnal Municipal Corporation in Sector 12. An official said the company has already installed it at 15 of 35 locations. It is expected that all cameras will be installed and made functional by the end of March. “Smart cameras have been installed at 15 locations so far. Work on installing the remaining cameras is going on and we aim at completing the project by March 2021. Smart cameras will help manage traffic and enforce traffic rules,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, deputy commissioner-cum-CEO, Karnal smart city project. He added that through red light violation detection and automatic number plate reader (ANPR) cameras, e-challans will be generated in case of traffic rule violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/smart-cameras-to-manage-traffic-enforce-rules/articleshow/81130901.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kochi||Corp budget proposes a slew of projects for city’s devpt||Kochi: Kochi corporation deputy mayor K A Ansiya presented an all-encompassing budget for 2021-22 fiscal. Though the budget doesn’t state the sources of adequate revenue, the deputy mayor lavishly announced projects for all sectors in the city, which puts the total revenue at Rs 912 crore and expenditure at Rs 874.7 crore. The budget shows a surplus of Rs 37.2 crore. There are many oft-repeated projects while many projects by Union government, state government and other agencies like CSML and KMRL also figure in the budget. “The budget is a composite plan for the overall development of the city. I assure this council that there will be houses for all the homeless, treatment facilities or aid for the needy and all sorts of support for the marginalized. We will change this city into a children-friendly, disabled-friendly and women-friendly one. We will review the progress of budgetary proposals once in six months,” mayor M Anilkumar said. Opposition leader Antony Kureethra said most of the projects are oft-repeated. BJP councillors also aired the same view. “Many of the projects haven’t been cleared by the district planning council. So, there requires a revised budget after getting nod from the planning council,” Kureethra said. Speaking to the media after the budget presentation, the mayor said it is quite natural that certain projects get repeated. “The projects which are yet to be implemented will have to be repeated,” he said. The corporation piggy rides on the Union government, state government and other agencies like KMRL and CSML for implementing road renovation, containing waterlogging, providing drinking water, etc. The only prominent source of income stated in the budget is Rs 76 crore which the corporation authorities anticipate from revenue from hoarding and tax or supervisory fee from advertisers. Responding to the query by the media, Anilkumar said CSR funds from PSUs and even private firms, unutilized funds, which were earmarked for government schemes, etc. can be sources of revenue. “We have included proposals in the budget to plug the leak of revenue,” the mayor said. One of the positive gestures in the budget is the time-frame given for implementing or completing some of the key projects. The budget states that the construction of the main office of the corporation, which has been on for more than one-a-half decades, will be completed within a year. The budget sensibly allocates Rs 30 crore for completing the remaining work. Another assurance is that the e-governance project will be completed within six months. The budget earmarks Rs 2 crore for completing the e-governance project, which has been delayed for more than a decade. Though special town planning schemes and projects have been announced for the development of backward areas like Mattancherry, Palluruthy, Edakochi and Vaduthala, no funds or sources of revenue for implementing these projects have been included in the budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-budget-proposes-a-slew-of-projects-for-citys-devpt/articleshow/81129786.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
February 21, 2021||Aurangabad||Speeding car runs over fruit cart, injures 2||Aurangabad: Two youths speeding away in the car ran over a fruit cart, hit an auto-rickshaw and ended up in the shutter of a shop in Gandhi Bhawan of Aurangabad city on Saturday morning. The incident took place in the busy Shahgunj market area, leaving three people, including one of the two people in the car, injured. City chowk police inspector Sambhaji Pawar told TOI, “The car driver was speeding away from the busy market area, when he lost control and ran into the roadside fruit cart and a three-wheeler.” The fruit vendor sustained fractures while the auto rickshaw driver escaped with scratches. Soon after the accident, the suspect car driver fled from the spot, leaving his injured friend inside the car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/speeding-car-runs-over-fruit-cart-injures-2/articleshow/81129240.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||ICU beds in use for Covid decrease||Hyderabad: Going by the number of beds occupied by Covid-19 patients, the severity of the infection among Covid-19 infected projects a stable picture. Among 33 districts (barring Hyderabad), only six districts have patients on ventilator beds. Out of total 1,738 ventilator beds in government hospitals, only 102 beds are occupied. Nizamabad, Nalgonda, Khammam, Sirisilla and Nagarkurnool have few patients on ventilator beds. Among the districts, Mahabubnagar has a high number (10) patients on ventilator bed. According to the data released by the medical and health department, state-run Gandhi hospital also has six patients on ICU beds at present. Out of 102 occupied ventilator beds, most of them are in Hyderabad. Koti Hospital has about 10 patients on ventilator. “Only those with severe lung infection or people with severe comorbidities are reaching to that level, very few of them are on oxygen beds. This indicates a stable trend, but we have to remember the situation in Kerala and Maharashtra, where the cases are surging again,” said Dr Kiran Madala, associate professor, Government General Hospital, Nizamabad. With most cases being asymptomatic, we need to be more careful when they spread the virus to more vulnerable people, he added. Experts say this trend also corresponds with the very few deaths being recorded in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/icu-beds-in-use-for-covid-decrease/articleshow/81131856.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 21, 2021||Madurai||Min unveils sculpture dedicated to kabaddi players||Madurai: Minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju on Saturday unveiled a sculpture dedicated to kabaddi players, constructed by Madurai corporation at the cost of Rs 19 lakh, at Palam Station road roundabout in the presence of Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan. A peacock sculpture installed at Thiruparankundram roundabout at a cost of Rs 10 lakh was also unveiled.Speaking at the event, Sellur Raju said that sports instills leadership qualities in people and make them compassionate towards others. He urged youths to take up sports and benefit from it. He said that the state government was providing infrastructure facilities and cash prizes apart from conducting various sports competition at the state level to encourage youngsters to take up sports.Listing out the infrastructure facilities created by the former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, he said that Nehru Indoor Stadium, stadiums for hockey, tennis and basketball and swimming pools were created by her. The government was providing a cash prize of Rs 2 crore for Olympic gold medallists, Rs 1 crore for silver medallists and Rs 50 lakh for bronze medallists.Sellur Raju said that various measures were being taken to increase the job opportunities in Madurai and southern districts. Lands have been allotted at half the price to encourage entrepreneurs to start industries and additional schemes have been announced for the small scale industries. Madurai’s drinking water issue was also being addressed by executing a project to draw 125 MLD water from Mullaperiyar dam at the cost of Rs 1295 crore, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/min-unveils-sculpture-dedicated-to-kabaddi-players/articleshow/81131854.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||AMC to reopen Covid testing kiosks||Ahmedabad: The Covid kiosks which had been taken down earlier this week will come up again, at least at 15 places in the city. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has decided it will once resume antigen testing from Monday. Bhavin Solanki, medical officer for health, said the AMC will give citizens the opportunity to get themselves tested and will again set up antigen testing kiosks. The AMC had set up these facilities at 100 places in the city earlier. “This time we want to have 15 places and if cases increase further, we will open more testing centres,” said Solanki. “The decision to re-start the centres was taken as the AMC does wanted not to be caught napping. Anyone can walk in and get themselves tested for free,” said Solanki. Officials said Covid cases are rising in Mumbai and Pune and AMC anticipates similar increase here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-to-reopen-covid-testing-kiosks/articleshow/81130907.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Aurangabad||Bird census awaited at Jayakwadi sanctuary||Aurangabad: The forest department is under fire for not announcing bird census at the Jayakwadi sanctuary even as the migratory season is set to end Veteran ornithologist Dilip Bhagat said the census should ideally takes place by the second week of January every year. “The Jayakwadi bird sanctuary is facing official neglect from the forest department. It is ironical that there is no enthusiasm about conducting census, which documents the ecological health of the sanctuary,” he said. When contacted, assistant conservator of forest (wildlife) Rajendra Nale said the bird census would be planned after the middle of next week. “As per local reports, the migratory birds started arriving late this year. Hence, we have decided to do the census accordingly,” he said. Located around 55km from here, Nathsagar, a large reservoir of the Jayakwadi major irrigation project, is a popular destination for migratory birds every winter season. While nearly 10 lakh migratory birds used to arrive in different fringe areas of the reservoir as per past census, data has revealed that the number has come down considerably over the last few years for reasons, including alleged illegal activities at the sanctuary such as fishing and wetland farming. Flamingo (Siberia), Barn swallow (Europe), Eurasian Wigeon (Europe), Bar headed goose (Siberia), Plover (Europe), Little Stint (Europe) are some of the migratory birds that visit the Jayakwadi bird sanctuary. Birds from India such as River Tern, Whisker Tern, Pratincole, Brown Headed Gull, Open Bill Stork, Glossy ibis, Black-headed ibis and Wagtail also visit the sanctuary. The migratory birds also include Garganey ducks, Pintail duck (Europe and western Asia), Common crane (Siberia ), Greenshank, Osprey (Europe) and Comb duck (South Asia, China) has declined in numbers in the recent past, causing worries among nature lovers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bird-census-awaited-at-jayakwadi-sanctuary/articleshow/81129247.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Bareilly||Four of family among 6 killed as car crashes into truck head-on owing to dense fog in Sambhal||BAREILLY: Six people — four of a family, including a seven-year-old boy — were killed and three others severely injured after the car they were travelling in crashed into a truck head-on due to poor visibility owing to dense fog on the Moradabad-Agra national highway under Baniyather police station ambit in Sambhal district on Saturday. Police said the accident took place around 9 am near Rasulpur Kaili road under Baniyather and the impact of the head-on collision was such that the mustard oil-laden truck overturned. All four members of the family died on the spot, while two of their relatives succumbed to their injuries later, said police. Police identified the deceased as Ovais (27), his wife Amina (25), their seven-year-old son Aahil, Ovais’s mother-in-law Choti (60) — all residents of Pakhwada, Moradabad — and their two relatives — 17-year-old Ruhi, who succumbed to her injuries on the way to the hospital, and Shazia died during the treatment. Aman and Leeba— both relatives — got seriously injured. Police said all the eight people on board a Wagon R car were on their way to Moradabad after visiting a relative in Manakpur Narauli village in Baniyather. SP (city) Chakresh Mishra, CO Arun Umar, and officials of the regional transport office visited the spot to take stock of the situation. Baniyather police station, Sambhal, SHO Vikas Saxena said, “After answering a distress call, police teams rushed to the spot and launched a rescue operation. The injured were admitted to a Moradabad hospital after doctors at CHC, Chandausi, referred them to a higher medical facility. The bodies were sent for postmortem.” “Poor visibility owing to dense fog and speeding led to the accident. There were eight people on board the car when the accident took place. The truck driver fled the scene after the accident. A case was registered under 304A (death by negligence) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/4-of-family-among-6-killed-as-car-crashes-into-truck-head-on-owing-to-dense-fog-in-sambhal/articleshow/81129251.cms||Maria Khan
February 21, 2021||Madurai||Southern Tamil Nadu reports 40 cases, central districts 37||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of state on Saturday reported 40 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,37,125, which include 389 active cases, and 2,138 deaths. Meanwhile, the central region reported 37 fresh cases taking the tally to 76,887, which include 358 active cases. While southern TN recorded no deaths, Thanjavur in the central part of the state has a casualty pushing the regional toll to 955. Sivaganga (9) reported the most number of cases in the southern region, followed by Kanyakumari (8). Kanyakumari, Madurai and Dindigul had been reporting the highest number of daily cases in the south TN. All the ten districts in the southern region reported fresh cases in single digits, while Theni and Tuticorin reported only one case each. Covid cases were also reported in Dindigul (6), Madurai (5), Tirunelveli (4), Ramanathapuram (2), Tenkasi (2), and Virudhunagar (3). Madurai (69) has the most number of active Covid-19 cases, followed by Kanyakumari (57) and Dindigul (55). All other southern districts have less than 50 active cases. With no new deaths the south TN districts maintained the toll at 2,138, while the death rate is 1.56%. Thanjavur recorded 14 cases, the highest in the central region, pushing the tally to 17,969. The rest of the central districts registered cases in single digits. Trichy reported nine cases as its tally touched 14,919, the second highest in the region. Covid cases were also reported in Tiruvarur (8), Pudukottai (2), Nagappattinam (2) and Ariyalur (2). Karur and Perambalur reported zero cases. Thanjavur (100) has the highest number of active cases, while Perambalur has six, the lowest in the region. The casualty in Thanjavur was a 72-year-old man who died at the government medical college hospital on February 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-tamil-nadu-reports-40-cases-central-districts-37/articleshow/81131857.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Himachal thrust to solar power in rural areas||Shimla: The Himachal government has launched a comprehensive programme to solve the power problem in far flung areas. While electricity problems in remote areas have been solved through hydel power generation, use of solar power has been encouraged in other parts of the state, which has also reduced electricity bills. After the constitution of Himurja in the state, the department has installed 89 small hydro units of 331.25 MW, which are of up to 5 MW. These small hydro units are contributing significantly in solving power problems faced by people. Officials said small hydro units of about 82.7 MW in Chamba district, 98.65 MW in Kangra district, 25.9 MW in Kinnaur district, 60 MW in Kullu district, 10.50 MW in Mandi district, 39 MW in Shimla district and 12 MW in Sirmaur district have been installed. They said that Himurja has installed 41 advanced gharats (grinder), 878 advanced chulhas and 17 wind solar hybrid systems at various places in the state. Besides, 1,64,803 street lights, 69,935 lanterns, 27,713 domestic lights, off grid solar power plant of 3,152.45 KW, grid connected solar rooftop power plant of 14,425.54 KW and 20,24,000 solar water heating systems have been made available to the public by Himurja. To ensure electricity supply, the state government has set up one kilowatt of grid solar power plants free of cost in 34 houses of Kunnu village and 40 houses of Charang village in Kinnaur district. Also, 250 watt off-grid solar power plants have been set up in the houses of 1,000 BPL families in Pangi sub-division of Chamba district to prevent problems due to breakdown. Pangi area of Chamba district is located at an altitude of 7,000 to 11,000 feet, about 461 km from Shimla. The state government has made a provision of Rs 3.83 crore in the budget to set up off-grid solar power plants in the area for people living below poverty line. Pangi resident Ashwini Kumar said the area is covered with snow for about five-six months, due to which people face electricity problems. With the state government setting up solar power plants through Himurja, electricity problems have been resolved, he said. Killar residents Neek Ram and Subhash Singh said they had electricity for only one or two hours during the winter, due to which school children had to face a lot of difficulty in studying. Such problems will be solved now, they said. Grid connected solar power plants have also been set up in Shimla. These solar power plants have been installed on the roofs of about 66 government offices in the city, which has reduced electricity bills in government offices. Apart from this, grid connected projects of 23.25 MW have been set up on the ground, which has provided employment to youth of Himachal. The National-level integrated rural energy programme was launched in 1981 by the Planning Commission of Government of India to solve the energy problems in rural areas. The programme was started in Himachal Pradesh by the end of the sixth five-year plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/himachal-thrust-to-solar-power-in-rural-areas/articleshow/81130931.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Minister cancels son’s wedding reception||In view of rise in cases in Nagpur, state energy minister Nitin Raut has cancelled the post-wedding reception of his son Kunal and daughter-in-law Akansha. It was scheduled on Sunday, where a large number of dignitaries were expected to arrive. Raut said, “We’ve decided to cancel the event to avoid any further spread. As guardian minister, I want to set an example. I would appeal to citizens to remain careful and use masks and sanitisers while venturing out of homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/minister-cancels-sons-wedding-reception/articleshow/81130945.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: A complete biodiversity register to be prepared||KOCHI: The corporation budget has given prominence for environmental protection. There are many projects for the protection of environment. Preparation of a complete biodiversity register of the city is one of the proposals. Though the corporation has prepared a namesake biodiversity register at the behest of the state biodiversity board, the register is incomplete. There will be measures to identify green public places in the city and evict encroachments, if any. A master plan for the management of public places in the city will be prepared. Projects will be designed for increasing the green cover in the city. New parks and biodiversity parks will be set up with the support of international and national agencies. The vast land in the possession of Rice Research Institute at Ponnurunni East hosts many migratory birds and aquatic birds. The roads like Puthiyedath Road and Karupath Road will be renovated with walkways and shade trees planted on the shoulders of these roads. A portion of the land in the possession of the Rice Research Institute will be taken over from the agency with the permission of the state government for setting up a bird sanctuary. Kerala State Housing Board had plans to set up an exhibition city on the 18 acres adjacent to Mangalavanam, but the construction of the project couldn’t be carried out due to restrictions related to environmental issues. Kochi Biodiversity Park consisting of biodiversity-cum-heritage museum, cafeteria and small signature shops will be set up on the land. An action plan with the help of various competent agencies will be prepared on the measures for addressing the issues arising out of climate change. The action plan will be implemented in a phased manner. A plan will be prepared for the management and protection of trees in the streets. Kochi being the first city included in Cities for Forest project in the country, saplings of indigenous trees will be planted in already identified locations at Vaduthala. The land has been identified through a walkathon. Boom barrier system, a floating net which prevents the entry of waste into the shore, will be set up at Fort Kochi beach. Eco zone project, announced in the budget, envisages developing select divisions or wards in the city into model environmental-friendly zones. Clean and environmentally-friendly public places, special consideration for pedestrians and cyclists, reduction of waste at source, decentralized biocompost plants, measures to reduce air and sound pollution, etc, will be there in the model eco zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-complete-biodiversity-register-to-be-prepared/articleshow/81129799.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Cops rescue hospital owner, nab abductor after employee raises alarm||Hisar: Hisar police have arrested a man who allegedly abducted a doctor of a private hospital and demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh from a hospital employee. Police have recovered Rs 10 lakh from the accused and rescued the doctor too, but the second accused is on the run. Hisar police said the case had been registered at Civil Lines police station on a complaint by Rahul, a resident of Nagli village in Fatehabad district and an employee of Noble Hospital, which is located on Tosham road in Hisar. The FIR includes sections 364-A (kidnapping for ransom, etc), 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death on grievous hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. In the complaint, Rahul alleged that at 10pm on Thursday, hospital owner Sanjay Kumar went home in his car. About 1am, he received a phone call from Sanjay’s mobile and a person said he was Raja Patan. He said Sanjay had been abducted by him and his friend Sathish Naloi, and demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakhs by threatening to kill Sanjay. He said he got scared and did not inform the police. “I got a call on Friday afternoon and the accused called me near Aadhaar hospital with Rs 10 lakh. After this, I came to Civil Lines police station with the money,” he said. On this, police formed two teams and sent Rahul with Rs 10 lakh. The team arrested Satish near Dabra village on Tosham Road. During interrogation, Satish said Raja was his friend for two years and both used to work on liquor contracts earlier, but now were unemployed. He said they had taken the victim to Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-rescue-hospital-owner-nab-abductor-after-employee-raises-alarm/articleshow/81130957.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Petitioners’ pain: Relief denied as court orders go unheard for long||Hyderabad: It has been a year since a single judge of Telangana high court convicted transport department principal secretary Sunil Sharma and sentenced him to a one-month jail term in a contempt case. Justice MS Ramachandra Rao issued the order on February 28, 2020, granting two weeks to the IAS officer to implement the court order by reinstating a sacked district transport officer (DTO) or face a jail term along with costs of Rs 25,000 and a penalty of Rs 2,000. It was the last opportunity for the IAS officer to implement a two-year-old court order asking him to first take back the sacked officer and pursue his remedies if he still wants to sack her. A year later, neither the transport officer has been reinstated nor the IAS officer jailed. The case pertains to G Lakshmi, who was working as a DTO at Jogulamba Gadwal. Following complaints she had secured a job as a junior assistant in transport department in 1987 by furnishing a false caste certificate, the tribal welfare department (on January 10, 2018) concluded her Konda Kapu caste certificate was bogus. The transport department (on January 18, 2018) terminated her from service and ordered her prosecution for cheating. Lakshmi challenged the order before the HC. The court (on February 1, 2018) passed an interim order suspending both departments’ orders. But, Lakshmi was not reinstated and filed a contempt case. A division bench refused to give any relief to the state. When its order was not followed, Justice Rao convicted the IAS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/petitioners-pain-relief-denied-as-court-orders-go-unheard-for-long/articleshow/81130985.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kochi||Culture and health get their dues||Kochi: Kochi corporation authorities have announced a lot of commitments for the development of cultural space in the city. G memorial, construction of cultural centres to commemorate prominent figures in the sphere of art and culture, lecture series on life and vision of Sree Narayana Guru, etc. are some among them. The budget has earmarked Rs 1 crore for constructing a memorial for poet G Sankara Kurup, the first recipient of Jnanpith award. Another announcement is that cultural complexes to commemorate poet and reformist Pandit Karuppan, Bharath award winner and theatre personality P J Antony and music composer M K Arjunan will be constructed. Kochi will be made a permanent venue of international film festival. The city will host drama fest, dance-music festival and lit fest every year. Mattancherry town hall will be converted into a cultural centre, the deputy mayor announced in the budget. There are notable announcements for the health sector as well. The budget has allocated Rs 10 crore for various projects in the health sector. More Covid first-line treatment centres (CFLTCs) will be started in the city. Three ambulances will be purchased for carrying out Covid-related activities. Besides the project to introduce health cards to every denizen, the budget announces proposals for preventing contagious diseases. An action plan for preventing lifestyle diseases will be prepared with the support of IMA, various hospitals in the city, NGOs, residents’ associations, Kudumbashree and other volunteers. A task force will be constituted under the leadership of corporation health standing committee chairman. Doctor at Home, a project to provide consultation of doctors at home in emergency cases, will be implemented. More palliative care centres will be started and the activities of existing ones will be improved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/culture-and-health-get-their-dues/articleshow/81129822.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||Caretaker held for ‘selling’ Juhu bungalow for Rs 24 crore with 2 aides||MUMBAI: A gang of three, including the trusted caretaker of a non-resident Indian (NRI) family’s bungalow in Juhu, allegedly forged the documents of the property worth around Rs 100 crore and sold it for Rs 24 crore to a builder. The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) has arrested the caretaker, Rajesh Thakur (52), and is on the lookout for two of his alleged associates—Suresh Grover and Samarth Singh. The complainant in the case is builder Jignesh Shah of Stature Lifestyle Home. Shah said in 2012, Grover had approached him stating his friend, Singh, had the property rights vide a deed of assignment of the NRIs’ bungalow measuring 588 square metre or 6,329 square feet. The Patel family is based in the US and rarely visits India. Grover, showing the deed of assignment dated 1992, told Shah the family had decided to sell the property for Rs 24 crore. After going through all the papers, Shah was convinced of their authenticity and decided to go ahead with the deal. Payment was to be made in three instalments of Rs 8 crore each. “As per the deal, at the time of payment of the first instalment of Rs 8 crore, Singh was to hand over the deed of assignment. After the second instalment, the “power of attorney holder”, Rajesh Thakur, was to execute the sale agreement and settle any dispute on the land. The third and final instalment was to be paid when the sale deed was to be registered and handed over,” said a police officer. Police said Shah paid the first two instalments in 2013 and 2014, following which Grover gave him the deed of assignment between Stature Lifestyle Home and Singh. In 2014, Shah was shocked to learn there was some litigation pending in the city civil court on the bungalow. When Shah asked Grover about it, he promised to clear all the litigation and hand over the possession, and also allegedly took the third payment instalment. Grover is said to have extracted a few more crores, allegedly unaccounted, from Shah to “settle the fictitious court dispute”, said an officer. Stature Lifestyle then allegedly erected a signboard on the property, claiming to be its owner. When the Patel family learnt of this, they tried to lodge a complaint with Juhu police. Juhu police were rapped by Bombay high court for failing to take down their complaint in 2014. Later, Juhu police filed a chargesheet against the trio. Shah learnt the three accused had allegedly connived with one another and duped him of Rs 24 crore much later, and he lodged a complaint with Juhu police in January 2021. The case was transferred to EOW for a detailed investigation. During the course of the investigation, the police reportedly learnt Rs 24 crore was divided among the three.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/caretaker-held-for-selling-juhu-bungalow-for-rs-24cr-with-2-aides/articleshow/81129825.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 21, 2021||Madurai||Physical education worst hit this academic year||Madurai: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, at least online classes were conducted for teaching the subjects and now schools have also reopened for Class IX to XII. However, physical education has taken a big hit as the academic year comes to an end without any outdoor sports activity or tournaments. "There has just been no sports activity or NSS/NCC activity for school students. With this gap of one year, the speed and endurance of students across sports would have come down without proper practice. There used to be a "sportsman spirit" among students as they competed in zonal, district and state-level sports competitions. However, this year is a huge setback and we have to train students from scratch for them to perform in tournaments again," said M Godwin, a physical education teacher at a government higher secondary school. As of now, some students are practising team sports like football, volleyball, etc., on their own. However, in case of individual sports like swimming or boxing, students have still not been able to resume practice. "We are playing among friends but it is not like proper practice. We have been unable to take part in tournaments as well. Now, I’m not sure how far my parents will support further as I’ll be in Class X next," said A Rajesh, a Class IX student who plays football. Though some private schools introduced yoga, physical exercise and aerobics sessions through online classes, their focus was more on improving physical and mental wellbeing. "We scout and encourage students who can do well in sports through PE classes and participation in sports day events, which were missed. With a lot of pressure to do well in academics and struggle with online classes already, students may feel discouraged to take part in sports activity even when they return," said the principal of a private matriculation school. Even with schools reopening for Class IX to XII, there is no physical education period allotted yet and most PE teachers have been roped in to perform duties like temperature screening for students and ensuring students follow Covid-19 safety measures. "Usually the school education department holds a range of sports events throughout the year. Unfortunately, they could not be carried out this past academic year. We are waiting for directions to resume Physical Education classes," said Sengathir, district inspector of physical education (DIPE), Madurai. Meanwhile, some private coaches and associations are slowly trying to get students back to practice and also hold small competitions to encourage participation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/physical-education-worst-hit-this-academic-year/articleshow/81131885.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
February 21, 2021||Delhi||Covid delay denies DU students scholarships||NEW DELHI: The Indian vice-president’s secretariat and the National Commission for Backward Classes have written to Delhi University and the University Grants Commission about complaints by students at not being able to submit applications on the National Scholarship Portal (NSP). On NSP, students can apply for the various scholarships available to students belonging to SC/ST categories or for those who are single girl child, members of minorities, university first rank holders or residents of north-east India. But many students claim that the pandemic-forced closures of colleges and universities led to their being unaware of application schedules. “The last date to fill the application form was January 20. The admission process was under way in DU at the time, and the students weren’t fully aware of scholarships schemes because the campus was closed,” claimed students in a letter addressed to UGC, with copies sent to the vice-presidents’ office and the National Commission for Backward Classes. The students added that they should be given a chance to fill the form because if they don’t apply in their first year of college, they cannot submit an application after that. The letter from the VP’s office to acting vice-chancellor P C Joshi, said, “I am enclosing a series of emails received on February 16 from students of law faculty, Delhi University, first semester, requesting to extend NSP scholarship portal date for your kind attention.” NCBC wrote to the UGC secretary on February 18, saying, “Dr Bhagwan Lal Sahni, honourable chairman of NCBC, a body set up under Article 338B of the Indian Constitution, has directed you to conduct an enquiry and submit the compliance report within three days of the receipt of the letter.” UGC officials could not be reached for their comment on the matter. Dinesh Meena, law student, said, “The professional scholarships (Rs4,500-7,800 every month) encourages SC/ST students in courses like law. Similarly, scholarships are also provided to students who are financially weak and are unable to study in Delhi otherwise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-delay-denies-du-students-scholarships/articleshow/81131896.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Asset auction for ignoring HC order||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court has warned a man who has been ignoring the orders of the court to pay alimony to his former wife and children for the last 15 years that it would soon get the value of his agricultural properties and residential building assessed and have them auctioned to compensate the hapless family suffering in penury ever since he left them. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice A Abhishek Reddy, while hearing the plea of the aggrieved woman, gave a stern warning to her ex-husband who was working in a tahsildar office in Mahbubnagar district. Upon a direction from the court, the man informed the court he was working as an attender in a tahsildar office and disclosed his agricultural properties and particulars of his salary, etc., in Mahbubnagar. A family court in 2006 granted the couple divorce on the condition that he would pay maintenance and permanent alimony to the wife and children. He married again, but did not pay a single paise to the first wife and children in the last 15 years. The bench earlier spoke to the woman who told the court as to how her former husband had gone back on the promise of paying Rs 40 lakh alimony and two acres of ancestral property to the two children who were just one and two years at the time of separation. The man did not turn up and claimed that he was suffering from severe health problems like brain stroke, etc. Upon several warnings, he agreed to pay Rs 10 lakh and a portion of his ancestral property. Even that promise was not honoured. The bench enquired from his counsel as to why he did not pay the amount. The counsel replied that his client had approached the Supreme Court, which threw out his petition at the admission stage itself but gave him six weeks to implement the order of the court. The HC bench resumed hearing after six weeks. The man’s counsel again spoke about his ill-health and inability to pay his former wife. The bench sought to know as to how his illness has not come in the way of his going to the Supreme Court and directed him to pay Rs 5 lakh within next one week to keep the ex-wife and children alive. “Also, ask him to be prepared for the auction of the assets,” the bench said and sought a valuation report from the tahsildar on the properties. Case posted to March 5. The bench sought to know as to how his illness has not come in the way of his going to the SC and directed him to pay Rs 5 lakh in next one week to keep the ex-wife and children alive||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asset-auction-for-ignoring-hc-order/articleshow/81131018.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||Leaders demand stay on PMC proposal to widen 335 roads||PUNE: The state urban development department is probing the municipal corporation’s controversial nine-metre road-widening proposal based on complaints filed by three Pune leaders with the ministry and the chief minister’s office, questioning the use of Section 210 of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act to initiate the move. The issue has taken another twist with these leaders arguing that a greater Floor Space Index (FSI) was currently available for the redevelopment of old societies along the six-metre streets, much more than pre-2016, when the utilisation of Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) was allowed on these narrow streets. This was due to the provisions of “ancillary FSI of 60%” and the proposed “additional FSI of 30%” (for redevelopment of old societies) under the new Unified Development Control and Promotional Regulation (UDCPR), they said. Shiv Sena’s joint coordinator for Pune Prashant Badhe and two former leaders of Opposition in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) — Ujjwal Keskar and Suhas Kulkarni — had on February 17 written a letter to the urban development ministry arguing that the PMC’s move to widen 2,000 six-metre roads (335 in the first phase) using the Section 210 of Maharashtra Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act was illegal. A similar letter was issued to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray by Badhe and the same was forwarded by the CMO (chief minister’s office) to the urban development department on February 17. State urban development secretary Bhushan Gagrani confirmed that he had received the complaint. He said he had a discussion with the leaders on the issues raised by them. In their complaint, the leaders argued that the PMC should have carried out the widening under Section 37 of the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act (MRTP) as the change proposed was a “major modification” in the Development Plan of Pune. “If the same proposal was initiated under the MRTP Act, then it would have led to a greater discussion. It would have needed the PMC general body’s sanction as well as the state government’s nod,” Badhe said, adding that he had urged the urban development department to stay the PMC’s proposal. The leaders agreed that the ban on the utilisation of Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) for six-metre roads, which came into effect in 2016, had affected the redevelopment of old housing societies till the last year, but now the situation had changed after the UDCPR came into force. “Prior to 2016, the total FSI, including the TDR, made available for redevelopment was 1.6. Now, under the UDCPR, the FSI for redevelopment of old societies works out to 1.76,” Keskar said, adding that it could further increase to 2.06 as the urban development department on December 2, 2020, had proposed allowing additional 30% construction for redevelopment of old societies. When pointed out that besides the TDR, before 2016, the old housing society also got FSI-free balconies, terraces and staircases, a senior state officer said, “The maximum FSI in such free cases works out to 0.4. But what we are offering currently is still more than what the old societies on six-metre-wide roads use to get with the TDR utilisation.” The state officials clarified that this did not mean that the state was against the widening of six-metre streets to nine metres, as proposed by it in the UDCPR for all municipal corporations across Maharashtra. “The six-metre roads must be widened to nine metres. We are firm about that. But, widen the thoroughfares listed in the DP, not internal layout roads in colonies. Also, cul-de-sacs can get exclusion, propose the same. A widening process via MRTP was hence a better choice,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/leaders-demand-stay-on-pmc-proposal-to-widen-335-roads/articleshow/81131008.cms||Abhijit Atre
February 21, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: Cusat to focus on integrative studies||KOCHI: The Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) will focus on promoting interdisciplinary studies on a large scale with convergence of various schools under the Centre for Interdisciplinary studies and Innovation (CISI). R Sasidharan, convenor, standing committee for finance & purchase, announced the university’s Rs 312 crore budget on Friday. The proposed expenditure is Rs 372 crore. Announcing nine new courses, two centres and a school of forensic sciences, Sasidharan said the proposals were part of a plan to figure among top-ranked universities in the world. Cusat will be spending an additional amount of Rs 2 crore in scholarships and fellowships to promote research and innovation. In addition to MSc in Forensic Science, the university will offer courses in Computer Science with specialization in Data Science (MSc), Economics and Finance (MSc), Data Science and Data Analytics (MTech), Biological Sciences (integrated MSc), Computer Science with specialization in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (integrated MSc), MBA in Entrepreneurship and Innovation, Mechanical Additive Manufacturing (MTech) and PG diploma in Green Literature. The courses will start in this academic year itself.  The new centre for green literature studies plans to focus on the writings on ecology or literature and environment from an interdisciplinary angle. The varsity is celebrating its golden jubilee year in 2021-22. As part of the celebrations, it will institute “green practice awards”. The university is also planning to introduce students’ medical insurance schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cusat-to-focus-on-integrative-studies/articleshow/81129824.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||Residents start counting trees along shortlisted lanes||PUNE: Several residents opposed to the civic body’s road-widening proposal have started counting the trees along the shortlisted lanes. Referring to the recent observation made by the Supreme Court (SC) green bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde that it would ban felling of matured trees for development works, including road-widening, Giresh Deshpande, the managing committee member of the Anand Park Residents’ Association, said, “These observations are a super good news for us. Since the PMC (Pune Municipal Corporation) notice did not mention what will happen to our trees, we decided to count them on the roads and within five feet of compound walls. There are 185 trees and half are 50 feet in height.” As many as 210 property owners in Anand Park have officially objected to the PMC’s plan. Anantbhushan Ranade, an oncologist and a resident of Prabhat Road Lane No. 2, said, “Our lanes have many old trees. We shall make a list.” Medical practitioner Raghunandan Jogaikar said, “The trees along lane number 12, Bhandarkar Road, are full-grown.” NGOs Pedestrian First and Nagrik Chetna Manch have sought to know if the PMC had conducted the tree census for the 2,000 streets it planned to widen. In their complaint to the urban development department, former Opposition leaders Ujjwal Keskar and Suhas Kulkarni, and Sena’s Prashant Badhe said, “While approving cluster development in Thane, an environment impact assessment was done. The 2,000 streets proposed for widening measure 800km in length. Hence, a similar study is needed. We have written to the PMC today (Saturday) pressing for it in view of the SC observations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-start-counting-trees-along-shortlisted-lanes/articleshow/81131015.cms||Abhijit Atre
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Agreement for making ATRV||Hyderabad: The Military College of Electronics & Mechanical Engineering, Secunderabad and Ordnance Factory Medak have signed an academic and technical linkage agreement for designing an indigenous Armoured Tracked Repair Vehicle. Under the agreement, both MCEME and Ordnance Design Centre, Ordnance Factory, Medak, will work together on projects on Armoured Tracked Vehicles, conduct training of personnel, and manufacture system including components as part of indigenisation as well as to find alternate solutions in field of engineering and technology of AFVs. The agreement was signed on February 19. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/agreement-for-making-atrv/articleshow/81131014.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Bareilly||SP workers protest against ‘increasing crimes against women’ in UP, block highway||PILIBHIT: Samajwadi Party leaders and workers protested at the district headquarters on Saturday against the “increasing crime against women” in UP and other issues. Despite heavy deployment of police force, the protesters staged a dharna on Bhind-Lipulekh highway that lasted for an hour until Pilibhit Sadar circle SDM Avinash Chandra Maurya visited the spot and the protesters handed over him a memorandum of their demands to be submitted to the governor. SP district president Jagdev Singh and former minister Hemraj Verma slammed the BJP-led state government for its “complete failure in controlling the growing crimes, especially crimes against the women”. They said that they were shocked over the recent killings of two minor sisters in Unnao. They alleged that the criminals in the BJP regime had a close nexus with leaders of the ruling party who were shielding them for their vested political interests. Verma targeted chief minister Yogi Adityanath for “failing to make timely payments to the cane farmers”. “Four sugar mills in Pilibhit district owe cane farmers a huge sum of Rs 354 crore as on the closing of February 19,” he alleged. Other issues raised during the protest included hikes in the prices of petroleum products and food material, poor government education system and overall growth, and an increasing rate of unemployment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-workers-protest-against-increasing-crimes-against-women-in-up-block-highway/articleshow/81129263.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 21, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Vashi GRP book 150 for blocking two trains at Nerul||NAVI MUMBAI: The city police have resumed registration of FIRs against the shops, commercial establishments and citizens for violating Covid guidelines. As many as such 17 FIRs have been filed in three days across the city from Wednesday for shunning masks, not providing sanitizers and not maintaining social distancing among customers. While 12 FIRs have been registered by Kalamboli police, the Nerul police have registered four cases against hoteliers and shop owners. The Kharghar police, too, have registered an FIR against two office bearers of a charitable trust and 28 citizens for not adhering to Covid norms during a religious event. The accused have been booked under relevant IPC sections along with Epidemic Diseases Act. “Those booked for violating Covid SOPs (standard operating procedure) have been served notices,” said Sanjay Patil, senior inspector of Kalamboli police. The violators will be produced before the court after the chargesheet is filed against them. The court can issue fine which may range from Rs 300 to Rs 1,000. Failure to pay will invite jail time of around 10 to 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/vashi-grp-book-150-for-blocking-two-trains-at-nerul/articleshow/81131024.cms||George Mendonca
February 21, 2021||Pune||Man found murdered in Moshi||Pune: The MIDC Bhosari police on Friday afternoon found a partially-burnt body of an unidentified man at Moshi. Police said that the deceased, aged around 35, was assaulted to death first and then the assailant(s) set the body ablaze to destroy evidence. The body was found in an open plot in sector 10 of Moshi. Police are yet to establish the identity of the deceased. A case of murder has been registered against unidentified persons. Police are studying the CCTV footages of private establishments in the area to identify those involved in the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-found-murdered-in-moshi/articleshow/81131043.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||Fire on company premises||Pune: A fire broke out in a plastic component manufacturing company at Sanaswadi on Saturday afternoon and thick smoke engulfed the area though no one was injured in the incident. Chief fire officer of Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) Devendra Potphode said, “The employees of the company were present when the fire broke out and initially they undertook the firefighting. When the intensity of the fire increased, the company officials called the fire brigade.” He said, “The company manufactures overhead plastic tanks and auto components, among other items. Thus, plastic and thinners were stored in the firm. They added fuel to the fire.” Eight fire tenders took three hours to douse the flames.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fire-on-company-premises/articleshow/81131033.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kochi||Moolamkuzhi FHC gets national recognition||Kochi: Moolamkuzhi urban family health centre (FHC) has been accredited by the National Quality Assurance Standards (NQAS). This would mean more grants for the FHC, which was upgraded from a PHC in November. According to officials, NQAS is considered based on eight categories, including patient services, drug availability and distribution, clinical services, and communicable disease prevention activities. Institutions which get more than 70% marks in each of these categories will be considered for the recognition. NQAS evaluation by the central team was held in January. Thrikkakara FHC was the first to get NQAS in the district last year. The renovation work was done at a cost of around Rs 6 lakh and more facilities have been added. The lab, pharmacy and waiting centre have been made patient-friendly. Palliative care and dental OP are also available here. The services of a paediatrician are also available two days a week. There are 15 urban health centers in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/moolamkuzhi-fhc-gets-national-recognition/articleshow/81129830.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Madurai||Madurai police stop yatra to collect funds for Ram temple||Madurai: The Madurai city police stopped a yatra taken out by various outfits to collect donations for the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya on Saturday, citing that no proper permission was obtained.The yatra was flagged off by Syed Ibrahim, president of the Tamil Nadu Egathuva Prachara Jamaat at Navalar Nagar in SS Colony on Saturday afternoon. It covered various places like Kochadai, Nataraj Nagar, Aruldosspuram, Bethaniyapuram and Kalavasal. At Melaponnagaram, a police team stopped the yatra, resulting in a large number of cadres staging a road blockade.Members of Hindu outfits said that police had rejected permission for the yatra, and hence, they moved the high court and obtained an order to carry it out. But the city police stopped it.Police officials said that the court had permitted the yatra to the outfits only after obtaining permission from the city police commissioner, but it was not given yet.A police team led by deputy commissioner of police R Shiva Prasad held talks with the protestors. As they refused to leave, police made a preventive arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-police-stop-yatra-to-collect-funds-for-ram-temple/articleshow/81131891.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Urban mandate: Six cities of Gujarat vote today||AHMEDABAD: Over 1.14 crore voters will be eligible to exercise their franchise, as six cities of Gujarat will vote on Sunday to elect representatives to govern municipal corporations for the next five years. The BJP has been in power in all the six municipal corporations — Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Jamnagar, and Bhavnagar —for which the elections are being held. As many as 2,555 polling booths have been declared sensitive and 1,188 booths have been declared very sensitive in the civic body elections, which are being held in the Covid-19 pandemic. “Normally, the voting percentage in municipal corporation elections is lower compared to Lok Sabha, assembly, and rural local body elections,” said M V Joshi, secretary, SEC. “We have taken several steps to encourage voting in cities and all precautions have been put in place to check the risk of Covid-19. Even Covid-19 positive people will be able to cast their votes.” Barring Rajkot (50.4%) and Jamnagar (56.7%), all other municipal corporations registered a voting percentage of less than 50 in the 2015 municipal corporation elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/urban-mandate-six-cities-of-gujarat-vote-today/articleshow/81131901.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Nine duped of over Rs 13 lakh on pretext of contractual jobs||PILIBHIT: Five people were booked in two FIRs on Friday for allegedly duping nine unemployed youths in Pilibhit on the pretext of getting them contractual government jobs in agriculture and health departments. According to the victims, the accused had cheated many more youths. An FIR was lodged at Pilibhit kotwali, following the written complaints by one of the eight victims duped of Rs 12.3 lakh allegedly by one Hari Babu of Awas Vikas Colony in Pilibhit city. The victim, Mohan Lal of Gangapuri village under Barkhera police station, alleged that Hari had charged Rs 1.5 lakh in two instalments on the pretext of getting him a contractual job with the district agriculture department. Hari gave him the joining letter and an identity card, but as he reached the office to join the duty both documents turned out to be fake and the job a mere deception, alleged Mohan. In another FIR lodged at the same police station, victim Vipin Kumar of Gauhania village under Sungarhi police station stated that he was duped of Rs 2 lakh by four people, including one Pankaj Sinha, posted as a clerk at the district malaria department. Vipin alleged that the accused had promised him of a contractual job of a health coordinator with the health department and provided him with the joining letter and other documents, but as he went to join the duty, the documents turned out to be fake. One of the accused had given him a cheque for Rs 50,000 as return money, but the cheque was dishonoured by the bank due to the non-availability of balance in the account, said Vipin. Pilibhit kotwali SHO Atar Singh said both FIRs were lodged under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nine-duped-of-over-rs-13-lakh-on-pretext-of-contractual-jobs/articleshow/81129268.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 21, 2021||Pune||Micro-financial mgmt helps KCB overcome funds crunch||Pune: The Khadki Cantonment Board’s micro-financial management helped it pay the salaries of its employees and bills of the contractors on time, while the other Cantonments in the state, including Pune and Dehu Road, were unable to pay their staffers. Pramod Kumar Singh, the Khadki Cantonment Board’s CEO, said, “Our account section and other departments worked in tandem and managed to recover arrears worth crores of rupees from other government organizations. Besides, we worked on each financial aspect and saved the board’s funds.” The board now has Rs25 crore as fixed deposit in the bank. “With constant flow of revenue from the vehicle entry tax and other sources, we are confident of meeting our monthly expenses for a year at least,” Singh said. The KCB has not received any funds from the ministry of defence (MoD) for the last two financial years, unlike other Cantonments. Brigadier MJ Kumar, KCB’s president, said, “All sections of the board worked hard. Like all other Cantonments, the KCB too has not got its share of GST.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/micro-financial-mgmt-helps-kcb-overcome-funds-crunch/articleshow/81131060.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 21, 2021||Pune||Three teams to arrest Marne||Pune: The Pune police has formed three teams for arresting gangster Gajanan, alias Gaja Marne, and nine others in a case related to disobedience and unlawful assembly, registered with the Warje Malwadi police. He and his supporters had travelled in a huge cavalcade following his release from the Taloja jail on February 15, for which, he was again arrested on the same day. Marne and others are absconding after they were released on bail on February 16, in connection to a case registered with the Kothrud police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-teams-to-arrest-marne/articleshow/81131069.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Pune||Founder of Balaji Instts passes away||Pune: A Balasubramanian, an educationist and the first Indian to be decorated as an Honorary Colonel of the Indian Army due to his pioneering work in management education, passed away on February 20. The son of a poor farmer hailed from Tamil Nadu. He was the first Indian educationist to launch a Business School for officers of the Indian Defense Forces and their children. He served the Army for over 28 years and was a war veteran, having participated in the 1965 and 1971 Indo-Pak Wars. Col Balasubramanian was the rector of Symbiosis International Hostel. He had proposed to S B Mujumdar, founder of Symbiosis, to start a separate MBA College for Armed Forces personnel. He later started the Balaji Institute of Modern Management, which operated from a rented space in Yerawada for four years before a new campus was built in the year 2000. In 2019, Sri Balaji Society received the status of a private self-financed university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/founder-of-balaji-instts-passes-away/articleshow/81131067.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||CM Vijay Rupani to fly to Rajkot to cast his vote||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani, who is undergoing treatment at U N Mehta Hospital in the city after testing positive for Covid-19, will fly to Rajkot from the hospital on Sunday, under medical supervision, to cast his vote in the municipal corporation election. Rupani is registered as a voter in Rajkot. CM Rupani said from the hospital on Saturday, “As per doctor’s advice, I am now fit to travel and cast my vote. So I have decided to vote in the municipal corporation election at Rajkot, where I am a registered voter. I will follow all Covid-19 prevention guidelines while voting. I will fly to Rajkot under medical supervision.” Rupani had fainted on stage last Sunday while addressing an election campaign rally in Vadodara. He was shifted to the U N Mehta hospital, where his Covid-19 test was positive. He has recovered fully and has no symptoms, but will have to follow protocols until his mandatory quarantine period ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-rupani-to-fly-to-rajkot-to-cast-his-vote/articleshow/81131899.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: 76 arrests by Rachakonda trafficking unit||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda police said that since they started Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU), 29 criminal cases have been registered and 76 persons have been arrested. Police said in these cases 109 victims, which includes 32 sex workers, were rescued. Among the sex workers, except one victim, others are majors.  Police also said that in the last two months SHE Teams apprehended 42 eve teasers. This unit of Rachakonda also stopped five child marriages. In one case, an advocate was held for allegedly harassing a woman constable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/76-arrests-by-rachakonda-trafficking-unit/articleshow/81131065.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Colleges asked to fill 33 PG homeopathy seats||Ahmedabad: The Admission Committee for Professional Postgraduate Medical Educational Courses (ACPPGMEC) has decided to entrust the task of filling 33 vacant seats for PG homeopathy courses to their respective colleges. The panel on Saturday said that in the latest offline round of admissions, 112 seats have been filled. As many as 33 seats in homeopathy courses were offered to the candidates after they were shortlisted in the admission merit list, however they did not come forward to confirm their admission. As a result, the task of filling these seats has been given to their respective colleges, it said. The admissions will have to be carried out based on the All India AYUSH Post Graduate Entrance Test (AIAPGET) 2020 results. The AIAPGET is a single entrance examination for admission to postgraduate AYUSH courses for the academic session 2020-21. It includes All India (Open/other States) and state quota seats for admission to MD/MS/PG diploma courses in Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha & Homoeopathy systems of medicine for all AYUSH colleges, institutions & universities/deemed universities across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/colleges-asked-to-fill-33-pg-homeopathy-seats/articleshow/81131898.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Widow kills her mom-in-law with rod over domestic row||NAVI MUMBAI: A 32-year-old widow from Bekare village in Neral was booked for murder of her 66-year-old mother-in-law. She assaulted her with an iron rod during a domestic quarrel early on Friday. Tarabai Karale’s husband sells cutlery items, apart from farming. Inspector Tanaji Naranvar of Neral police station said Yogita’s husband passed away around two years back. She has been admitted to Karjat sub-district hospital as she gulped a liquid toilet cleaner soon after the incident. The father-in-law and two children of the accused were witnesses. Naranve said, “During a spat, Yogita picked up an iron rod lying in the house and hit it on Tarabai’s head, before landing a blow near her right ear, which caused grievous injuries. Tarabai was rushed to hospital, where she was declared dead on arrival.” When police reached Karales’ residence, Yogita locked herself in the neighbour’s toilet. Police broke open the door but found her frothing from her mouth. “After her discharge from hospital, we will arrest her. She has been booked under Section 302 of IPC for murder,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/widow-kills-her-mom-in-law-with-rod-over-domestic-row/articleshow/81131138.cms||George Mendonca
February 21, 2021||Pune||AFMC gets new deputy commandant||Pune: Air Vice Marshal Rajesh Vaidya took charge as the dean and deputy commandant of the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC), Pune, on Saturday. He is an alumnus of AFMC from the 1981 batch. He was commissioned in the Indian Air Force (IAF) in 1985. He has been part of the AFMC faculty earlier and has held key public health appointments including director (health) and director (medical research) of the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS). He has authored several research papers and written multiple chapters in professional books. Prior to his present appointment, he was commanding the Air Force Central Medical Establishment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/afmc-gets-new-deputy-commandant/articleshow/81131091.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt to drop cases against 26,650 for 2017 jallikattu stir||CHENNAI: The state government on Saturday issued an order withdrawing 308 cases registered against 26,650 people across the state during the 2017 jallikattu protests. This follows an announcement made by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on the floor of the assembly recently. Director general of police J K Tripathy had sent the list of 308 cases to the government on February 8. The public prosecutor also laid down the procedures to the government on dropping/ withdrawing proceedings/ prosecution on February 13. “The state government, after careful examination, hereby orders for the withdrawal of cases registered during 2017 jallikattu protest by following the procedures as opined by the public prosecutor,” a government order said. As per the public prosecutor’s opinion, further action will be dropped by the police concerned in cases where investigation is still pending. The assistant public prosecutor of the respective cases will be directed to move an application under Section 321 of the CrPC for withdrawal of prosecution in the cases where the trial is pending. Further permission from the Centre will be obtained for pending cases involving the Indian Railways Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-govt-to-drop-cases-against-26650-for-2017-jallikattu-stir/articleshow/81131107.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 8 Covid deaths, 358 new positive cases||CHANDIGARH: Punjab registered eight Covid-19 deaths and 358 new Covid positive cases on Saturday. This has taken the total number of deaths from the pandemic in the state to 5,748 till date and the total number of positive cases to 1,78,111. Total 264 Covid-19 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Saturday, and as many as 19,998 samples were collected on the day. Nawanshahr district registered the highest number of 65 Covid-19 positive cases, followed by Ludhiana (62), Jalandhar (38), Amritsar (34) and Mohali (30). There were a total 2,883 Covid-19 active cases on Saturday. Total 1,908 frontline workers and 592 healthcare workers were vaccinated with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday. Besides this, total 4,532 healthcare workers were also vaccinated with the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday. Till date, a total number of 1,22,298 frontline as well as healthcare workers have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in Punjab. As many as 13,857 healthcare workers have also got the second dose of the vaccine till Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-records-8-covid-deaths-358-new-positive-cases/articleshow/81131085.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers agree to give land for expansion of Karnal airstrip||Karnal: The high-powered land purchase committee of the Haryana government has agreed to the expansion and renovation of Karnal airport following the consent of farmers to provide their land for the purpose. Expansion of the Karnal airstrip, an ambitious project of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, has been hanging fire for the last nine years. In 2012, the then Congress government submitted a proposal for 18 acres of land. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the government has given its nod to expansion of the existing airstrip of Karnal airport from 3,000ft to 5,000ft, which would enable most small/medium aircraft to land at the airport. The DC said that the total proposed land for the project is 172 acres 3 kanals and 16 marlas. Of this, 106 acres, 6 kanals and 14 marlas of land belongs to the government of Haryana. The DC said 24 landowners/shareholders of Kulwehri village held a video conference with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday. After this, they agreed to voluntarily provide their land (38 acres, 5 marlas) by uploading their consent on the e-Bhoomi portal of government of Haryana, in accordance with the policy for the purchase of land voluntarily offered to government for development projects at Rs 87.25 lakh per acre on road (upto 2 acres) and Rs 82.25 lakh per acre for other agricultural land. He said that the remaining owners of 27 acres 4 kanals and 17 marla land will be provided land of equal value in the same revenue estate and in case of non-availability of such land in the same revenue estate, in a neighbouring revenue estate. No construction will be allowed within 20 km radius of the airport as per the norms of the ministry of civil aviation. Yadav said as per the Haryana Consolidation of Project Land (Special Provisions) 2017, where the state government owns or has purchased 70% or more of the total project land in a particular area (in this case more than 80%) falling in one or more revenue estates and the remaining is left out pockets of private land, the state government will consolidate the total project land to ensure the viability of such project. The DC said after the approval of this project by the High Powered Land Purchase Committee on Friday, a detailed project report (DPR) will be prepared by the department of civil aviation. Expansion of Karnal Airport Project will provide a boost to investment and economic development in Haryana, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-agree-to-give-land-for-expansion-of-karnal-airstrip/articleshow/81131071.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: AIADMK, AMMK face-off on J Jayalalithaa birth anniversary||CHENNAI: Political activity is all set to peak on the 73rd birth anniversary of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa on February 24, with the AIADMK and AMMK planning to hold public meetings to demonstrate their capability to mobilise crowd and prove their loyalty to the late leader. While chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will address a public meeting in T T V Dhinakaran’s turf RK Nagar assembly constituency, TTV will address a meeting in Tambaram and deputy CM O Panneerselvam in Bodinayakkanur, his home constituency. Plans are afoot to reopen Jayalalithaa’s mausoleum on her birth anniversary with a museum and knowledge park on either side. The AIADMK will hold meetings in all TN assembly constituencies for four days — February 24, 28, March 1 and 3, and in Puducherry and Karnataka. “Amma steered the AIADMK for three decades and established this government. We carry forward her legacy and celebrate our leader’s memories on her birth anniversary. We are working towards a third consecutive victory in assembly polls,” law minister C Ve Shanmugam said, ruling out possibility of any truck between the AIADMK and the AMMK. Dhinakaran had organised public meetings on Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary in Tirunelveli, Madurai, Trichy and RK Nagar in the past and chose Tambaram this year. Sources say fresh trouble is brewing for the AMMK leader in RK Nagar since cadres of the ruling party and the AMMK had pelted stones at each other during his visit to the constituency to distribute welfare aid on more than one occasion. “We are true cadres of the AIADMK. Only the merger of the AIADMK and AMMK will prevent the DMK from capturing power. TTV will not allow the votes to split,” said S Muthiah, a disqualified MLA who had sided with Dhinakaran. The AIADMK had filed a complaint with the director general of police against outsiders using party flag after V K Sasikala used an AIADMK flag on her vehicle upon release from Bengaluru prison. The state government also took a controversial decision to close Jayalalithaa’s mausoleum ahead of her release. Sources say Sasikala will pay floral tributes to the portrait of Jayalalithaa at her T Nagar residence on February 24. “She is yet to take a call on speaking to partymen though supporters are flooding with requests to meet her. She is keeping a close watch on the political developments, but has been avoiding visitors,” a close aide said. She is expected to visit the mausoleum of Jayalalithaa once it is opened for public, the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-ammk-face-off-on-jaya-birth-anniv/articleshow/81131074.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||Novel coronavirus affects male fertility levels: Study||HYDERABAD: City gynaecologists and fertility experts have found that the novel coronavirus has affected the fertility levels, particularly in men, as a majority of those infected hailed from the reproductive age. As the body temperature is directly linked to the production of sperm, those suffering from Covid-19 with high fever, are at risk of infertility, though temporary. Fertility experts said fever has an impact on the parameters of sperm, including its motility and count. The worst-hit during the lockdown were the infertile couples as they could not have access to assisted reproductive techniques (ART). Even after relaxation in the lockdown, the access to the ART is limited. A study by gynaecologists and fertility experts from Maternal Health and Research Institute (MHRI) and Shadan Medical College showed that the Covid-19 had more impact on the fertility of men than women. The result of the study was published in the recent issue of ‘The Journal of Reproductive Health and Medicine’. The research team comprised Dr Roya Rozati, Dr Humaira Minhaj, Dr Avvari Bhaskara Balaji, Dr Ayapathi Mehdi Gautam, Dr Vikram Aiman, and Dr Mohammed Akbar. “Concerns raise that novel coronavirus may have an impact on the male reproductive organs thereby causing the male infertility stem cells from various observations and scrutiny. Previous examinations in Italy and China demonstrated that male gender is more prone to Covid-19 when compared to female gender. Major population of these men at risk are in the age of childbearing, therefore the ability to reproduce may be affected. Like in influenza, patients of Covid-19 suffer from fever. This affects the production of sperm,” Dr Roya Rozati said. Dr Roya said it is “ethically accurate to permit infertile partners to continue a viable possibility of a pregnancy all through this pandemic. Else, these women would be prejudiced against the couples which are fertile and who still can choose themself to conceive even during this possibly enduring universal situation”. The researchers said Covid-19 has direct effect on testicular function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/novel-coronavirus-affects-male-fertility-levels-study/articleshow/81131120.cms||Syed Akbar
February 21, 2021||Pune||Talks on about one CET from 2022-23||PUNE: Discussions are under way between academic experts, teachers as well as the state Common Entrance Test (CET) Cell about reducing the number of CETs. The plan would be to create a single CET for all courses at a particular level, said commissioner of state CET cell Chintamani Joshi. Since preparation for various types of common entrance examinations starts Std XI onwards, the changes, if any, would be announced well in advance, added Joshi. The CET schedule announced for this year will not see any changes. “To prepare for CET, students go for their respective coaching classes and training when they are in Std XI. Hence, since preparation starts early, changes in CET also need to be declared at least a year in advance. The announcement will not happen this year because students have already been preparing for the existing CET. However, we are trying for the year 2022-23,” said Joshi. The CET cell conducts exams and admission processes for about 25 courses. “At the moment, we can think of two patterns. We are thinking if we can have a comprehensive exam or if we can have multiple papers. In the comprehensive paper, we mix all subjects and score students accordingly. In the multiple exam, there would be one common paper and then, as per the student’s choice of career, s/he can opt to answer a specialized section,” added Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/talks-on-about-one-cet-from-2022-23/articleshow/81131072.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||After Punjab, Haryana parolees to return||Chandigarh: After Punjab, Haryana has also rolled out a plan for return of convicts who had gone out on special parole granted during the Covid lockdown period. Starting from February 23, the return will be held in nine phases. The last intake has been scheduled on May 14, where convicts with co-morbidities or above the age of 60 years will be asked to enter. Sources said Haryana state released 2,580 convicts who were serving time of seven years or more, on special parole. Haryana DGP, jails K Selvraj said that one batch of parolees returning to jail for surrender will comprise 287 persons. Soon after surrender, they will have to undergo Covid test and observe isolation for four days. If tested negative, they shall be shifted to barracks while those who tested positive shall be admitted in designated jail hospitals as well as district hospitals for treatment. Consequent to the meeting of Committee chaired by the judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court, the Punjab government announced the roll-out for returnees and Haryana too was supposed to follow the same guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-punjab-haryana-parolees-to-return/articleshow/81131118.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chennai||Puducherry legislators get armed guards ahead of Monday floor test||PUDUCHERRY: All legislators in the Union territory of Puducherry were given rifle-wielding guards from Saturday night ahead of the crucial floor test for the Congress government to prove its majority on Monday. A few of the ruling Congress MLAs already have guards. AIADMK legislature party leader A Anabalagan and DMK MLA R Siva had refused to accept police protection. Lieutenant governor (additional charge) Tamilisai Soundararajan directed the Congress government headed by chief minister V Narayanasamy to prove his majority by 5pm on February 22. Her direction came after the ruling Congress lost majority after four of its MLAs resigned in the past 30 days and a MLA was disqualified last year. Its strength in the House is now 10. Congress has the support of DMK (three) and an independent. The strength of the opposition is also tied at 14 — AINRC has seven seats, AIADMK four and three nominated MLAs from the BJP. Legislative assembly R Mounissamy issued a press communication on Saturday declaring that the assembly will convene for a special session at 10am on February 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pondy-legislators-get-armed-guards-ahead-of-monday-floor-test/articleshow/81131146.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Erode||Cases in Chennai, Chengalpet, Coimbatore plateau over two weeks||CHENNAI: The surge in cases in the districts of Chennai, Coimbatore and Chengalpet has almost plateaued over the past two weeks although several districts across the state are reporting fewer cases. On Saturday, Tamil Nadu added 438 cases and six deaths to the state Covid-19 registry. After 459 discharges, there were 4,120 people still under treatment for the viral infection. In 2021, the state has added 29,809 fresh cases including 9,483 in the last 20 days. Since January, Chennai has added 8684 cases, Coimbatore 3079 and Chengalpet 2377. All other districts have reported below 1,500 cases in the last eight weeks. “We have fewer cases and deaths from across the state. But isolated clusters reported from birthday parties, luncheons, weddings and funerals in cities like Chennai and Coimbatore are not helping us push the curve further down. Some districts like Chengalpet have similar issues,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. Between February 14 and February 20, Chennai reported 992 new cases, Coimbatore reported 305 and Chengalpet added 281. “During contact tracing, we found many people are ignoring masks and social distancing. Even people who have taken the vaccine cannot avoid these,” he said. On Saturday, with 139 new cases Chennai continued to top the case table followed by 47 in Coimbatore and 41 in Chengalpet. While Tiruvallur reported 31 cases, all other districts reported less than 25 cases. While Karur, Perambalur and Villupuram reported no new cases, 24 districts reported a single digit increase. Besides cases, the number of deaths has marginally increased in Chennai. In the week between February 14 and February 20, Chennai reported double the number of deaths (16) compared to 8 deaths between February 7 and 13. On Saturday, Chennai reported three deaths, while Chengalpet, Thanjavur and Villupuram reported one each. The seven-day average in daily cases has dropped from 499 in the first week of February to 453 this week, but during the same period the average number of deaths reported every day has increased from four to six. While 98% of people have been cured, the death rate is stable at 1.5% since September 2020. However, epidemiologists say overall, the state has been faring well. The test positivity rate in the state is stable at 0.9 for the past four weeks. In the last one week, the positivity rate in Chennai (1.3), Coimbatore (1.5_ and Chengalpet (1.4) have been higher than the state average, along with Erode(1.1), Salem (1.2) and Tiruvallur (1.3). The doubling period for cases – time it takes for the cases to double- in the state has now increased to 1294 compared to 530 days on January 1.With 25 new cases since January, Perambalur reported the lowest number of cases followed by Ariyalur, which added 88 new cases to its registry this year. Tamil Nadu vaccinated 20563 people including 5414 people who came for the second dose of the vaccine at 677 vaccination centres across the state. With this the recipient tally in the state reached 3,70,612. With this, 2,96,155 healthcare providers, 43,876 frontline workers and 30,581 policemen have taken the vaccine in the state. Second wave unlikely in TN: Health minHealth minister Dr C Vijayabaskar said the chances of a second wave of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu were very remote. He was speaking to reporters at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after taking his second shot of Covaxin here on Saturday. “. The doctors and nurses have become experts in handling Covid-19 patients, be they aged or with comorbid conditions. We have brought down the death rate drastically. Initially, it was challenging and we panicked, but we are relaxed now because of the steps taken by the chief minister,” the minister said. Over 8K vaccinated in Pondy so farIn all, 777 healthcare workers and 20 frontline workers were vaccinated on Saturday in Puducherry. So far, 8,051 healthcare workers and 407 frontline workers have got the vaccine.The Union territory reported 29 fresh cases even as 18 patients recovered taking the total number of active cases to 188 on Saturday. Of the 188 cases, 93 are under home isolation and treatment. Puducherry headquarters has the maximum active cases 124 followed by Mahe with 44 and Karaikal with 20. Yanam is infection-free. The territory did not report any Covid-19 death and the death toll stood at 662.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/cases-in-chennai-chengalpet-coimbatore-plateau-over-2-wks/articleshow/81132550.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chennai||Cases in Chennai, Chengalpet, Coimbatore plateau over two weeks||CHENNAI: The surge in cases in the districts of Chennai, Coimbatore and Chengalpet has almost plateaued over the past two weeks although several districts across the state are reporting fewer cases. On Saturday, Tamil Nadu added 438 cases and six deaths to the state Covid-19 registry. After 459 discharges, there were 4,120 people still under treatment for the viral infection. In 2021, the state has added 29,809 fresh cases including 9,483 in the last 20 days. Since January, Chennai has added 8684 cases, Coimbatore 3079 and Chengalpet 2377. All other districts have reported below 1,500 cases in the last eight weeks. “We have fewer cases and deaths from across the state. But isolated clusters reported from birthday parties, luncheons, weddings and funerals in cities like Chennai and Coimbatore are not helping us push the curve further down. Some districts like Chengalpet have similar issues,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. Between February 14 and February 20, Chennai reported 992 new cases, Coimbatore reported 305 and Chengalpet added 281. “During contact tracing, we found many people are ignoring masks and social distancing. Even people who have taken the vaccine cannot avoid these,” he said. On Saturday, with 139 new cases Chennai continued to top the case table followed by 47 in Coimbatore and 41 in Chengalpet. While Tiruvallur reported 31 cases, all other districts reported less than 25 cases. While Karur, Perambalur and Villupuram reported no new cases, 24 districts reported a single digit increase. Besides cases, the number of deaths has marginally increased in Chennai. In the week between February 14 and February 20, Chennai reported double the number of deaths (16) compared to 8 deaths between February 7 and 13. On Saturday, Chennai reported three deaths, while Chengalpet, Thanjavur and Villupuram reported one each. The seven-day average in daily cases has dropped from 499 in the first week of February to 453 this week, but during the same period the average number of deaths reported every day has increased from four to six. While 98% of people have been cured, the death rate is stable at 1.5% since September 2020. However, epidemiologists say overall, the state has been faring well. The test positivity rate in the state is stable at 0.9 for the past four weeks. In the last one week, the positivity rate in Chennai (1.3), Coimbatore (1.5_ and Chengalpet (1.4) have been higher than the state average, along with Erode(1.1), Salem (1.2) and Tiruvallur (1.3). The doubling period for cases – time it takes for the cases to double- in the state has now increased to 1294 compared to 530 days on January 1.With 25 new cases since January, Perambalur reported the lowest number of cases followed by Ariyalur, which added 88 new cases to its registry this year. Tamil Nadu vaccinated 20563 people including 5414 people who came for the second dose of the vaccine at 677 vaccination centres across the state. With this the recipient tally in the state reached 3,70,612. With this, 2,96,155 healthcare providers, 43,876 frontline workers and 30,581 policemen have taken the vaccine in the state. Second wave unlikely in TN: Health minHealth minister Dr C Vijayabaskar said the chances of a second wave of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu were very remote. He was speaking to reporters at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after taking his second shot of Covaxin here on Saturday. “. The doctors and nurses have become experts in handling Covid-19 patients, be they aged or with comorbid conditions. We have brought down the death rate drastically. Initially, it was challenging and we panicked, but we are relaxed now because of the steps taken by the chief minister,” the minister said. Over 8K vaccinated in Pondy so farIn all, 777 healthcare workers and 20 frontline workers were vaccinated on Saturday in Puducherry. So far, 8,051 healthcare workers and 407 frontline workers have got the vaccine.The Union territory reported 29 fresh cases even as 18 patients recovered taking the total number of active cases to 188 on Saturday. Of the 188 cases, 93 are under home isolation and treatment. Puducherry headquarters has the maximum active cases 124 followed by Mahe with 44 and Karaikal with 20. Yanam is infection-free. The territory did not report any Covid-19 death and the death toll stood at 662.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cases-in-chennai-chengalpet-coimbatore-plateau-over-2-wks/articleshow/81129855.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Bareilly||UP: After 20 years, man gets six months jail for selling adulterated milk||BAREILLY: In a two decade-old case, a Budaun court pronounced six months of rigorous imprisonment to one Rehmat for selling adulterated milk 20 years ago. In his 50s now, the milkman was also slapped with a fine of Rs 1,000. In May 2000, a random milk sample collected by food and drug inspector Premchandra was found to be “adulterated" as it had 51% less fat than the prescribed limit by a Lucknow lab. The judgment was pronounced by Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Devendra Singh Fauzdar after finding the milkman guilty under section 7/16 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act. The accused is currently on bail. On Saturday, Budaun food safety officer Chandrashekhar Mishra told TOI, “A sample of mixed [buffalo and cow] milk was collected by a food inspector from one Rehmat after he failed to provide the licence on May 2, 2000. The milk sample was sent to a food laboratory the next day. We received a report in June 2000 which said that the percentage of fat in the milk was 51% less than the prescribed limit. Thereafter, the report was submitted to the office of chief medical officer and permission was taken to lodge a case against Rehmat. The case was registered in the court in September 2000 and summons issued.” “Rehmat has been found guilty and sentenced to six months along with a fine of Rs 1,000. Failure to pay the fine would lead to an additional imprisonment of 15 days," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-20-years-man-gets-6-months-jail-for-selling-adulterated-milk/articleshow/81129279.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 21, 2021||Delhi||AAP’s Pathak offers prayers at makeshift Walled City temple||New Delhi: A day after a makeshift structure was erected in the Chandni Chowk area to house a temple, which was removed earlier in compliance with the order of Delhi High Court, AAP functionary and MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak visited the site and prayed for world peace. Pathak claimed that “the north corporation had demolished the temple but the people re-built it with their faith.” “AAP is standing with the devotees, and we have come here to pray before Lord Hanuman so that he removes all the crisis of the country and the world, and gives sanity to all. In the times of corona, people have lost their jobs and suffered huge losses in terms of health and wealth. We pray that the problems are eliminated from everyone’s lives,” said Pathak. Both AAP and BJP have been blaming each other for removal of the temple, which was declared an encroachment in 2015. State BJP president Adesh Gupta, vice-president Rajan Tiwari and north corporation mayor Jai Prakash had offered puja at the site on Friday. Adesh Gupta alleged the Kejriwal government got the temple demolished and the CM should personally go there for forgiveness. “It is regrettable that along with the temple, a 100-year-old peepal tree was also cut by the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aaps-pathak-offers-prayers-at-makeshift-walled-city-temple/articleshow/81131924.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Salem||Cases in Chennai, Chengalpet, Coimbatore plateau over two weeks||CHENNAI: The surge in cases in the districts of Chennai, Coimbatore and Chengalpet has almost plateaued over the past two weeks although several districts across the state are reporting fewer cases. On Saturday, Tamil Nadu added 438 cases and six deaths to the state Covid-19 registry. After 459 discharges, there were 4,120 people still under treatment for the viral infection. In 2021, the state has added 29,809 fresh cases including 9,483 in the last 20 days. Since January, Chennai has added 8684 cases, Coimbatore 3079 and Chengalpet 2377. All other districts have reported below 1,500 cases in the last eight weeks. “We have fewer cases and deaths from across the state. But isolated clusters reported from birthday parties, luncheons, weddings and funerals in cities like Chennai and Coimbatore are not helping us push the curve further down. Some districts like Chengalpet have similar issues,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. Between February 14 and February 20, Chennai reported 992 new cases, Coimbatore reported 305 and Chengalpet added 281. “During contact tracing, we found many people are ignoring masks and social distancing. Even people who have taken the vaccine cannot avoid these,” he said. On Saturday, with 139 new cases Chennai continued to top the case table followed by 47 in Coimbatore and 41 in Chengalpet. While Tiruvallur reported 31 cases, all other districts reported less than 25 cases. While Karur, Perambalur and Villupuram reported no new cases, 24 districts reported a single digit increase. Besides cases, the number of deaths has marginally increased in Chennai. In the week between February 14 and February 20, Chennai reported double the number of deaths (16) compared to 8 deaths between February 7 and 13. On Saturday, Chennai reported three deaths, while Chengalpet, Thanjavur and Villupuram reported one each. The seven-day average in daily cases has dropped from 499 in the first week of February to 453 this week, but during the same period the average number of deaths reported every day has increased from four to six. While 98% of people have been cured, the death rate is stable at 1.5% since September 2020. However, epidemiologists say overall, the state has been faring well. The test positivity rate in the state is stable at 0.9 for the past four weeks. In the last one week, the positivity rate in Chennai (1.3), Coimbatore (1.5_ and Chengalpet (1.4) have been higher than the state average, along with Erode(1.1), Salem (1.2) and Tiruvallur (1.3). The doubling period for cases – time it takes for the cases to double- in the state has now increased to 1294 compared to 530 days on January 1.With 25 new cases since January, Perambalur reported the lowest number of cases followed by Ariyalur, which added 88 new cases to its registry this year. Tamil Nadu vaccinated 20563 people including 5414 people who came for the second dose of the vaccine at 677 vaccination centres across the state. With this the recipient tally in the state reached 3,70,612. With this, 2,96,155 healthcare providers, 43,876 frontline workers and 30,581 policemen have taken the vaccine in the state. Second wave unlikely in TN: Health minHealth minister Dr C Vijayabaskar said the chances of a second wave of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu were very remote. He was speaking to reporters at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after taking his second shot of Covaxin here on Saturday. “. The doctors and nurses have become experts in handling Covid-19 patients, be they aged or with comorbid conditions. We have brought down the death rate drastically. Initially, it was challenging and we panicked, but we are relaxed now because of the steps taken by the chief minister,” the minister said. Over 8K vaccinated in Pondy so farIn all, 777 healthcare workers and 20 frontline workers were vaccinated on Saturday in Puducherry. So far, 8,051 healthcare workers and 407 frontline workers have got the vaccine.The Union territory reported 29 fresh cases even as 18 patients recovered taking the total number of active cases to 188 on Saturday. Of the 188 cases, 93 are under home isolation and treatment. Puducherry headquarters has the maximum active cases 124 followed by Mahe with 44 and Karaikal with 20. Yanam is infection-free. The territory did not report any Covid-19 death and the death toll stood at 662.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/cases-in-chennai-chengalpet-coimbatore-plateau-over-2-wks/articleshow/81132552.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Himachal achieved over 75% vaccination target: Minister||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh has achieved the target of more than 75% Covid-19 vaccination of healthcare workers and is among only nine states and union territory in the country to have achieved this figure. Health and family welfare minister Rajiv Saizal on Saturday said districts have been asked to achieve the complete target of the first dose of the vaccine. According to him, Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state is progressing satisfactorily. Till Friday, he said, 63,890 healthcare workers (HCW) were administered the first dose of the vaccine. Administration of the second dose of the vaccine to healthcare workers who have been administered the first dose started from February 13. Himachal Pradesh made an achievement of 85% against the target, which is the highest in the country as per a review conducted by the Government of India. The minister said 28,840 frontline workers (FLW) have been vaccinated till Friday, which is 56% of the target and in line with the expected coverage for achievement of first dose of vaccination of frontline workers by March 1. He said there has been very less vaccine wastage in the state due to the excellent planning and implementation done by the health department. According to Saizal, the percentage of adverse event following immunisation is close to 0.5% and since the vaccine is totally safe, everybody who has been registered for it should come forward and get it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/himachal-achieved-over-75-vaccination-target-minister/articleshow/81131135.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||1,305 buildings with 5 or more cases sealed in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Two days after BMC released stringent norms for sealing entire buildings with five or more Covid-19 cases, civic data shows their numbers now total 1,305 across the city. On February 18, merely 321 such buildings were listed as sealed in the civic data. Officials said till two day ago, only data of completely sealed buildings was being maintained, considering the declining trend in positive cases in the city. Now, even buildings with sealed floors are being entered into the civic records in light of the rising cases. Of the 1,305, T Ward (Mulund) has the maximum sealed buildings or floors at 233, followed by N (Ghatkopar) and P-South (Goregaon) with 125 each. Residents of sealed buildings across the city total 2.7 lakh. “Cases were on a decline and we were only sealing floors and hence the data did not reflect these numbers. Now, once again, a decision has been taken to seal entire buildings,” said the civic official. Another official said the exponential rise in numbers could also be because earlier a building would get sealed if it had 10 or more positive cases and now the new rule has halved the limit to five cases or more. BMC said the cases are scattered across the T Ward which has the maximum number of sealed buildings or floors. “There are over 200 buildings in the area which have at least one Covid case while the number is comparatively lower from the slum pockets,” said the official. Meanwhile, BMC’s action against those found not wearing face masks is yet to gather momentum. BMC commissioner I S Chahal, in his February 18 order, had directed civic marshals to catch at least 25,000 such offenders every day. On February 19, though, only 13,592 persons were fined and the total penalty collected was Rs 27.2 lakh. The number was mostly unchanged from February 16 when 13,557 persons were fined and the penalty collected was Rs 27.1 lakh. A civic official justified this, saying with February 19 being a public holiday, fewer people had ventured out. Ravi Raja, Congress corporator, said many wearing masks fail to maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/1305-buildings-with-5-or-more-cases-sealed-in-city/articleshow/81129876.cms||Richa Pinto
February 21, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 50 narikuravas, irulas get voter IDs, plan to vote for first time||CHENNAI: Never have they or their elders voted in an election before. For a group of 50 people, aged between 20 and 60 years, the forthcoming assembly poll in Tamil Nadu could be the first time they exercise their voting rights. Revenue divisional officer of Tiruvallur, N Preethi Parkavi, who took special efforts and fast-tracked the applications, helped the people from irula, narikurava and arunthathiyar communities in Adhigathur village in Tiruvallur taluk to get the voter IDs in just 10 days. “I came to know that they did not have any government (ID proof) document when they submitted a petition seeking patta,” said the RDO. Following that, she organised a special camp and issued them aadhaar and ration cards. “We found that many of them are not aware of the conduct of elections and their voting rights, while some of them thought that they have to pay a huge amount to get voter IDs. We educated them about their democratic rights and the importance of participating in elections,” said the RDO. Normally, it would take three to six months for fresh applicants to get EPIC. “We got a special link from the officials of the state election commission to print the EPIC at the collectorate itself. The cards were printed with the help of the election wing at the collectorate,” said Parkavi. Cibish, who is in his late 50s, is the oldest among the narikurava community who received the voter ID on Saturday. “My uncle (Cibish) is going to vote for the first time in his life. There are many like him in our community who were unaware about their rights,” said D Samy. Sipiyon, 19 years, and his friends, Mathew, Thomas, Kaviya and Dhanalakshmi, from the same community, were thrilled after getting voter IDs at their doorstep. “We are really excited and are eagerly waiting to vote,” Sipiyon, who has studied up to Class X, said. To make the day memorable, the RDO has also gifted saplings of various plants to those who received the voter IDs. Twenty others in the irula community, one of the six vulnerable tribal groups in TN, living 100 metres away from the narikurava settlement, have also received voter IDs. “The officials, particularly the RDO, took a lot of effort to organise the voter IDs within two weeks,” said K Siva of the irula community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/50-narikuravas-irulas-get-voter-ids-plan-to-vote-for-first-time/articleshow/81131172.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
February 21, 2021||Chennai||Air pollution cost Chennai Rs 11,000 crore last year: Study by NGO||CHENNAI: A new methodology created by Greenpeace South East Asia has pegged the economic losses due to air pollution in Chennai in 2020 at Rs 10,910crore. The NGO estimated ‘deaths avoidable by from air pollution’ in the city at 11,000. According to an analysis by the NGO of IQAir data from a live cost estimator, particulate matter (PM2.5) in the air claimed approximately 54,000 lives in Delhi in 2020. Globally, approximately 1.6 lakh deaths have been attributed to PM2.5 air pollution in five most populous cities. Greenpeace said a cost estimator is an online tool that tracks the real-time health impact and economic costs of air pollution in major world cities. To show the impact of air pollution-related deaths on the economy, the approach used by Greenpeace is called “willingness-to-pay”, a lost life year or a year lived with disability is converted to money by the amount that people are willing to pay in order to avoid this negative outcome. "The need of the hour is to rapidly scale up renewable energy, bring an end to fossil fuel emissions and boost sustainable and accessible transport systems," the NGO said. An estimated 25,000 avoidable deaths in Mumbai in 2020 have been attributed to air pollution. The figures for Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad and Delhi is 12000, 11000, 11000, and 54000. This is despite recording relatively better air quality due to a lockdown last year, Avinash Chamchal climate campaigner at Greenpeace India said. “For the governments of the day, it is crucial that investments are made towards green and sustainable solutions,” he said. "Cities should promote low-cost, active and carbon-neutral transport options that prioritizes walking, cycling, and public transport," Chanchal said, adding it was unfortunate a city like Chennai was not part of the national clean air action plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/air-pollution-cost-city-rs-11k-crore-last-year-study-by-ngo/articleshow/81129875.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Agra||Agra: NGO Wildlife SOS launches campaign with RTSOI to promote cruelty-free wildlife tourism in India||AGRA: In a bid to promote responsible and cruelty-free wildlife tourism in India, NGO Wildlife SOS has launched a campaign, in association with a national tourism body ‘Responsible Tourism Society of India’ (RTSOI). The campaign is aimed at educating foreign and local tourists about making a conscious choice to ensure recreation does not promote illegal trafficking of wild animals and is also free from cruelty, abuse and exploitation of animals. According to NGO officials, the collaboration will help international and national tourists select venues where wild animals are not exploited or mistreated while also empowering tourists on how to report animal abuse to the authorities. Tourists unknowingly become victims of illegal trafficking of wildlife when, in fact, they are unaware of the laws in India, said NGO officials. The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, protects Indian wildlife including snakes, birds, monkeys, turtles, elephants, etc. The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act,1960 is aimed at preventing infliction of unnecessary pain or suffering on animals . Tourists are exposed to snakes, monkeys, elephants, etc. and when they are offered rides on blind or injured elephants, they accidentally become a part of illegal trafficking, abuse, and exploitation of wild animals. The thrill of experiencing an elephant ride drives people to make unethical travel choices. To sustain this cruel industry, wild animals like monkeys, elephants and snakes continue to be poached from their natural habitat and are put through brutal training processes to become a part of the entertainment and tourism industry. To combat these unethical practices, Wildlife SOS and RTSOI are encouraging tourists to be selective and choose only responsible options while avoiding those that make them a part of illegal wildlife trafficking. Wildlife SOS and RTSOI will undertake joint advocacy in conservation of forests, biodiversity and natural heritage through petitions, workshops, lectures and inclusive dialogue. Co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS Kartick Satyanarayan said, “This collaboration with RTSOI will help us redefine travel and focus on how tourism can be an excellent way of leaving a positive impact while promoting conservation and sustainability. Wildlife SOS operates wildlife rehabilitation centres in partnership with the state forest departments across India which serves as a model example for ethical wildlife tourism.” Founding member and honorary president of RTSOI Rakesh Mathur said, “Our wildlife is not only our tourism asset but it is our natural heritage and an integral part of our ecosystem. It needs to be treated with respect and care. It must be preserved at all costs. It’s a privilege for RTSOI to work in partnership with Wildlife SOS towards this endeavour.” Founding president of RTSOI Mandip Singh Soin said, “RTSOI is delighted to team up with the Wildlife SOS. A task force has been constituted with Wildlife SOS to promote responsible and ethical wildlife tourism avenues. RTSOI will soon be able to help bring about the changes in the Tourism industry and govt policies to work towards achieving the goal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/wildlife-sos-launches-campaign-with-rtsoi-to-promote-cruelty-free-wildlife-tourism-in-india/articleshow/81129289.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 2 Covid cases, 65 recover||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 2 positive cases of Covid-19 on Saturday while 65 positive patients recovered. The state has 58,346 positive cases of which 235 cases are active, 57,117 patients have recovered while 981 patients have died. A total of 10,51,241 persons have been tested for Covid-19 till date of whom 9,89,887 persons have tested negative while results of 3,008 samples are awaited. Positive cases reported include one from Mandi district and one from Una district. Those who have recovered include seven persons from Bilaspur district, two from Chamba, five from Kangra, 21 from Mandi, 11 from Shimla, five from Sirmaur, one from Solan and 13 from Una.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-reports-2-covid-cases-65-recover/articleshow/81131156.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: More senior citizens hospitalized due to current Covid-19 trend||NAGPUR: With many more testing positive in the last ten days, the trend in the city is indicating that 70% of patients in need of hospitalization are above the age of 65. The others, mostly asymptomatic, are recovering in home isolation. “Since the last six-seven days, we have been observing that many senior citizens are getting admitted for Covid-19. The ICUs have more elderly adults under-treatment,” said Dr Ashwini Tayade, infectious disease specialist at Kingsway Hospital. As on February 19, Nagpur district had 5,617 patients under treatment, 978 have been hospitalized and the treatment mode for 754 was to be decided. In all, 3,885 patients were in home isolation. Out of the 978 patients admitted in various hospitals across the city, more than 70% were above 65 years of age. In the GMCH Covid ward, 26 out of 62 patients admitted between January 14 and 31 were senior citizens. In the first two weeks of February, 33 out of 47 are from 60+ age groups. Many private Covid-19 hospitals also reported similar figures. As many patients are from affluent families, most of them prefer private Covid hospitals over GMCs. The situation is similar in other parts of Vidarbha where cases are on the rise. Akola has 1,624 Covid-19 positive patients under-treatment. Out of them, 554 are admitted in GMCH Akola and 314 of them are above 65 years of age. “Senior citizens, that too with pre-existing co-morbid conditions, are always at risk and need hospitalization. But, the recent spike has seen increased hospitalization. This might be because those with severe co-morbid conditions are now getting exposed to the virus due to relaxation,” said Dr Anand Thatte, an epidemiologist from Akola However, the increased hospitalization rate has one bright spot. Due to early hospitalization, the death rate due to this new spike is negligible. While cases are increasing daily in Vidarbha, the case fatality rate is still under 2.50%. It was even lesser than the state’s average on February 15. “Deaths are under control because hospitals are now ready with the treatment protocol, medicines, oxygen etc. The experience of the September peak is coming handy,” said a doctor who has been working in a Covid hospital in Nagpur since the start of the pandemic. TIME TO TAKE EXTRA CAREPhysical distancing: No marriage functions, no gatherings. Don’t welcome visitors unless absolutely necessary Keep grand kids away: Maintain distance because they can be asymptomatic carriers Continue medicines: Don’t change treatment plan without consulting doctor Don’t hesitate to get admitted: If doctor advises hospitalization, then go for it. Hospitalization has been a life saviour for many senior citizens||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-sr-citizens-hospitalized-due-to-current-covid-trend/articleshow/81131155.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||30-yr-old labourer kills himself||Hyderabad: A 30-year-old labourer committed suicide by hanging himself at his residence in Dundigal on Friday night. Police said that as per a complaint given by his wife, he is an alcoholic, who was irregular at work. On Friday, after he consumed alcohol, he hanged himself in the absence of his family members. Police registered a suspicious death case and investigation is being done. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/30-yr-old-labourer-kills-himself/articleshow/81131153.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||Covid spike in Haryana as 111 test positive||Chandigarh: Kept under control for a fortnight in Haryana, the number of new Covid-19 cases in the state registered a spike on Saturday as 111 people were found infected with the virus. However, there was no fatality during the day and eight districts reported zero cases. Also, 108 persons were discharged. The state’s tally for the virus has reached 2,69,609 cases, 2,65,751 recoveries, 3,042 deaths and 816 active cases, which include 25 patients who are on oxygen or ventilator support. As many as 17,062 persons were tested during the day. This took the testing rate to 2,18,554 tests per million. Covid positivity rate has declined to 4.87% . Recovery rate has reached 98.57% and doubling rate has gone to 138 days. Gurgaon topped the tally with 25 new cases. Here, the overall tally has gone to 56,684 cases, 356 deaths, and 224 active cases. Karnal recorded 24 new cases, Panchkula 16, Kurukshetra 11, and Ambala 10. Hisar, Rewari, Sirsa, Mahendergarh, Bhiwani, Palwal, Fatehabad and Nuh districts reported zero case. Box to go with 5.6k get vaccinated As many as 5,597 persons were given vaccine jabs during the day as the state’s overall vaccination count rose to 2.37 lakh. In all, 2,703 beneficiaries were given the first dose, while 2,894 frontline and health workers were given the second dose. In Yamunanagar, 700 patients were vaccinated during the day, The worst of was Charkhi Dadri, where only seven people were injected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-spike-in-haryana-as-111-test-positive/articleshow/81131168.cms||Manvir Saini
February 21, 2021||Bareilly||Girl, five-year-old, electrocuted by overhead live wire in UP||BAREILLY: A five-year-old girl died while her one-year-old brother and mother were left critically injured after an 11,000 volt overhead live wire fell on them at Jariyanpur village in the Mirzapur area of Shahjahanpur district on Saturday. The little girl was rushed to Mirzapur community health centre where she succumbed during treatment. The incident took place when the woman was going to a field with her children. The injured toddler and her mother have been referred to district hospital. “My wife Pinki was going to make cow dung cakes with her children when the high voltage electric wire fell on them. Locals came to their rescue. There was a delay in the arrival of the ambulance. My daughter Gauri died at the CHC. My wife and son are now at district hospital," Sanjeev Sharma, the injured woman's husband, told TOI. "This tragedy struck my family only due to negligence of the power corporation and I will take action against them,” he added. “A woman and her son were brought to the hospital. They have suffered electrocution and the condition of the woman is very critical. We have kept her under observation and may refer her to a higher medical facility,” Dr Mohammed Meeraj, emergency medical officer at district hospital, said. Mirzapur SHO police station told TOI, “We have sent the girl's body for autopsy. There has been no complaint, so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-5-electrocuted-by-overhead-live-wire-in-up/articleshow/81129292.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Tarun Barot discharged in Sadiq Jamal Mehtar encounter case||AHMEDABAD: A special CBI court on Saturday discharged ‘encounter specialist’ Tarun Barot from the 2003 Sadiq Jamal Mehtar encounter case on the ground that there was no evidence of his involvement. Apart from the retired DSP Barot, police constable Chhatrasinh Chudasama was also discharged by the special CBI judge, B A Dave, for want of evidence as well as for the absence of prosecution sanction from a competent authority. On November 24, 2020, the court had discharged the then police inspector R L Mavani and police constable Ajaypalsingh Yadav because the chargesheet did not reveal any evidence of their involvement. Advocate Rohit Verma appeared for Barot and advocate Brijrajsinh Jhala for Chudasama and the advocates argued that witness statements did not incriminate the cops. It was submitted that the witness statements established Barot had gone to Mumbai in January 2003. But, it was contended, there is no evidence that Barot obtained Sadiq’s custody from the Subsidiary Intelligence Bureau, Mumbai, and brought him to Ahmedabad. Sadiq was shot dead in the wee hours of January 13, 2003, in front of Saibaba Complex near Galaxy Cinema in Naroda. In all, eight police officials were booked for killing Sadiq, a youth from Bhavnagar. The city crime branch had claimed he was a trained Lashkar-e-Taiba operative sent to kill the then chief minister, Narendra Modi, to avenge the 2002 riots. The probe agency, CBI, found that Sadiq was in prior custody of Gujarat Police; his custody had been obtained from Mumbai Police. Earlier, retired DSP K M Waghela’s discharge plea was rejected. DSP J G Parmar has died during the trial. According to the CBI chargesheet, Sadiq used to work as domestic help for Dawood Ibrahim’s close associate Tariq Parveen, in Mumbai and Dubai. He left Dubai after an altercation with Parveen’s aide, a Pakistan-based gangster Salim Chiplun, and returned to India. He was in the custody of the SIB, Mumbai, and Gujarat Police obtained his custody in January 2013. Besides Sadiq’s encounter, Barot is facing charges of murder and criminal conspiracy in the 2004 Ishrat Jahan encounter case. His discharge application in this case was rejected by the CBI court in October last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/barot-discharged-in-sadiq-jamal-encounter-case/articleshow/81129877.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Chandigarh||BJP appoints observers for civic polls in Hry||Chandigarh: As the elections to the posts of deputy mayor and senior deputy mayor of Panchkula, Ambala and Sonipat and the vice-prescient of Rewari municipal council are set to take place, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has announced the names of its observers. Transport minister Mool Chand Sharma has been appointed observer for Panchkula municipal corporation while former minister Capt Abhimanyu will be the observer for Sonipat municipal corporation. Education minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar will be the observer for Amabala municipal corporation. While Union minister Krishan Pal Gujjar has been appointed observer for the Rewari municipal council polls. BJP has its own mayor in Panchkula and the party has comfortable number of councillors to clinch the two posts. But it may be tough for saffron party in Sonipat and Ambala districts. In Ambala, Shakti Rani Sharma, wife of former minister and Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJCP), is the mayor and the party has comfortable number of councillors. Sonipat mayor belongs to Congress and both Congress and the BJP have almost equal number of councillors. Similarly, in Rewari, independent councillors hold the key to the post of senior vice-president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-appoints-observers-for-civic-polls-in-hry/articleshow/81131177.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Hyderabad||12 kids of Gowlidoddi social welfare hostel discharged||Hyderabad: Two days after 26 students from Telangana Social Welfare Residential Hostel at Gowlidoddi were rushed to a private hospital in Gachibowli after they developed fever and loose motions, 12 students were discharged from the hospital on Saturday. While one of the students had tested positive for Covid-19 after a battery of tests were done on all of them, suspecting that the symptoms of gastroenteritis could be Covid-19, the remaining, who tested negative but have severe gastroenteritis, would remain at the hospital on Sunday too. “We will assess the condition of the remaining students and might discharge them on Sunday. While the reason for the acute gastroenteritis in these students is not yet known, it might be water or food borne,” Continental Hospitals CEO Dr Riyaj Khan said. The students were rushed to the hospital on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/12-kids-of-gowlidoddi-social-welfare-hostel-discharged/articleshow/81131170.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Agra||Agra farmers begin harvesting mustard but procurement centres yet to open||AGRA: Mustard crop harvesting has started in parts of Agra region but the authorities are yet to open procurement centres for purchasing the crop. According to the district agriculture department, this season, mustard was sown in 61,000 hectares. Apart from potato and wheat, mustard is a major crop of Agra district. The sowing takes place in October-November and the crop is ready for harvesting in about 100 days. Shyamveer Singh, a farmer at Samara village of Fatehpur Sikri block, said, “The district administration is hardly concerned about our problems. The mustard crop is ready for harvesting but so far, no procurement centre has been set up. A majority of the farmers don’t have suitable arrangements for storing the crop. We will have to sell the produce to traders at rates lesser than minimum support price (MSP).” Mohan Singh Chahar, regional president of the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, said, “Farmers were among the worst-hit by the lockdown. Hundreds of them are desperately waiting for the state government to announce the MSP for mustard. In case, the procurement centres are not opened soon, they will be forced to sell their produce at Rs 3,400 to 3,800 per quintal in the open market. The MSP was Rs 4,425 per quintal last year. Following favorable weather conditions, farmers’ expect a bumper produce this year.” District agriculture officer Rampravesh Verma said, “The procurement centres for purchase of mustard will be made operational soon. This year, direct-purchase centres will be opened in more than two blocks of the district. Suitable action will be taken to ensure farmers face no inconvenience in selling their produce at government centres at the MSP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-farmers-begin-harvesting-mustard-but-procurement-centres-yet-to-open/articleshow/81129293.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Few takers for adopting 200-year-old banyan tree||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s forest and wildlife department has so far received only two applications from individuals or organisations willing to adopt a ‘heritage’, 200-year-old banyan tree in Chandni Chowk. Last month, the department had invited people to come forward and help preserve the tree by legally adopting it. Officials, however, remained hopeful of more applications before the adoption is finalised. “We are still receiving applications and since there is no time limit to finalise the adoption process, we hope more people will step forward,” said Aditya Madan, deputy conservator of forests, North Forest Division. “We will guide them and assist them in preserving the tree. If this model is successful, more trees can be adopted.” In January, the forest department issued a notice under Section 13 of the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act (DPTA), 1994, which provides for adoption of trees, calling upon individuals, organisations and local bodies to help keep the tree alive. A petition has also been filed in Delhi High Court on the tree’s protection. The notice said, “It is stated for general information that an offence case was registered for damaging of an old Banyan tree located at property no. 5708-5717, Kothi Badwali, Nai Sadak, Chandni Chowk, New Delhi 110006. Any person, local body/institute/organisation interested in adopting this heritage tree u/s 13 of DPTA 1994 may please contact the office of the deputy conservator of forests, north forest division, Kamla Nehru Ridge, Delhi 110007 or may contact at email: dcfnorthdelhi86@gmail.com.” While Delhi High Court estimated the tree to be over 300 years old, the forest department claimed it was at least 150 years old. “After the damage caused to the tree, we wanted people to help us preserve it and take care of it,” said Madan. A bench of Justice Najmi Waziri had heard the petition filed by area resident Nitin Gupta last year in which the latter attributed the damage to the tree to illegal construction. The high court rapped both the forest department and North Delhi Municipal Corporation. The judge had exclaimed, “How can you do this to a 300-year-old tree? It has existed since even before the British even thought of coming to India. It is a part of the city’s heritage. How can you damage it in this manner?” The court asked the forest department and north corporation to take steps for its immediate restoration and protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/few-takers-for-adopting-200-yr-old-banyan-tree/articleshow/81131925.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Chandrapur MP Suresh Dhanorkar enters Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reseve core in private vehicle||CHANDRAPUR: In a blatant violation of wildlife norms, Member of Parliament from Chandrapur, Balu alias Suresh Dhanorkar allegedly coerced his entry into core of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in his private vehicle on Saturday afternoon. Instead of deterring the MP, the TATR management provided a forest guard with him, said sources. According to sources, Dhanorkar with his wife MLA Pratibha reached the Moharli gate at around 3pm and demanded entry to the park in his private vehicle. DFO and ACF rank officers tried to convince the MP that they need to take a tourist gypsy. As Dhanorkar insisted on taking his own vehicle, the officers also offered the forest department gypsy and even agreed to arrange a SUV, but in vain. Dhanorkar refused to budge and called field director and CCF, TATR, Jitendra Ramgaonkar. “After a lengthy conversation, Dhanorkar was allowed inside the park in his own vehicle without his bodyguards and weapons. A forest guard accompanied the MP during his trip,” said Ramgaonkar. The Dhanorkars reportedly stayed for nearly two hours inside the park. It is mandatory for visitors to take a gypsy inside the tiger reserve. Sources said dignitaries like Governor of Maharashtra, Union minister Nitin Gadkari and Sachin Tendulkar during their visit to TATR had taken tourist gypsy in the core. Ramgaonkar told TOI that maybe he (Dhanorkar) had some medical issues and hence insisted on going into the park in his own vehicle. “As he couldn’t be convinced, we provided a forest guard to accompany him during the trip. He is the area MP and we are verifying his privileges. Accordingly, further course of action will be decided,” he said. Dhanorkar told TOI that he entered the park in his vehicle and claimed he was not there for safari, so did not need any gypsy. “I was doing official inspection of development work like water holes being made for the tigers and other wild animals, rehabilitation work going on for the villages inside, preventive measures to deter the forest fires etc,” he said. “We were accompanied by foresters and stayed briefly inside the park, and returned soon after inspection was over,” he told TOI. The MP ratified that his wife Pratibha, who has jurisdiction over more than half of tiger reserve under her Warora constituency, too accompanied him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-mp-dhanorkar-enters-tadoba-core-in-private-vehicle/articleshow/81131175.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 21, 2021||Mumbai||He fears for his life in state jails||Ravi Pujari fears for his life in Maharashtra jails, as there are rivals and aides he betrayed, a police officer said. O P Singh, a Chhota Rajan member, was killed in Nashik jail, gangster Abu Salem was attacked at Taloja jail and undertrial Asghar Ali Mehendi was killed at Arthur Road jail. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/he-fears-for-his-life-in-state-jails/articleshow/81131191.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Even as authorities try to convince, students say no to C-DAC re-exam||NAGPUR: Even as the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing’s (C-DAC) administration is trying its best to convince the aspirants for appearing in re-examination (Computerized Common Admission Test (C-CAT)) for its postgraduate diploma course, the latter have refused to budge. According to them, C-DAC has already conducted C-CAT four times — on January 10, 17, 31 and February 3. The Maharashtra Students Welfare Association (MSWA) and National Students Organizations (NSU) have already extended their support to agitators and may approach the high court soon. Aspirants said it's not possible for them to study again and again for the same exam. Many of them have already quit their jobs while some of them have taken loans for completing the diploma course. They said they secured the merit ranks after multiple attempts and don't want to take the risk of appearing in the re-exam now and losing their seats for the prestigious course. “We’ve been studying hard since December for this exam and secured merit ranks in the top 100. Now they’re asking us to appear again in offline exam. They’ve already held this exam four times. What’s the guarantee that they will not cancel offline papers?” an upset student said. Another student who secured a top-25 rank said she didn’t want to re-appear in the offline exams after studying hard and getting to the top. “There’s no guarantee that I will be able to secure the same rank again and may not get a good branch. We had suggested the C-DAC administration hold exams of only those who were complaining about connectivity and technical issues. There’s no point in harassing over 12,000 candidates who have already appeared in the entrance exam,” she said. Many candidates have left their plum jobs to join the course after C-DAC declared results and published merit lists. “I have been preparing for the entrance exam since 2018, but only this year have I been able to secure a merit rank. I left my Rs6 lakh per annum job to complete this PG diploma course. Now, my company wouldn’t take me back. If I failed to get a decent score in the offline exam, my career would be ruined,” an aggrieved student said. Another student, who had secured a loan for completing the diploma course apprehends that if he couldn’t clear the offline exam, he would be unnecessarily burdened with the charges for returning the loan, like processing fees. C-DAC to reconduct PG entrance on March 13, 14The C-DAC has declared its schedule for conducting C-CAT re-exam on March 13 and 14, as reported by TOI on Wednesday. The deadline for application is February 24 and admission cards can be downloaded between March 6 and 12. The results will be announced on March 26 and first counselling will commence on the same day and continue till March 30. The declaration of the first round of seat allocation will be made on March 31. Classroom teaching will begin from April 20 and the course will conclude on September 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/even-as-authorities-try-to-convince-students-say-no-to-c-dac-re-exam/articleshow/81131211.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 21, 2021||Agra||SP MLC Arvind Yadav's gunman ‘shoots’ self in UP's Mainpuri||AGRA: Samajwadi Party MLC Arvind Yadav’s gunman, Niresh Kumar Yadav, was found dead with a gunshot wound inside the guard room at the former’s residence in Mainpuri on Saturday. It is suspected that he shot himself. Avinash Pandey, SP Mainpuri, said the door of the guard room was locked from inside when police reached the spot. He said there was no other exit from that room and preliminary investigations suggest it to be a case of suicide. The deceased’s family members had been informed and the crime scene sealed. A forensic team also reached the spot. The body was sent for a post-mortem and further investigations are on. According to information, Niresh was a constable of the 2018 batch and a resident of Aligarh. He was posted with the MLC for the past eight months. The reason behind the suicide is not known immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/sp-mlcs-gunman-shoots-self-in-mainpuri/articleshow/81129300.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Bareilly||Meerut: 22-year-old student held for Hapur girl’s kidnap, rape||MEERUT: A 22-year-old student was arrested by a Hapur police team for allegedly kidnapping and raping a four-year-old girl after an encounter early on Saturday. The girl had gone missing on Thursday afternoon from outside her residence in Simbhavali area in Hapur district. Hours later, she was found in a critical condition in a field in Meerut’s Kithor area. “An encounter took place in Simbhavali area and a suspect, identified as Anuj Kumar, was shot at. A motorcycle was seized from him which was used in the girl’s kidnapping. A bag and some clothes were also recovered,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, Hapur superintendent of police. Anuj sustained a bullet injury in the leg during the shooting, he added. According to police, Anuj, resident of Qila Parikshitgarh in Meerut, is a polytechnic student at a city-based college. He got married last year. He was returning home from his in-law's place in Bahadurgarh area in Hapur district when he allegedly kidnapped the girl and took her to a desolate spot in a field in Kithor area in Meerut and raped her. Anuj fled from the spot after the girl’s cries caught the attention of passersby who rushed to help. They alerted police. On the basis of CCTV footage, Meerut and Hapur police had initiated a massive manhunt to trace the suspect. Earlier, the rape survivor was rushed to the Meerut district hospital and later, referred to Lala Lajpat Rai Medical College in the city. While refusing to divulge details of the girl’s medical condition, police confirmed that she was raped. “Sections of rape and relevant sections of Pocso Act were added to the existing FIR of abduction registered at Simbhavali police station,” said Sarvesh Mishra, Hapur additional superintendent of police. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/22-yr-old-student-held-for-hapur-girls-kidnap-rape/articleshow/81129299.cms||Piyush Rai
February 21, 2021||Bareilly||Bijnor: Bride on way to in-laws’ house dies, groom survives after tractor-trolley hits their car||BIJNOR: A bride on her way to in-laws’ house was killed and four others, including the groom, sustained injuries after a speeding tractor-trolley hit the car they were travelling in on Raipur road close to a powerhouse in Najibabad area of Bijnor district late Friday night. According to police, Mayaram married Puja, 28, of Syalipur village in Bijnor district on February 16. Puja had gone to her parents’ house for post-wedding rituals and was on her way back to in-laws’ house in Mochipura village of the same district, along with her husband and three others, when the accident took place, killing Puja on the spot and injuring others. The injured were admitted to a private hospital. Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said the injured were out of danger and recovering at the hospital. A case was registered against the unidentified tractor driver who fled the scene leaving his vehicle behind, said the SP, adding that a probe was on. The accident came just two days after a similar accident was reported from UP’s Muzaffarnagar, where a bride dancing on an open-roof vehicle had a narrow escape after a speeding vehicle brushed past her vehicle, killing two and injuring 14 others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bride-on-way-to-in-laws-house-dies-groom-survives-after-tractor-trolley-hits-their-car/articleshow/81129301.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 21, 2021||India||Modi backs bigger private sector role for self-reliance||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Saturday exhorted states to join the Centre’s effort to expand the role of the private sector in giving a major push to self-reliance and called for a strong cooperation between the Centre and states to accelerate all-round development. “The private sector is coming forward with more enthusiasm in this development journey of the country. As a government, we also have to honour this enthusiasm, the energy of the private sector and give it as much opportunity in the Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign,” the PM said while addressing the governing council of Niti Aayog, which comprises chief ministers and UT administrators, key ministers and top policy-makers. He said this year’s Union budget had received a positive response. PM Modi said the Budget had received a positive response and pointed to the mood of the nation, which now wants to move forward at a faster pace without wasting any more time. Modi said Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign is the way to develop an India that pro- duces not only for its own needs but also for the world, with its products meeting the test of global competition. The PM’s pitch to CMs for enlarging the space for private sector builds on his earlier strong endorsement of the entrepreneurs in his speech in Parliament earlier this month. He had said slandering of private enterprise was tantamount to distrusting the potential of the youth and suspecting their intent. Significantly, the advocacy for private enterprise comes against the backdrop of persistent sniping by Congress’ Rahul Gandhi and activists against alleged crony capitalism, and seems to reflect the government’s resolve to press ahead with the measures planned for the disposal of chronically loss-making PSUs and asset monetisation. Addressing CMs and others, the PM said the production-linked incentive scheme for various sectors provides an excellent opportunity to in- crease manufacturing in the country and urged the states to take full advantage and attract maximum invest- ment and also reap the benefits of reduced corporate tax rates. He said reforms are necessary for the country’s farmers to get the necessary economic re- sources, better infrastructure and technology and urged states to focus on storage and processing of agricultural products to reduce wastage while stressing the need to export processed foods rather than raw foods to increase profits. He said about Rs 65,000 crore is spent in the import of edible oil. “We can stop this and the money can go into the accounts of farmers,” said the PM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-backs-bigger-private-sector-role-for-self-reliance/articleshow/81132326.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Ranchi||Healthcare experts in Jharkhand lay stress on safety norms, vaccination amid spike in cases in Maharashtra, Kerala||RANCHI: With a new and “more transmissible” virus strain infecting people in Maharashtra and in Kerala in the past few weeks, healthcare experts in Jharkhand have urged everyone, especially senior citizens and those with co-morbidities, not to let their guard down and stressed on the need for vaccination of vulnerable groups. “The manner in which cases have spiked in Mumbai is definitely a cause for concern since those who had recovered are now getting re-infected. Those with a low antibody count aren’t immune to the new virus strain and they, needless to say, must maintain social distancing, wear masks and use sanitizers,” Dr Pradeep Bhattacharya, professor of critical care and head of Rims trauma centre, said. Dr Bhattacharya added that those who have been vaccinated are relatively safe but that doesn’t mean that they will not follow the Covid-control measures. “Those with co-morbidities run the risk of getting infected despite being vaccinated,” he said. Dr Jitendra Kumar, senior microbiologist at the CCL Central Hospital who has been examining the new virus strain, said, “There hasn’t been any official proof that the new strain is lethal. We may have seen a spike in cases in some parts of the country but that doesn’t mean that it will increase the mortality rate. Having said that, we need to be careful and vaccinate as many people as possible.” Some experts fear that if the number of cases increases then the death toll might increase as well as they are supplementary to each other. Terming the spike in Maharashtra and Kerala as a secondary wave, public health expert and professor of community medicine at Rims, Dr Dewesh Kumar, said, “This is for the third time that Kerala, Maharashtra and Bangalore have reported a surge in infections, which is something very common in a pandemic. Having said that, these infections can pose a risk to the geriatric population. They may have developed antibodies but chances of them getting re-infected are always there if there is a mutant strain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/experts-lay-stress-on-safety-norms-vaccination-amid-spike-in-cases-in-maha-kerala/articleshow/81131435.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 21, 2021||Vadodara||Over 14 lakh Barodians will vote today||VADODARA: While over 14.4 lakh Barodians get ready to choose councillors of 19 wards on Sunday, the district administration and police were busy giving final touches on the eve of the civic body polls. Altogether 7,262 polling staff will manage the show at 1,295 polling booths even as the election commission has made all Covid related arrangements including use of thermal guns to check temperature of voters, face shields, gloves, hand sanitizers, PPE kits, N95 masks and three-layered masks at every voting centre. On Saturday, EVM machines were dispatched to the polling staff from six centres across the city. For conducting smooth and safe elections, a total of 2,325 cops of Vadodara city police including IPS officers will be in guard on Sunday. Besides 325 police trainees, 1,728 homeguard jawans, four companies of state reserve police force, mounted squad, 33 sector vehicles, 31 quick response team (QRT) vehicles, 42 PCR vehicles and 50 videographers will also be deployed. Police presence will be more at 404 sensitive and 110 very sensitive voting centres in the city. As a precautionary measure, police also conducted a flag march on Saturday evening from Polo Ground to Fatehgunj police station via Navapura, Wadi, Panigate, Mandvi, Fatehpura, Bhutdi Zampa, Nagarwada, Kalaghoda and Shastri bridge. EC has asked voters to check their polling centres as per their wards on State Election Commission’s website: sec.gujarat.gov.in or call on 18002337701 between 8 am and 6 pm for any inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/over-14-lakh-barodians-will-vote-today/articleshow/81129659.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Ranchi||37 cases, 49 recoveries in Jharkhand||RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR: The number of active cases in Jharkhand stood at 469 on Saturday while 37 fresh new cases and 49 recoveries were reported. Meanwhile, no casualties were reported, the death toll remaining at 1,084. As per government data, as many as 1,19,565 people have been infected by the virus and 1,18,022 have recovered till date. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state stood at 0.90%. Meanwhile, a total of 7,206 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Saturday. The cumulative figures for vaccination stood around 70% for first dose beneficiaries while it was 81% for those who took the second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/37-cases-49-recoveries-in-jharkhand/articleshow/81129835.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Ranchi||Tribal bodies from Jharkhand to shift separate code protest to Delhi||RANCHI: Tribal groups from Jharkhand will head for Delhi from February 25 onwards to shift their protest to the national capital to demand a separate tribal religious code in the upcoming census. On Saturday, members of different groups under the banner of Rashtriya Adivasi Dharma Samanway Samiti (National Tribal Religion Coordination Committee), staged a daylong dharna outside the Raj Bhavan to press for the demand. Notably, chief minister Hemant Soren, whose government had passed a resolution for a separate tribal code in the assembly last year, too, raised the demand before Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the online meeting of Niti Aayog. Talking to TOI, Geetashree Oraon, a former minister and president of the Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad, said, “Our fight will continue till the demands are met. From February 25, we are planning to head to Delhi to establish contact with different stakeholders and ministries concerned and other bodies entrusted for the census to press for our demand.” Oraon added that different tribal bodies have now converged on a single platform slowly to collectively fight for the cause. “We are seeking for a common code for the tribal of our country so that their religions and cultures can get an identity in the census of our country,” she said, highlighting that tribals from across different states are taking different forms of protests and programmes to put pressure on the Union government. “Besides contacting stakeholders concerned, we will be organising rallies, protests and conventions in a democratic manner to intensify our fight,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tribal-bodies-to-shift-separate-code-protest-to-delhi/articleshow/81129769.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Ranchi||37 cases, 49 recoveries in Jharkhand||Ranchi/Jamshedpur: The number of active cases in Jharkhand stood at 469 on Saturday while 37 fresh new cases and 49 recoveries were reported. Meanwhile, no casualties were reported, the death toll remaining at 1,084. As per government data, as many as 1,19,565 people have been infected by the virus and 1,18,022 have recovered till date. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state stood at 0.90%.Meanwhile, a total of 7,206 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Saturday. The cumulative figures for vaccination stood around 70% for first dose beneficiaries while it was 81% for those who took the second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/37-cases-49-recoveries-in-jharkhand/articleshow/81129833.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Street play artists, social outfits to counsel beneficiaries for second shots||RANCHI: To step up coverage of second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine among healthcare workers and to motivate other beneficiaries, district administrations across the state are roping in volunteers, social organizations as well as street play artists and garbage collection vehicles to counsel beneficiaries. From volunteers of National Service Scheme (NSS) to members of the Red Cross, the authorities have also engaged garbage collection vehicles following a directive of the Union ministry of health and family welfare which allowed roping in social organisations to counsel the beneficiaries. Talking to TOI, National Health Mission (NHM) state managing director Ravishankar Shukla said, “As per the directions of the Union health ministry, we have asked all deputy commissioners to organise counselling programmes for the beneficiaries so that coverage of the vaccination drive is maximised.” Shukla also released a video message on the official twitter account of NHM, Jharkhand, highlighting the facts of the vaccination drive and requested the beneficiaries to visit their session sites and get themselves inoculated. Taking cue of the directions, the district administrations have started counselling of the healthcare workers, who are receiving their second dose of the vaccine along with the frontline workers, who are in first drive of the inoculation. A few districts are also targeting their future beneficiaries who include people above 50 years of age. Vaccination of the elderly is likely to start in March. In Ranchi, Unicef along with volunteers of NSS will organize awareness programmes to counsel the beneficiaries between February 20 and March 10. “Our teams will spread the safety and efficacy of the Indian vaccine among the masses so that the beneficiaries do not have any apprehensions ahead of vaccination drive,” state NSS co-ordinator Brajesh Mishra said. Apart from the counselling sessions, the NSS volunteers will help people above 50 years of age in their registration for the vaccination and will also help them in getting their second dose on time. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum has already started counselling of the elderly persons. Talking to TOI, East Singhbhum DC Suraj Kumar said: “We have a recorded message which is played out by all garbage collection vehicles to reach to people above 50 years of age. They are going to take the vaccine in the next phase. We are also conducted counselling sessions for frontline workers like sweepers and sanitation workers who had apprehensions about the vaccine. In all major areas of city, banners, posters and messages on the safety of vaccines are put up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/street-play-artists-social-outfits-to-counsel-beneficiaries-for-second-shots/articleshow/81130463.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 21, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: CM Hemant Soren demands separate column for tribals in Census||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to include a separate column for tribals in the Census register for upcoming 16th Indian Census commencing from this year. Among several other demands made at Niti Ayog’s online meeting chaired by the PM in presence of many other CMs, Soren also stressed on the need to strengthen “Bharat” (villages) for India to become Atmanirbhar (self-reliant), increase in MNREGA wages to reduce rural distress and universalisation of old-age pension. Last year, the Jharkhand assembly passed a resolution demanding Adivasi Sarna code and forwarded the proposal to Union government to press for inclusion of a separate column for adivasis in the census, which has been a long pending demand of tribal communities. However, this is the first time that CM has formally put the demand before the PM. Soren said, “Culture, customs, practices, and lifestyle of adivasis are different from others and are unique. Safeguarding these is mandatory to retain their distinct identity. There is a need for a separate column for them in the Census form to give them this identity.” He also reminded the PM that the state government is committed towards this long standing demand and Vidhan Sabha has ratified a resolution in its favour. Responding to the PM’s emphasis on cooperative federalism to take the country towards self-reliance in his address, Soren said achieving the aim will be impossible without systematic development of villages. “Without strengthening villages, the country’s dream of becoming atmanirbhar cannot be achieved. Proper interventions are required in the fields of agriculture, jobs, irrigations, health, education and the likes in the rural areas. We are already working in that direction. We are working out plans to provide agriculture status to lac and silk production,” he said, adding that increasing MNREGA wages too requires immediate attention. Notably, the state government had in the past written to the Centre to hike MNREGA wages. Currently, Rs 202 per day wage is given under MNREGA in Jharkhand, which according to Soren is way below the minimum wage rate and also lesser than many other states. “As a result, workers and labourers do not take interest in MNREGA jobs and tend to migrate to do petty workers risking their lives,” he said. Citing the problems of elderly in getting old-age pensions, Soren said he often comes across cases where deserving beneficiaries do not get pension as officials maintain that they have exhausted the sanctioned quota to include beneficiaries. “Caring for the elderly needs special focus and there is a need to ponder over universalisation of old-age pension,” he suggested. He also brought up the funds crunch from the Centre despite the global pandemic, citing how central assistance has been reduced. “The central shares has been cut to Rs 1200 crore from Rs 1750 crore in the Budget, which will weaken a state like us. More so, the Union government went on to deduct Rs 2,131 crores from our account in RBI for payment towards DVC,” he said. The CM also sought rational planning in the field of mining and forest clearances, the two sectors which have always been contentious subjects in the state. “For sustainable mining, both the state and the Centre have to work on equal partnership mode as it not just involves extracting of mineral wealth, but also issues of displacement, physical and mental trauma faced by those who get displaced among others,” he said, demanding the Union government to make the existing forest conversation act and clearances people and industry friendly to maintain balance between industrialization and nature conservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-demands-separate-column-for-tribals-in-census/articleshow/81131462.cms||ASRP Mukesh
February 21, 2021||Ranchi||Suffered at BJP’s hands for being tribal: Hemant Soren at Harvard meet||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday night participated in an online discussion with Harvard Kennedy School’s senior fellow Suraj Yengde at the 18th edition of the India Conference organised by students of Harvard Kennedy School and Harvard Business school. During the close-to-one-hour discussion, Soren answered questions about tribal identity and Centre-state relations. Soren said the tribals are being oppressed even after 72 years of Independence. “They are used as napkins. If the tribals are educated, who will be there to serve as drivers and cooks of the corporate?” he lamented. Soren also said the country is being radicalised and just for being a tribal, he and his party has suffered at the hands of the right-wing BJP and its allies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/suffered-at-bjps-hands-for-being-tribal-hemant-at-harvard-meet/articleshow/81130510.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
February 21, 2021||Ranchi||‘Price hike, farm laws systematic attack on farmers’: RPN Singh||HAZARIBAG: Over 2,000 tractors and nearly 50,000 people from different parts of the state took part in the tractor rally organised by Congress, a ruling alliance member, against the farm laws, here on Saturday. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, Saturday's rally is far bigger than the first such protest organised by the grand old party in Santhal Pargana last month. The Jharkhand in-charge of the party, RPN Singh, who flew down from Delhi on Friday to attend the rally, claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government at the Centre has taken a dubious stand against the farmers. Addressing the rally, he said, "On one hand, he (Modi) says that the government wants to double the farmers' income but on the other, petrol and diesel prices have sky-rocketed so much that they are nearing Rs 100 per litre. Diesel is an important component of farming as it is needed power tractors and generators to plough fields, irrigate them and harvest the produces among others. Can the poor farmers afford such high prices?" Singh further said, “Price hike is Narendra Modi government's systematic attack on the farmers and their community to destabilize them. Above that, the three farm laws are brought in in the name of reforms. They not reforms but a move to privatize agriculture and give the sector to the capitalists. It is the reason why the farmers across the country are opposing the laws tooth and nail. Congress is committed to fighting for you -- both in Parliament and on the streets -- till the laws are rolled back to save the annadata (food provider) of the country." Addressing party MLAs, workers and supporters, who came from block to state levels, Singh said, "When Congress was in power, we waived off farm loans amounting to Rs 77,000 crore across the country. What the NDA government is doing now is a total mockery in the name of farm reforms. On BJP's charge that the tractor rallies are being held with tractors borrowed from showrooms without the genuine farmers, he said, "It exposes the mentality of the saffron party who always works for their corporate friends likes Adanis and Ambanis." State Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, who conceptualized the rally here, said all ranks and files of the party worked for days to make the rally a grand success. Stating that Congress has always worked to strengthen farmers since Independence, he said, “Since the days of late PM Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, agriculture was the core agenda of Congress governments. Late PM Indira Gandhi was the first to introduce the minimum support price (MSP) for wheat and paddy in 1966. In Jharkhand, soon after the grand alliance government came in 2020, it has fulfilled the promise by waiving farm loans amounting to Rs 2,000 crores. We will give more relief to farmers in the upcoming state budget.” State ministers Badal Patralekh (agriculture), Alamgir Alam ( rural development) and former Union minister Subodh Kant Sahay are among those who addressed the rally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/price-hike-farm-laws-systematic-attack-on-farmers/articleshow/81129680.cms||Abhijit Sen
February 21, 2021||Ghaziabad||On protest pitch, here’s a doosra ‘Turbanator’||GHAZIABAD: If Harbhajan Singh, the original Turbanator foxed batsmen with his doosra, this Turbanator has 22 variations up his sleeve. Welcome Arshdeep Singh, a master “spinner” in his own right, only that his fingers have mastered the art of tweaking turbans. From Patiala Sahi to Morni and Amritsari, this 18-year-old from Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand has been helping protesters at UP Gate tie the turban in different forms for the past two months. On any given morning, before protesters take the stage, a queue of at least 50 people can be seen outside Arshdeep’s tent. “Tying the turban is not easy, it only comes with practice. Being born in a Sikh family, it came naturally to me. I have been tying the turban since I was very young,” says Arshdeep, himself draped in a royal orange headgear. So, how did the young protester start his “sewa”? “One day, I helped a farmer tie the turban. He was so impressed with the way I had done it that he spread the word around. Soon, there were more people who wanted me to help them tie the turban. The line kept growing longer with each day. It has been almost two months since I have been doing this sewa,” he says. The cloth headgear, Arshdeep says, has now become a fashion statement, especially among the yo-ung protesters. “Everybody wants to wear the turban now. It all started with Tikaitji (BKU leader Rakesh Tikait). He had started wearing different types of turbans. Since he wields considerable influence among the protesters here, everyone wants to follow him. When people started thronging my tent, I was more than happy to help,” he says. Arshdeep is no less proud. “Yes, I can tie the turban in 22 different ways. From freestyle to Patiala Sahi to Morni and Amritsari Sahi, I can do it in different forms. My favourite is the Amritsari style. It takes anything between 10 to 25 minutes to tie a turban, depending on the style,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/on-protest-pitch-heres-a-doosra-turbanator/articleshow/81131981.cms||Abhijay Jha
February 21, 2021||Goa||‘Don’t believe hearsay, 2nd dose must for jab efficacy’||Panaji: One dose of the Covishield vaccine is not sufficient to protect against Covid, head of the department of preventive medicine and nodal officer for vaccination at GMC, Dr Jagdish Kakodkar said on Saturday. “Some may get immunity partially, but one would be mistaken to think that one dose is enough,” he said. “Some of our people haven’t turned up for the second dose for reasons best known to them,” he said, while delivering a lecture ‘Covid-19 Vaccine: Myth or Reality’ organised by the Dnyanprassarak Mandal’s College and Research Centre, Assagao. He appealed to the people not to believe in false information circulated on social media, but instead listen to the medical fraternity. The vaccine has between 54 and 84% efficacy two weeks after the second dose, he said. Even those who have already had Covid must take the vaccine, but only 8-12 weeks after the recovery, he said. Responding to a question by a 27-year-old who was infected by Covid, on the necessity to get vaccinated, Dr Kakodkar cited examples of healthcare workers at GMC who got infected the second time within three months of the diagnosis of the first infection. He also spoke of cases of doctors working in Covid wards in Mumbai who got infected the third time. “A single infection of Covid, whether mild or severe, doesn’t provide one with protection from getting infected from Covid again. After two or three months, one must take the vaccine,” he said. While there are possibilities that one may get mild infection even after taking the vaccine and be able to transmit Covid, those who are vaccinated are unlikely to get severe diseases from Covid or die from it, he said. He advised people before and after vaccination to continue to follow all Covid appropriate behaviour by wearing masks and avoiding crowded places. Referring to the rise in cases in Kerala and Maharashtra, he appealed to the people not to become complacent as it would cost us heavily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-believe-hearsay-2nd-dose-must-for-jab-efficacy/articleshow/81131510.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Grandma planned four-year-old’s abduction: Amravati CP Arti Singh||AMRAVATI: In a sensational revelation, Amravati commissioner of police Arti Singh said grandmother of Nayan Mukesh Luniya had hatched the plan to kidnap the 4-year-old boy who was rescued from Ahmednagar on Friday. Singh said the grandmother, identified as Monika alias Priya alias Munni Jaswatrai Luniya, 47, and her close friend Sapna alias Heena Shakir Shaikh alias Heena Aniket Deshpande (25) from Ahmednagar were the main conspirators along with Issar Shaikh alias Takalu, who is absconding. “We will soon nab him. He has 19 cases of burglary, extortion and kidnapping against him between 2005 to 2018,” said Singh. Issar and Heena took help of Bambaiya alias Almash Tahir Sheikh (18, Kothla), Musahib Nasir Shaikh (21, Mukund Nagar), Asif Yusuf Shaikh (24, Kothla), Feroz Rashid Shaikh (25, Kothla), all from Ahmednagar, Singh told media on Saturday. “Six accused, including Monika, were arrested on Saturday and produced before the court for police custody remand,” said Singh. All the arrested accused were granted PCR till February 28. It is learnt, Monika is the second wife of Nayan’s grandfather Jaswantraj Nemichand Luniya who is a businessman. “The grandmother hails from a poor family in Ahmednagar. Her parents had left when she was small. She was raised by her guardians. Heena was her close friend and used to frequent Luniya’s house. Nayan knew Heena and did not cry even once when he was abducted bt her,” said Singh. Talking about the motive, the CP said Monika used to send money to her ailing guardian and unemployed brother but thought of extorting a large amount from the rich Luniyas by abducting Nayan. According to the CP, the planning was done a couple of months ago. The accused arrived in the city from Ahmednagar a week ago and stayed at a local lodge. The boy was lifted from a park close to his house in Sharda Nagar under Rajapeth police station on Wednesday night. “As per the plan, the grandmother took the boy for a stroll to the park which they had never visited before,” said Singh. Singh said that initially it was a blind case for cops as family members did not suspect anyone and there were no clues. “One of the CCTV footages showed the kidnappers hiring an autorickshaw to go to Welcome Point to catch a private bus. This was to mislead police as they went to Ahmednagar in a car,” said the CP. Police suspected Monika as she had reportedly not protested when the boy was kidnapped. On checking her phone, cops got phone number of one of the accused and the call was traced to Ahmednagar. “We sought help of Ahmednagar police who quickly nabbed five accused and also rescued the boy alive. All the accused are professional child lifters,” said Singh. Singh said that Heena nor her husband have a crime record. “We will have to check that,” the CP said. The CP said that all the six accused have confessed to committing the crime. Reward for police teamCP Arti Singh announced a reward of Rs50,000 each to the police team that nabbed the six accused and rescued Nayan from Ahmednagar on Friday. The CP congratulated her team as well as Ahmednagar police besides children and people who helped police crack the case. Recalling the 2010 abduction of Kush Katariya and 2015 abduction of Yug Chandak, both in Nagpur in which the kids could not be rescued alive, Singh said rescuing Nayan alive from the kidnappers was the greatest success of the entire investigation. “My team comprising DCP Shashikant Satav, ACP Dubre, Rajapeth senior PI Manish Thakare, crime branch senior PI Kailash Pundkar, city traffic branch senior PI Kishor Suryawanshi, Rajapeth PI Kishor Shelke, API cyber cell Ravindra Sahare, API Prashali Kale and Yogesh Ingle, PSI Krishna Mapari and the team of head constables and constables deserve all the credit. I have also recommended reward to Ahmednagar crime branch and citizens who helped in the probe,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/grandma-planned-4-year-olds-abduction-amt-cp/articleshow/81130115.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Citing intl examples, greens say IMS at Ajni Van unviable||NAGPUR: Research done by Save Ajni Van activists, in which they studied inter-modal stations (IMS) in other countries, shows that the project coming up in the city is unviable, considering the current population and its growth. The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA), a statutory body under the ministry of railways, has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), entrusting the latter with development, maintenance and management of inter-model stations at different locations across the country. Such stations allow passengers to change transportation modes during transit without having to leave the station premises. The country’s first IMS is coming up in the city at Ajni. The project area of the first phase, which will involve redevelopment of Ajni railway station, bus port and other connecting facilities, is nearly 54 acres, which as per experts is “unjustified”. In a press conference held on Saturday, architectural conservationist Sandeep Pathe presented research done on similar stations at other countries. “The IMS situated in Anaheim in California, which has a population of 3.95 crore and population growth rate of 7.3%, is built on a total area of 16 acres. Similarly, the station in London, which is home to over 93 lakh people and has a population growth is 0.97%, is spread over 12 acres. Seeing this, the 54 acres sanctioned for Nagpur with nearly 30 lakh population and 1.62% growth rate is not feasible,” said Pathe. Documents procured by activists under the Right to Information (RTI) reveal that 163 bus bays are proposed to come up at Ajni. A comparison of bus terminuses operating in different cities questions the need of 163 bays in the city. “Chennai has Asia’s largest bus terminus spread over an area of 37 acres with 180 bays. The population of the city is over 1 crore. The ISBT terminus in New Delhi, which has a population of over 3 crores, is situated on 25 acres. Again considering Nagpur’s population, 54 acres and 163 bays makes no sense,” said Pathe. He further questioned the smooth commute of buses from Ajni as the station is not connected to inner or outer ring road. “The route connecting Ajni to Medical Square and Ganeshpeth is already facing severe traffic congestions. The proposed IMS will bring in traffic from other states and, for a road which is 12-metre wide, it will become too congested and add to existing pollution,” stated the study done by activists. According to their research, Khapri is a better alternative site for IMS. “Khapri is well connected to outer ring road as well as the airport. It is the ideal choice as it also connects National Highways 7, 6, 69, Metro line, railway line and intra city transport,” it stated, adding that relocating IMS from Ajni to Khapri will help in preserving environment and heritage at Ajni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citing-intl-examples-greens-say-ims-at-ajni-unviable/articleshow/81130164.cms||Manka Behl
February 21, 2021||Nagpur||Rakesh Tikait, after a lot of suspense, doesn’t show up at Yavatmal||NAGPUR/WARDHA: The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha’s first rally in Maharashtra planned on Saturday remained a low-key affair, despite all the suspense. Earlier, the organizers announced that Morcha’s leader Rakesh Tikait had cancelled his visit, but later claimed that he had secretly reached Yavatmal from Delhi, dodging the sleuths. The purpose of the rally was to show that the farmers’ protest was not limited to north India. Tikait, who was set to make an appearance at Yavatmal, did not turn up. Finally, a rally was held only in Wardha with 500 to 600 farmers in attendance. Leaders from Delhi, including Amanjit Singh and Tejbir Singh, had said the agitation would have major political repercussions. Tikait is at the forefront of protests at the Delhi border. Earlier, organizers had claimed over a lakh farmers would attend the rally at Yavatmal, but it was denied permission due to Covid. Later, an application for a rally with 50 persons was moved, which too was rejected. The drama over Tikait’s visit began after that. On Friday, the organizers said there was a fake call in the name of Yavatmal superintendent of police (SP), warning Tikait of being quarantined if he came to Yavatmal. “He cancelled the trip after that,” said Sandeep Gidde-Patil from the Morcha’s state unit. Later, an audio clip also did rounds in which a person addressed as Gidde-Patil said chief minister Uddhav Thackrey had personally requested Tikait to cancel the trip considering the rising cases of Covid. As the protesters reached Wardha on Saturday, they claimed that Tikait would be there at Yavatmal. At the same time, Tikait told TOI over phone that he had could not come because the flight itself was cancelled. He was supposed to be coming by the 8:35am flight. “The airlines could have made alternate arrangement but did not. It seems to be a deliberate attempt to prevent my trip,” he said. Tikait also confirmed of having got a phone call but denied of Thackrey talking to him. The organizers here maintained that Tikait would reach Yavatmal or at the Wardha border. Locals told TOI that over 500 strong police force was deployed at the border to prevent entry of protesters. Restrictions have been imposed in Yavatmal district due to Covid. The protesters, who were in 5- 6 vehicles managed to dodge the cops and reached venue at Yavatmal, but without Tikait. Gidde-Patil then claimed that they had lost contact with Tikait, “who had driven down to Yavatmal instead of taking a flight from Delhi.” The SP Yavatmal Dilip Bhujbal told TOI that protesters have been detained. Out of the 29 activists who have been detained, chief organizer Sikander Shaha is from Yavatmal while all others are from different parts of the country. Three are from Panjab and Haryana. Others are from Nagpur and Wardha. They had reached the main venue of Azad Maidan. The police were in process of filing FIR against all, including Shaha, Sandeep Gidde-Patil of Amravati and Shreekant Tharal of Sangli. SDPO of Yavatmal Madhuri Baviskar said the action was taken on orders of the district magistrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tikait-after-a-lot-of-suspense-doesnt-show-up-at-yavatmal/articleshow/81130217.cms||Shishir Arya
February 21, 2021||Goa||Goa to host ideathon, eyes affordable healthcare tech||Panaji: In the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic and the state’s efforts towards self reliance, Goa plans to drive innovation in affordable healthcare technologies and has tied up with the Centre’s Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (Birac). As a stepping stone towards developing such technologies, the Goa State Innovation Council (GSIC) wants students, innovators and startups to think out of the box and put their knowledge and skills to use in an attempt to address healthcare challenges. GSIC is organising an ‘ideathon’ from February 23 onwards and is seeking ideas from students, innovators, entrepreneurs and professionals, said a GSIC official. The aim, the official said, is to identify ideas in the healthcare space that can be developed into viable business models. The last date to submit ideas is March 8. A jury will select viable ideas on March 12. Shortlisted innovators will be called for a final pitch on March 20, where they will have to justify how they can make the product or idea work. Participants who are selected will receive cash prizes, mentoring support and consulting so that their innovations can be developed into startups. Preliminary research published in the peer-reviewed medical trade journal, BMJ Journals, has shown that healthcare ideathons can lead to innovation and development of health solutions at a faster pace. The department of biotechnology, through Birac BioNEST, is collaborating with the state government along with FiiRE, an incubation centre, and COIN MEDIX, which will provide technical mentoring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-to-host-ideathon-eyes-affordable-healthcare-tech/articleshow/81131612.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||Goa||Active Covid tally slides to 492 in Goa||PANAJI: Fifty-seven new cases of Covid-19 and 62 recoveries were reported on Saturday, while the tally of active cases reduced slightly to 492. No casualties were reported in the last 24 hours. On most days this month, the case positivity count has ranged between two and three per cent, a drop of two to three points from January. The present case positivity is three per cent. Twenty Covid patients were hospitalised and 27 were home-isolated in the last 24 hours. In a significant reduction, the case tally at the Panaji urban health centre dropped from 41 to 28 on Saturday. Panaji reported the highest number of cases during the previous months though its count decreased to less than 100 on most days during January and February. The caseload of the primary health centre at Porvorim increased marginally to 48. In South Goa, the Margao urban health centre did not report new cases and its tally remained unchanged at 44.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-covid-tally-slides-to-492/articleshow/81131623.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Goa||Raj Bhavan tours resume, 20 persons allowed at a time||Panaji: After the Covid-19 outbreak forced a one-year break, Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) on Saturday restarted the tours of Raj Bhavan. To begin with, visitors will be allowed a tour of the complex once a week, and only 20 people will be permitted at a time. The difference between the present-day tours and prior to the pandemic is that now the Raj Bhavan Darshan will be conducted by an expert, and that will help bust some myths associated with Dona Paula. “There are no love tales associated with Dona Paula. Love stories of Dona and Paula got into circulation after the superhit 1981 film “Ek Duuje Ke Liye” was filmed at Dona Paula. Tour guides gave their own spin,” says Sawani Shetye, a heritage travel curator who will be conducting the Raj Bhavan Darshan for GTDC. Somewhere in the 17th seventeen century, Shetye said a woman named Paula who hailed from a landlord family undertook a lot of charities, and hence “Dona Paula” was named after her. But accurate information is not available as to what the place was called before it came to be known by its present name. As she explains various aspects of the historical monument, Shetye doesn’t miss out on new traditions that started post Goa’s Liberation at Raj Bhavan and after it was converted into the official residence of the Goa Governor. A GTDC official said they will likely conduct the tours more than one day in a week later, and a lot will depend on the response from tourists and other visitors. “Earlier, tours were conducted thrice a week, and we received a good response,” the GTDC official said. Also, tourists and others will be able to book their visits 24 hours prior as against booking that was required to be done 48 hours in advance earlier. Besides, they will be able to book tours from GTDC website and at residencies other than on the Raj Bhavan portal, on payment of Rs 500 per head. “We have hiked the tour fee from Rs 300 to Rs 500. For security reasons, the list of names of visitors for the day have to be forwarded to Raj Bhavan with an attachment of Aadhar card copies of guests,” he said. Raj Bhavan darshans were introduced in 2019 during late Mridula Sinha tenure as Goa governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/raj-bhavan-tours-resume-20-persons-allowed-at-a-time/articleshow/81131655.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 21, 2021||India||Disha bail plea: Judge asks cops to show proof||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Saturday asked police to show evidence and not go by “surmises or conjectures” when it opposed the bail plea of climate activist Disha Ravi, accusing her of being linked to those advocating Khalistan. Police maintained that Ravi was preparing the toolkit and was part of a global conspiracy to defame India and create unrest in the garb of the farmers’ protest. It said the toolkit was “not innocent, not innocuous” and acted as a gateway to online links defaming the country. But additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana wasn’t convinced and flooded additional solicitor general S V Raju with queries demanding evidence. “What is a toolkit? Can it be incriminating in itself ? What exactly is the evidence linking this lady to the January 26 violence?” the court asked. Is there any evidence or are we to go by surmises and conjectures?” the court asked at a hearing, at the end of which it posted the bail plea for orders on February 23.ASG Ra- ju submitted that it was not just a simple toolkit. “The real plan was to defame India and create unrest here… she was aware of the criminality of her actions”. Police said a thorough probe is being carried out which will re- veal a “sinister design”. It alleged that Disha deleted WhatsApp chats, emails and other evidence and was aware of the legal actions she could face. “Why did Disha Ravi cover her tracks and delete evidence if she did not commit wrong?” the prosecution said, alleging that this shows her guilty mind and sinister design. During the hearing, ASJ Rana also questioned police on evidence connecting Ravi with the Khalistan movement. “How can you impute the same intention to me just because I meet certain persons with bad credentials or am emotionally attached to a cause? Just because I approached a dacoit for temple donation, do I become privy to dacoity?” the judge asked, pointing out that Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) is neither banned, nor is there any FIR against the founders . “Everyone knows Mo Dhaliwal (founder of PJF). Why would you meet with such a person?” asked police. “No, I don’t know who is Mo Dhaliwal,” responded the judge. ASG Raju submitted that conspiracy can be gleaned only through circumstantial evidence and cited tweets of the accused. But the court wondered if it should “presume that there is no direct link now?” and asked police to show a link between the conspiracy and the actual offence. “I can’t move ahead till I satisfy my judicial conscience,” ASJ Rana said, even as police contended they were still investigating the matter. Appearing for Disha, advo- cate Siddharth Agarwal rejected the allegations made by police and argued there is no evidence to show that the toolkit on farmers’ protest is responsible for the violence on January 26 or to link her with the banned Sikhs for Justice (SFJ). “She is not a rebel without a cause. Her cause is environment and agriculture and the interlink between them,” Disha’s counsel said, adding that “if the offence is she protested peacefully, or advertised about a peaceful protest and it amounts to ‘sedition’, then she is guilty”. The counsel also joined issue with the allegations in the FIR that yoga and chai were being targeted. “If I (Disha) prefer kung fu over yoga, do I become a Chinese spy? It is part of the FIR, is that sedition… there is no evidence to link me with Sikhs For Justice, a banned organisation. And even if I meet someone, there is no symbol on him that he is a secessionist,” the defence counsel said. “It’s a very nice English word, conspiracy. I’ve learnt it from Mr Raju himself, ‘jiska koi nahi hota, uska conspiracy hota hai’.” Advocate Agarwal also assailed police’s claim of a Khalistan conspiracy taking advantage of the farm law protests to cause disruption. However, judge Rana was quick to point out that there could be another possibility in the case. "Dushman ka dushman dost hota hai," he remarked, outlining the case of the prosecution. But Disha’s counsel reiterated that there was no evidence. “There’s nobody arrested in connection with the violence at Red Fort who says he was inspired for the same because of the toolkit. They talk about a Zoom call. Is it evidence that I spoke during a Zoom call?” At the fag end of the hearing, ASG Raju rebutted Disha’s claims and alleged that the final toolkit was also shared with PJF, a secessionist organisation which advocates creation of Khalistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/disha-bail-plea-judge-asks-cops-to-show-proof/articleshow/81132335.cms||Abhinav Garg
February 21, 2021||Vadodara||No more popping pills, now just inhale your antibiotics!||VADODARA: You may not have to pop up azithromycin pills in the future. Instead, you will be able to simply inhale this most common antibiotic drug widely prescribed to treat respiratory tract infections of the nose, throat and lungs. Researchers of M S University’s Faculty of Pharmacy have received a patent for their invention of a liposomal dry powder inhaler (LDPI) of azithromycin. This invention will significantly reduce the side effects that the drug causes to people who consume it currently in pill form. “We had taken up the project as there is a need for a better formulation for the treatment of lung infections. Lung infections are the most prevalent and leading cause of death from infectious diseases in the world,” said Dr Hetal Thakkar, who along with her students — Sunil Thakor and Dr Praveen Srivastava — carried out the research project. “Azithromycin is a widely prescribed drug for the treatment of respiratory tract infections. But as the drug enters the stomach and blood, it causes a number of side effects. There has always been a demand for a formulation that can help the drug reach its target organ — the organ where the bacteria that is causing respiratory infection resides — without causing side effects,” said Thakkar. The team developed the new formulation by encapsulating azithromycin within liposomes (used as a carrier), converting it into a dry powder by freeze-drying and filling it in capsules. Patients can easily take drug doses through dry powder inhalers. The liposomal dry powder was evaluated using various in-vitro and animal studies. The in-vivo studies done on rats showed that the liposomes are retained in the lungs for a prolonged period of up to 12 hours with lesser presence in blood. “These liposomes slowly released the loaded azithromycin into the lungs and thus avoided the exposure of the drug to stomach or blood,” she said. “This helps in building local drug concentrations required for maximizing effectiveness and minimizing side effects,” said Thakkar, adding that the formulation is ready for clinical investigation in human volunteers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-more-popping-pills-now-just-inhale-your-antibiotics/articleshow/81129696.cms||Prashant Rupera
February 21, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Panel to scan religious content in textbooks||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government has proposed forming a committee of teachers and experts to review the textbooks of Class 1 to Class 10 for communally sensitive topics. The committee will scan the social studies and language textbooks to avoid any content that can hurt the sentiments of any community. The proposal comes in light of recent representations sent to the minister of primary and secondary education S Suresh Kumar by members of a community about passages in Class 6 social science textbooks. On Saturday, the minister said he received a call two months ago about some objectionable portions on Buddhism and Jainism. He said the problematic sections will be removed, but the portions on Buddhism and Jainism will remain. “I want to assure everyone that only the contentious content will be removed, but not the entire section on Buddhism and Jainism,” he said. Section leading to chapters will be removed: MinisterLord Buddha and Lord Mahavira deeply influence us in everyday life, and we cannot even imagine deleting the entire chapters. However, the section leading to the chapters was pointed out to be problematic and will be removed,” Suresh Kumar said. He added the paragraph leading to the chapters talks about caste and other matters that are beyond the understanding of class 6 students. “We must ensure these kids are taught everything positive about society and nothing that can lead to hatred. The government has no intention of discrediting or insulting any religion. These textbooks were written before our government came to power,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-panel-to-scan-religious-content-in-textbooks/articleshow/81132377.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka CET to be held on July 7 and 8||BENGALURU: The Common Entrance Test by the Karnataka Examinations Authority will be conducted on July 7 and 8 for admission to all undergraduate professional engineering courses. Announcing the schedule on Saturday, deputy CM CN Ashwath Narayan said the dates were finalised in keeping with entrance tests of other states, II PU exams in Karnataka and CBSE exams. The II PU exams will be held between May 24 and June 16, and CBSE Class 12 exams from May 4 to June 11. The CET biology and maths papers will be held on July 7 while physics and chemistry will be held on July 8. On July 9, Kannada language test will be conducted for Horanadu and Gadinadu candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-cet-to-be-held-on-july-7-and-8/articleshow/81132402.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 2021 opens with a poorer pollution score than 2020||GURUGRAM : The city’s Air Quality Index (AQI) in the first two months of this year has been worse than how it began 2020. This January, the city only saw three ‘moderate’ days and two ‘satisfactory’ AQI days. In comparison, 14 ‘moderate’ and two ‘satisfactory’ days were recorded in January 2020. Track the pollution level in your citySimilarly, February has seen just two moderate days till the 20th, compared to 10 in the corresponding period in 2020. According to the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), low wind speed and local factors like garbage burning and dust from construction sites have contributed to the deterioration of air quality this time compared to last year. Moreover, the city saw 13 ‘poor’ days this January, an increase from 11 last January. The number of ‘very poor’ days was also much higher — 13 compared to just two in January 2020. Last year, however, January had two ‘severe’ days whereas no ‘severe’ day was recorded this year. Nine ‘poor’ days have been observed this month till February 20, while the figure was 10 last year during the same period. A total of nine ‘very poor’ days have been reported in February till now, while none was reported last year. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. “We have witnessed less ‘moderate’ days this January and February as the region has witnessed less rain this year compared to last year. The city had received rainfall during the first two months of 2020, which cleared pollutants from the air,” said HSPCB member secretary S Narayan told TOI. He further said the contribution of internal factors like garbage burning and violation of construction norms also cannot be ruled out. “Poisonous gases from waste burning and dust from construction sites have also contributed to air pollution in Gurugram . We cannot deny the role of these factors while analysing the city’s AQI,” he added. Meanwhile, the air quality is likely to improve in the coming days as the temperature in the region is expected to rise. “In the coming days, the minimum temperature is likely to rise. This will help the region’s AQI to improve,” Narayan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2021-opens-with-a-poorer-pollution-score-than-2020/articleshow/81131771.cms||Ipsita Pati
February 21, 2021||Noida||Noida: 58-year-old businessman dies as SUV crashes into house wall & tree||NOIDA: A 58-year-old businessman died while three of his relatives were injured in a road accident in Sector 26 on Friday night. Police said that it appeared the businessman had lost control of his SUV and crashed into a tree. Sanjay Gupta, a resident of NRI Residency in Sector 45, was returning home from a club where he had celebrated his marriage anniversary. The accident happened around 10.30pm. Sanjay, who was at the wheel, was new to driving the MG Hector — this was an electric model — which was bought by his nephew Nihit three days ago, police said. Sanjay and four family members had gone to a club in Sector 26 for the celebrations in a different car, police said. On the way back, Nihit let Sanjay drive his new Hector. Other relatives followed them in another car. Nihit was in the Hector’s passenger seat. Two relatives, Manisha and Ridhi, were in the back seat. Police said soon Sanjay struggled to control the SUV, which hit the boundary wall of a house in A block of Sector 26, leading to a part of the wall caving in. “In a bid to stop more damage, Sanjay reversed the car, but it crashed into a neem tree behind. It seems Sanjay was driving it for the first time and could not control the automatic vehicle,” Sector 20 SHO Rakesh Kumar Singh said. Sanjay sustained severe injuries. He and the others were taken to the nearby Apollo hospital by their relatives. Sanjay was declared brought dead. He had a head injury, which had caused a haemorrhage, police said. The impact of the collision was so severe that even the airbag could not help save him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/58-yr-old-bizman-dies-as-hector-crashes-into-house-wall-tree/articleshow/81130730.cms||Shikha Salaria
February 21, 2021||Bengaluru||Ponytail helps cops nab Delhi-bound chain-snatchers hours before flight||BENGALURU: Good observational skills help police officers in connecting the dots and cracking challenging cases. When constables Basavaraj Lamani and Devarajaiah were summoned for a meeting and shown the CCTV images of chain-snatchers, they looked at each other in shock as one of the suspects, who sported a ponytail, had been spotted by them at a tea shop a few hours ago. Swinging into action, they succeeded in nabbing a gang of inter-state criminals before the latter could catch a flight to Delhi and recovered six gold chains worth Rs 10 lakh. “If the constables had not noticed the suspect with the ponytail and recognised him, the gang would have escaped,” a senior police officer told STOI, while stating that six cases have been solved. Attached to Bagalur police station, Lamani and Devarajaiah had observed half-a-dozen men, including the one with the ponytail, outside a tea stall at Kannamangala near Bagalur before attending the meeting called by senior officers. Soon, police teams reached the spot and the tea shop owner told them about the villa where the men lived. After brief interrogation, police arrested the six gang members. Air tickets recovered from them showed that two prime suspects were about to leave for Kempegowda International Airport to board a Delhi-bound flight on the same night. Sharing their experience, Devarajaiah and Lamani said they will never forget the case. “We knew that six chain-snatching cases were proving difficult to crack. We all were tense and wanted to solve them. But we never thought it would end this way,” they said, adding: “We are happy that the accused were caught early. They were planning to rob more victims.” The accused are Suresh Kumar alias Pandit alias Subhash, 32, Haseen Khan, 23, A Irshad, 24, M Saleem, 22, M Afroz alias Shahid, 25, all residents of Delhi and Harris PK alias Harris, 37, of Wayanad in Kerala. Suresh and Haseen face at least 24 criminal cases, including those of robbery in Delhi, said deputy commissioner of police (northeast) CK Baba. “Harris had booked a villa for a month in his name. Prime accused Suresh and Haseen flew down to the city from Delhi on February 1. The same day, they stole a motorbike in Chikkajala, replaced the number with a fake one and started a recce. After making mental notes of the areas, Suresh flew back to Delhi on February 9 night. There, he roped in three others to assist him in snatching chains. He again arrived here on February 11 morning and the others reached by train on February 13. The gang operated on February 16 and February 17 and snatched chains from six victims,” Baba explained. Additional commissioner of police S Murugan said they will question the villa owner too. “On what basis did he rent it to the accused?” he said. According to investigating officers, the villa was rented to Harris for Rs 30,000 per month. “Harris had been living there since the third week of January. The accused claim this is their first visit to the city. We are cross-checking their details with the crime records bureau,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ponytail-helps-cops-nab-delhi-bound-chain-snatchers-hours-before-flight/articleshow/81132415.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
February 21, 2021||Vadodara||Rows continue in ward 16 after Friday’s clash||Vadodara: Rows did not die down in ward 16 of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) from where Congress heavyweight and former leader of opposition Chandrakant Shrivastava is contesting. After the violence on Friday, Shrivastava has demanded better security measures and has alleged that his rival did not declare criminal cases in his election affidavit. The contest between Shrivastava and BJP’s Naresh Rabari has emerged as a one-on-one contest despite the panel system as two of the other seats are reserved for women while one is for a male from the scheduled caste. Also, Shrivastava and Rabari are clearly the ones spearheading their panels. Shrivastava submitted an application to the election officials and the police demanding that security at 17 places including sensitive booths should be beefed up. He has expressed apprehension that voters may be enticed or coerced in the area. The second application was submitted by Shrivastava’s son Vishal Shrivastava. Vishal is also the election agent for Shrivastava. Vishal pointed out that Rabari had not declared three offences registered against him in the Wadi police station. The offences were registered in 2015 and are pending in the court. Vishal demanded that action should be taken against Rabari and an offence should be registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rows-continue-in-ward-16-after-fridays-clash/articleshow/81129704.cms||---
February 21, 2021||India||Dual degree from Indian, foreign institutes soon||NEW DELHI: Now Indian students will be able to earn a dual degree conferred by Indian and foreign higher education institutions, separately and simultaneously. Students will also get the benefit of credit transfer and joint degrees offered under academic collaborations between Indian and foreign higher education institutions. The UGC has finalised draft regulations for these programmes, which will be notified soon. As per regulations, higher education institutions of India can collaborate with foreign counterparts for credit recognition, transfer and twinning arrangement for offer of degrees. Regulations won’t apply to online & distance-learning programmesHowever, the regulations won’t be applicable to programmes offered in online and distance learning mode. According to the draft UGC (Academic Collaboration between Indian and Foreign Higher Education Institutions to offer Joint Degree, Dual Degree and Twinning Programmes) Regulations, 2021, “any degree or diploma awarded based on these collaborations “shall be equivalent to any corresponding degree or diploma awarded by the Indian higher education institution; there shall be no further requirement of seeking equivalence from any authority”. Any Indian institution accredited by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) with a minimum score of 3.01 or in the top 100 in University category of National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) or an Institution of Eminence can collaborate with any foreign institution in top 500 of Times Higher Education or QS World University ranking automatically. The partnerships would be allowed for four types of academic collaborations, which include credit recognition and transfer, joint degree programme, dual degree programme and twinning arrangement. Under the twinning arrangement, while a student enrolled in an Indian institution may undertake their programme of study partly in the foreign institution, the degree or diploma offered shall be awarded by the Indian higher education institution only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dual-degree-from-indian-foreign-institutes-soon/articleshow/81132423.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||3kg gunpowder seized 3km from Nimtita blast site||BERHAMPORE: The recovery of around 3kg gunpowder — packed in a bag and left abandoned outside a WBSEDCL customer care centre in Aurangabad, some 3km from the Nimtita blast site — sparked fresh panic on Saturday with many shops downing shutters and streets becoming quickly deserted. Police removed the gunpowder and said it was too early to link it to the explosion on February 17 night. Head of SIT Anuj Sharma is reaching Nimtita on Sunday and will interact with field investigations teams. Sharma, who will be accompanied by other top SIT officers, is also likely to visit the blast site. The NIA too is collating information. The agency had arrested a top JMB operative from this area and Nimtita railway station was a target during the anti-CAA/NRC protests. The place is also 6km from the India-Bangladesh border. NIA personnel who were supposed to reach the spot could not be contacted. Shahriar Ahammed, the WBSEDCL call forwarding officer, said they noticed the bag lying abandoned. “After the railway station blast, people are very careful about unclaimed objects. This bag raised suspicion. It was lying there overnight. Police were informed and they removed it,” he said. Aurangabad is home to state minister Jakir Hossain and several among the 14 injured in the Nimtita blast who are now at SSKM Hospital in Kolkata. Saturday’s gunpowder bag caused panic because a white bag, remnants of which were traced by forensic experts, is believed to have been stacked with IED to trigger the station explosion. Jangipur police superintendent Y Raghuvamshi said: “It (the gunpowder) has been seized. It is too early to comment on whether this is linked to other events. Over the past week, police have been raiding suspected hideouts from where gunpowder has been seized and people have been arrested. It is possible that the bag was dumped (outside the customer care centre) in apprehension of police raids. It is too early to draw conclusions.” Jangipur police, along with the Special Task Force, is also scanning villages hemming the belt, where crude bombs are made. One such village under glare is Chamra, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3kg-gunpowder-seized-3km-from-nimtita-blast-site/articleshow/81131660.cms||Sukumar Mahato
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||TMC-BJP clashes rock Minakhan & Dum Dum, eight hurt||BASIRHAT/KOLKATA: At least eight persons were injured, several vehicles were damaged and a party office was ransacked in two separate clashes between supporters of Trinamool Congress and BJP at Minakhan and north Dum Dum on Saturday. At Minakhan, trouble broke out when BJP’s ‘parivartan yatra’, led by state party president Dilip Ghosh, was passing through Malancha Bazar near Bamunpukur More in the afternoon. BJP leaders alleged that a group of Trinamool-backed goons attacked Ghosh’s convoy with bombs. “The attacks were carried out twice — first from a Patha Sathi building and then from the local Trinamool party office. Three BJP supporters were seriously injured while another is missing. Two cars in our convoy were damaged as TMC-backed goons lobbed crude bombs,” Ghosh said. State food minister and district Trinamool chief Jyotipriya Mallick rubbished the allegations. “The BJP is fabricating a story of bomb attack on Dilip Ghosh’s convoy. In fact, BJP men deliberately ransacked our party office and attacked Trinamool supporters, leaving them seriously injured,” the minister said. In north Dum Dum, three persons were injured in a clash between supporters of TMC and BJP, after the latter held a ‘chai pe charcha’ programme at Nimta in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-bjp-clashes-rock-minakhan-dum-dum-8-hurt/articleshow/81131610.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||BJP, TMC in war of words on Nandigram||Kolkata: Senior BJP leaders took to Twitter on Saturday to say if CM Mamata Banerjee was confident of winning Nandigram, she should declare it the only seat from which she would contest. BJP’s barrage of tweets prompted Trinamool to say: “Why is BJP scared about declaring their Nandigram candidate? Or even their CM face?” A Trinamool Congress source said: “Mamata di is the face for all 294 seats. BJP should first announce whom they will field against her in Nandigram. We are all set to win big.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-tmc-in-war-of-words-on-nandigram/articleshow/81131678.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Ahmedabad||Motera unforgettable for me, says Pujara||Ahmedabad: The Sardar Patel Gujarat Stadium at Motera is very special to India’s most reliable Test batsman Cheteshwar Pujara. “This venue is very memorable and unforgettable to me as I played the India-England Test soon after getting engaged in November 2012,” said Pujara with a smile, during a virtual media conference on Saturday evening. Pujara married Puja at Rajkot in February 2013. Incidentally, Pujara slammed an unbeaten double century in the first innings and was declared the man of the match for his superb knock, helping India to a victory in the 2012 Test here. “This is a massive new stadium and we have been enjoying here,” added Pujara, when asked how he felt about the newly built world’s largest cricket stadium which will hold seven international matches during this England tour (2 Tests and 5 T20Is). No wonder, the thrill and enthusiasm amongst the local fans is immense. “I am very hopeful and confident of reaching the three-figure mark very soon,” was the pat reply, when asked as to when will his fans see a century from him. Pujara seemed optimistic of all-rounder Hardik Pandya making it to the team. “Hardik looks to be in good nick and has got his rhythm back. The team management will take a call whether he will be included into the playing eleven for the third Test,” said Pujara. Pujara is also very hopeful that India will make it to the final of the World Test Championship. “We are quite confident that we will qualify for the World Test Championship final,” said Pujara. India need to win the series to make the final of the World Test Championship against New Zealand at Lord’s from June 18-22. On the other hand, Joe Root’s England need to win both the matches at Motera to reach the final on their home soil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/motera-unforgettable-for-me-says-pujara/articleshow/81131077.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||Villagers give Rs 90k to CM’s fund as thanks for jobs in lockdown||Chandrakona (West Midnapore): Nearly 13,000 villagers under Chandrakona’s Bhagabantapur-II gram panchayat, several among them migrants who returned home during the Covid-19 lockdown, donated Rs 90,806 to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund as a mark of gratitude for employment under the100-day-work scheme. The villagers had kept aside Re 1 every day from their wages for a week. Banks were initially reluctant to accept the entire amount in Re 1 coins, so a part was exchanged for currency notes from local traders. A bank later consented to taking Rs 9,000 in coins, and villagers were able to hand over a cheque to local MLA Chhaya Dolui on Saturday. Dolui said: “These workers went through immense hardship during the lockdown and some were even forced to walk all the way back home. Overwhelmed by the CM’s initiative for them, these workers decided to show their gratitude to her through this donation.” Gram panchayat pradhan Ismail Khan said: “During the lockdown, people here were plunged into acute financial crisis. It was around that time that chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced resumption of the 100-day-work-scheme. Fresh job cards were also issued. Having seen financial distress from up close, the villagers wanted to help.” Jamshed Khan and his wife Chaina Khatun said: “We faced tremendous hardship after lockdown was announced. After a point of time, the local grocers also refused to give us anything due to mounting debt. To make things worse, people settled elsewhere also started returning home.” After the100-day-work-scheme was resumed, the couple worked to repair drains and river embankments. “We kept aside a coin every day from our daily wages to help the government,” they said. Lakhiram Hembram, another donor, said: “This gram panchayat has over 15 polling booths. People across villages donated.”  Bengal had decided to resume its 100-day-work scheme in April 2020 amid the battle with Covid. The government, which had imposed social distancing measures in these schemes, had said stopping work would impact poor villagers and deny them their only means of survival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/villagers-give-rs-90k-to-cms-fund-as-thanks-for-jobs-in-lockdown/articleshow/81131572.cms||Sujoy Khanra
February 21, 2021||Vadodara||Sayajibaug zoo compounder booked for scrap theft||Vadodara: The Sayajibaug zoo compounder has been booked for secretly selling off scrap material worth Rs 50,000 from the zoo. Curator of the zoo, Pratyush Patankar told the police that metal scrap generated in the past two years from the renovated cages of animals and birds had been stocked in an open place behind the bird house. However, when Patankar went there around a fortnight back, he found the amount of scrap less. Upon inquiry, Patankar was told that the compounder Narendrasinh Zala had sent some of the scrap material worth Rs 50,000 in a vehicle. When questioned, Zala admitted to the theft. When the higher-ups in Vadodara Municipal Corporation were informed about it, Zala was suspended and Patankar was asked to lodge a criminal complaint against him at Sayajigunj police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sayajibaug-zoo-compounder-booked-for-scrap-theft/articleshow/81129715.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||CBI continues searches in coal case||Kolkata: The CBI on Saturday continued searches in the illegal coal mining case. The agency had on Friday searched more than 10 locations in Kolkata, Purulia, Bankura and Burdwan. The CBI is trying to dig deeper into the alleged role of TMC leader Vinay Mishra in the coal racket. Mishra, the CBI has reasons to believe, was the link between political bigwigs and illegal miners. It has also searched the premises of a private bank employee in Durgapur who is said to be instrumental in stashing away all the ill-gotten money. In the cross-border cattle smuggling case, prime accused Enamul Haque was produced in the special CBI court on Saturday. He will be produced again on March 1. Haque’s lawyer is likely to move his bail petition on that day. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cbi-continues-searches-in-coal-case/articleshow/81131639.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal to withdraw 70 criminal cases against Bimal Gurung||KOLKATA/DARJEELING: The state government is moving court for “selective withdrawal” of criminal cases pending against Gorkha leader Bimal Gurung ahead of the assembly polls. The state law department, in a directive to public prosecutors in charge of the cases, has asked officers to start the process of withdrawing as many as 70 cases out of a total 156 pertaining to the Gorkhaland agitation from 2007 to 2017, an official said on Saturday. Gurung has thanked the Mamata Banerjee government for the move. “I got the message and would like to thank the government. These cases were relating to the agitation,” he said. But cases against Gurung under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and murder cases in connection with the killings of sub-inspector Amitava Malik and All India Gorkha League leader Madan Tamang remain, the official added. Of the 70-odd cases, 22 are under trial, lodged against the Gorkha leader between 2007 and 2013. Another 47 were lodged between June and October 2017 in which police filed charge sheets against the accused. These cases relate to various offences under the Prevention of Destruction of Public Property Act, Arms Act, Indian Explosives Act, National Highway Act, and charges like criminal conspiracy. A Darjeeling court also declared Gurung and Roshan Giri as “proclaimed offenders”, giving police a free hand to arrest them from any place in India. According to the state law department, the public prosecutor may move court under Section 321 of the Criminal Procedure Code seeking the court’s permission to withdraw from prosecution cases before the judgment is pronounced. “We gave our opinion on 70-80 petty cases and those relating to cases under the National Highway Act. It went to Raj Bhavan and finally the governor gave his consent. We also gave our opinion to the pending cases under UAPA after Calcutta High Court gave a directive that no coercive step should be taken against the accused,” said public prosecutor Pranay Rai. The state’s initiative drew flak from opposition leaders. BJP leader Shamik Bhattacharya held that Trinamool Congress was doing it to win assembly seats in the Hills. CPM leader Ashok Bhattacharya saw the government’s initiative as a “desperate move” to appease Gurung.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-to-withdraw-70-criminal-cases-against-gurung/articleshow/81131565.cms||Deep Gazmer
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Suvendu Adhikari hits out over abolition of five lakh govt posts||KOLAGHAT (HOWRAH): BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Saturday accused the Mamata Banerjee government of wiping off 5.5 lakh state government posts even as youths were forced to look outside Bengal for employment. Addressing BJP’s ‘parivartan yatra’ at Kolaghat, Adhikari said: “The state government has abolished 5.5 lakh government posts when educated youths are leaving the state in search of jobs. Not only that, some seniors also tampered with the TET merit list for teacher recruitment and gave away jobs against cut money.” The former state cabinet minister also blamed the government for a downward slide in Bengal. “There has been no heavy industry in the state in the last nine-and-a-half years. People in Singur couldn’t get an industry, neither could they till the deserted land. The state’s debt burden, on the other hand, has doubled from what it was when the Left Front was voted out of power,” he said. Adhikari reminded farmers in the gathering about PM Narendra Modi’s promise of Rs 18,000 each under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi that the Banerjee government didn’t allow in the state. “What right does the state government have to deprive farmers? Each farmer will get their due along with the arrears once the BJP government assumes office. The Union home minister also announced a similar support programme for fishermen,” the leader said, adding that no one could prevent BJP from winning the Bengal polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-hits-out-over-abolition-of-5l-govt-posts/articleshow/81131575.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||12 CAPF units reach Bengal, another 30 to arrive today||Kolkata: Twelve companies of central paramilitary forces reached Kolkata, Dankuni and Durgapur on Saturday while another 30 are scheduled to reach the state on Sunday. The ministry of home affairs has decided to send 125 companies of central armed police forces (CAPF) to Bengal for maintaining law and order in the run-up to the assembly polls. The Election Commission has asked the state government, the chief electoral officer (CEO) and CAPF to send daily reports on the movement of central forces so that they can be effectively used to control pre-poll violence in the state. Two companies of CAPF reached Durgapur by train, one got down at Burdwan, five reached Dankuni and another four arrived at Kolkata railway station in Chitpore, a state election official said. “We have sent available forces to 12 areas — East and West Midnapore, Howrah police commissionerate and Howrah rural, Bidhannagar, Diamond Harbour, Durgapur, Barrackpore, Hooghly, East and West Burdwan and Birbhum. Another 30 companies are likely to come to the state on Sunday. The forces will come in phases till deployment is complete by the end of February,” a source at the CEO office said. The EC, this time, will keep a watch on the movement of forces and their utilisation following allegations from opposition parties that central forces placed under the guidance of the state police were not allowed to work. “The coordination and monitoring will be done by a team comprising CEO Ariz Aftab, ADG (law and order) Jawed Shamim who is nodal officer of the state police and the DIG (BSF) who is nodal officer for CAPF. All have to send a report to the commission separately,” the official said. The report must highlight issues such as demarcation of areas, advantages and disadvantages of these areas and their coordination with the state police force. “CEO Aftab has been asked to keep in touch with the forces directly and inform the commission whenever they face any problem in discharging their duties,” the official added. Sources in the EC said there were approximately 18,000 vulnerable hamlets in the state and more than 50% booths were considered either sensitive or highly sensitive. “Districts like North and South 24 Parganas, Jhargram, Purulia, Murshidabad and Hooghly are considered to be highly sensitive and the deployment of forces has been made keeping all these factors in mind,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/12-capf-units-reach-bengal-another-30-to-arrive-today/articleshow/81131673.cms||Saibal Gupta
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||Cong, Left & ISF agree on ‘some more’ S Bengal seats||Baidyabati: Leaders of CPM, Congress and Indian Secular Front (ISF) agreed on some more seats in south Bengal during talks in Hooghly’s Baidyabati on Saturday evening. However, sharing of seats in north Bengal between Congress and ISF, who share a common support base in Malda and Murshidabad, still remains a hurdle. “We have cleared some seats in south Bengal and are at a cementing stage for many more. We have to stay in touch with our base leaders and get their feedback before apprising Delhi of the deal for the final go-ahead,” Congress veteran Pradip Bhattacharya said after the meeting. Similarly, Bhattacharya noted, Md Salim has to be in touch with CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra and Left Front chairman Biman Bose before finalising a deal. “It takes time. We need some more rounds of talks,” he added. The ISF representative present at the meeting said they were ready to take a flexible stand if others did the same too. “We submitted our preference lists both for south and north Bengal. We have requested leaders during the fourth round of talks today to consider our demand for seats in north Bengal. We are not stubborn,” the representative said. CPM leader Salim held that all the stakeholders were unanimous on the aim to maximize the anti-Trinamool votes without giving any scope to the BJP either. “Our main focus is to determine which party can win the seat. This requires a threadbare discussion on individual seats based on the formula that we have all agreed upon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cong-left-isf-agree-on-some-more-s-bengal-seats/articleshow/81131622.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||‘Bangla nijer meyekei chay’: Trinamool launches slogan with Didi as CM face||KOLKATA/NAGRAKATA: Trinamool Congress on Saturday launched the slogan — “Bangla nijer meyekei chay (Bengal wants its own daughter)” — projecting Mamata Banerjee as chief minister for the third time. Party MP Abhishek Banerjee introduced the same slogan at Nagrakata in north Bengal to evoke Bengal’s sentiments for its daughter. Abhishek added a catchline to it, “bahiragatader dao biday (bid farewell to outsiders)”, to add punch to the TMC slogan that “encapsulates Bengal, its natural love for the daughter and a household touch to the chief ministerial candidate when Bengal BJP fumbles to announce a name for the CM”. At Trinamool Bhavan, party senior Subrata Mukherjee said: “We don’t have any problem in naming our CM candidate when opposition parties struggle to find a suitable face. Her name is Mamata. The daughter of Bengal will lead the battle to protect Bengal and its culture.” Addressing a gathering at the European Club Grounds at Nagrakata, Abhishek said: “Mamata Banerjee is the country’s only CM against whom the Prime Minister, the Union home minister, the defence minister and a host of Union ministers have come together to uproot her from Bengal. Will you allow this?” Mamata, since her debut in parliamentary politics in 1984 when she defeated CPM stalwart Somnath Chatterjee from Jadavpur, has always projected her as the girl next door dressed in an ordinary attire but uncompromising in her resolve. Abhishek tried to make use of the image. “Do you want Bengal’s daughter to surrender to Delhi?” the TMC leader said, taking a jab at “outsiders” frequenting the state during elections to wrest Bengal. Abhishek then reminded the gathering the status of women in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh. “Those who look down upon women, insult them, allowed gang rapes in Unnao, Hathras and Balarampur have come to you for votes,” he said. “I don’t know which party you are going to vote for. But I promise you that Trinamool will serve you for the next five years after it assumes office,” the TMC MP said at Nagrakata, where Dalits and Adivasis went with BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Trinamool leaders will take the slogan across the state and launch it at district headquarters on International Language Day (Bhasha Diwas) on February 21. “They call us Bangladeshis when we raise ‘Jai Bangla’ slogan. But why do they then refer to Sonar Bangla?” Abhishek said, hinting that both slogans have a pan-Bengal connect. The ‘Jai Bangla’ slogan was raised during the Bangladesh Liberation War by freedom fighters while Tagore’s “Amar sonar Bangla ami tomay bhalobashi” is the national anthem of Bangladesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bangla-nijer-meyekei-chay-trinamool-launches-slogan-with-didi-as-cm-face/articleshow/81131631.cms||---
February 21, 2021||Kolkata||IIT Kharagpur alumni write to PM Modi to stop name change||KOLKATA: A letter signed by 53 alumni of IIT Kharagpur has been sent to PM Narendra Modi requesting him to stop the name change of a new medical school that he will inaugurate on February 23. The name was changed from Dr B C Roy Institute of Medical Sciences and Research to Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research by the board of governors of the institute in December last year. Modi is slated to virtually inaugurate the new medical school as part of the institute’s 66th convocation. He will also give the convocation address. The letter has been drafted by former faculty member Ajoy Roy, who was head of the new medical school when it was planned in 2007. The foundation stone was laid by then President, APJ Abdul Kalam. It was decided the school would be named after Dr B C Roy, one of the institute’s founding fathers, and would be an annexe to the old medical facility of the same name. “It was for Dr B C Roy Institute of Medical Sciences and Research that a grant of Rs 250 crore was given by the Centre,” the letter says. “We are dismayed to find that the name of the institute has recently been changed to Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, apparently inconsistent with the origins of the institute. Please provide for restoring the original name.” Roy, who moved to IIEST as its director in 2009, said: “To honour Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee, who is another illustrious son of Bengal, a new educational and research centre can be planned. We have written to PM Modi requesting him not to allow the renaming of the new medical school because it hurts sentiments of students, faculty and alumni settled across the world. We have 53 signatories at the time of writing the letter, we have hundreds joining in.” Roy added that the move also disrespected former President Kalam, who was happy with the name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iit-kgp-alumni-write-to-pm-to-stop-name-change/articleshow/81131616.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
