February 22, 2021||India||Three of family dead in Kishtwar mishap||JAMMU: Three members of a family died in a road accident in Chatroo area in J&K’s Kishtwar district on Sunday afternoon. The three — Chingam residents Jashoda Devi, her daughter Kajal Devi, and son Nitin Kumar — were travelling in a car that skidded off the road and fell into a gorge, killing them. This is the second fatal accident in Jammu’s Chenab region in a week. Earlier, five people were killed while a toddler girl was rescued when a van on its way from Doda to Batote rolled down in Ragi Nallah on February 15. Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh condoled the deaths and directed Kishtwar deputy commissioner Ashok Sharma to provide all possible assistance to the bereaved family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/three-of-family-dead-in-kishtwar-mishap/articleshow/81141318.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 22, 2021||India||Al-Badr ‘motivator’ arrested in Jammu IED case||JAMMU: J&K Police on Sunday claimed to have arrested an Al-Badr affiliate, a week after another member of the proscribed outfit was arrested with an improvised explosive device from Jammu. This is the seventh successive arrest by Jammu Police under its anti-terror operations since February 6, including one arrest from Bihar. “The arrested Rah Hussain Bhat of Pulwama is an overground worker and motivator of the outfit, who was involved in providing logistics support to terrorists. He was in direct contact with the Pakistani handlers involved in the terror plot to carry out an IED attack in Jammu,” IGP (Jammu Zone) Mukesh Singh said. On February 14, nursing student Sohail Bashit was arrested from Jammu bus stand with 6.5kg explosive material. On February 6, a joint team of Jammu and Anantnag Police had arrested Lashkar-e-Mustafa commander Hidayatullah Malik alias Hasnain. Later, based on Malik’s disclosure, a joint team of Bihar and J&K Police arrested his associate Javed Alam Ansari from Bihar’s Chhapra. On February 13, police arrested Zahoor Ahmad Rather alias Sahil of The Resistance Front — involved in the murders of three BJP functionaries and a cop in Kulgam — from Samba district. On February 17, J&K Police apprehended Sher Ali of Dhargo — the main coordinator and facilitator of terror activities for several terror outfits, including infiltration of terrorists and smuggling of arms, ammunition and narcotics into India — from Jammu airport. The same day, the National Investigation Agency had arrested Taraq Hussain Giri, a terrorist harbourer and logistics provider of Hizbul Mujahideen, from Kishtwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/al-badr-motivator-arrested-in-jammu-ied-case/articleshow/81141409.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||Here’s why Shih Tzus are so popular among celebs||Colin Farrell first fell in love with Shih Tzus when he met one, Bonny, while shooting for the 2012 film, Seven Psychopaths. Now he’s a proud parent to one of these cuddly furballs. But then, so are Beyonce, Queen Elizabeth, Pink, Bill Gates, Sophie Choudry and Khushi Kapoor, whose Friday Instagram post with her Shih Tzu has drawn more than 91k likes till now. Closer home, actress Raima Sen has adopted one and Saayani Ghosh is a proud parent to five. True, it’s a toy breed and cuddly as hell, but that alone can’t make the Shih Tzu this popular among celebs, can it? According to trainers and experts, it’s more because a Shih Tzu is not just a good family pet but also a great companion, which goes well with the lifestyle of celebs. The size matters In today’s world, where most families live in apartments, the size of a dog matters a lot. Only a handful of dog lovers can dare to own large breeds like a mastiff or a husky. According to Kolkata-based dog breeders, the demand for small breeds has seen steady growth in the past 15 years, and that’s mostly because of their size. “Small breeds like beagles, Pomeranians and Shih Tzus need less space and maintenance. The cuteness is a bonus,” said Somsubhra De, a breeder from Kolkata. Besides, it’s easier to give smaller dogs some exercise. “For a Shih Tzu, which needs moderate levels of exercise, a brisk walk on the portico or terrace is enough. Moreover, they are very gentle dogs and that works perfectly with me, especially since my mother has a heart problem and I’m mostly out on work,” said actress Saayoni Ghosh. Actor-singer Sophie Choudry agreed and said she had grown up with large breeds like Dobermans and German shepherds, but when Tia came into her life, she couldn’t help but fall in love with the breed. “In London, I had a big house with a garden. But when I moved to an apartment in Mumbai, I thought I won’t be able to keep a dog. But keeping a small dog is certainly easy and Shih Tzus are intuitive and funny. Though they need moderate exercise, Tia is equally happy running on the beach,” she said. A friend with a cool temperament Shih Tzus, which were first bred as toy dogs in 17th century China, are primarily companions. And they take this job very seriously. “This is one of the reasons celebs just love this breed. Shih Tzus love to be with their parents and that gives a unique sense of companionship,” said Mitali Parekh, a Mumbai-based canine behaviorist. Agreeing to this, Raima said, “Dasho is always glued to me. When I'm home, he follows me around. I went to Mumbai for 15 days and my friends told me that he waited for me at the door for hours.” Saayoni said the cool temperament is another reason behind her fondness for the breed. “It makes them easier to handle and I can take them along anywhere I go,” she added. A cuddly fur ball Over and above everything, a Shih Tzu puppy is almost irresistible with its long coat and tiny features and that certainly influences the decision of would-be pet parents. “On many occasions, I’ve seen that new pet parents, who hardly know much about dogs, first pick the Shih Tzu even if there are Labrador puppies along with it. I think the same ‘cuteness’ factor works for celebrities too,” said Somsubhra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/heres-why-shih-tzus-are-so-popular-among-celebs/articleshow/81137556.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
February 22, 2021||Business||After 9-month freeze, Centre starts clearing China FDI plans||NEW DELHI: The government has begun clearing foreign direct investment (FDI) proposals from China on a “case-by-case” basis, ending the freeze on such clearances that lasted around nine months. Over the last few weeks, approvals have started, although it is so far limited to “smaller cases”, government sources told TOI. The sources made it clear that the large proposals would be take up later after a careful analysis of the situation. To help smoothen the process, the government has also set up a coordination committee comprising officers from the ministries of home, external affairs, commerce & industry and Niti Aayog, which looks at the issues. Read AlsoChina raises India’s FDI checks at WTOChina on Wednesday expressed its “deep concern” over the recent foreign direct investment (FDI) policy changes initiated by the government, alleging that it curbs takeovers and acquisitions of Indian companies. In April, India had decided to review every FDI proposal from a neighbouring country, a“The committee is not like the Foreign Investment Promotion Board, which looked at all the cases,” explained a source. All FDI proposals from neighbouring countries are to be vetted by the ministry concerned, which will decide on it. A similar system is followed in sectors such as telecom or insurance where proposals are still reviewed before they are accepted or rejected. In case of automatic approvals, companies have no obligation to seek prior permission from the government. Read AlsoGovernment plans to check China FPI flowsAfter FDI, the govt is looking to clamp down on unbridled access to the Indian market by Chinese portfolio investors as it seeks to plug a possible loophole that investors from across the border can use to acquire shares in listed domestic companies. India is looking at the possibility of mandatingIn April, the government had changed the rules to allow FDI from neighbouring countries only with its prior approval, even in sectors where “automatic” clearances were allowed. The move had hit Chinese investors hard given that they had emerged as a major source of flows in recent years, especially in the technology and digital space. As a result, even transfer of one share required the Centre’s clearance. While the rule was changed after the Covid-19 outbreak, no consent was given as tension mounted at the Ladakh border, resulting in a pile-up of investments totalling over Rs 12,000 crore. The stated objective was to keep a check on opportunistic takeover by Chinese entities from across the border with sources citing a clampdown in several countries across the world. Read AlsoChanges in FDI rules don’t violate treaties: India to ChinaA day after China’s outburst over the change in foreign direct investment policy, India on Tuesday hit back at its neighbour, saying the amendment did not violate any global commitment as it did not bar investments from across the border but only mandated prior screening of proposals.Although some approvals have come through, the recent hostility at the border — which resulted in India banning several Chinese mobile apps, including popular ones such as TikTok — has meant that the government is unlikely to move towards a business as usual approach with restrictions to be in place. While the steps taken by the government made it clear that there can be no compromise on national security, the recent step of “limited opening up” suggests that it is also aware of the need to ensure that investments are not adversely impacted at a time when all efforts are being made to revive growth and create jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-9-month-freeze-centre-starts-clearing-china-fdi-plans/articleshow/81143248.cms||Surojit Gupta
February 22, 2021||India||India’s weekly Covid cases up 31%, first rise since early November||NEW DELHI: India's Covid-19 caseload crossed 11 million on Sunday, with the last one million cases coming in the second longest period yet of 65 days. However, the pandemic has surged again in the last seven days, with cases in this period registering a rise for the first time in 15 weeks. India recorded 1,00,990 fresh cases in the week (February 15-21), registering more than 1 lakh cases again after five weeks. The tally was 31% higher than the count of 77,284 in the previous week. The spike was led by Maharashtra, which saw an 81% week-on-week rise in recorded infections. Reflecting the surge, India's seven-day rolling average of daily cases rose for the seventh day running. The average, which had stood at 11,430 a week ago, had increased to 12,770 by Sunday. While cases have swelled, the number of deaths due to the virus has remained steady. India recorded 660 Covid-related fatalities during the week, just 10 more than last week's toll. On Sunday, India reported 14,288 fresh cases, nearly the same as Saturday's count of 14,317. The death toll dropped marginally to 84 from 89 on Saturday. Daily cases have remained over 14,000 for the past three days. Maharashtra recorded 6,971 new cases, the highest tally in the state in 121 days. Kerala's numbers dipped to 4,070, a fall of over 500 from the previous day's count. During the week, Maharashtra logged 36,606 fresh cases, an 81% rise over the previous seven days. The tally was also the highest reported by the state in 12 weeks since Nov 23-29. The surge in Maharashtra pushed Kerala to the second spot in weekly cases for the first time in 12 weeks. Kerala recorded 30,871 fresh cases, a 14% fall from the previous week and lowest tally recorded by the state since mid-September. Besides Maharashtra, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh too have recorded a spike in pandemic numbers in the past week. India’s cumulative Covid-19 caseload stood at 11,005,739, having crossed the 11 million mark on Sunday. The case count had hit 10 million (one crore) on December 18, 65 days ago. This was the slowest rise of a million cases in the country since the first million, which took 168 days. The previous one million cases had come in 29 days. At the peak of the pandemic in September, the caseload had risen from 4 million to 5 million in just 11 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-weekly-covid-cases-up-31-first-rise-since-early-november/articleshow/81143495.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
February 22, 2021||India||CBI summons wife of Mamata’s nephew in ‘illegal coal-mining’ case||KOLKATA: Two days after Union home minister Amit Shah received a court summons in a 2018 criminal defamation case filed by Bengal MP Abhishek Banerjee, a CBI team showed up at the Trinamool Congress functionary’s south Kolkata home on Sunday to issue a summons to his wife for interrogation in a coal-mining scam case filed last November. The agency later visited the Diamond Harbour MP’s sister-in-law with a summons to appear for questioning on Monday. Abhishek, who is CM Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, has been at the epicentre of a no-holds-barred pre-poll battle between Trinamool and BJP, laced with the latter’s “bhatija” barbs and the Bengal party’s “outsider” retorts. Attacking the Centre, Mamata later said, “Please do not try to intimidate us with your threats and fear of jail”. A couple of hours after the CBI visited his home, Abhishek tweeted, "We have full faith in the law of the land. However, if they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken. We are not the ones who would ever be cowed down." Four officers from the CBI’s anti-corruption branch had turned up at Shantiniketan, Abhishek's home on Harish Mukherjee Street, at 2pm with a notice for his wife Rujira Banerjee Naroola under Section 160 of the CrPC (power to order attendance of witnesses). CBI additional superintendent Umesh Kumar, the investigating officer, had asked Rujira to be at home at 3pm to "answer certain questions relating to the (coal scam) case". Since she wasn't home, the officers departed around 20 minutes later, leaving behind a contact number. "Till late evening, there was no communication from her," said an officer. Chief minister Mamata made no mention of the case, but attacked the Centre while speaking at an event. “There is no reason for fear. Today, I pledge before you, I will never be intimidated by threats as long as I am alive. It's not easy to break our spine." A Trinamool source termed BJP's alleged intimidatory tactics predictable. "All of BJP’s allies have left them. So, their only loyal allies are the CBI and the ED. We will fight it out. We are not scared. We believe people will give a fitting reply at the elections," he said. The CBI had filed its FIR in the coal mining case on November 27, 2020, based on "source information". The FIR mentions six accused, including prime suspect Anup Maji, five officials of a nationalised mining company and several others from the CISF, railways and various departments. On February 2, Trinamool-turned-BJP functionary Suvendu Adhikari had referred to "Thailand accounts" while levelling allegations about "Madam Naroola" being part of the scam. Four days later, Abhishek responded to those allegations on Adhikari’s home turf Contai, saying BJP was targeting his wife because they are "unable to fight me". "Contrary to what is being said, my wife has a bank account in Kolkata," he said. CBI sources said on Sunday that they wanted to question Rujira on certain foreign remittances in some Thailand accounts. "The agency is probing a case," said Bengal BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya. "If they don’t probe, it is alleged that there is an understanding. If they probe, it is ‘political victimisation’. BJP is a political party and we are fighting politically. We have nothing to comment on these raids." The party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said, "If someone has committed any wrong, the law will take its course. Those who are culprits should be punished. No one should try to politicise the matter." As the battle hots up, BJP is likely to appeal the February 19 court summons to Shah to appear for a hearing on Monday. In an interim order on February 12, the Calcutta high court had allowed the CBI to probe the coal scam case anywhere in Bengal without seeking the state’s consent to probe beyond railway zones. The HC will hear the case again on April 27 to decide whether the agency can probe cases in Bengal despite the state withdrawing "general consent" in 2018. It wasn't immediately clear if Rujira and her sister Menka would move court. Their legal counsel, Sanjay Basu, was unavailable for comment. The sisters had previously moved the Calcutta high court against summons issued to them by the customs department in another case. After they got a reprieve, the department challenged the order in a division bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-summons-wife-of-mamatas-nephew-in-illegal-coal-mining-case/articleshow/81143729.cms||Rohit Khanna
February 22, 2021||India||Unnao deaths: FIR against 8 Twitter handles||An FIR was lodged on Sunday against users of eight Twitter handles, including @themojostory run by senior journalist Barkha Dutt, for spreading “misleading information” in connection with the death of two minor girls at Baburha village of UP’s Unnao, reports Pathikrit Chakraborty. The FIR named other handles — @BhimSenaChief (run by Nawab Satpal Tanwar), @SurajKrBaudh (run by spokesperson, Azad Samaj Party), @NilimDutta, @janjagranlive, @vijayambedkarUP, @Abhaykumarazad97 and @Rahuldiwkr. The bodies of the two girls, aged 13 and 15, were found on February 17. The users of the eight handles were booked on charges of spreading rumours with the intention of causing riots and under relevant sections of the IT Act. On Saturday, former MP Udit Raj was booked by Unnao police in the case. The police claimed these handles had tweeted that the two girls were sexually assaulted and their last rites were performed against the wishes of their families. Unnao SP Anand Kulkarni said despite the autopsy reports ruling out sexual assault and injuries, some people and parties continued to spread misinformation that the girls were raped. “All those who tried to flare up tension and disturb harmony through different social media platforms won’t be let off. We have lodged an FIR and will conduct a probe. The misinformation was deliberately spread by people associated with parties, units and groups, which are trying to discredit the UP government and disturb the prevailing law and order.” Kulkarni claimed that some of the updates and tweets were removed after the police revealed the findings of the autopsy reports. “Similarly, neither the police nor the administration was trying to conduct last rites of the two girls. One of the families told us that some of their relatives were to arrive from Surat and they would perform the last rites of the girls,” he added. In a statement on the FIR, @themojostory said: “We have reported all dimensions of the tragedy, the family’s anxieties and allegations as well as the police response at every step. If this case is pursued, we will confidently defend our journalistic rights and freedom in the court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/unnao-deaths-fir-against-8-twitter-handles/articleshow/81143755.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
February 22, 2021||India||Follow norms, don’t invite lockdown: CM||MUMBAI: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday warned that the state would impose a strict lockdown if people did not follow Covid-appropriate norms for the next eight days.  On a day the state saw 6,971 new Covid-19 cases, Thackeray announced a complete ban for a few days on all political, social and religious gatherings, processions, morchas and public protests to check the spread of the virus. In a 30-minute talk on social media, the CM told the people that it was in their hands to prevent another lockdown. “Now, my question to you is, should we impose a lockdown? I will seek this answer from you in the coming eight days. Those who do not want a lockdown will observe protocols like using masks, washing hands and keeping physical distance. People who want a lockdown again will flout these rules. Let us see who wants a lockdown, and who doesn’t. I am very clear about this. Wear a mask, prevent a lockdown. Observe discipline, prevent a lockdown,” he said. Thackeray urged citizens to be more responsible. “We should implement an ‘I am responsible’ drive for self-discipline,” he said. Referring to the increasing Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and Pune, Thackeray warned about a second wave. “The second wave has not yet come but it has been knocking at our door. It will be clear in the next one or two weeks,” he said. Noting the spike in Covid-19 in Amravati, he said the number of cases was as high as during the peak of the pandemic. “We have imposed a lockdown in Amravati and other districts from Monday,” he said. While it was said that the gram panchayat polls held last month were one of the reasons behind the increase in cases in rural parts, Thackeray appealed to all political parties, including his own Shiv Sena, to cooperate in the battle against Covid-19. “Every political party, including mine, wishes to expand. We should expand the party and not Covid. In this battle, we should unite and fight against it, else once again we will have to face a stringent lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/follow-norms-dont-invite-lockdown-cm/articleshow/81143756.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 22, 2021||India||Centre asks states to scale up RT-PCR tests, boost checks||NEW DELHI: :In the wake of sudden rise in Covid-19 cases in some states, the Centre has suggested increase in RT-PCR tests, stringent monitoring of mutant strains, while also advising states to refocus on strict surveillance and adopt stringent containment measures in districts that are reporting high number of positive cases. In a letter to states, the health ministry also stressed that all negative rapid antigen test results should be mandatorily followed by RT-PCR test. India has been witnessing a rise in active caseload over the past few days, with the total pegged at over 1.4 lakh on Saturday. However, over 74% of the active cases are concentrated in two states — Kerala and Maharashtra. While Maharashtra and Kerala also continue to account for the highest share of daily new cases with 77% reported from the two states on Saturday, a rise in daily cases has been seen in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and J&K in recent days. The Centre has advised these states to work on five major areas — improve the overall testing numbers by focusing on increasing the proportion of RT-PCR tests, all negative rapid antigen test results to be mandatorily followed by RT-PCR test and no such negative people to be missed, and refocus on strict and comprehensive surveillance as well as stringent containment in selected districts. Besides, states have been asked to regularly monitor mutant strains through testing followed by genome sequencing, as well as monitor emerging cluster of cases. The Centre has also asked states to focus on clinical management in districts reporting higherdeaths. Five states and UTs have a weekly positivity rate more than the national average of 1.8% — Maharashtra, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Goa and Chandigarh. Meanwhile, India administered over 1.1 crore doses of vaccines till Sunday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-asks-states-to-scale-up-rt-pcr-tests-boost-checks/articleshow/81143786.cms||Sushmi Dey
February 22, 2021||India||Close shave for Kamal Nath, MP Cong netas as lift crashes||INDORE: Former Madhya Pradesh CM Kamal Nath and some of the most senior Congress leaders of the state had a close shave on Sunday when an elevator of a private hospital dropped from the basement to the ground floor all of a sudden, apparently because it got overloaded. No one was hurt. Without referring to the incident, Nath tweeted: “Lord Hanuman has always protected me. Jai Hanuman.” CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan expressed concern over the accident. Nath had gone to DNS Hospital to visit former minister Rameshwar Patel, who is admitted ther||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/close-shave-for-kamal-nath-mp-cong-netas-as-lift-crashes/articleshow/81143809.cms||---
February 22, 2021||India||Told to give India priority: SII to nations||NEW DELHI: Adar Poonawalla, CEO of vaccine major Serum Institute of India (SII), on Sunday urged other countries to be patient as they wait for the supplies of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, as it has been directed to prioritise the needs of India. Apart from making efforts to meet the requirements of India, the company is also trying to balance the needs of the rest of the world, he added. “We are trying our best,” Poonawalla tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/told-to-give-india-priority-sii-to-nations/articleshow/81143814.cms||---
February 22, 2021||India||Can we avoid another coronavirus pandemic?||Last March, Donald Trump reportedly tried to lure a German firm into making a Covid vaccine exclusively for the US. After a long radio silence, the company is back on Europe’s radar with its vaccine in late stage human trials. Read AlsoCovid-19: Can our vaccine fight new strains? India to testThe efficacy of the two Indian vaccines currently in use — Covishield and Covaxin — is likely to be tested against the Brazil and South Africa variants soon, scientists have said. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had announced on Tuesday that Pune-based National Institute of VirologyCureVac is only the third company with an mRNA vaccine so far. As the first two mRNA vaccines from Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna had very high efficacy scores, expectations from CureVac are high. Trials have been on in Europe and Latin America since December, and the results could be out as early as next month. Read AlsoIndia host to 7,569 corona mutants: StudyThe novel coronavirus is perhaps the first infectious organism in recent times to form thousands of its variants across the globe. In India alone over 7,569 coronavirus variants have been analysed since the pandemic virus was first recognised in Wuhan. This is despite the fact that not enoughThe good news is that, unlike the Pfizer shot that needs to be stored at -70°C, the CureVac shot can be stored safely at +5°C (in an ordinary refrigerator) for three months. This removes the biggest hurdle for bringing mRNA vaccines to poor countries. One shot for all variants Any vaccine that’s in trials or use now is essentially designed to beat last year’s coronavirus. A mutating virus has given rise to many variants, some of which appear to reduce vaccine efficacy. It’s feared the present crop of vaccines could become ineffective with time. So, scientists are working on updating vaccines. And this could become an annual exercise like the flu vaccine. What if we could have vaccines that target multiple variants of the virus? In the first week of February, CureVac and pharma giant GSK signed a deal to make such a multivariant Covid vaccine. They hope to have a shot ready for the market next year. Gamaleya, the Russian institute that developed the Sputnik V vaccine, has also announced it is working on a vaccine that can tackle several Covid strains at once. Institute director Alexander Gintsburg told the Rossiya 24 channel their new vaccine will “include antigens not from one, but two, three, four or five different coronavirus variants.” They have planned clinical trials by the end of 2021, and a launch in 2022. Fighting future viruses But these multi-valent vaccines will only target the coronavirus that causes Covid-19. There are many other types of coronaviruses, ranging from those that cause common colds to those that caused Sars in 2002 and Mers in 2012. The first two coronavirus pandemics occurred after a gap of 10 years. The third (Covid-19) came after only seven years and has killed about 2.5 million people so far. What if another coronavirus goes rogue five years from now, or next year? It would be good to have vaccines that can fight any coronavirus ready in advance. Fortunately, this is possible because all coronaviruses are similar. “This is an easy family of viruses to take down,” Dr Eric Topol, professor of molecular medicine at Scripps Research Institute, tells The New York Times. Several labs are now working to make a “pancoronavirus vaccine”. A company called VBI Vaccines made a shot using the spike proteins of Sars, Mers and Covid viruses (spike protein is the part coronaviruses use to attach themselves to human cells). Mice injected with it made antibodies against not only these three viruses but also a human coronavirus that causes the common cold. In another experiment at Caltech, a vaccine made using proteins from eight different coronaviruses produced antibodies against 12 coronaviruses. If these experiments lead to a “universal vaccine”, we might never have to face another coronavirus pandemic again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/can-we-avoid-another-coronavirus-pandemic/articleshow/81143817.cms||Abhilash Gaur
February 22, 2021||Business||Private players can help jab 500m in 60 days: Premji||Wipro founder chairman Azim Premji on Sunday joined other industry leaders in making a pitch for proactive participation of the private sector to bolster vaccination efforts and bring down costs. “If the government were to engage private industry, we can be sure of (vaccinating) 500 million people within 60 days,” he told finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. O n a day Wipro founder-chairman Azim Premji pitched for proactive participation of the private sector to bolster vaccination efforts, Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul told NDTV that details of “deeper and wider” participation of the private sector in the Covid vaccination drive will be available in “a matter of few days”. “The private sector has been prominently involved in vaccinating healthcare and frontline workers. Out of 10,000 vaccination sessions on any given day, 2,000 are being conducted by private sector partners,” the NDTV portal quoted Paul as saying. “And as we move to a much speedier programme, the private sector engagement will become deeper and wider. In a matter of a few days, just wait a little,” he said. Industry leaders, including Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra, and top doctors like Devi Shetty of Narayana Health have made a strong pitch for proactive participation of the private sector to bolster Covid vaccination efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/private-players-can-help-jab-500m-in-60-days-premji/articleshow/81143822.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Business||No need for frequent policy change: Amazon India chief||BENGALURU: Amazon India head Amit Agarwal has cautioned against “abrupt” and “unnecessarily frequent policy change” as it will hurt the e-commerce sector’s ability to play a crucial role in economic recovery, while maintaining that the operations are in line with government guidelines. “What you need is a policy framework that is enabling, recognises e-commerce as an important lever for economic recovery and growth of India and is focused on removing friction points and enabling more ease of doing business--for example removing paper work for online seller exporting globally,” Agarwal told TOI in an interview. The statement comes weeks after commerce & industry minister Piyush Goyal said that the government may issue clarifications to ensure that e-commerce marketplaces, such as Amazon, followed the rules in letter and spirit. The government is also working on an e-commerce policy, where several issues are being discussed. Amid fresh accusations of violation of rules, Agarwal claimed the e-commerce major has created 2 lakh direct and indirect jobs in India in 2020 as it ramped up operations amid the pandemic to meet growing demand of e-commerce here. “There would always be vested interests who would resist to embrace change. We have seen 1.5 lakh new sellers come online just last year,” he said. Agarwal said it’s not a secret that Cloudtail and Appario Retail (where Amazon is a joint-venture partner in the parent firms of these sellers) are among its seven lakh sellers and that it has publicly announced changes to ensure compliance. The Amzaon India boss, who is currently in the US, also blamed “vested interests” for seeking to distract company employees. “They interpret past actions and statements in the context of current regulations. They are ignoring the fact that regulations in India have changed significantly in the last seven years, since we have been operating in India. We are very transparent with our partnership with all our partners. They are credible leaders with high credibility,” Agarwal said, adding that the allegations don’t represent facts and reality. Apart from complaints from local traders, Amazon is also locked in legal battles with Future Group over the latter selling its retail assets to RIL in a Rs 24,713- crore deal as it seeks to block the transaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-need-for-frequent-policy-change-amazon-india-chief/articleshow/81143606.cms||Digbijay Mishra
February 22, 2021||Vijayawada||Campaigning progresses at snail’s pace in Vijayawada Central||VIJAYAWADA: With campaigning for municipal elections yet to pick up pace in Vijayawada Central constituency, political parties are on a mission to motivate candidates as the polling date nears. Municipal elections, which had been scheduled for March 2020, were postponed once the lockdown came into effect. Candidates, however, continued with their outreach programmes and distributed essential commodities to voters during the lockdown, which placed them under a financial burden. “We are contesting the polls to redress long-pending issues in my ward. But we have spent all financial resources during lockdown in distributing rice, vegetables and other essentials. Campaigning has become an expensive affair and we are facing problems in campaigning,” said N Ramesh, who will be contesting from Satyanarayana Puram. Meanwhile, campaigning gained pace at Vijayawada West constituency with a war of words between former TDP MLA Jaleel Khan and endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas. At Vijayawada East, too, TDP candidate Vani and her son were recently attacked in the third division. Vijayawada Central legislator Malladi Vishnu who has been motivating the candidates, is now directly participating in campaigns. While many TDP candidates are yet to start campaigning, Vijayawada MP Kesineni Nani and former legislator Bonda Uma Maheswara Rao are pushing candidates to step up their campaigns and supplying resources. Active party members have been directed to support candidates and join the campaigns. A number of voters, however, are uncertain about the identity of their candidates. “The VMC authorities reshuffled the wards as the population increased. We don’t know our ward now and for whom to vote. None of the candidates came to us seeking votes. This situation is very peculiar and we have not seen such municipal elections before,” said K Janaki, a resident of Ramakrishna Puram in city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/campaigning-progresses-at-snails-pace-in-vij-central/articleshow/81140277.cms||Venu Lanka
February 22, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Idols worth over Rs 2 crore stolen from Muzaffarpur temple||PATNA: At least seven antique ashtadhatu idols of different Hindu gods and goddesses were allegedly stolen from an old temple at village Nariyar under Motipur police station area in Muzaffarpur Saturday night. The temple is famously known as Shri Ram-Janki Badi Mutt. The idols were 300 to 400 years old. Mahant Prem Shankar Das (55), who lodged an FIR with the Motipur police station in this connection, told TOI over phone on Sunday that temple priest Shyam Narayan Tiwari told him about the theft in the wee hours. “When he said all doors of the temple were open, we rushed there and found the idols missing,” he said. “The idols were of ashtadhatu as I had cleaned them hundreds of times for worship,” he said. Das said the stolen idols included one each of Lord Ram, goddess Janaki and Lakshman, three of Laddu-Gopal and one of Lord Jagannath. “These were the main idols of the temple whose estimated weight might be around 40kg. Now, only a few idols smaller than a human palm’s size are left in the temple for devotees,” he said. The mahant, quoting some villagers, said all the stolen idols were estimated to be more than worth Rs 2 crore on black market. “Dog squad had also reached the spot. They went up to the national highway, which is 3km from the temple. Smugglers might have carried the idols to the highway where they loaded them on a vehicle,” he said. Das said this was the fourth incident of theft of precious antique idols from temples in Muzaffarpur within a year. “Earlier, smugglers had stolen idols from old temples at Sadha in Motipur, Kathaiyya, Sahrachia and Jaitpur Darbar in Saraiya,” he said, adding perhaps a smuggling gang is active in the district to steal centuries old idols one by one. Motipur police station SHO (incharge) Amit Kumar said the thieves had not been identified yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/idols-worth-over-rs-2-crore-stolen-from-muz-temple/articleshow/81140409.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 22, 2021||Patna||SSP admits five hooch deaths in Muzaffarpur village||PATNA: Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant on Sunday admitted that the five deaths at village Dargah under Katra police station area of the district since February 17 were related to spurious liquor. Incidentally, three persons from Gumla in Jharkhand had died from hooch poisoning at Majhaulia village under Vijaypur police station in Gopalganj on February 17. Two more persons from the same village became partially blind on February 19 due to hooch poisoning. Earlier, Muzaffarpur police had confirmed only three deaths; that of Ramchandra Manjhi (70), his wife Manju Devi (65) and one Vinod Manjhi (45). Till Saturday night, police said Vinod had been suffering from tuberculosis and died from the same while the couple had asthma and no element of hooch poisoning. The couple had died on February 17 night and they were cremated without informing the police. Vinod died on February 18 and his body was sent for postmortem. Sources said at least four more persons from the same village were ill after consuming poisonous liquor and had been clandestinely undergoing treatment at private clinics and hospitals. When contacted, the SSP told TOI over phone that three persons had died on February 17 and two more the next day. “The other two were Ajay Manjhi and Sonal Singh. Except Vinod, the bodies of rest four were already cremated without police information,” he said. “The symptoms indicate that all five died from hooch poisoning. Two persons were arrested late Saturday evening in connection with the deaths. The main accused, Mukesh Singh and Pramod Das, are evading arrest,” he said. He said Sonal is the son of accused Mukesh. “It was Pramod who had manufactured the hooch and Mukesh had sold it. The five deceased had consumed the spurious liquor at Pramod’s residence,” the SP said. The SSP also said at least 25 bottles of spurious liquor manufactured by Pramod were seized during raids at Dargah on Saturday. “Raids are still going on to nab Mukesh and Pramod and others involved in manufacturing and supplying liquor,” he said. He said an FIR had been registered with Katra police station on the statement of Dargah village chowkidar against Manoj, Pramod and others. The SSP had suspended Katra SHO Sikandar Kumar and chowkidar on Saturday besides attaching circle inspector Mithilesh Kumar Jha to the police lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssp-admits-five-hooch-deaths-in-muz-village/articleshow/81140364.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 22, 2021||Patna||‘Private players in agriculture sector to spell disaster for farmers’: Shivanand Tiwary||PATNA: Even as PM Narendra Modi on Saturday exhorted the state governments to create space for the big and expanded role of the private sector in their respective domains, political parties of all ideological hues on Sunday appeared in agreement that the central government was pushing for the bigger role of the private players in the state’s agriculture sector in the backdrop of the three contentious farm laws. PM Modi had raised the issue at the Niti Aayog governing council meeting, which was attended by the CMs, including Nitish Kumar. As to Bihar, this amounted to making space for private sector mostly in the agricultural and allied activities, as well as in service sector, as the investment in the big industries was unlikely to happen due to several problems. However, the ruling and opposition parties were at variance as to the fallout of the engagement of the private sector in the agriculture and allied activities like farming, fishery, dairy and makhana cultivation for export. “Nitish seems to suggest that the abolition of the APMC Act had infused competitive edge among the farmers. It is not the abolition of the APMC Act, but the natural volition of the farmers after the introduction of green revolution since 1969 to adopt new ways of production — use of tractors and mechanized farming, high yield variety seeds, new ways of farming, fertilizers and pesticides — to produce more. Even today, they are not getting returns on their crops at the MSP. The corporates have been freed from it,” RJD senior Shivanand Tiwary said. “The entry of big players in the agricultural sector will spell disaster for the farmers. They will be at the mercy of the corporates after entering an agreement with them,” Tiwary said, adding that it was for this reason that his party had been supporting the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws. Senior Congress functionary Prem Chandra Mishra said the entry of the corporates in the farm sector will “not be good, as it will put all the liability of the corporates into the hands of the farmers and also jeopardize their ownership on the land”. The CPI(ML), CPI and CPM functionaries — Kunal, Ram Babu Kumar and Arun Kumar Mishra, respectively — felt that the greatest fear among the farmers even in Bihar was that they might lose their land to the corporates. “The Bihar farmers have been at a loss since the abolition of the APMC Act in 2006. Today, the farmers of the more developed areas — Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh — have been most vocal in their protests against the farm laws. But when the grim reality will sink in, the Bihar farmers will also join them in a big way,” Kunal said. As to the love of the Bihar farmers for the land they owned, Ram Babu described a peculiar situation that occurred under the Samyukt Vidhayak Dal (SVD) government led by Karpoori Thakur in 1967. The SVD government announced to abolish the ‘malgujari’ (land tax) to ease their burden. “But the farmers opposed it tooth and nail. They thought that it was the only thing that showed their ownership on the land. They felt its abolition will ultimately lead to the deprivation of land from them. Today also, they fear that the corporates will deprive them of their land once the three farm laws are implemented,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-players-in-agri-sector-to-spell-disaster-for-farmers/articleshow/81140621.cms||Abhay Singh
February 22, 2021||Patna||Experts lay stress on conserving endangered languages||PATNA: Even as very few programmes were organized in the state this Sunday to celebrate the International Mother Language Day, some prominent academicians and littérateurs emphasized the need of imparting primary education in mother language and initiating steps for conservation of endangered languages. Echoing this year’s theme ‘Fostering Multilingualism For Inclusion In Education And Society,’ they observed that each language, however old it may be, has got its own importance, acting as an ambassador of a distinct culture, and hence it must be protected and conserved. “Rainbow of languages helps end monochromatic life, giving us more fun and joy,” they said. Sahitya Akademy Award winner and Patna University (PU) English department’s former head Arun Kamal pointed out that universities in Bihar used to organize discussions and meetings to celebrate the ‘day’ until recently. However, he has no information about such celebrations this year. “Every university in the state should set up a special centre of native languages to help preserve the local dialects and scripts. All efforts should be made to preserve the local folk tales and songs so that the same may be passed on to the coming generations,” he said. There are several language academies including Maithili Academy, Bhojpuri Academy, Magahi Academy and Bangla Academy in the state, but all of them have been allowed to rot for want of proper government care. “All the academies in Bihar are being administered by one government official for quite some as the posts of directors of all academies are lying vacant. These academies do not get grants from the government regularly, hampering all activities,” added Kamal. PU Sanskrit department’s retired teacher Girish Jha observed that multilingual and multicultural societies exist through their languages which transmit and preserve traditional knowledge and cultures in a sustainable way. Though linguistic diversity is increasingly threatened with the disappearance of local languages, some commendable progress has been made towards growth of some of these languages by promoting primary education through mother tongue. The New Education Policy has also advocated the need of imparting education in mother language,” Jha said. Emphasizing the need of conservation of local languages and their scripts, PU ancient history and archeology department former head Jayadeo Mishra said the learning outcome of the students in science and mathematics will improve if taught in their mother tongue. The three-language formula should continue to be implemented while keeping in mind the Constitutional provisions, aspirations of the people, regions, and the need to promote multilingualism as well as promote national unity, he said. Munger University has decided to start a certificate course in endangered native languages and their scripts soon with a view to conserving them. The content of the certificate course in endangered scripts like Kaithi and Mithilakshar have been prepared and the course would be introduced from the next academic session. “Some teachers have also been found for engaging the classes,” said vice-chancellor R K Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/experts-lay-stress-on-conserving-endangered-languages/articleshow/81140777.cms||B K Mishra
February 22, 2021||Patna||Plea to restore all passenger trains||PATNA: Railways has extended the period of Gwalior – Barauni special passenger train services (04185/04186) from March 1 to May 1, 2021 to clear the rush of passengers travelling on this particular route. Railways has also issued a directive that passengers travelling by this special train must follow Covid-19 health protocol during the journey strictly. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, “Gwalior–Barauni special passenger train will leave Gwalior at 12 pm reaching Barauni next day at 12.50 pm via Sonepur–Hajipur–Muzaffarpur – Samastipur route. On its return it will leave Barauni at 6.45 pm reaching Gwalior the next day at 8.35 pm.” The special train will run with a load combination of 21 coaches including AC coaches. Meanwhile, Bihar Daily Passengers’ Association has demanded restoration of all passenger trains including MEMUs /DEMUs on each route of ECR’s five divisions so that daily commuters could travel comfortably at a time when railways is gradually restoring services of other long distance passenger trains, association secretary Shoaib Quraishi said adding, “Railways should reconsider its decision to convert Patna–Mokama- Howrah fast passenger train into express train category.” According to Quraishi, a large number of people travel daily by this particular passenger train. Conversion of this train into express train will deprive many local commuters to travel by this train as it will not stop at very station on the route, he said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/plea-to-restore-all-passenger-trains/articleshow/81140784.cms||Kumod Verma
February 22, 2021||Rajkot||Dy collector on poll duty bereaved||Rajkot: In a tragic incident, Rajkot deputy collector Charansinh Gohil, while discharging election duties as a protocol officer, was bereaved on Sunday when his wife, daughter and brother in law died in a gruesome road accident near Mandva on Bhavnagar-Rajkot road. According to police, Gohil’s wife Chetna (32), daughter Garima (5) and his brother in law Dhananjay Chudasama (22) died on the spot in Dhasa of Botad district after the car they were travelling in collided with a mini truck on an over bridge. Dhasa police station inspector A D Valani said, “Gohil’s wife had come to Palitana to attend a social function and were returning hom along with Chudsasama, who was going to drop them in Rajkot.” The collector office sources confirmed that Gohil, who is a returning officer in district panchayat election, was assigned the duty of a protocol officer during municipal corporation election on Sunday. He left immediately after getting the news, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dy-collector-on-poll-duty-bereaved/articleshow/81140398.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Kolhapur||Inoperational processing facility hits waste collection||Kolhapur: The waste processing plant of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) with the capacity to process around 200 tonne of waste per day has been shut for the past one month, hampering the regular waste collection in the city.The plant, located at Kasba Bawda, is the only garbage processing facility in the city and most of the waste generated goes to it. The processing facility is run by a private firm. The officials said the firm is running into losses and is unable to bear even the daily operating cost. Moreover, the staff has been not been paid for the last few months.Vijay Patil, the head of KMC’s solid waste management, said, “We are going to take over the plant temporarily. The firm will be given a last chance to run the plant and if it fails to manage it properly, we will invite other firms to run it for a long term contract. So far, we have not paid any fees to the firm since it has not yet been able to make the processing unit financially viable.”The refuse-derived fuel generated after processing of the waste has to be sold to recover the operating cost. However, there is less demand for the refuse-derived fuel from other establishments such as power plants and industries, where it is used to heat the boilers. Since the plant is shut, the space at the site has been occupied so there is no further space left to dump the daily waste, due to which waste collection has slowed down. The citizens are angry over the poor collection.“We have some landfill sites where we can transport waste. Space will be made at the existing site at the earliest. We have ensured the collection of waste continues even if we are facing other challenges at another end,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/inoperational-processing-facility-hits-waste-collection/articleshow/81142600.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Sunday break for fuel price hikes||Mumbai: After rallying for 12 days in a row, petrol and diesel price hikes paused on Sunday as the price temporarily froze at Rs 97 per litre for petrol and Rs 88.06 for diesel in Mumbai. Transport expert Ashok Datar suggested that with the hikes, this was the “right time” to promote e-vehicles for buses, cars and two-wheelers in Mumbai region. “The government should inform people about the fuel cost/km for e-vehicles, the efficiency, zero pollution and how it can save huge costs in the long run,” he added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sunday-break-for-fuel-price-hikes/articleshow/81142616.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Patna||Munger University offers incentives for research||PATNA: With a view to creating an environment of research on the campus, Munger University has decided to offer financial incentives to its teachers and research scholars. Those showing proof of their research initiatives would get all support from the university under its professional development scheme, said its vice-chancellor Ranjit Kumar Verma. Giving details of the scheme, Verma told this newspaper that faculty members who get their research projects sanctioned by different agencies like the UGC, Indian Council of Social Science Research, Department of Science and Technology, Department of Biotechnology or Department of Atomic Energy would get an incentive award varying from Rs one lakh to Rs10,000 depending upon the amount of grants sanctioned by the funding agencies. Those who are sanctioned projects of above Rs10 lakh would get an incentive award of Rs1 lakh from the university. Likewise, teachers getting projects worth Rs5 lakh to 10 lakh would get Rs50,000 and those getting projects worth up to Rs1 lakh would be given an incentive of Rs10,000 from the university, he said. Teachers and researchers would also get cash incentives for publication of papers in research journals with an impact factor 1 and above in web of science/SCOPUS. If the impact factor of the journal is between 1 and 5, the researchers would get Rs5,000 per paper with 60% to the first author and 40% to the remaining author(s). If the impact factor of the journal publishing the paper is greater than 5, the researcher would get a cash incentive of Rs10,000 per paper. Besides, a sum of Rs25,000 would be given as the Best Researcher’s Award to one who has maximum publications in SCOPUS journals to his credit in a year. The university has invited applications from all eligible teachers and research scholars of the university latest by March 5, the VC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/munger-university-offers-incentives-for-research/articleshow/81140674.cms||B K Mishra
February 22, 2021||Patna||Body of Saharsa boy found in Jamshedpur||JAMSHEDPUR: The body of Raja Kumar from Saharsa was found in a water supply tank in RIT area of the town on Saturday. Police said NDRF personnel had to pull out the body, which was stuck in the supply pipe. No suicide note was recovered from his possession. Police, however, prima facie ruled out the possibility of murder. The deceased was a mechanical engineering student of NIT Jamshedpur. Raja, the son of Roshan Shah from village Gouspur in Saharsa district, had reached Jamshedpur from Patna by train on February 14 to appear for Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE). His father runs a grocery shop. Raja’s friend Aniket Raj was with him. According to Aniket, they put up at Hira Lodge under Golmuri police station area. Raja left the room after one hour, leaving behind his cellphone and wallet. When Raja did not return till late evening, Aniket lodged a missing complaint with Golmuri police station. Police said Raja was found in a swimming costume with his trousers, shirt and sweater at the base of the tank. During investigation, it came to light that Raja was close to a girl from Kolkata, whose mobile tower location also revealed that she was in Jamshedpur till February 15 before going back home. Golmuri OC Arvind Kumar said when contacted in Kolkata, the girl said Raja was not with her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/body-of-saharsa-boy-found-in-jamshedpur/articleshow/81140438.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Patna||Action in A N College violence case after probe: SHO||PATNA: Action against those involved in the rampage near AN College in Patna on Saturday morning would be taken only after the matriculation examinations ends and a thorough investigation, S K Puri police station SHO Satish Kumar Singh on Sunday said. He said an FIR has been lodged by Manoj Kumar, who was deployed as magistrate at the college for the examination. He said at least 150 unknown and four candidates had been made accused for their alleged involvement in the rampage. A group of students had thrashed two contractual employees of Patna Municipal Corporation and damaged more than a dozen vehicles outside the college on Boring Road in protest against the cancellation of social science examination by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) the previous day after alleged paper leak in Jamui. Most of those involved in the violence were matriculation examinees. The SHO said police have CCTV camera footages of the incident. “There are also videos recorded in cellphones by people of nearby area. Those are also available with police,” Singh said. He said those visible in the footages and videos would be identified with the help of their photographs on admit cards of the students whose examination centre was at AN college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sho-action-in-a-n-college-violence-case-after-probe/articleshow/81140840.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Visakhapatnam||School students take up skilling initiative||Visakhapatnam: Students of Oakridge Visakhapatnam IBDP Grade 11 have taken up a project titled “V4U” (For Students by Students) to support school students who have had to go without formal education during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The initiative has been conceptualised by the students in order to support and lend a helping hand to these children through this programme under the guidance of the school CAS-Coordinator Saraswathi Kalpak. The initiative, which will take place over a month, encompasses several key subjects and skills such as soft skills, computer literacy, English language, artistic skills and mathematics. The programme was recently launched by Oakridge School Principal Shaila Bhamidipati. The students explained the importance of creative skills by holding a session on visual arts for Majjavalasa ZP High School students of classes VII and VIII. They also educated the students on their well-being during the pandemic and adhering to the measures recommended by the World Health Organisation to fight the virus. They distributed masks and sanitizer bottles to the ZP High School students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/school-students-take-up-skilling-initiative/articleshow/81140552.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Vijayawada||Peaceful polls mark phase IV in R’seema||Tirupati: Barring minor and sporadic incidents of violence, the final phase of gram panchayat elections concluded peacefully across the four districts of the Rayalaseema region on Sunday. Youngsters queued up at polling stations in large numbers. With the polling day coinciding with a Sunday, voter turnout, including women, the elderly and the physically disabled, was especially high. In Chittoor district, polling was held in 13 mandals under the fourth phase. Of a total of 3.75 lakh voters, 2.95 lakh voters exercised their franchise, registering a polling percentage of 78.77% by the end of the day. Chittoor district collector M Hari Narayana said polls were carried out across the 66 mandals in a free and fair environment. In Kadapa district, 1,51,905 votes were polled by the end of the day registering a poll percentage of 85.13%, while in Anantapur district, 4,25,594 voters exercised their franchise in the fourth phase of the polls on Sunday. The district, which saw sporadic skirmishes, reported a polling percentage of 84.49%. As many as 4,88,777 voters exercised their franchise in Kurnool district. Collector G Veerapandian told reporters that a poll percentage of 78.41% was reported in the district on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/peaceful-polls-mark-phase-iv-in-rseema/articleshow/81140526.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
February 22, 2021||Vijayawada||DGCA teams reach Vij, assess scene of mishap||Vijayawada: The Airports Authority of India (AAI) and Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) have commenced an inquiry into the Air India Express flight that accidentally hit a high mast lamp post adjacent to the runway at Vijayawada International Airport on Saturday. Officials said there were no issues with visibility and are probing other causes that led to the mishap. Special DGCA teams reached Vijayawada airport and examined the spot of the accident. They also tried reconstructing the scene and analysed possible reasons for the incident. Airport authorities are examining the reasons for the pilot entering the arrival area which is meant for small aircrafts. “The investigation is going on. We are assessing reasons that may have led to the accident. There is no problem with visibility as the incident happened at 4.40 pm. The investigation will take some more days and we cannot disclose details as of now,” said airport director Madhusudan Rao. “We arranged alternative flights for the passengers on Saturday night and restored the runway,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dgca-teams-reach-vij-assess-scene-of-mishap/articleshow/81140572.cms||Venu Lanka
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||Vets advise ‘home isolation’ for dogs with parvovirus||Kolkata: Alarmed by the steady rise in canine parvovirus cases among strays and pets in the city, veterinarians have advised “home isolation” for virus-affected dogs in the absence of enough isolation units at vet hospitals and clinics. TOI had reported on Sunday that the canine parvovirus has killed over 60 strays in less than two weeks and infected more than a dozen pet dogs. There is a lack of adequate isolation units at pet clinics and vet hospitals in the city. Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s dog pound in Dhapa has 70-odd isolation units and a few voluntary organizations, like Love n Care for Animals and Ashari, have around 40 isolation units each. This makes if difficult to meet the demand. The virus can make a perfectly healthy puppy fatally ill in a matter of days. “The virus is extremely contagious and isolation of the dog is a must in this disease. However, in our city, there are very few places that have isolation facilities for canines and hence, the best treatment protocol is to take advice from a vet and then put the dog on drips at a secluded place at home,” said Subir Bhattacharya, a veterinarian in the city. However, most dogs that survive the first three-to-four days of the infection generally make a complete recovery, vets said. In Covid times, “home isolation” is a term that has been regarded as the best form of treatment for Covid patients with mild symptoms. Vets said the same applied to canines, too, unless the dog’s condition is very serious. According to vets, parvovirus is extremely resilient and can survive indoors for at least two months. It is also resistant to many commonly used cleaners and disinfectants. Outdoors, the parvovirus can survive for months. Shoes that come into contact with infected faeces can also bring the virus into a dog’s environment. This is why personal hygiene is a must to protect dogs from being infected. “Once a dog contracts the virus, it replicates inside the body along different organs, leading to severe gastrointestinal illness that mostly results in severe diarrhoea accompanied by bleeding,” said Shyamal Guha, a veterinary surgeon with Belgachhia Veterinary Hospital. “This year, parvovirus cases have been on the rise like never before. Every day we are receiving more than 70-80 calls. We have an existing isolation ward for infected dogs, but are in the process of expanding it to accommodate more,” said Susmita Roy of Love n Care for Animals. In the face of the growing number of patients, smaller pet clinics, like Paws and Claws in Kasba and K9 Care at Michaelnagar, have also initiated makeshift isolation centres, said vets at the facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vets-advise-home-isolation-for-dogs-with-parvovirus/articleshow/81141097.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 22, 2021||Patna||PU geology department to celebrate platinum jubilee||PATNA: Patna University geology department is set to celebrate its platinum jubilee on a grand scale this year. This was decided at an alumni meeting here on Sunday under the chairmanship of department head Atul Aditya Pandey. In the year-long celebration, the department will seek help and cooperation from national level earth science organisations besides its alumni for strengthening its academic and infrastructure growth. The department will also seek financial assistance from the UGC for construction of a platinum jubilee and development of its field museum. It may be mentioned here that the geology department was established in 1946 with the endowment of a chair —JNTata Professor of Geology—and subsequent appointment of Prof LAN Iyer, an eminent geologist from the Geological Survey of India, as its founder head of the department. After the enactment of Patna University Act 1951, the postgraduate department of geology was established in its own building on the Patna Science College campus. During the last 75 years of its journey, the department has made significant strides in the field of earth science education in the country. The department has carved a niche for itself by producing a galaxy of brilliant earth scientists who have contributed significantly not only in the growth of national economy but also in the development of organisations like ONGC, Geological Survey of India, Central Ground Water Board, Atomic Energy Commission, Department of Mines and Geology, and Coal India Ltd. The department has set up a very purposeful geological museum-cum-auditorium with the funds donated by an alumnus and teacher of the department, Dr Ranjan Prasad Yadav. There are 1500 minerals on exhibit in 28 hall cases beautifully arranged in the museum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-geology-department-to-celebrate-platinum-jubilee/articleshow/81140763.cms||B K Mishra
February 22, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Big win for YSRC supporters in panchayat polls||AMARAVATI: YSRC supporters won over 10,800 village panchayats of the total 13,000 panchayats that went to polls over four phases. TDP supporters won 2,000 villages, 16 per cent of the total panchayats. BJP-Jana Sena alliance supported candidates won 140 villages while independents won in 300 villages. YSRC supporters won all village panchayats—108--in Pulivendula assembly constituency represented by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. YSRC supporters won 90 panchayats without contest. The SEC held election for 18 villages on Sunday, all won by YSRC supporters.  “It shows people rallied behind the chief minister thanks to his commitment in fulfilling the promises,” said government advisor and party general secretary Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy. Municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana said municipal elections would follow the trend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/big-win-for-ysrc-supporters-in-polls/articleshow/81140528.cms||Samdani MN
February 22, 2021||Business||Tata Chemicals gets ITAT relief in logo fee case||MUMBAI: The Mumbai bench of Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) has allowed Rs 3.7 crore paid by Tata Chemicals for using the ‘TATA’ logo as a business deduction. Under the ‘Tata brand equity and business promotion agreement’, which dates back to January 1999, this company, like others in the Tata fold, have to pay a certain percentage of their annual profits to Tata Sons, as a ‘premium’ for using the TATA logo. Accordingly, in FY03 (the year in dispute), Tata Chemicals paid 0.25% of its profits (Rs 3.7 crore) to Tata Sons. In the course of assessment, the income tax officer denied a deduction for this payment, on the grounds that Tata Chemicals has its own well-established logo, which also discloses the Tata linkage, and that the payment for the premium is under a mandatory direction from the holding company and is for a non-business consideration. Further, the I-T officer held that the agreement is nothing but an arrangement to share profits with the holding company at a predetermined rate and any payment in perseverance to the said agreement should not be allowed as an expense as it does not relate to the business of Tata Chemicals. The commissioner (appeals) upheld this course of action. A disallowance of an expenditure, results in enhancing the taxable profits of the company. This led to Tata Chemicals filing an appeal with the ITAT. Tata Chemicals submitted to the ITAT that the agreement was entered into by companies in order to pool resources and make a co-operative effort to promote a unified Tata brand. Collectively, the Tata Brand would match the brand equity of well-known international names. In 2020, TATA was worth $20 billion, securing the No.1 position as India’s most valuable brand. The ITAT bench, comprising Mahavir Singh, vice-president and N K Pradhan, accountant member, in its order issued on Friday, noted that in the earlier years, decisions in favour of the group company had been passed by the tribunal. It continued with the same, and struck off the disallowance made by the I-T officer. “The license fee paid to Tata Sons is a business expense for a group company and is allowed as a deductible expense. It is a fairly settled issue. This order affirms and agrees with the conclusion of earlier ITAT orders,” said a lawyer, who advises the Tatas. In FY13, Tata Sons had capped a group company’s contribution to the brand equity and business promotion fund at Rs 75 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-chemicals-gets-itat-relief-in-logo-fee-case/articleshow/81142997.cms||Lubna Kably
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||This ATM in West Bengal debits money, fails to dispense cash||KOLKATA: An ATM in Salt Lake’s GC Block is being probed by police for debiting money from customers’ accounts but not dispensing cash. The chief manager of the Salt Lake branch of a public-sector bank has approached Bidhannagar Police seeking a probe after several locals — many of them pension holders — complained that when they went to the ATM to withdraw money, it was debited from their account but they never got the cash. According to the complaint, these incidents started from 12.19pm on February 14. The bank lodged the complaint on Thursday. The bank has handed investigators a DVD containing CCTV footage, which reportedly captured images of two persons who had stepped into the ATM on February 14 around noon. It is still not clear how they tampered with the machine, but the first customer who stepped in after them, 19 minutes later, complained to the bank that the ATM did not dispense cash even though the amount was debited. The bank suspects tampering by the unidentified duo. The incident has spread panic in the area. “The ATM has been closed for the past four days. I must be careful next time when I withdraw money from here. I do not have an account here, but use this ATM when the one belonging to my bank runs out of money,” said Swapan Das, an elderly resident of the area. The ATM is located in the heart of GC Block, barely a minute from the community hall and among at least five ATMs of other banks and top retail shops. Himankar Das, chief manager of the Salt Lake branch who lodged the FIR, said he was not authorized to speak to the media on this. Internal bank fraud investigators of some leading banks suspected this could be the act of an organized “glue” gang. “The gang pours glue and tampers with the keys. They ensure that the money withdrawn stays in the tray. When a customer leaves the ATM thinking the cash has been declined, the accused return and push the tray to withdraw the money. Banks have now developed technology to guard against such attempts,” said an investigator. “An ATM is replenished with cash at intervals. Once the cash is inserted into the cash trays, the ATM is manually fed data on the exact amount refilled. The ATM is then controlled remotely. In some cases, the cash in the trays was lesser than the data. So there comes a point when the ATM data says it has enough cash, but the cash trays have emptied out. This can be detected if the bank branch conducts physical audit of the ATM,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-probe-atm-that-debits-money-fails-to-dispense-cash/articleshow/81141061.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 22, 2021||Patna||‘Majority in favour of liquor ban’, says Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Within hours of allies HAM(S) and VIP questioning the success of liquor prohibition in the state following eight hooch deaths in two separate incidents in a week, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday defended his government’s decision saying majority of people were still in its favour. “We don’t have any self interest in prohibiting liquor in Bihar. Majority of people still favour liquor ban. There are only a handful of people who violate it. We have checked liquor smuggling in the state. If any government employee is found consuming liquor, he or she will be dismissed from service. We also find out the source of liquor smuggling,” Nitish told the media after a health department function in Patna. He also appealed to people to cooperate in the mission as liquor is bad for health and society. The CM, at a review meeting recently, had said the police personnel found in an inebriated condition would be dismissed from service. Earlier in the day, HAM(S) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi demanded that murder charges should be slapped on the SPs and cops posted at the police stations under which such incidents are reported. HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan said liquor smuggling continued unabated in the state with alleged connivance of the police. “We demand from the CM to issue instructions to slap murder cases against the SPs and the officers of the police stations, whose connivance or negligence leads to such tragedies,” he said. “It has been more than four and a half years since prohibition was enforced in the state. However, liquor smuggling is still rampant,” he rued. State animal husbandry and fisheries resources department minister Mukesh Sahani, who is also the president of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), said prohibition is not as successful in the state as it was expected to be. “It’s a dream project of CM Nitish Kumar. Yet it has failed to deliver desired results due to the officials’ apathy,” he told reporters at Gaya. Earlier, leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, expressed concern over the deaths in two recent hooch tragedies in Muzaffarpur and Gopalganj districts. He also slammed the state government for its failure to check liquor smuggling from outside the state. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, however, said those found to be lax in implementing the prohibition law would not be spared. “Strong disciplinary action is being initiated against the officials found guilty,” he added. Prasad cited the arrest of two liquor traders from Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/majority-in-favour-of-liquor-ban/articleshow/81140580.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
February 22, 2021||Agra||Root out hooch trade: Family of slain cop appeals to government||Agra: The death of illicit liquor mafia Moti Singh Dhimar in a police encounter on Sunday morning did not bring closure to the family of constable Devendra Singh (26) he was accused of killing. They want the government to strike down on the illegal trade of hooch which claims hundreds of lives every year.“The government must not stop here. There should be a complete halt on the illicit liquor business. Authorities must ensure that no other liquor mafia survives in the state,” said Mahaveer Singh, the father of the slain constable.Sub-inspector (SI) Ashok Kumar Singh and constable Devendra were waylaid and attacked allegedly by Dhimar and his aides on February 9 when they had gone to Nagla Dhimar village of Kasganj for a raid on illegal breweries along the Kali river. Devendra died a few hours later in a hospital. He was the only earning member in the family and was preparing for his sister’s wedding.Cousin of deceased constable, Chandra Pal, said, “The government must ensure that history sheeters stay behind the bars. We also hope that the district administration will heed villagers' demand of construction of a memorial in the memory of Devendra.”Son of a marginal farmer in Nagla Bindu village, Devendra had joined UP Police in 2015. He got married in 2017 and was father of two daughters of 3 years and 4 months old. The wedding of his younger sister was due on May 2.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced a compensation of Rs 50lakh and a government job for a family member of Devendra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/root-out-hooch-trade-family-of-slain-cop-appeals-to-government/articleshow/81139759.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 22, 2021||Vadodara||VMC raised only half of promised wi-fi towers||Vadodara: In 2018 the civic body had promised Barodians of providing wi-fi in all public places. Two years down the line, Vadodara Muncipal Corporation (VMC), it seems, has kept only half of its promise. The VMC, in partnership with Indus Towers, had announced of setting up 300 ‘intelligent towers’ within two years. “Currently, 152 towers have been installed in the city and are functioning,” a senior VMC official told TOI on Friday. He said that plans are afoot to install 30 more intelligent towers in the coming days. But he remained tight-lipped when asked how much time will the civic body take to install all the 300 towers. VMC officials said that citizens can use 100 MB internet for free daily from these wi-fi towers. These ‘intelligent poles’ were not only to provide wi-fi but also host CCTVs, LED display boards and weather measuring devices. The project was initiated under the government’s ‘Smart City Mission’. The intelligent poles with integrated Command and Control Centre are being used to capture feed from the CCTVs installed across the city. “On an average, 10 GB data is used by the citizens daily from this wi-fi facility,” the official added. The civic officials also said that Indus Towers have promised a revenue of Rs 22.41 crores in a period of 15 years to the civic body. “We have received a payment of Rs 83 lakh in last one year and VMC is also charging property tax from the firm for using the space for the intelligent poles,” a senior Vadodara Municipal Corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-raised-only-half-of-promised-wi-fi-towers/articleshow/81140375.cms||Tushar Tere
February 22, 2021||Patna||No plan to shift GFCC HQ from Patna: Minister||PATNA: The Centre has no plan to shift the Ganga Flood Control Commission (GFCC) headquarters from Patna to Lucknow, Bihar's water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha on Sunday said. “I personally spoke to Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat after the news about the shifting of the GFCC headquarters to Lucknow. The Union minister clarified that they neither have any such proposal nor intent,” Jha told TOI. Jha also revealed that Bihar CM Nitish Kumar was very much concerned over the clandestine plan of a GFCC official to shift the office to Lucknow. “The CM is maintaining a close watch on the development related to the GFCC,” he said and added that Bihar would oppose any such move. The GFCC, a subordinate office of the Union Ministry of Water Resources, has its headquarters in Patna since 1972. It was constituted to deal with floods in 11 states, including Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi NCR, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. Sources said Nitish on Sunday morning spoke to Jha after he saw reports in a section of media that attempts were being made to shift the GFCC headquarters to Lucknow. Nitish asked Jha to take up the issue with the Centre. Jha said the Union minister also assured him to look into how the GFCC chairman talked about the shifting of headquarters from Patna. He alleged that GFCC chairman Manjeet Singh Dhillon has “very unsupportive attitude” towards the flood issues of Bihar. “I urged Shekhawat to ensure that a “man of positive framework of mind” should be sent as the GFCC chairman,” Jha said. When contacted over phone, Dhillon denied to have made any move to shift the GFCC headquarters to Lucknow. Though Dhillon admitted that he had a meeting with Uttar Pradesh’s Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh in Lucknow on February 17, he said the headquarters shifting was not on the meeting agenda. But certain newspapers in Lucknow reported that the GFCC headquarters would be shifted to the UP capital in the next two months. After the establishment of its headquarters in Patna, the GFCC has been assisting the state government in its efforts against floods. With the combined efforts, a total of 39.96 lakh hectares of geographical area of the state have been protected from floods, Jha told TOI. “The shifting of the GFCC headquarters will adversely affect the flood mitigation efforts of Bihar, since the requisite approvals, evaluation and one-to-one correspondence with the commission will stop. This will act as a deterrent towards the flood control efforts of Bihar,” a WRD official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-plan-to-shift-gfcc-hq-from-patna-minister/articleshow/81140382.cms||Madan Kumar
February 22, 2021||Patna||Cong incharge embarks on second phase of yatra||PATNA: As a part of ‘Kisan Satyagraha Padyatra’, Congress state incharge Bhakta Charan Das on Sunday covered Saharsa and Madhepura district and interacted with people regarding the consequences of the new farm laws and extending support to farmers who are protesting at Delhi border. He was accompanied by state president Madan Mohan Jha and other state and district leaders. This is the second phase of his yatra which began on Saturday and he is scheduled to cover 16 districts till March 7. Altogether 14 districts have been covered in the first phase and eight will be covered in the third phase. Congress state spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre said, “Not only Congress members, even locals and farmers are accompanying us in this yatra. Several farmers in Bihar are not aware of the danger looming because of the new laws and through this yatra, we are informing them about the consequences of these laws if they are allowed to be implemented.” He hit at the NDA government for ignoring the plights of farmers and working for selected corporate houses. The second phase of this march began from Begusarai on Saturday. However, the Congress had to face embarrassment as party members clashed among themselves and raised slogans alleging that tickets were sold at very high prices during the assembly elections. When asked about such clashes, which have become very frequent in Congress meetings and events, Rathorre replied, “ Few people were upset after they were denied ticket and some even fought Independently. But true Congressmen are working for the progress of the country and party. For them ticket and election holds no importance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cong-incharge-embarks-on-second-phase-of-yatra/articleshow/81140427.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 22, 2021||Patna||Three mukhiyas dismissed for financial irregularities||PATNA: The mukhiyas of Ujahani, Banauli and Diharia panchayats under Chenari block in Rohtas district have been dismissed for allegedly siphoning of funds for solar light scheme of the state government. The Panchayati Raj department issued a notification to this effect on Saturday. Additional chief secretary (panchayati raj) Amrit Lal Meena said the disciplinary action against them was initiated on the recommendation of the district magistrate, who had found the allegations against them true. The three mukhiyas are Santosh Tiwari of Diharia, Asha Devi of Banauli and Rajvansh Paswan of Ujahani panchayats. Rohtas DM Dharmendra Kumar said he had recommended action against the three mukhiyas ten days back after finding the allegations true. Panchayat polls: Meanwhile, the Election Commission has published the final list of voters in the wake of 3-tier panchayat election in the state scheduled to be held in April-May. According to authoritative sources, a total of 6,44,54,749 voters will exercise their franchise to elect their representatives in 8,463 panchayats across the state. There are 64,58,876 more voters this time compared to the 2016 panchayat elections. The highest 40,006 voters were included in Saharsa, followed by Vaishali (32,646), Gopalganj (24,990), Patna (24,811) and East Champaran (23,334). Arwal recorded the lowest addition of only 691 voters in the revised list. Similarly, Sheohar recorded 1707 new voters, followed by Lakhisarai (1931) and Kishanganj (1988). Besides, a total of 3,302 applications were received for rectification and 7,148 for removing names from the list of particular panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-mukhiyas-dismissed-for-financial-irregularities/articleshow/81140414.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Trichy||Truck driver beaten to death||Thanjavur: A 40-year-old truck driver was beaten to death near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur by his relatives due to personal enmity on Saturday night. Police arrested a couple in connection with the murder. The deceased has been identified as V Mahendran of Panthanallur Meleveli Irumoolai near Kumbakonam. He is survived by his wife and children. While Mahendran was at his home on Saturday night, his relative K Manimaran, 38, who lived nearby, barged into his house with his wife M Kavitha and attacked Mahendran, his wife M Mahalakshmi, and mother Kaliyammal with logs and bricks due to previous enmity, police said. Mahendran sustained grievous injuries. He was rushed to Government Hospital in Kumbakonam, but died at night. Mahalakshmi and Kaliyammal were undergoing treatment in the same hospital, police said. The Panthanallur police registered a case against Manimaran, his wife and few others. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/truck-driver-beaten-to-death/articleshow/81142597.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Business||Indian investors will see wealth erosion if government bans crypto trade||MUMBAI: A ban on cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin may result in wealth erosion for about 1 crore Indian investors, including 10 lakh traders, who are estimated to own assets collectively worth over Rs 10,000 crore. Crypto entrepreneurs said that a ban won’t just hurt their business but also lead to gains for foreign firms and increased action on the black market. A complete ban will force self-regulated exchanges to shut down, said Nischal Shetty, co-founder & CEO of WazirX, one of India’s largest cryptocurrency bourses. “It will also eliminate possible data avenues for the government and regulators around the crypto ecosystem. A ban would lead to increased liquidity for the black market and push people to transact in cash for buying and selling Bitcoin,” Shetty told TOI. The government should look at regulating cryptocurrencies instead of a complete ban, investors and cyber law experts told TOI. Indian investors, however, will not face prosecution for prior actions if a ban is implemented. The value of a single Bitcoin was at $58,000 on Sunday and its market capitalisation was $1.1 trillion — which would make Bitcoin the sixth most valued stock had it been a company. Shetty said a ban is not a solution and that is primarily why the US, the UK and Singapore are working on regulation. “There are over 340 crypto startups in India. A ban will erode wealth and also prevent India from participating in this innovation,” Shetty added. In March 2020, the SC had quashed a 2018 RBI circular, which restricted investments in cryptocurrencies. Since then the popularity and value of Bitcoin, the oldest and largest cryptocurrency, has risen exponentially, driven by a crash in interest rates globally. Bitcoin attracted institutional investors looking for higher returns and a hedge against inflation. This led to an over 400% surge in its price in a year. Tech-savvy millennials too rode the wave, encouraged by popular voices like Tesla CEO Elon Musk and Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey. Supreme court advocate and cyber law expert N S Nappinai told TOI the issue is about permitting or banning crypto ‘assets’ — as terming them as ‘currencies’ may be misleading. According to her, the government must take a decision after evaluating its concerns, and check if regulation will be better suited. “Even a regulatory framework was considered restrictive but it ensures protection for all — be it the government, an entrepreneur or an investor. The certainty, transparency and protection that regulation provides make it the preferred option,” Nappinai said. Pavan Duggal, also an SC advocate and a cyber law expert, said that India should tax the digital assets. “A ban is not likely to meet with success due to the nature of the internet. It will be better to come up with detailed parameters to regulate and benefit from the crypto ecosystem,” Duggal said. Global account head of UK-based fintech firm Paysend Abhishek Tripathi said that India has a lot to lose if there is a ban. “To the government, it is just a volatile asset but the possible use cases as we go further are immense. There is a need to put some regulations based on the theory of manipulation but not a ban.” Delhi-based IT professional Ashish Jain, who started investing in Bitcoin nearly 10 years ago, said that the government should work on building a framework and infrastructure for cryptocurrencies. While a ban may result in monetary losses for investors and traders, they are not expected to be caught on the wrong side of the law. “You cannot be prosecuted for a criminal provision under the new law for acts done before it came into effect,” SC advocate Nappinai said, adding that crypto was always a risk factor and only those with high-risk appetite ventured forth, be it as entrepreneurs or as investors. Bitcoin investor Jain, who runs a YouTube channel on crypto mining, gets a lot of calls from youngsters, many of them unemployed, seeking guidance on crypto. “They have no clue about the technical aspects and are even ready to borrow money. Crypto is not only highly volatile but also requires a lot of capital,” Jain said. BitcoinIndia, a forum on online discussion platform Reddit, has compiled an FAQ to address the legal aspects. There are also posts where users have suggested ‘newbies’ to transfer their crypto assets to foreign exchanges like Binance if a ban is announced. Some users also fear they might be tracked down later as they have submitted KYC documents to local exchanges. Bitcoin, being a decentralised digital currency, has also been criticised as it can facilitate cross-border illegal trade. However, WazirX’s Shetty said that regulation will help eliminate bad actors. SC advocate Nappinai added that cases involving crypto Ponzi schemes and hacking have been dealt with using existing laws. While critics have termed Bitcoin a “dangerous bubble”, equating betting on Bitcoin with betting on the collapse of the formal economy, enthusiasts like US-based Samson Mow, chief strategy officer of blockchain technology firm Blockstream, have said, “Countries can’t ban Bitcoin, they can only ban themselves from the global economy”. Several analysts and fintech players have also voiced their opinion on online platforms against the proposed ban. Balaji Srinivasan, former CTO of US-based digital currency exchange Coinbase wrote in a blog last week, “A ‘ban’ would cost India trillions over the long term as the financial internet grows outside the country. Instead of a ‘ban’, India should legalise crypto, take advantage of its remittance-friendly properties, and resolve potential misuse by extending the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) to treat cryptocurrencies as foreign assets. Because a ban would revert India to the failed pre-liberalisation era when foreign assets were suspect and trade was inhibited.” While Berstein director (financials & fintech) Gautam Chhugani tweeted on Sunday that India should make GIFT City an offshore crypto hub as the ring-fencing will address regulatory concerns while giving investors and entrepreneurs freedom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-investors-will-see-wealth-erosion-if-govt-bans-crypto-trade/articleshow/81142887.cms||Aseem Gujar
February 22, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 15-year-old gang-raped in Digha||PATNA: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by three youths inside a hotel under Digha police station area in Patna on Saturday. The victim approached the police on Sunday evening. An FIR was registered with Women’s police station on her statement. Women’s police station SHO Arti Kumari Jaiswal said the girl’s mother had scolded her on Saturday. “After that she left home in anger,” Arti said. The SHO said three youths, identified as Suraj Sao, Krishna Kumar and Shravan Goswami, spotted the girl alone and allured her to come with them. “They took her to a hotel on a bike and gang-raped her. However, the girl’s screams alerted the hotel employees. The trio fled from the spot leaving behind the girl, who later returned home,” the SHO said quoting the FIR. Arti said Suraj and Krishna are brothers and Shravan is their friend. “They live in the same locality,” she said, adding that all three were evading arrest and raids were on to nab them. She said the girl’s medical examination would be conducted on Monday. “Her statement before a judicial magistrate would also be recorded soon,” she added. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/15-year-old-gang-raped-in-digha/articleshow/81140771.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 22, 2021||Patna||115 take second dose of Covid vaccine in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 115 healthcare workers took the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Sunday, taking the total number of such beneficiaries to 39,079 in Bihar. Apart from them, 429 beneficiaries got the first dose. They included one healthcare worker and 428 frontline workers. The vaccinations on Sunday were carried out at 29 session sites. The second dose was rolled out in the state on February 15. However, the number of beneficiaries taking the shot in the last seven days is less than those who had taken the first dose during the same time period. For instance, the first round began on January 16 and total 10,60,25 beneficiaries were vaccinated in seven days. In the same time period, 39,079 of them have taken the second shot. They account for 36.8% of those who had taken the first shot in the initial seven days. In order to improve the turnout, the health department has roped in ICDS employees from Monday to increase the flow of beneficiaries at the session sites. As per the data shared by the state health society, a total 5,22,977 people have been given the first dose in Bihar till Sunday. They include 3,98,502 healthcare workers and 1,24,475 frontline workers. The report further stated that no serious cases of adverse effect following immunization have been reported. Meanwhile, 94 new Covid-19 cases and 58 recoveries were reported in the state, which had a recovery rate of 99.21%. Officially, one death was reported from Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/115-take-second-dose-of-covid-vaccine-in-bihar/articleshow/81140667.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||Central Kolkata traders demand end to hawker menace, threaten strike||KOLKATA: Around 5,000 traders of New Market, SriRam Arcade, Firpo’s Market, Treasure Island and Simpark Mall may call a strike if police and civic guardians fail to stop the growing encroachment of roads, pavements and parking space in and around New Market by hawkers. For now, they have planned a protest march from February 24. According to traders representing Joint Traders Forum (JTF), an umbrella body of traders, ever since business resumed after lockdown, a section of new hawkers have taken over two-thirds of the carriageways on Bertram Street, Humayun Place, Lindsay Street, Corporation Street and Finwickbazar Street as well as the pavements around the heritage market. In March 2015, traders under JTF had observed a three-day trade bandh to air their grievances against encroachment of thoroughfares, parking space and the entry and exit points of the markets by hawkers flouting rules in the “no-hawking zones”. At that point of time, Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee had intervened, assuring that the menace would be curbed by driving out the illegal encroachers and genuine hawkers would be given proper identity cards. Nearly six years down the line, the traders have unanimously decided to hit the roads against civic apathy and police inaction towards their demands. According to plans, thousands of traders under JTF will participate in a march for three days from February 24. They will meet municipal commissioner Binod Kumar and senior police officers to press for their demands, said Ashok Gupta, president of JTF. “Now that business is coming back to normal, a section of shoppers is scared of stepping into our markets because of encroachment problems. While a section of them can’t use the parking space, others find it difficult to get access to the markets through the gates,” Gupta said. According to JTF secretary Rajeev Singh all the markets in the Chowringhee neighbourhood had a potential fire hazard as a section of hawkers left behind their wares wrapped in plastic sheets at the end of the day. Singh alleged they had found encroachment of “newer areas” by “new faces” after the unlock and added they would be compelled to go on strike if solutions were not offered by the authorities. An officer at New Market police station admitted that despite conducting occasional raids, the number of hawkers was on the rise for want of a sustained drive which could only be possible if the KMC bosses were willing to implement the hawker policy as adopted by the state. A KMC official said the civic body was trying to resolve a crisis in the New Market area arising out of a feud between two hawkers’ groups. Hawkers’ union leader Kali Khatick said, “We are against encroachment of roads or pavements. The problem of encroachment by new hawkers could be solved if the hawker policy is implemented.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/central-kol-traders-demand-end-to-hawker-menace-threaten-strike/articleshow/81141165.cms||Saikat Ray
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||‘Vaccine for kids will take time; train them in Covid-related behaviour’: Dr Sanjay Marathe||Pediatrician and neonatologist Dr Sanjay Marathe is an authority in immunization and vaccine research. In an interview with TOI, Dr Marathe cleared many doubts about the need and availability of the Covid-19 vaccine for kids, including sending them to school, gardens and playgrounds and also on how to protect them from the infection and curb the spread in adults, especially, grandparents. Excerpts... Q. Is it OK to send children to school once they reopen? A. School closures have a negative impact on a child’s health, education and development. The Indian Academy of Pediatrics also suggests that kids should go to school. That is why schools were reopening in a phased manner. As Covid-19 conditions improved, the government first allowed students from class 9 to 12 because these years are academically very important. As conditions improved further, students from Class V to VIII were allowed. But, as soon as we started witnessing a fresh surge in cases, the authorities have restricted or discontinued schools and colleges. In short, it depends upon the level of spread of the infection. In future, the government may decide to reopen schools. This will happen only when conditions improve. It will be OK to send kids to schools when authorities permit them to. However, the final decision has to be taken by parents. Q. Should we wait for the vaccine to come? A. It’s one of the options. But, are you ready to wait for another 8 to 10 months? Vaccines are in the pipeline and some clients have applied for paediatric trials. They may get the approvals faster than any other vaccine. But, it will still take time. Waiting for the vaccine for letting your kids to go to school won’t be a good idea. Instead, train them in following Covid-appropriate behaviour. Middle and high school kids can learn and follow it. The problem is of smaller kids. They can anyway stay at home. Q. Why are kids considered safe from Covid-19? A. The severity of the Covid-19 infection in children is less. There are several reasons. One of them is low count of ACE 2 receptors in young children. These are considered as the gateway of the novel coronavirus into your body. Secondly, kids have no or low comorbid conditions as compared to adults. Thirdly, our immunization campaign has played a role in keeping them protected. Q. Have vaccines like BCG and MMR protected our kids from Covid-19? A. Epidemiological studies have suggested the same. Observational studies have also suggested that countries with recent MMR campaigns or established MMR vaccinations in their national programs have generally reported lower mortalities due to Covid-19. We have also observed this in India. Kids were largely safe in our country. Q. Do we really need a Covid-19 vaccine for kids? A. Vaccines like BCG and MMR are important parts of our immunization campaign and as they are protecting our kids from Covid-19, it is an additional benefit. But, as of now, no doctor will recommend the use of BCG or MMR vaccine for the protection of individuals against the Covid-19 infection. It’s a different virus and we need a specific vaccine for it. We must get the vaccine as and when our turn comes. Q. As children are considered asymptomatic carriers, how harmful are they for adults, especially grandparents? A. In the present phase of the pandemic, children must stay away from grandparents. I have seen some families where parents tested Covid-19 positive and then they sent their children to their grandparents’ home to ensure their safety. We must avoid such mistakes. It’s better to keep your kids with you instead of sending them to their grandparents. Staying with Covid-19 positive parents with physical distancing may not affect children but if they carry the virus to their grandparents then it could be dangerous for elderly people with co-morbidities. Q. Can one get infected even after getting the vaccine? A. Yes. Even after two doses, the vaccines available worldwide offer 70% efficacy, which means 30% people can still get infected. But, all vaccines provide nearly 100% protection from the severe disease. It means that you can avoid hospitalization, ventilators and oxygen support. The safety of the approved vaccines has already been proved. So, the best thing to do is to get the vaccine and follow the rules and regulations until and unless this pandemic turns into an endemic. Q. Will the vaccine put an end to Covid? A. Going by our past experience, similar viruses like the H1N1 and Ebola turn into an endemic after a couple of spurts and arrival of the vaccine. But this doesn’t mean the vaccine will diminish the virus completely. It’s here to stay for a long time. We must follow the mask and hand hygiene ethics positively. Remember, there is still no medicine or treatment for Covid-19. Vaccines are the only protection that we have. We must be thankful to our scientists who have given us vaccines in such a short span of time. Q. What about the free vaccines offered by the government? A. The vaccines given to newborns through the government of India’s immunization campaign are of best quality. One should not consider the vaccine as inferior just because you are getting them free of cost. People must get free vaccines for kids from government set-ups and some from the private ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccine-for-kids-will-take-time-train-them-in-covid-related-behaviour/articleshow/81129946.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 22, 2021||Trichy||Farmers call for releasing water for summer crop||Trichy: To safeguard cash crops and summer crops raised on hundreds of acres in Karur, Trichy and delta districts, farmers have appealed to the government to release up to 3,000 cusecs water in Cauvery from Mettur reservoir at lease till the first week of May. The water level in Mettur reservoir was 105.3ft on Sunday against its full capacity of 120ft. The water level has been remaining at 100 feet ever since the dam was closed for delta cultivation on January 28, which is a customary date to close the reservoir. The dam will be opened for the same on June 12, every year. “This would be very helpful to the farmers who raise banana, sugarcane, turmeric, betel vine and reed in parts of Karur and Trichy districts. The water will also irrigate summer crops raised in delta districts also,” district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam affiliated to CPI Ayilai Sivasuriyan said. According to officials, 1,500 cusecs has been released into the Cauvery. “For the last 10 years, if the water level in the Mettur dam goes below 50ft, the government may stop releasing water during summer. However, the situation is entirely different during this year. The water level in the dam has been at 100ft for several days. So, the government should release water up to 3,000 cusecs in Cauvery during the summer season,” he said. “Moreover, water is being pumped from Cauvery between Mayanur and Grand Anicut for several drinking water schemes. So it is important to release at least 3,000 cusecs,” Sivasuriyan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-call-for-releasing-water-for-summer-crop/articleshow/81142607.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 22, 2021||Delhi||North corpn starts process to ‘legalise’ Walled City temple||New Delhi: North Delhi Municipal Corporation officials were on Monday given directions to draft a proposal to “legalise” the prefabricated steel structure (Hanuman temple) that came up overnight on the central verge of the main road at Chandni Chowk last week. This structure is barely a few metres away from the Hanuman Mandir that was removed on January 3 in compliance with the order of Delhi High Court. The decision was taken in a meeting called by mayor Jai Prakash with officials of the legal and land and building departments. Members of the deliberative wing, including standing committee chairman Chhail Bihari and leader of House Yogesh Verma, also attended the meeting. “The purpose was to take legal advice and understand the possible options before giving shape to a private proposal to be placed in the next House meeting on Thursday. The officials told us that the structure can be given legal status after getting permission from all authorities concerned, including the corporation and the religious committee and urban development department of Delhi government,” said Prakash. The officials were given directions to draft the proposal, including suggestions for change of land use, mention the utilities crossing the passage, specify the location and the total area clearly to curb any chance of extension in the form of encroachment in the future. “The proposal will be drafted in a way that nobody can raise doubts or challenge it. The details will be submitted to us by Tuesday after which an all party meeting will be called with AAP and Congress councillors before presenting the proposal in the House meeting, possibly on February 25,” said the mayor. Prakash added that all political parties were in favour of the project, so they believed that the proposal would be approved by Delhi government too. After the prefabricated structure surfaced, PWD wrote to Delhi Police asking them to take action against the construction. In a letter dated February 19, the department clarified that the structure was an “obstacle” to the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project and had been built without taking permission from the executing agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-corpn-starts-process-to-legalise-walled-city-temple/articleshow/81160885.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 22, 2021||Meerut||3,400 doses of Covid-19 vaccine go to waste in Meerut||MEERUT: As many as 3,400 doses of Covid-19 vaccine have gone to waste in Meerut between January 16 and February 15. The health department officials have blamed it on the duplication of data and failure of beneficiaries to turn up at the vaccination booths. Authorities maintained that the duplication in data happened due to a glitch in the software. “The life of a vaccine is four hours and once a vial is opened, the vaccines inside it have to be used. However, many vaccines went to waste because of a duplication of data. The software recognises each phone number as an individual and in cases where one person had more than one phone number, it identified them as different individuals,” said Meerut district surveillance officer Dr Prashant Kumar. Health officials said the low turnout of the beneficiaries at the vaccination booths was as much responsible for the wastage as the duplication of data. Each vial of Covishield has 10 doses and it has a shelf life of four hours. “This is the initial phase of vaccination and it is currently available for emergency use only. A plan of action is being made to ensure that no further glitches lead to duplication and that the turnout is not low,” said Meerut district immunisation officer Dr Praveen Gautam. A month ago, 44 vials of Covid vaccine were wasted after they froze at a community health centre (CHC) in Gunnaur town of Sambhal district. Earlier this month, over 25,000 doses of Covid vaccine were wasted in Tamil Nadu due to low turnout at vaccination centres. The Directorate of Health, which is overseeing the coronavirus vaccination drive in the southern state, had said that almost 15% of the vaccine shots that were allotted to the state in the first phase, had gone to waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3400-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-go-to-waste-in-meerut/articleshow/81139769.cms||Ishita Bhatia
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||Robbers loot Rs 23,000 from petrol pump at gunpoint||JAIPUR: Four robbers on two different two-wheelers robbed an employee of a petrol pump situated under Mansarovar police station area during early hours on Sunday. Police have got the CCTV footage of the incident in which four robbers including two on a bike and two on scooter came and after pointing gun on the employee decamped with a bag containing nearly Rs 23,000. The incident has again exposed the lofty claims of Jaipur police on its patrolling as the incident took place at 1.14 am on Sunday where these robbers fearlessly came to the petrol pump and executed the robbery within 30 seconds and fled. “The robbers were in two groups and had covered themselves with caps and masks. We have got some footages and are trying to identify them,” said a senior police officer of Jaipur (South). One of the robbers after reaching closer to the petrol pump employee pointed a gun and asked him to hand over the cash bag. Robbers took barely 15 seconds to execute the robbery and left. After the incident the employee rushed to the office of the petrol pump and intimated his employer. The employees claimed that police came late despite informing them immediately. “We had contacted the police control room but did not get any response. A police team visited in the morning on Sunday,” said an employee of the petrol pump. When contacted, Harendra Mahawar, deputy commissioner of police (South), said, “They are not looking like professionals and it appears that some students or amateurs were into this crime. We have got some leads and are working on it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/robbers-loot-rs23000-from-petrol-pump-at-gunpoint/articleshow/81142644.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||16kg narcotics seized in Jhalawar dist, 1 arrested||Kota: The Jhalawar rural police during the routine checking of vehicles on Sunday arrested a 45-year-old man from Sarda Road under Bhalta police station of the district and recovered 15.5 kilogram of poppy husk powder from his possession. The accused has been identified as Om Prakash Sharma. SHO at Bhalta police station Rajpal Singh said during the routine checking of vehicles on Sarda Road, the police team spotted a suspicious man identified as Om Prakesh Sharma. On inquiry, he could not give satisfactory response following which the police team searched the bag and recovered poppy husk powder weighing 15.5 kilogram, he added. Singh said Sharma has been booked under sections of NDPS Act and further inquiry into the matter was forwaded to SHO Bakani. The accused was likely to have received delivery of the seized drug from some vehicle on the road and was carrying it to deliver at a dhaba around 1.5 kilometre away from the spot, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/16kg-narcotics-seized-in-jhalawar-dist-1-arrested/articleshow/81142668.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Goa||Goa: Loliem Polem locals bat for special meet to discuss coastal zone plan||POINGUINIM: Discussion on the Coastal Zone Management Plan dominated the Loliem Polem gram sabha held on Sunday. Over 100 villagers who had specially attended the meeting were told of the few pros and cons mentioned in the draft sent to the panchayat a week ago. It was resolved unanimously that without understanding the maps villagers will not be able to participate in public hearings. Those present felt that a special gram sabha must be called for and a person from CZMP should be called to help understand the maps. Sarpanch Sachin Naik said that suggestions regarding the CZMP were sent to the concerned department in 2019, but nothing materialised. The villagers, in their discussion, said that many footpaths do not reflect in the draft sent. They were of the opinion that these accesses must be maintained and that no landlord should block any of these traditional footpaths. Discussions were also held regarding developmental works. The villagers were informed that about eight projects, costing nearly Rs 30 lakh, have been tendered. Of these, three are major projects, Naik said. Six of the nine panchas were present at the meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/loliem-polem-locals-bat-for-special-meet-to-discuss-coastal-zone-plan/articleshow/81143462.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Aurangabad||Surge in cases drives beneficiaries to take jab||Kolhapur: With a marginal rise in Covid-19 cases in Kolhapur district and the threat of a second cycle of the outbreak still looming large, a large number of healthcare workers are turning up at the vaccination centres to take the second dose of the vaccine. On the first day of the second-dose vaccination on February 15, only 8% of the public healthcare workers had turned up to take the jab. The turnout increased to 48% on Saturday. The turnout of beneficiaries is more in the rural areas than in the urban areas, especially in the limits of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC). The rural areas reported 56% turnout against 39% of the total beneficiaries who turned up at the vaccination centres in the jurisdiction of the KMC. District health officer Yogesh Sale said, “The surge in the Covid-19 cases and the fear of another cycle of the infection reaching its peak is driving public healthcare workers to get the second dose as well as the first dose (for those who have not taken the vaccine so far). The turnout for the first dose continues to be around 55%.” “Now, we have signed up around 50,000 public health workers and frontline workers for the first dose. We are going to speed up the vaccination by adding more vaccination centres. Now, the private hospitals too have been enrolled for the vaccination programme.” Meanwhile, the health authorities have appealed to citizens not to believe rumors surrounding the vaccination programme. Sale said so far, there have been no deaths among beneficiaries after taking the vaccine and no one has reported any adverse effect after taking the second dose. “Right information plays a crucial role in encouraging the beneficiaries to take the vaccine. The second dose is important to get immunity against the infection. So far, no person who has received the first dose has been infected by Covid,” said Sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/surge-in-cases-drives-beneficiaries-to-take-jab/articleshow/81142631.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Chennai||TN’s T20 Baazigars||Chennai: On IPL auction day in Chennai last Thursday, Shahrukh Khan was garnering great interest. No, we aren’t talking about the Bollywood superstar and Kolkata Knight Riders’ co-owner, but the Tamil Nadu all-rounder who is named after the actor. A fierce bidding war for the 25-year-old saw him eventually go for a price of Rs5.25 crore to Punjab Kings from a base price of Rs20 lakh. Such bidding wars haven’t been a new phenomenon for Tamil Nadu players in recent years.Left-arm pacer T Natarajan went for Rs3 crore to Kings XI Punjab in 2017, while mystery spinner Varun Chakravarthy was snapped up by the same franchise for Rs8.4 crore ahead of the 2019 edition before moving to Kolkata Knight Riders for Rs4 crore a season later. During the recent auction, opener C Hari Nishaanth and left-arm spinner M Siddharth were picked up by Chennai Super Kings and Delhi Capitals, propelling the number of Tamil Nadu players taking part in IPL 2021 to 13 — R Ashwin, Dinesh Karthik, Washington Sundar, Vijay Shankar, M Ashwin, T Natarajan, Varun Chakravarthy, Shahrukh, N Jagadeesan, Hari Nishaanth, R Sai Kishore, M Siddharth and Sandeep Warrier. It is the most from any one domestic team for this year’s IPL, a significant change from around five years ago when the likes of Ashwin, Karthik and M Vijay were the only TN players featuring in the league.Experts say, the rise in the number of state players in the annual T20 extravaganza is a result of Tamil Nadu’s success in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy. TN won the domestic T20 meet without breaking sweat this season while they had finished runners-up in the previous edition. TN also made the final of the domestic 50-over tournament — Vijay Hazare Trophy — last season. "The larger interest is a direct outcome of TN’s white-ball success. When you are reaching the final stages of a tournament, the team obviously tends to get noticed. Back when there were very few players from TN in the IPL, we never used to qualify for the latter stages," says CSK’s N Jagadeesan, who was the leading run-getter in the Syed Mushtaq Ali campaign.TN coach D Vasu has been instrumental in this white-ball success. He took over as TN coach at the beginning of the 2019-20 season and the team has hardly put a foot wrong in the shorter formats since then. He pinpoints the emphasis on fitness as a key reason for the team’s turnaround. While TN did win the Vijay Hazare and Deodhar Trophy in 2016-17, they were seldom reaching the latter stages of white-ball tournaments in recent years. "The idea when I came in was to work on fitness and give opportunities to youngsters. Once we gave a chance to the youngsters, all of them grabbed it with both hands. I am extremely glad. What I want to do is to build bench strength and create competition. Even playing for Tamil Nadu should get very difficult," says Vasu. The fitness standards expected in the Tamil Nadu camp are the same as the benchmark set for the Indian team. "We have made it clear that the fitness of TN players should be up to the Indian team’s standards. It is an integral part of today’s cricket. If India’s benchmark is 16.5 for the yo-yo test, ours should be the same. Because of the pandemic, we didn’t insist on it this year but we have looked to maintain those standards," says Vasu, who is also quick to credit the Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL) for players making a mark.The tournament — which began in 2016 — has had its share of controversies, but it has enabled youngsters from interiors of the state to share the field with the state’s best cricketers and come to the fore. CSK’s latest local pick, Hari Nishaanth, hails from Coimbatore for instance, and he finished among the top-10 run-getters in the TNPL for the past couple of seasons and then carried that form into the TN set-up.Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) secretary R S Ramasaamy feels their endeavour to stage the TNPL with a focus on quality is bearing fruit. "TN’s success in white-ball cricket is due to the TNPL. We try to make sure that the atmosphere for a TNPL game is as close to an IPL game as possible. The players get an opportunity to play in front of crowds and under floodlights. That has given them a lot of confidence," observes Ramasaamy.Amid the recent white-ball success, though, it’s heartening to find that the importance of winning the Ranji Trophy isn’t lost on the TN team. Having not won India’s premier first-class competition since 1987-88, breaking that barren run continues to be their primary focus. "What we need to work on is red-ball cricket. At the end of the day, winning Ranji Trophy is everything for Tamil Nadu cricket. That is our goal. If you want to say that you are a domestic superpower, then you have to win Ranji Trophy," Vasu makes his objective clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tns-t20-baazigars/articleshow/81142662.cms||Vivek Krishnan
February 22, 2021||Meerut||UP roadways bus driver held for drug peddling||BIJNOR: Bhupendra Kumar Gangwar, a contractual driver with UPSRTC, was arrested by Bijnor police and smack valued at Rs 2 lakh was seized from him. Dharamveer Singh, Bijnor superintendent of police, said Gangwar, a resident of Bareilly, was arrested from Jikariwala village under Afjalgarh police station, following a tip-off. During interrogation, he confessed to delivering smack to members of his gang at bus halts falling on his designated route between Bareilly and Bijnor. He procured the drug from another dealer in Bareilly. A case has been registered against him under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Police are trying to trace his gang members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-roadways-bus-driver-held-for-drug-peddling/articleshow/81139775.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 22, 2021||Delhi||N corpn’s relief for 29 refugee markets||New Delhi: North Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to provide relief to traders with a proposal to simplify the process for freehold of leased commercial properties and reduce the licensing fees for 29 refugee markets. Leader of house Yogesh Verma said that there are around 1,100 shops in markets like Zakhira, Diwan Hall Road in Lajpat Rai Market and three markets in Paharganj. Verma said that the traders had not paid the licensing fees for years. “The civic body had implemented the charges based on current renting rates in these localities. Traders were served notices, who in turn complained that the fee amount was huge,” he said. After several rounds of meetings, the corporation decided to charge nominal rates and the traders agreed to pay the pending fees from 2015 onwards. “A proposal in this regard will be present in next standing committee,” said Verma, adding that the civic body expects to generate Rs 50- 60 crore from these markets after implementing the policy. In Delhi, there are 79 markets with shops on leasehold that were transferred to municipal corporations decades ago by land and development office and department of establishment. Of them, 29 come under north corporation. South Delhi Municipal Corporation has already implemented a policy for 38 markets. “The shops in these markets are under non-ownership markets category. That means, the shopkeepers are still paying rentals or licensing fees to us. They can obtain ownership or get the property freehold only when the corporation will issue a transfer deed on their name after payment of transfer fees. But since there was a lack of consensus of the rates of the pending licensing fees, things were not getting resolved,”’ said an official. North corporation also plans to charge conversion fees while getting property freehold, which would be calculated on the basis of value of property and area of shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpns-relief-for-29-refugee-markets/articleshow/81141313.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 22, 2021||Surat||Polling higher in Surat compared to last civic polls||SURAT: According to the state election commission, the preliminary polling percentage shows over two percent rise in Diamond City on Sunday’s municipal elections compared to the last civic polls. While on Sunday the preliminary polling numbers were 43.18 percent, total voting in 2015 was registered at 39.93 percent. The overall election process was completed without any report of major dispute in the city. Election officials received a few complaints of EVM malfunctioning and the machines were replaced after verification. “The election process completed smoothly without any disturbance. At a few places, EVMs had to be replaced following complaints. The preliminary polling data shows that the voting is higher by around three percent compared to last year,” said Dr Dhaval Patel, district collector and chief district election officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/polling-higher-in-surat-compared-to-last-civic-polls/articleshow/81140235.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Kolhapur||Control measures in place as vax coverage stays low||Pune: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said on Sunday that urban areas in Pune were lagging behind the rural parts in vaccinations among healthcare (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs). He said the pace of inoculation, particularly among frontline workers in the urban centres, has been “abysmally low”.“In the Pune municipal corporation area, 55% HCWs have been inoculated while only 5% to 6% of frontline workers have received their shots,” he said.There has been widespread concern over the slow pace of inoculation in the Pune Metropolitan Region. On Sunday, for example, a special drive that was held to clear coverage backlog, opened to a weak response. Only 460 beneficiaries from Pune rural and 351 from the PCMC limits turned up for their jabs. Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director health, Pune circle, said, “Sunday’s drive was purely voluntary. We had urged urban and rural authorities to continue the drive into Sunday to clear backlog.”The Centre had asked all states to finish giving the first dose to all health workers by February 20, a deadline which Pune region has missed. Deshmukh said pendency is at 22% in Pune rural, 28% in the PCMC limits, and around 34% in the PMC areas. He said officials here are hoping to wrap up the process by February 25.“To improve response, we have even provided transportation facility to some beneficiaries. And we’re trying to convince many to come forward and get themselves vaccinated,” Deshmukh said Rao attributed the slow pace of vaccination to low confidence in the urban centres and continuing issues with the CoWIN app. He said, “We have approached the health department for the reenrolment of HCWs who could not sign up during the registration drive. We are also trying to resolve the issue of people who could not find their names on the CoWIN app despite signing up.”Curbs in small pocketsRao also said certain hotspots have now been identified in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural areas. He said micro-containment zones would be set up in these areas within a day or two.“But there won’t be actions such as installation of tin sheds or blocked roads,” he added. “Most of the identified hotspots in Kothrud and Bibvewadi within Pune city; Chinchwad, Moshi, Bhosari, Pimpri Saudagar and Pimple Gurav in Pimpri Chinchwad and those in rural Pune are not new,” he said, while pointing out that these areas were among those hit during peak pandemic least year. “But this also does not mean other areas are free of cases,” he said.Plans for rural areas Rao said at least one Covid Care Centre (CCC) in each of the 13 tehsils in rural Pune is being activated with immediate effect. And such facilities will be activated in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad only if there’s a requirement. “Jumbo hospitals and DCHs (dedicated Covid hospitals) will require a few days to set up,” he said. Rao said new cases were mostly from spreads that occurred within families. “Quarantining people then becomes a problem. There was a demand from elected representatives to activate the CCCs in rural areas with immediate effect. And that’s what we are doing,” he said.The top official said efforts are also on to boost testing by involving the National Institute of Virology, the National Aids Research Institute, Army Command Hospital, Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC) and Sassoon General hospital.“Sassoon will be given more manpower and equipment to increase its daily testing to 1,000 samples. As of now, Pune is testing 10,000 samples a day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/control-measures-in-place-as-vax-coverage-stays-low/articleshow/81142685.cms||Vishwas Kothari
February 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Starting on cautious note, voting picks up after 11am||Ahmedabad: It was a usual, lazy and leisurely Sunday morning for Ahmedabad, as people barely woke up from their slumber. Unlike the election day, when people customarily, some almost clinically, queue up outside polling booths to cast their votes to avoid rush hour, people barely stepped out to vote on Sunday. For most part of the day, polling booths wore a deserted look across Ahmedabad, with voters, citizens showing up in groups of two or three. In the western part of Ahmedabad across areas such as Jodhpur, Bodakdev, Bopal, Ghatlodia and Gota, barely 4-5% voting was reported in the first couple of hours, which picked up after 11am. “Since it’s a Sunday, I did go out and vote with my wife, brother and father, but we all left after noon post tea and late breakfast,” said Manish Patel, a resident of Vastrapur. Fewer people were seen at polling booths in posh localities such as Prahladnagar, Jodhpur and Bodakdev whereas the turnout was better in Paldi, Vejalpur, Naranpura, Ranip, Sarkhej and Juhapura, among others. A booth-level officer posted at Bopal said, “Usually people come in early around 8am to avoid both rush and scorching heat. However, this time, there is barely any movement visible till past 9am.” Another booth at GLS, Law Garden bore a deserted look for a good hour in the morning when not a single voter came in to vote. Booth-level officers said that in the wake of the pandemic, people are reluctant to step out and be amidst the crowd and therefore, have not shown up to vote. The situation was similar on the eastern side of the city, wherein people came in small batches to vote in areas such as Kalupur, Khanpur, Shahpur, Dariapur, Odhav and Vastral. According to police personnel posted at booths, people were fearful of the pandemic situation. There was a general reluctance in people going to vote out of demotivation and bits of dissent. Dariapur resident, Sunil Dantadiya, said, “I vote or I don’t, it doesn’t make any difference. My plight is not going to change because a clear lack of political will is visible so what difference would it make!” Dantadiya’s mother, Shantaben (65), is however keen on fulfilling her duty. “My son brought me along but didn’t vote as he’s demotivated. I too am going for the heck of it, like I do every election.” Jivan Prajapati, a resident of Odhav who is looking for a job for a year, said, “I am struggling hard to find a job and preparing for government postings. I hope for some change and therefore I am here to vote.” Voting barely picked up even during the later half of the day, as barely 30% voting took place till 4pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/starting-on-cautious-note-voting-picks-up-after-11am/articleshow/81142726.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||At 36.3C, city’s max temp 5 above normal in last 30 years||Mumbai: It was a hot Sunday afternoon for Mumbaikars as the city recorded a maximum temperature of 36.3 Celsius. Sunday’s maximum temperature equalled the season’s highest maximum temperature recorded on February 2. According to a representative of Santacruz observatory of Indian Meteorological Department of Mumbai, maximum temperature on Sunday was 5 degrees above what is considered normal for the particular day based on data from the last 30 years. Colaba recorded a maximum temperature of 34.6 Celsius which is 4.4 above normal. Santacruz and Colaba’s maximum temperatures on Sunday were higher compared to 34.7 and 33.3 recorded on Saturday. “The lower level easterly winds and the delayed setting of the sea breeze over Mumbai, increased the maximum temperature in the city. The trend is likely to continue for the next couple of days,” said Shubhangi Bhute, scientist IMD Mumbai. The minimum temperatures of 21and 23 Celsius at Santacruz and Colaba were 2.3 and 3.5Celsius above normal. The city’s air quality improved too. According to System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), Mumbai’s overall AQI for PM 2.5 on Sunday was 125. — Vinamrata Borwankar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-36-3c-citys-max-temp-5-above-normal-in-last-30-years/articleshow/81142715.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: West sleepwalks through polls, ink rises in east||AHMEDABAD: The east-west divide was conspicuous as the city posted the lowest voter turnout of 39,73% at 11.45 pm among six cities that went to polls on Sunday. Here, western Ahmedabad was more lackadaisical in its approach towards the civic elections.  Four out of five wards with lowest voter turnout were all from west Ahmedabad where people apparently chose to avoid the crowds in Covid-19 pandemic and chill in the house instead. Navrangpura, which is home to one of the most educated and elite populations of Ahmedabad, saw the poorest voter turnout of 26%. Here, the polling booths wore a deserted look as voters cold shouldered the process amid rising mercury. Bodakdev, another posh area, came second lowest with only 29% choosing to exercise their franchise. This was followed by Jodhpur ward (31%), Paldi (33%) and Naroda (34%). Reema Dave, a medical practitioner, said that her family decided not to venture out to vote in public due to the corona pandemic. "Civic elections generally follow a routine pattern. My family did not want to risk getting Covid," said Dave. Gayatri Barot, a resident of Memnagar, said that development works get done at their own pace in the city. Hence, she did not feel the need to cast their vote. In eastern Ahmedabad, the enthusiasm was comparatively higher as the top five wards with highest voter turnout are all from this side of the river. Voters were seen coming out in groups with many elderly accompanied with their families making it to the booths even in wheelchairs. Dariyapur ward in AMC witnessed the highest turnout of 48.44%. Streets on which polling booths were situated, were bustling with traffic throughout the day with party cadres trying to mobilize the voters. The competition was bit tough in this Muslim-dominated constituency with the entry of the All India Majlis-e-Ittihadul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) fielding all four candidates with the Congress party already trying to protect its bastion in this eastern part of the city. This was followed by Khadia (47.82%), Gomtipur (47.33%), Lambha (45.96%) and Odhav (45.78%). The turnout was slightly higher in wards with sizable populations of minority communities. Except Jamalpur ward, other minority community-dominated wards clocked polling upwards of 40%. Apart from Gomtipur ward, which has 70% Muslim voters, had the third highest voter turn out. Other Muslim dominated areas has impressive turn out- Maktampur (41.44%), Behrampura (40.77%) and Danilimda (40.34%). Sociologists said a wide voting gap between the east and west Ahmedabad reflects lopsided development of the city. “People in the west, irrespective of they vote or not, get better facilities with highest investment in infrastructure. In the east, people have to struggle daily with poor civic infrastructure namely water supply, drainage and even informal labour losing jobs because of a demolition drive. Voting for this part of the population is their weapon to vent their frustration, hope for better or demand change,” said a city-based sociologist Gaurang Jani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/west-sleepwalks-through-polls-ink-rises-in-east/articleshow/81142729.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Lucknow||Health dept gears up to give its best shot in mop-up round today||Lucknow: The last mop-up round for those healthcare and frontline workers who have not taken the vaccine shot as yet will be held on Monday at 49 booths in 21 centres across the city. According to health department’s data, there are at least 1.04 lakh healthcare and frontline workers in the city. Of these, nearly 41,000 beneficiaries have not taken their first dose. Nearly 10% of these workers are those who fall in the exempted category due to health issues. Another 10% are the ones who are not interested in getting vaccination for various reasons. This leaves the authorities with 33,000 workers who are yet to be covered. However, the capacity of the booths being set up by the health department for Monday is only 6,125. When asked how such a large number of beneficiaries would be covered with limited resources, health officials said arrangements had been made to inoculate at least 125 people at every booth. If the turnout is high, fresh vaccine vials will be sent to the centres immediately. Two vehicles will be deployed at each centre for the purpose. “Since taking vaccine shot is voluntary and we cannot force anybody, we will inoculate every beneficiary who visits the booths on Monday,” chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said. “Those who miss out on Monday as well will have to wait for the government’s decision on whether to give another chance to them or not,” he added. Dr Bhatnagar said the health department was reviewing the list of beneficiaries to weed out names that might have been repeated and those who have retired from services or have been transferred to other places. “Therafter, we will be in a position to find out exactly how many healthcare and frontline workers have not taken their first dose,” he said. “Every beneficiary has to be given two doses at a gap of four weeks for complete immunity, for which separate rounds will be held. In these rounds, beneficiaries who have missed their first dose can also be covered, but a final decision in this regard is yet to be taken,” the CMO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/health-dept-gears-up-to-give-itsbest-shot-in-mop-up-round-today/articleshow/81143260.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||Renowned coaching centre reaches out to young minds in tribal hamlets||Udaipur: Expensive coaching for medical and engineering exams by big institutes had been considered an option of the privileged ones, but the state initiative has now proved it otherwise. Durgesh Meena, a class 11 science student from Moheda Kharkhali village of Pratapgarh district, always wanted to become a doctor. His home is located in a non-descriptive remote settlement, where most of the populace depend on agriculture for livelihood. Durgesh’s father is a marginal farmer and could not afford expensive coaching for his son. But thanks to the state initiative to mentor meritorious students from tribal hamlets to help prepare them for engineering and medical exams. Gaurav Meena from Sikra village in Dausa district is receiving coaching for engineering entrance exam. Gaurav’s father has a private job while his mother is a homemaker. With an elder sister also enrolled in a graduation programme, Gaurav’s father couldn’t have afford to send him to Kota for the coaching, but the government’s initiative has given new hopes to the under-privileged family. There are 200 meritorious students, 50% being girls, from tribal dominant districts, who are beneficiaries of the special coaching programme ‘TAD Talented-200’ for engineering and medical exams. The students are being taught through online mode presently, but once the classroom teaching resumes, they would be shifted to hostels in Udaipur and Kota. The students would be admitted in the nearest government schools there, so that their school education is not affected during coaching years. “For the first time, the Tribal Regional Development Department has tied up with Allen Career Institute where the meritorious and most needy students from tribal families have been selected according to their academic performances in class tenth. It is a two-year foundation coaching programme with regular studies of classes 11 and 12 students. The state has granted a budget of Rs 200 lakh which includes the complete residential, boarding-lodging, tution expenses,” Neha Giri, joint secretary, TAD, said. As per the original plan, of the 200 selected students, 100 each were to be sent to Kota and Udaipur for coaching, but since classroom teaching hasn’t resumed completely, the students are being coached through virtual classes presently. The government is making sure the students have access to internet connection and mobile/computer system for learning. Harshita Meena, who lives in Bhilwara city, said she had been receiving video lectures since November. “The lectures are interesting and easy to understand and the mentors are helpful. Hope the classroom teaching resumes soon so that students have better learning experiences as virtual teaching has its limitations.” The officer said, “There is no dearth of talent among the tribal students but most of them are not able to realize their dreams for lack of opportunities. The state has been running the coaching programmes for tribal youths for quite some time but this is the first time it has collaborated with a private coaching institute for best results,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/renowned-coaching-centre-reaches-out-to-young-minds-in-tribal-hamlets/articleshow/81142734.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Kanpur||Govt clears visitors gallery , pavilion and museum at Green Park stadium||Done/ALVI Times News Network Kanpur: The proposed visitors gallery, pavilion and cricket museum will soon be established in the 71-year-old historical Green Park stadium to which the state government and the sports department have given their nod recently by issuing a no-objection certificate. A visitors gallery and a cricket museum will be established at the director's pavilion of the Green Park. The rare and historical photographs and other material will be placed in the museum to make the city proud. This initiative has been taken by Smart City Limited. Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar visited the Green Park stadium for routine inspection on Saturday. He was accompanied by Mudrika Pathak, deputy director and in-charge of the sports department at Green Park and other officials. The commissioner stated that since the new pavilion had been handed over to the Green Park administration, the directorate pavilion which was being used as the players pavilion would remain vacant. The cricket lovers had been demanding a visitors pavilion and cricket museum in the Green Park stadium where the “Best cricket moments” of Green Park and Indian cricket team are displayed so that like other well known stadiums in the world Green Park too can be made popular among the cricket lovers, and for this the director pavilion will be converted into visitors pavilion and a cricket museum displaying the memorable moments of Green Park cricket in terms of the best matches, trophies, photos, newspaper cuttings, cricket kits etc. The Smart City corporation after preparing a draft project details had sent it for NOC to the sports department which issued the NOC. The Kanpur Smart City will invest around Rs 5 rore in the project. Briefing about the project, the commissioner said that the visitors pavilion will have facilities like museum, virtual cricket pitch, cafeteria, toilet, souvenir shops, sSelfie points, photo gallery and a 24-seater movie theatre which will screen 15 minutes video on the Green Park stadium. The visitor pavilion will be run and maintained by the divisional sports promotion committee under the chairmanship of the commissioner, Raj Shekhar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/govt-clears-visitors-gallery-pavilion-and-museum-at-green-park-stadium/articleshow/81141020.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Pune||ZP to increase daily nCoV tests: CEO||Pune: The Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) has decided to increase daily Covid-19 tests from 1,500 to 2,500 across rural Pune apart from reactivating Covid Care Centres, said chief executive officer Ayush Prasad. “As of now, the situation is under control but we can’t let our guard down. Currently, seven Covid-19 patients are on oxygen support in rural Pune while remaining patients are suffering from minor symptoms. Our officials will work in tandem with rural police and revenue officials to implement SOPs and other measures to contain the spread. We will also increase the collection of testing samples from 1,500/1,700, per day, to 2,500, per day,” Prasad told TOI. He added, “In total, 10 gram panchayats near Wagholi on Pune-Ahmednagar road will be monitored closely as movement of people to and from Pune city is high. Besides, we will focus on villages in Khed and other tehsils.” Rural Pune has recorded 89,897 Covid-19 cases since March 2020. Of these, 86,518 patients have recovered, 2,164 succumbed to the virus and 1,215 are active cases. Pune rural superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh said, “Special squads are being activated to monitor restrictions on night movement under the jurisdiction of each police station. We urge people not to venture out for unnecessary events. We have already instructed our officers not to allow any business establishment to remain open after 11pm. Legal action would be taken against those flouting this norm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-to-increase-daily-ncov-tests-ceo/articleshow/81142731.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 22, 2021||Goa||Anwar Shaikh assault: Five more held in Kolhapur||MARGAO: Five more persons accused in the gangster Anwar Shaikh assault case were arrested by Fatorda police from Kolhapur on Sunday. South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh revealed the names of those arrested as Imran Bepari, 32, of Santa Cruz, Harshvadhan Saval, 37, of Mapusa, Sudhan D’Costa, 40, of Seraulim, Vijay Karbotkar, 31, and Mahinder alias Mayur Tanawade, 37, both of Porvorim. However, among those named by Shaikh as his assailants, Vale D’Costa of Tilamol, also a known criminal, is still at large. D’Costa is learnt to be the lynchpin in the case. Singh told TOI that D’Costa had planned and organised the attack on Shaikh to take revenge on him for having tipped of the police in a case that had led to his (D’Costa’s) arrest in illegal drug trade case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. “It’s a case of pure gang rivalry. Earlier, too, D’Costa had tipped off the police in a rape case in which Shaikh was arrested. After being released on bail, Shaikh tipped off the police against D’Costa in the narcotics case. The assault on Shaikh was D’Costa’s way of taking revenge against him,” Singh said. The Fatorda police had earlier arrested Ricky Hornekar of Curchorem and Vipul Pattari of Khareband, Margao, in the case. Apart from D’Costa, police have identified one more of his accomplices, and are also on the lookout of several more, police said. Shaikh was assaulted with iron rods, koita, sticks, while one of them had fired a bullet. Police said that Shaikh has sustained bullet injury in his thigh, and serious injuries on his knee, head and right arm. Police has booked the case under charges of attempt to murder as well as for forming unlawful assembly and rioting with deadly weapons under provisions of the IPC as well as under the Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anwar-shaikh-assault-five-more-held-in-kolhapur/articleshow/81143478.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Varanasi||Owaisi-Shivpal meet in Azamgarhsignals new equations for ’22 polls||Varanasi: All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen chief Asaduddin Owaisi reached Azamgarh to attend the wedding of the daughter of his party’s state head and was seen immersed in one-to-one discussion with Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party president Shivpal Yadav signaling new political equations brewing in the state ahead of the assembly elections next year. Owaisi remained tight lipped in Azamgarh and also skipped reporters at LBS International Airport in Varanasi on Sunday. Shivpal also sidetracked queries on what had transpired between them, but reiterated his call to all like-minded and secular parties to unite to defeat BJP. Suheldeo Bharatiya Samaj Party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar, who had accompanied Owaisi during his January 12 Azamgarh visit, was conspicuous by his absence this time, but said their front for forthcoming UP elections will start taking shape after panchayat polls. Almost 40 days after his last visit to Azamgarh, the Lok Sabha constituency of Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, Owaisi had arrived to attend the wedding of AIMIM state president Shaukat Ali’s daughter at Rafi Nagar Colony on Saturday. Few minutes later, Shivpal also arrived at the venue and joined Owaisi, following which the security personnel did not allow anyone near them while they were seen engrossed in discussion as the Nikah rituals were on. On coming out, Shivpal said, “I had come to attend the wedding and met Owaisi. I have been saying that all like-minded parties and secular forces should unite to defeat BJP.” “I have also asked Akhilesh for formation of an alliance. All family members and Samajwadis should join hands,” said Shivpal, once again signaling that he is not mulling his party’s merger with SP. Unlike his January 12 visit, when he had attacked Akhilesh for not allowing his entry in UP several times as CM, Owaisi preferred to remain tight-lipped in Azamgarh. When reporters gathered at Varanasi airport, he skipped them and entered the lounge, where he offered namaz and boarded his flight. When TOI contacted Rajbhar on Sunday, he said, “I got late due to pre-scheduled party events and could not reach Azamgarh to attend the wedding, but our efforts of bringing like-minded parties under one umbrella are continuing. It is evidently clear that even SP and Bahujan Samaj Party cannot defeat BJP alone and hence we are keeping options open for them too for joining our front, the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha.” The outcome of these efforts will be clear after the panchayat polls, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/owaisi-shivpal-meet-in-azamgarhsignals-new-equations-for-22-polls/articleshow/81140282.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Allahabad||Govt is working for big businesshouses, not common man: PGV||Prayagraj: Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra again reached out to Nishads on Sunday after her 2019 boat ride on the Ganga to woo the community and said the state and Central governments were only working for welfare of big business houses and not for those who had voted them to power. Priyanka arrived in Prayagraj for the second time in the last 10 days and met people of the Nishad community at Baswar village of the trans-Yamuna area of the district. She said like the agricultural laws, the laws applicable to rivers are for the benefit of industrialists rather than fishermen. “The farmers are agitating against the unjustified laws and here, you people were targeted. All this is because the government has forgotten that your vote gave them the power to rule and now they have forgotten you and is instead working for the welfare of industrialists,” she alleged. “It is not that the government is oblivious about the problems of farmers, but it doesn’t want to help them,” Priyanka added. “Policy makers across the world understand that people dependent on forests or rivers for their livelihood can never harm them. In contrast, the big business houses are not dependent on these natural resources and therefore exploit them,” she said. You have the wisdom of how to earn your livelihood while conserving natural resources because you have been doing this for generations, she added. Talking to women attending the small meeting, she said, “I am also a woman and can understand your agony, both the district administration and police should be ashamed for beating you. I have seen the videos of how they had come here and how your boats were damaged, we will take up this issue and fight for you.” “I have come to understand your problems, to see the ground reality and to assure you that I will stand by you and will fight for you. We will also provide you all legal support,” she said. She said the Congress party will come back to power in the state and will protect the rights of the Nishad community. Congress legislative party leader Aradhana Mishra said the party would raise the issue in the assembly. UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu and senior leader Pramod Tiwari had also accompanied Priyanka, who also visited the ghat and saw the damaged boats. She walked on the banks while holding hands of girls and women and even removed her mask. She mingled with locals and posed for selfies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/govt-is-working-for-big-businesshouses-not-common-man-pgv/articleshow/81140299.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Allahabad||Damaged boats at Baswar village get repaired||Prayagraj: At a time when the boatmen of Baswar village were waiting for the arrival of Congress general secretary and state in-charge, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday morning, a group of carpenters reached the banks of river Yamuna mysteriously and started repairing the damaged boats, which the villagers alleged had been damaged in police action on February 4. Priyanka had recently taken a dip at Sangam in Prayagraj on ‘Mauni Amavasya’ and had travelled in boatman Sujit Nishad’s boat who told her that atrocities had been committed on local boatmen in Baswar village in the trans-Yamuna area after some people complained that illegal mining was being done through boats. The state government had banned the use of boats in sand mining on June 24, 2019. Priyanka visited Baswar and met people of Nishad community to show solidarity and assure them of support. However, a group of carpenters was seen repairing several damaged boats lying unattended on the banks from Saturday evening. While the locals claim that the repair work was being done at the behest of district administration, the official rebutted the claim. “Our boats were damaged in police action on February 4 and were lying on the ghat, but on Saturday evening some carpenters came and started repairing them. We did not hire them and it seems it is being done due to the visit of Congress leaders,” said Buddhi Ram Nishad, a local. “Since the day these boats were damaged, no one came to help these boatmen or repair their boats but overnight, when it was announced that Priyanka is coming, these boats are being repaired,” said Chotu Nishad, a local leader of the community. Rebutting the claims, SDM Karchana Vinod Kumar Pandey said, “District administration has nothing to do with repairing the boats, we are just here to make the arrangements in view of the visit of Congress leaders.” However, Youth Congress state general secretary Vivekanand Pathak claimed the boats were being repaired by the district administration. “These villagers depend on the river for their livelihood. If the administration wants to take action, it should do so against sand mafia, Villagers should be permitted for fishing and sand mining to earn their livelihood,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/damaged-boats-at-baswar-village-get-repaired/articleshow/81140287.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Aurangabad||Osmanabad dist collector tests +ve after taking 1 jab||Aurangabad: Osmanabad district collector Kaustubh Diwegaokar, who had tested positive for Covid-19 around two weeks after taking the first dose of the Covid vaccine, has appealed to the frontline workers to not lower their guard against the viral disease despite undergoing immunization.Trashing rumours related to the efficacy of the vaccine in the wake of him getting infected despite taking the jab, the IAS officer on Sunday said the desired immunity against Covid-19 is developed only after taking the second dose.“The basics such as wearing masks and maintaining physical distance are must despite taking the first dose of the vaccine. The frontline workers undergoing immunization should not assume anything at their level and should never lower their guard,” he said. Diwegaokar, whose wife had also tested positive for Covid, said those taking the first dose of the vaccine should undergo Covid-19 test if they develop any symptoms such as fever, cold and cough.  Diwegaokar said crowding at the district collectorate might be the source of Covid infection for him. “There was a surge in crowds at the office over the last few weeks and many visitors were not wearing face masks despite being asked to do so. Therefore, No Mask-No Entry policy is a must now,” he said. Meanwhile, the Osmanabad district administration has said that it is prepared to contain the possible spread of Covid-19 and has made all arrangements to deal with any eventuality. The district — which has reported a total of 17,822 confirmed cases of Covid-19 so far, including 17,017 cured patients and 559 fatalities — has set up 1,100 oxygen beds and 196 ventilators among other health arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/osmanabad-dist-collector-tests-ve-after-taking-1-jab/articleshow/81142719.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Stalker tries to push woman under running train, arrested||MUMBAI: A TYBSc student had a lucky escape after a 24-year-old man, whose advances she had repeatedly rejected, tried to push her under a running train at Khar station on Friday night. When he couldn’t succeed in pushing her into the gap between the rake and the platform, the man fled. The incident was captured on CCTVs.  The accused was tracked down and arrested within 12 hours. The victim was hospitalised and received 12 stitches for injuries on her forehead. Sumedh Jadhav, the accused, lives in Wadala. He met the victim in 2018 when they worked together. The woman, who lives with her parents in Khar, has been juggling work alongside studies for a few years. Jadhav tried to get close to her but she did not reciprocate. Even after she moved on to another job, he pursued her. Police said Jadhav started drinking and stopped working too. But he kept calling her up and texting her. On one occasion, he threatened her, following which she filed a police complaint against him. She also stopped responding to his calls. On February 19, Jadhav contacted her and said he wanted to meet. The woman was not keen and asked her mother to pick her up from Khar station. Her mother did so, but Jadhav, who had been stalking her, turned up. “He said he wanted to talk to the woman alone, but her mother would not allow it. This infuriated Jadhav. He threatened to end his life and moved toward an oncoming train around 8.15 pm,” a GRP officer said. Then he backtracked and tried to push the woman before the same train. The rake brushed her, injuring her on her forehead and lips. As commuters rushed to her rescue, Jadhav fled. Jadhav had switched off his phone. Bandra GRP formed three teams to look for him. By Saturday morning, he turned his phone on. “Within 12 hours of the incident, Jadhav was taken into custody,” said senior inspector Vilas Chougule. (The victim’s identity has been kept confidential)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/stalker-tries-to-push-woman-under-running-train-arrested/articleshow/81142754.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 22, 2021||Kolhapur||PMC, PCMC chiefs issue orders formalising fresh pandemic curbs||PUNE: City municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and his Pimpri Chinchwad counterpart Rajesh Patil late on Sunday evening released identical orders formalising all the Covid-19 curbs that were announced earlier in the day by Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. Neither of the orders by the PMC or the PCMC made separate mentions about Covid-19 hotspots or micro-containment zones, which officials said are expected to be announced in the days to come. In a related development, the Pune district collector released an order appointing 10 sub-divisional officers as ‘Incident Commanders’, who have been authorised to create hotspots and micro-containment zones in rural Pune, based on the Covid situation. Kumar said, “Citizens must act responsibly at restricted social gatherings, which are to be held with proper NOCs and with strict compliance of norms such as face masks and physical distancing.” His PCMC counterpart Rajesh Patil said a decision on micro-containment zones will be taken in “a day or two”. “We will opt for small micro-containment zones instead of sealing whole areas. An action plan is being finalised,” he said. Patil added the PCMC will also up the number of daily antigen and RT-PCR tests from the current 1,500 to at least 2,500. “More testing labs will be roped in, if needed. Focus will also be on better contact tracing. Patients in home-isolation will also be monitored regularly,” he said. The order issued by the district collector said health workers tasked with contact tracing will trace a minimum of 20 contacts per patient. The order also directed the excise department to act against hotels, permit rooms, bars and lodges found violating Covid-19 precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pmc-pcmc-chiefs-issue-orders-formalising-fresh-pandemic-curbs/articleshow/81142718.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat civic polls: Some couldn’t vote, some chose not to||AHMEDABAD: At 37.8%, voter turnout was abysmally low in Ahmedabad for the municipal corporation elections. Covid pandemic did cast a shadow on the voting. While some couldn’t vote due to health constraints or names not appearing in voter rolls, some chose not to! A Maninagar resident, Anusha Iyer, said, “Despite registering in time, my name didn’t appear in the voter roll. I did try multiple times to address this but finally, was not able to wait. It is disappointing.” Some others however, couldn’t vote due to health or other constraints. Centurian, Leelaben Gurchar (102), has voted for almost all the polls through her lifetime. However, she couldn’t vote this time around due to ill health. “She regrets not being able to vote. Due to age-related illnesses, she has been admitted at a private hospital and is in no position to go and vote,” said Gurchar. Art teacher, Parul Dabhi said, “I don’t think it makes any major difference whether or not I vote. Problems are the same year after year and elections are seldom fought over real issues. What’s the point in voting!” Some made a conscious choice to not vote. Mirant Tiwari, a Sabarmati resident, said, “I didn’t vote because I didn’t know anything about any of the candidates who are in the fray. I saw no point in randomly casting my vote. I’d rather not! I feel the information channel was not appropriate that could reach masses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/some-couldnt-vote-some-chose-not-to/articleshow/81142732.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Meerut||UP: Foresters rescue leopard locked in Bijnor house||BIJNOR: Bijnor forest department authorities rescued a leopard locked inside a house at Nabaka village under Afjalgarh police station early on Sunday. It was released in the evening at Amangarh tiger reserve, 8 km from the village. M Semmaran, divisional forest officer, said the leopard apparently followed a dog and entered a room of a house belonging to one Sukhveer Singh on Saturday evening. The latter locked the room and informed police and forest authorities. The operation to cage the leopard took hours. The situation is normal at the village, he added. In another incident, a leopard attacked a 45-year-old woman, Sona Devi, who was working in a sugarcane field at Bhagijot village under Afjalgarh police station. Hearing her cries, people working in nearby fields rushed to her aid. The leopard fled on seeing the crowd. DFO Semmaran said the woman is out of danger and recuperating in hospital. A cage has been set up at the spot where the leopard pounced on her. Besides, a CCTV camera has been installed to track it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/foresters-rescue-leopard-locked-in-bijnor-house/articleshow/81139854.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 22, 2021||Kanpur||Gangster shot dead in Kannauj||Kanpur: A 28-year-old alleged gangster, who was going to attend his case hearing in court, was shot dead near Gungpur in Kannauj district on Monday morning. The deceased has been identified as Neelesh Kumar, son of Balakram, and a resident of Tehsipur under the limits of Sadar Kotwali police station of the district. When Nilesh riding a motorcycle reached Gungpur turn, two miscreants stopped his bike and entered into an altercation with him. When one of them whipped out a firearm, Neelesh tried to escape but was shot by the assailants who fled from the scene. Neelesh, who sustained multiple gunshot wounds, died on the spot. SP Kannauj Prashant Verma, Circle Officer (City) Shiv Pratap Singh and officials of local police station rushed to the site. Police said they are suspecting that the murder was committed in revenge. Last October, a villager was shot dead in the area, police said. Neelesh was arrested and police had invoked Gangster Act in that case. He was recently out on bail. “Neelesh was going to court to attend hearing in connection with the gangster case when two gunmen waylaid him near Gungpur turn and shot him dead,” said Inspector Kotwali Vikas Rai. Neelesh’s family members have given a complaint and a case has been registered, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gangster-shot-dead-in-kannauj/articleshow/81158926.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Why age is just a number for some||New Delhi: Why do some elderly age better than others? There are 80-year-olds with mental capabilities equal to or better than those of people 20 to 30 years younger to them. We call them superagers, says Dr Prasun Chatterjee, a senior doctor at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), who specialises in geriatric medicine—a specialty that focuses on health care of elderly people. Dr Chatterjee is leading a research project, which is funded by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), to unravel the mystery behind the mental agility of such senior citizens, also referred to as superagers. In this project titled “Characteristics of Indian superagers – A pilot prospective cohort study with a potential future predictive model,” the AIIMS doctor said that they aim to find life course factors that prevent age-related changes in the brain. This study is first of its kind in India and has a potential to create a future predictive model, he added. The characterisation of superagers in the research project is done through neuropsychological assessments, memory and personality tests, functional MRI and study of the biomarkers and comparing them with cognitively-matched younger individuals (aged 30 to 50 years). “We plan to involve three groups in this study for comparison: one group (control) with people in the age group of 30 to 50 years, elderly above 80 years of age with normal cognitive ability and elderly above 80 years of age with IQ and mental capacity as good as 30 to 50 years,” Dr Chatterjee said. The levels of physical activity, food habits and other key aspects of a superager will be studied, in addition to the role of genes. “We are recruiting two people from a family, one would be a superager and other a younger adult to see if genes have a role to play,” the AIIMS doctor said, adding that any clue on the reasons behind better mental capabilities in a few would help the future generation to prepare for cognitive capacity of superagers when they would reach 80 and beyond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-age-is-just-a-number-for-some/articleshow/81160923.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
February 22, 2021||Kanpur||Rebi, Sunita & Kajal bring laurels to UP at national cross country championship||Kanpur: Varanasi’s long-distance sprinter, Rebi Pal, who brought laurels to India at the Malaysian open grand prix, and Sunita Devi of Lucknow won the Under-20 women and U-16 girls events respectively at the 55th National Cross Country Championships at ATF Golf Meadows in Dera Bassi near here. The course was picturesque, but challenging with undulations and slush patches over a 2km grassy loop. Parasappa Madevappa Hajilol (Karnataka) and Sonika (Haryana) won the men and women’s 10km race. The UP women’s duo of Rebi Pal and Kajal Sharma ruled the U-20 event with Rebi bagging the gold and Kajal winning the bronze. Rebi clocked 22.37.78 in covering 6km, while Kajal took 22.52.07s to cover the lap. Chatru Gumnaram of Rajasthan won a silver. Rebi, who lost her father recently, told TOI that she led the race from the start and obtained a clear lead of 25m, expanding it to 50m before the finishing line. “I am happy that I got a gold medal for myself and my state,” she said. Rebi said, she had won a bronze and silver at the Junior National meet at Guwahati in first week of this month and was determined to win the gold here. “I led the pack from the beginning and enhanced the lead at the finish,” she said. Sunita Devi of Lucknow emerged champions in U-16 girl’s event, clocking 6.37:30 to win the gold. Her close challenger Priyanka Madivalappa (Karnataka) bagged the silver with a timing of 7.16:11. Sanika Shashikant Rupnar of Maharashtra stood was third. Honorary secretary, UP Athletic Association, P K Srivastava, lauded Sunita for her feat. The results: Men 10km: 1. Parasappa Madevappa Halijol (Karnataka) 31:13.21; 2. Vikram Bharatsingh Bangriya (Madhya Pradesh) 31:15.21; 3. Adesh Yadav (Maharashtra) 31:19.41. Team (top four places): 1. Services 28 points; 2. Railways 54; 3. Madhya Pradesh 61. Women 10km: 1. Sonika (Haryana) 37:09.53; 2. Komal Chandra Jagdale (Maharashtra) 37:11.40; 3. Nikita Vijay Raut (Maharashtra) 37:12.71. Team (top four places): 1. Haryana 24; 2. Railways 26; 3. Maharashtra 34. Men U20 8km: 1. Prince Nagar (Haryana) 26:04.87; 2. Sushant Manohar Jedhe (Maharashtra) 26:06.22; 3. Indrajeet Ashok Farak (Maharashtra) 26:27.36. Team (top four places): 1. Maharashtra 20; 2. Haryana 44; 3. Uttar Pradesh 55. Women U20 6km: 1. Rebi Pal (Uttar Pradesh) 22:37.78; 2. Chatru Gumnaram (Rajasthan) 22:52.07; 3. Kajal Sharma (Uttar Pradesh) 22:52:21. Team (top four places): 1. Maharashtra 20; 2. Rajasthan 35; 3. Haryana 53 Boys U18 6km: 1. Gagan Singh (Haryana) 19:55.74; Naveen Chouhan (Madhya Pradesh) 20:01.90; 3. Karan Gahandule (Maharashtra) 20:11.85. Girls U18 4km: 1. Supriti Kachhap (Jharkhand) 14:40.53; 2. Aakancha Kerketta (Tamil Nadu) 15:02.36; 3. Umrila Bishnoi (Rajasthan) 15:08.35. Boys U16 2km: 1. Rohit (Haryana) 6:12.34; 2. Walter Kandulna (Tamil Nadu) 6:12.95; 3. Rahul Verma (Uttar Pradesh) 6:17.68. Girls U16 2km: 1. Sunita Devi (Uttar Pradesh) 6:37.30; 2. Priyanka Madivalappa (Karnataka) 7:16.11; 3. Sanika Shashikant Rupnar (Maharashtra) 7:19.18. ………………….. EOM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/rebi-sunita-kajal-bring-laurels-to-up-at-national-cross-country-championship/articleshow/81141034.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Criminal serving lifer murdered in Sonipat jail, two jail staffers injured||Chandigarh: In a shocking incident, jail inmates brutally killed a murder convict, who was serving a life sentence, in his barrack in Sonipat jail on Sunday morning. Identified as Jagbir Singh, the deceased was attacked by members of a rival gang. A magisterial inquest has been initiated and the police registered a murder case as well. Till the filing of this report, Jagbir’s relatives refused to accept his body and demanded action against the jail staff along with those who attacked and murdered him. Jagbir had shot dead a notorious criminal, identified as Sanjay, in police custody in 2008 due to an ongoing gang war. He was convicted for the murder and was servicing a life sentence. The murder convict was strangulated and his body had injuries allegedly inflicted by sharp objects. It is suspected that the accused had sharpened utensils like spoons and bowls to attack Jagbir. Sonipat SSP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said a team has been constituted for the investigation into the incident. “As of now, the magisterial inquest is in progress. We have registered an FIR against certain people. Rest details will come out after we take those accused on production warrants,” the SSP said. According to information, the incident took place at around 8.30 am on Sunday. The assailants first diverted the attention of two jail staffers on duty who were taking the inmates out from the barrack for breakfast. According to police, one group caught hold of Navin alias Mandori, a security staffer, and the other group caught hold of the head warder Kadam Singh, who had tried to intervene. A third group, identified as associates of Sanjay Butana and identified as Amit, Mahiptal, Ravinder, Parveen, Ravinder alias Raghbir, Rohit, Deepak, and Geetu, entered the barrack where Jagbir was lodged in Chakki number 20. First, they attacked him with sharp-edged objects and then they strangulated him. Meanwhile, other jail staffers too rushed to the spot and rushed injured Jagbir and two jail staffers Inder and Navin to the hospital. Jagbir was declared brought dead at Sonipat civil hospital and the two jail staffers had suffered serious injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/criminal-serving-lifer-murdered-in-sonipat-jail-two-jail-staffers-injured/articleshow/81142730.cms||Manvir Saini
February 22, 2021||Lucknow||NBRI director hails NBT’sArogya Vatika initiative||Lucknow: The scientist fraternity lauded Navbharat Times for its Arogya Vatika initiative that has made Lucknow residents aware of the medicinal properties of plants. National Botanical Research Institute director and officiating director of the Indian Institute of Toxicology Research, Prof S K Barik appreciated NBT’s effort and said Arogya Vatika has now become a ‘Jan Muhim’ (people’s campaign) and has turned into a pledge to enure the presence of medicinal plants in every household. Prof Barik was speaking during the setting up of Arogya Vatika at a park in Sector F, Jankipuram, on Sunday. Happy on Arogya Vatika being set up in his locality, Jankipuram resident Shrem Pathak said, “This is a wonderful initiative which has made me realize that the cure of mild cough and fever is available in our garden itself.” Another resident A K Trivedi said, “Ashwagandha, Giloy and aloe vera were available in every household, but not all people were aware of their medicinal value and benefits. NBT’s event is making people understand that the cure is in their gardens.” NBT is setting up Arogya Vatika in different parts of the city and if you are interested in getting the Vatika in your locality then drop a mail to nbtlucknow@timesgroup.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nbri-director-hails-nbtsarogya-vatika-initiative/articleshow/81143263.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Bypolls a semi-final to overthrow BJP from corporations, says Gopal Rai||NEW DELHI: Delhi cabinet minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Delhi convenor Gopal Rai on Sunday said that the upcoming bypoll in five municipal wards is the semi-final to overthrow the 15-year rule of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the municipal corporations of Delhi. Addressing a ‘Booth Karyakarta Sammelan’ at the Chauhan Bangar ward of Seelampur constituency, Rai said that BJP did politics of hatred during the Delhi Assembly elections last year, but people once again elected the AAP government under chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Rai said that the AAP will defeat BJP in a historical majority in the municipal bypoll “just the way we did in the Delhi Assembly election”. “At a time when the politics of hatred of BJP was reaching every state of India, Kejriwal was the only leader who stopped this cycle and the AAP government was formed again last year,” he said, adding that BJP had sent all its senior leaders, chief ministers and cabinet ministers to campaign for the party. “Continuous attacks against AAP was taking place. But, the citizens of Delhi stood together against such hatred and reminded BJP that this is Delhi and the politics of hatred will not work here,” he said. He said that the Kejriwal government is continuously working for the development of the citizens. “Quality education, quality healthcare, zero electricity bill, zero water bill, CCTV cameras and various other works were done by the AAP government,” he said. Rai claimed that for several years, people of Seelampur voted only for Congress, but the party has not given them anything. Development of Seelampur has taken place only due to Kejriwal, he said. “This election is not about Congress but about defeating BJP. Congress will not do any good to the citizens of Delhi but only cut the vote share,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rai-bypolls-a-semi-final-to-overthrow-bjp-from-corpns/articleshow/81141350.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Moms turn ‘kangaroos’ to save babies||UDAIPUR: Female kangaroos are known for their motherly care as they sport a pouch on their belly to cradle their babies called joeys. The grape size babies can only survive when they stick to their mother’s pouch for at least four months. At the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) of the Government RNT Medical College here, paediatricians and neonatologists are saving pre-term babies with the similar technique- Kangaroo Mother Care therapy. “This intermammary immune system concept is not known to all the paediatricians and even neonatologists and hence not made to all the NICU’s till now. We have been able to save two pre-term babies here with the KMC technique. There should be direct skin to skin contact between mother and baby for hours daily which helps in maintaining temperature of the infant by mother's heat and thereby baby doesn't have to burn calories for maintenance of body temperature,” Dr Lakhan Poswal, principal RNT Medical College told TOI. This therapy prevents infection, promotes better weight gain, improves survival, increases milk production in mother and also leads to better emotional bond between mother and baby for future life. Dhapu Bai, a young mother from Sarada, delivered a pre-term, low weight baby in October last. “The infant was just 760 gram and there was a thin chance of its survival. Dhapu was put on Kangaroo therapy wherein she held her baby close to her bosom for almost 15 to 18 hours daily for three months. Gradually, the infant gained weight and when she weighed around 1.5 kilogram, the mother and child were discharged,” Poswal said. In October 2019, a woman from Rajsamand gave birth to a LWB (low weight baby) in her 26th week of pregnancy. The infant was just 670 gram and saved through KMC strategy. “Pre-term babies are those who take birth when it stays less than 37 weeks in the mother's womb. Low birth weight is less than 2.5 kg, very low birth weight means less than 1.5 kg, while extremely low birth weight means less than 1 kg at birth. As per a UNICEF report, in India, some 35 lakh babies are born preterm every year of which 10 lakh babies do not survive,” Poswal says. In the NICU at the Children's hospital here, mothers are encouraged to participate in group kangaroo care sessions. They hold babies closely to their chest for a special experience to increase the emotional connect with the infants. Each session is around 3-4 hours for a skin-to-skin contact between the mother and child. Mothers are given a hospital gown and the baby is placed naked except for a diaper on to the bare chest of the mother. They are wrapped in the robe for hours. This wrapping of the infant into the mother's chest looks very much like a mother kangaroo holding her baby in her pouch — which is where the name kangaroo care comes from.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/moms-turn-kangaroos-to-save-babies/articleshow/81142721.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: 14-year-old girl charged with murder of mother, brother||LUCKNOW: Almost six months after a 14-year-old national-level shooter whipped out her gun and shot her mother and teenage brother at their father’s official bungalow in Lucknow, police have charged her with murder and filed a 125-page chargesheet. Police, however, said forensic reports were being collated. Deputy commissioner of police, central zone, Somen Barma, told TOI a chargesheet was filed in the juvenile court on basis of evidence from the crime scene, reports from KGMU doctors on her mental health, autopsy reports and statements of those present outside the house on the fateful day. Investigation officer, who is also SHO Gautampalli, Alok Kumar Rai, said KGMU reports from the psychiatry department show the 14-year-old girl was of sound mind. “We attached the ballistic reports obtained of .22 calibre pistol that was used by the girl to allegedly kill her mother and brother. The FSL team also collected her footprints on the room and fingerprints on the fruit jar along with that on the pistol. Handwriting on her notebooks have matched and can be used as evidence,” he added. Statements of relatives were also taken during course of investigation. The father of the minor girl, a senior railways officer, had lodged an FIR against unknown persons, a day after the incident. The girl is currently undergoing treatment at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-14-year-old-girl-charged-with-murder-of-mother-brother/articleshow/81143305.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Lucknow||UP budget to focus on farmers, infrastructure, job||LUCKNOW: Farm sector, infrastructure, employment generation, MSME and social welfare are likely to be core focus areas as the Yogi Adityanath government tables its fifth budget -- probably the last before the next state polls -- on Monday.  This would be Uttar Pradesh's first paperless budget and its size is likely to cross previous year's Rs 5.12 lakh crore despite Covid-19 pandemic. Political analysts believe that the budget will have the reflection of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's promise to take the state’s economy to 1 trillion dollar economy-mark. The government’s efforts for doubling the farmers income by 2022 amid a prolonged farmers’ agitation is likely to get a push. Before tabling the budget at 11 am on Monday by finance minister Suresh Khanna, the CM would head a cabinet meeting to fine-tune the document. On Sunday, Khanna had a series of meetings with the CM, secretaries in the finance department and the organisational leaders to prepare a budget which strikes a balance between populism and realities of decline in overall revenue receipt and per capita income due to Covid-induced lockdown in the first four months of this financial year. Khanna had recently told TOI that despite pandemic blues and increased expenditure to fund the battle against Covid, the size of the budget would be much larger than the previous year's with a main focus on key areas of infrastructure, social welfare and rural development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-budget-to-focus-on-farmers-infra-job/articleshow/81143328.cms||Subhash Mishra
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Driver held with 4,800kg poppy husk worth Rs 90 lakh||KOTA: The Central Bureau of Narcotics (CBN) in Kota on Saturday arrested a 32-year-old truck driver and recovered over 4,800 kg of poppy husk packed in at least 233 plastic bags beneath packets of potato chips. The recovered contraband is estimated to be worth between Rs 90 and Rs 95 lakh in the market. The smuggler was on Sunday produced before the residential court in Kota that ordered to hand him over to the CBN on remand till February 26 for interrogation. Following a tip that drugs were being smuggled in a truck from Madhya Pradesh to Rajasthan, a sleuth of the deputy commissioner office of CBN in Kota stopped a truck (RJ 19 GC 4830) at Faithapur toll plaza in Baran on Friday night, CBN deputy commissioner Vikas Joshi said. Following a search, at least 233 plastic bags of the contraband was found. The driver, identified as Ramnivas Vishnoi (32), is a resident of Vishnoi Ki Dhani in Jodhpur district. He has been booked under various sections of NDPS Act. During initial interrogation, the driver admitted that he was carrying the narcotics from Agar and Mandsour districts in Madhya Pradesh to Phalodi and Jodhpur for delivery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/driver-held-with-4800kg-poppy-husk-worth-rs-90l/articleshow/81142763.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Lucknow||CM: Team work, coordinationhelp bring down 75% JE cases||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday attributed the 95% dip in deaths caused by Japanese encephalitis and acute encephalitis syndrome (JE/AES) to seamless inter-departmental coordination over the last four years. Addressing a gathering after flagging off the third phase of vaccination drive against JE, the chief minister termed the Swachh Bharat Mission and Jal Jeevan Mission as crucial steps that helped the state government bring down number of cases by 75% since 2017, when BJP came to power. “The twin measures ensured cleanliness and supply of potable drinking water and this played a big role in combating the disease,” he said, adding the state government was committed to eradicating the disease from the state through effective convergence of departments. The CM praised the medical and health, urban development and Panchayati Raj departments for playing a stellar role in helping the state government in arresting the spread of JE/AES, which plagued at least 38 districts, particularly from eastern UP. CM also hailed the education and women and child welfare departments for chipping in to spread awareness on the disease. The CM said, team work and better coordination between departments, which helped bring down JE cases, also helped the government in tackling the novel coronavirus pandemic. He said, use of technology, including mobile applications, helped the state government in controlling the pandemic. “We need to understand the power of technology,” he said after inaugurating e-Kavach portal, which has a database of children yet to be vaccinated for JE. The vaccination drive would be carried out by health and ASHA workers. The CM said, the intensity of JE can be gauged from the fact that BRD Medical College, Gorakhpur, alone clocked 1,200 deaths every year until the state government moved in swiftly to check its spread. Yogi said, most cases have been reported between July and November and therefore vaccination had to be carried out well in advance. “This is the most appropriate time to carry out the drive,” he said. Yogi said, under Mission Indradhanush, which aims to vaccinate children and pregnant women for various diseases, will also help control infant and mother mortality rate. “The drive against disease should move in a coherent manner while ensuring adequate awareness among people,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-team-work-coordinationhelp-bring-down-75-je-cases/articleshow/81143282.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Pune||Over 11k screened for post-Covid ailments||Pune: Over 11,000 people, who recovered from Covid-19, have been screened for post-Covid ailments in Pune rural region. According to district health officials, the screening has been done across primary health centres located in rural areas. Abhay Tidke, additional district health officer of Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP), said that recovered patients may continue to report a variety of symptoms, including fatigue, body ache, cough, sore throat, difficulty in breathing, etc. “The screening will provide crucial information about recovered patients and whether they are encountering any issues,” he said. ZP chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “This also part of the mass screening project that we have been working on since last month. Through the study, we are keeping track of recovered patients, who may be suffering from various ailments particularly after they contracted coronavirus.” He added that some cases with Covid-related lung fibrosis or cardiovascular issues could require super-speciality aid. Such cases would be referred to Sassoon General Hospital, District Hospital Aundh, or Naidu Hospital. Prasad further pointed out that a number of recovered patients were hesitant to come forward and get checked. “We have been requesting such recovered people to come forward, so that their current medical situation can be identified and some concrete steps could be initiated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-11k-screened-for-post-covid-ailments/articleshow/81142761.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Centenarian shows the democratic way||Ahmedabad: While many cited excuses such as Covid fear and heat to dodge voting, nothing deterred the 104-year-old Sitaben Shah from exercising her franchise. After having finished her chores and lunch and after taking a siesta, the Khadia resident went to the polling booth along with her son.The centenarian finds it difficult to walk but feels that voting is her duty and she must fulfil it. “I asked my son to take me to the polling booth,” said Sitaben, who has been voting since she was 20! “So what if there’s a pandemic? I fear nothing when it comes to exercising my right to vote,” she said.Throughout her lifetime, Sitaben has not failed to vote in a single election. “Be it a local body election or assembly election or even the parliamentary election, I have ensured that I voted every single year no matter what,” she said. “It is my right and my duty. I am a citizen of Ahmedabad and my vote is one way that I can have my say.”Sitaben’s sole wish is to see the Metro running in Ahmedabad. “Like in Delhi and other cities, I wish to see Metro services in Ahmedabad,” she said.Despite being in the high-risk category for coronavirus infections, senior citizens of Ahmedabad ensured that they fulfilled their civic duty. Be it Sitaben or another senior citizen who came to the polling station with the help of a walker, these conscientious citizens showed the way.Nonagenarian unwell, yet did her duty A Khokhra resident, Vasudev Raval, has been ill for long. But nothing — his injury, weakness, or health condition — deterred the 90-year-old from casting his vote. There wasn’t even the slightest hint of predicament or pain on his face even though he had to be carried by two of his family members to the polling booth.“Each and every citizen must make sure they vote. It is their right and their duty to participate in the democratic process and decide the course of their city’s governance,” believes Raval.The nonagenarian recently underwent an orthopaedic surgery. He put on a PPE kit before casting his vote at a municipal school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/centenarian-shows-the-democratic-way/articleshow/81142755.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Lucknow||CM: Renovate bridgeson canals in 100 days||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday set a deadline of 100 days for strengthening 25,050 major/minor canal bridges in various districts of the state. Yogi took the decision after flagging off a statewide drive aimed at renovating canal bridges and culverts some of which are over 150 years old. “The work should be carried out in a time-bound manner while maintaining the quality of construction,” he said, asking the people’s representative, including MPs and MLAs, to inspect sites. The CM also pressed for linking of canals’ side stretches with link roads to enable their upkeep in the next phase for the benefit of farming community. “Just like the 190 years old Yamuna canal, considered to be lifeline for farmers as well as the common man, the strengthening of other canals would help the government in launching much needed reforms,”he said adding that the state government would complete irrigation projects like Saryu canal, Central Ganga canal and Arjun Sahayak canal by the end of the year. The new projects will help in irrigating an additional 30 lakh hectares of land. The CM also laid stress on the need for apprising farmers about new irrigation techniques like drip irrigation to ensure higher efficiency and increasing crop productivity. Yogi said that it was after years that the water has reached the tail of canals, enabling farmers to irrigate their fields. “The canals, which were never cleaned earlier, are now being taken care of. People are acknowledging positive changes in governance,” he added. Earlier, the CM held an interaction with MPs, MLAs and administrative officials in various districts virtually to get a feedback about the extent of work which needs to be undertaken. Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh said that the department would also ensure geo-tagging of canal bridges while completing their renovation within the stipulated time frame||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-renovate-bridgeson-canals-in-100-days/articleshow/81143276.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Udaipur||Five daughters light dad’s pyre in Dungarpur||UDAIPUR: While it is seen unusual for women to participate in cremation rituals as per the Hindu customs, five daughters shouldered their father's bier to the cremation ground and performed the rituals. Defying the age-old tradition of performing last rites only by son, the five sisters took the mortal remains of their father to the cremation ground to perform the last rites on Saturday evening at Navalshyam village in Dungarpur district. The daughters performed the last rite of ‘mukhagni’ and lit the funeral pyre of their father Karulal Trivedi who had died after a long illness. “Our father was proud of us and never thought of us any less than a son. We will perform all rituals of shradh as per the tradition,” said Nirmala, the eldest daughter. Her other sisters, Chandrakanta, Jayshree, Neeta, and Surekha also took part in the rituals during the funeral. “We are proud of our parents who always encouraged us, and never pined for a son,” said Neeta, adding that the daughters have all right to perform the last rites of their father in the same way as a son would have done it. The relatives and well-wishers of the family extended their support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/5-daughters-light-dads-pyre-in-dungarpur/articleshow/81150132.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||Five daughters light dad’s pyre in Dungarpur||UDAIPUR: While it is seen unusual for women to participate in cremation rituals as per the Hindu customs, five daughters shouldered their father's bier to the cremation ground and performed the rituals. Defying the age-old tradition of performing last rites only by son, the five sisters took the mortal remains of their father to the cremation ground to perform the last rites on Saturday evening at Navalshyam village in Dungarpur district. The daughters performed the last rite of ‘mukhagni’ and lit the funeral pyre of their father Karulal Trivedi who had died after a long illness. “Our father was proud of us and never thought of us any less than a son. We will perform all rituals of shradh as per the tradition,” said Nirmala, the eldest daughter. Her other sisters, Chandrakanta, Jayshree, Neeta, and Surekha also took part in the rituals during the funeral. “We are proud of our parents who always encouraged us, and never pined for a son,” said Neeta, adding that the daughters have all right to perform the last rites of their father in the same way as a son would have done it. The relatives and well-wishers of the family extended their support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-daughters-light-dads-pyre-in-dungarpur/articleshow/81142752.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Meerut||Foresters rescue leopard locked in Bijnor house||Bijnor: Bijnor forest department authorities rescued a leopard locked inside a house at Nabaka village under Afjalgarh police station early on Sunday. It was released in the evening at Amangarh tiger reserve, 8 km from the village. M Semmaran, divisional forest officer, said the leopard apparently followed a dog and entered a room of a house belonging to one Sukhveer Singh on Saturday evening. The latter locked the room and informed police and forest authorities. The operation to cage the leopard took hours. The situation is normal at the village, he added. In another incident, a leopard attacked a 45-year-old woman, Sona Devi, who was working in a sugarcane field at Bhagijot village under Afjalgarh police station. Hearing her cries, people working in nearby fields rushed to her aid. The leopard fled on seeing the crowd. DFO Semmaran said the woman is out of danger and recuperating in hospital. A cage has been set up at the spot where the leopard pounced on her. Besides, a CCTV camera has been installed to track it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/foresters-rescue-leopard-locked-in-bijnor-house/articleshow/81139802.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 22, 2021||Lucknow||INTACH to protect and promote Ayodhya heritage||Ayodhya: Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) will kick off an awareness campaign to protect and promote Ayodhya’s heritage. An exhibition will also be held on Awadhi handicraft, including sikola, mauni, paan daan, zardozi, masala jaggery and local vinegar. Trust's chairman Major General (retired) L K Gupta inaugurated the Ayodhya chapter of INTACH at the historical Charan Paduka Temple on banks of Ghaghra river and released an e-book — Jyonar — based on traditional Awadhi cuisine. The programme was inaugurated with the lighting of a lamp and welcome song by renowned folk singer Kalpana Burman, INTACH's Uttar Pradesh convenor Jayant Krishna, Ayodhya chapter advisor Ashok Kapoor and Ayodhya Municipal Commissioner and vice-chairman of Ayodhya Development Authority Vishal Singh also participated in the function. Talking to TOI, INTACH's Ayodhya chapter convener Dr Indroneel Banerjee said, “The origin, antiquity and mythological significance of Charan Paduka Temple needs to be heard as the shrine has the footprints of Lord Ram.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/intach-to-protect-and-promote-ayodhya-heritage/articleshow/81143321.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Lucknow||UPSTF searches premises of PFI, CFI in Shaheen Bagh||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (UPSTF) searched two offices of Popular Front of India (PFI) and Campus Front of India (CFI) at Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh area on Sunday. A Delhi Police team accompanied the UPSTF officials when the search was conducted. ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar said that the seizures made during the searches at the offices of PFI and CFI would be sent for forensic examination. The searches were done on the basis of information received from the Rauf Sherif, who is in five-day custody remand of the UPSTF. Sherif is general secretary of CFI, a student wing of PFI and is accused of playing a key role in attempt to disturb communal harmony in Hathras after alleged gang rape of a dalit girl which led to her death in September 2020, said ADG Kumar. Sherif was detained by the authorities at Trivandrum airport in December after a look out circular in December last year. “The searches are being done in accordance with the rules and a search warrant was also issued by the court. A case was registered at Maant police station of Mathura district last year in October against four members of the PFI under the charges of sedition, promoting enmity between groups Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. They were involved in a conspiracy of disrupting the peaceful atmosphere in Hathras,” added the ADG. Sources in the STF said that large documents, including files, CDs and pamphlets have been recovered which would be checked by forensic experts. They also claimed that the house of a member of PFI was also searched but he was elusive. STF officials, however, did not confirm this. Last week, the UP STF had also arrested two members of PFI along with highly explosive devices. Police claimed that they were planning to trigger bomb blasts in different parts of the state. UP STF had also said that the accused PFI members had hatched a plan to execute bombings on ‘Popular Front Day’ which is the anniversary celebrations of the party. On February 11, Lucknow unit of Enforcement Directorate (ED) had also filed a chargesheet against five PFI men, including Sherif and Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan, for getting finances from abroad to help their alleged bid to disturb communal harmony in Hathras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upstf-searches-premises-of-pfi-cfi-in-shaheen-bagh/articleshow/81143313.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Covid infection rate in Punjab above crucial threshold limit||CHANDIGARH: After showing some signs of improvement, the infection rate of Covid-19 in Punjab is hovering over the crucial threshold of one, indicating at virus again picking up the pace. In recent days, Punjab has witnessed a resurgence of cases. The state health department data revealed that 3,292 cases have surfaced in the last 13 days, 253 cases a day on an average. In the last six days alone, 1,834 cases and 41 deaths have been reported. According to the calculations done by Prof Sitabhra Sinha of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences in Chennai, the estimated R-value — reproduction number at which Covid-19 or any other infection spreads — has gone up from 0.91 +/- 0.01 recorded on January 29 to 1.04+/- 0.01 on February 17. The value reflects the average number of people one Covid infected patient will pass the disease on to. Punjab’s current R-value of 1.04 implies that every 100 people who are infected will on average pass on the infection to about 104 people. If the current trend continues to prevail in the coming days, the rate of infection will further pick the pace. The latest surge in cases has been attributed to people lowering their guards and re-opening of schools. People violating the laid down guidelines — maintaining social distancing and wearing mask — has become a common sight these days. Even as there has been a surge in the caseload, many districts of the state have been found wanting in contact tracing, a key measure to containing the spread of the virus. It refers to identifying close contacts and people who came in contact with infected people. Though the state’s overall tracing average stands at 12.7 contacts per case, as many as 13 districts traced contacts less than the state’s average between February 9 to February 17. Of 13 districts, Muktsar (3.5), Pathankot (4) and Kapurthala (4.3), Amritsar (8), Ludhiana (8.6) and Sangrur (8.7) failed to trace the advisable number of 10 contacts per case. Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the health department is regularly monitoring the performance of all the districts and those not tracing enough contacts are asked to take corrective steps. Worse when it comes to vaccination Not satisfied with the low response to the ongoing vaccination drive, the central government has again asked Punjab to make efforts for improving the coverage. With about 37% of the health workers taking jabs, Punjab is among the worst-performing states in the country. During a meeting held on Friday, the state health officials appraised the health ministry about measure being taken to improve the coverage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-infection-rate-in-punjab-above-crucial-threshold-limit/articleshow/81142793.cms||Vinod Kumar
February 22, 2021||Lucknow||FIR against 8 handles for tweeting about sexual assault in Unnao case||Lucknow: The Unnao police on Sunday lodged an FIR against eight Twitter handles and its users, including @themojostory run by senior journalist Barkha Dutt, on charges of spreading “misleading information” in connection with the recovery of the bodies of two minor girls in Baburha village of the district. The other handles against whom the FIR has been lodged include @BhimSenaChief (run by Nawab Satpal Tanwar), @NilimDutta, @janjagranlive, @SurajKrBaudh (spokesperson, Azad Samaj Party), @vijayambedkarUP, @Abhaykumarazad97, and @Rahuldiwkr. We have reported all dimensions of the tragedy, the family's anxieties and allegations as well as the police respon… https://t.co/UPnVyQ1cwX— Mojo Story (@themojostory) 1613902168000On Saturday, former MP and Congress functionary Udit Raj had been booked by Unnao police for allegedly spreading misinformation through his tweet. Unnao police claimed that the users of these eight twitter handles had tweeted that the two minor girls, who were found murdered in the fields, were sexually assaulted and that their last rites were performed against the wish of their families. The Twitter users have been booked under charges of spreading rumours with the intention of causing riots, and under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act. Superintendent of police, Unnao, Anand Kulkarni said, “All those who tried to flare up tension and disturb harmony through different social media platforms won’t be let off. We have lodged an FIR and will conduct a probe into the tweets. The misinformation was deliberately spread by people associated with parties, units and groups which are trying to discredit the ruling government and disturb the prevailing law and order.” Kulkarni claimed some of the updates and tweets were removed after the police issued a statement that the post-mortem report has not cofirmed rape. The SP said despite the post-mortem examination ruling out sexual assault and injuries on the bodies of the victims, some people and parties having vested interests continued to spread misinformation that the girls were raped. “Similarly, neither the police nor the administration was trying to conduct last rites of the two girls. The family told us that some of their relatives were to arrive from as far as Surat and they would perform the last rites of the girls,” he added. Meanwhile, in a statement on the FIR, @themojostory said: “We have reported all dimensions of the tragedy, the family’s anxieties and allegations as well as the police response at every step. If this case is pursued, we will confidently defend our journalistic rights and freedom in the court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fir-against-8-handles-for-tweetingabout-sexual-assault-in-unnao-case/articleshow/81143307.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
February 22, 2021||Lucknow||Delhi-Bareilly flight to begin from March 8||LUCKNOW: The civil aviation sector of Uttar Pradesh is set to get more wings with the commencement of flight operations from the newly constructed Bareilly airport. Under the Centre’s flagship regional connectivity scheme (RCS), flights are scheduled to be operated by Alliance Air between Bareilly and Delhi from March 8, every Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. The airline will also begin two flights from Prayagraj connecting Delhi and Bilaspur, from March 1 under RCS. The flights would operate on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. In both cases, the airline would be using ATR 72 aircraft. Bareilly’s would be the eight airport in the state to get functional after the ones in Lucknow, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Hindon, Agra and Prayagraj. Confirming the development to TOI, civil aviation secretary Surendra Singh said that the state government has spent around Rs 83 crore on construction of a civil enclave in Bareilly. This is apart from the around 35 acres of land which has been made available to Airports Authority of India (AAI) free of cost and Rs 9.8 crore for ensuring dedicated power supply, he said. Top sources in the civil aviation department said that IndiGo Airlines has also sent a team to Bareilly to conduct an assessment to operate flights. “The area is largely unserved despite having many tourist places nearby,” a senior official in the department said. The area also has several industrialists who seek flights to reach business centres like Delhi and Mumbai. Sources said that the demand for these facilities had been pending for long but neither the district administration nor the previous state governments had paid heed. Now, Singh said, the state government was regularly interacting with the Union civil aviation ministry and AAI for it. Since air connectivity is being provided under RCS, the state government would give a number of sops to the airline including viability gap funding, free electricity up to 4,000 units, waiver on VAT on aviation turbine fuel (ATF) for 10 years and security and fire services. The state government would also provide road connectivity, bus services and ambulance services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/delhi-bareilly-flight-to-begin-from-march-8/articleshow/81143277.cms||Pankaj Shah
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Gorai, Alibaug at higher risk of flooding: Experts||Mumbai: A study published in peer-reviewed journal Spr-inger Nature has found that while Borivli and Andheri are less vulnerable to sea level-induced flooding and coastal erosion, Gorai, Uttan, Uran, and Alibaug are at moderate to high risk. “We identified that unsustainable urbanisation, unplanned development, and huge land conversion combined with the destruction of mangroves, reclamation of waterways with construction debris, inadequate drainage, overflow, and absence of natural protectors over the past four to five decades has made the region highly vulnerable to flooding,” said Malay Kumar Pramanik, research fellow from The Asian Institute of Technology and lead author of the study.. The study suggests that higher development activity combined with an increasing population per sq km is leading to coastal erosion, even as tourism and fishing contribute to an adverse influence along the coastal belt, especially along south Mumbai and the eastern suburbs. “While there is a need for sustainable development and alternative livelihood strategies, natural areas and ecosystems that have been degraded under developmental pressures need to be conserved and restored,” said Pramanik. In the 2020 monsoon, parts of south Mumbai were flooded on two high-intensity rain days. “The impact of the warming of the ocean means there would be an increase in the incidences of tropical cyclone winds and rainfall, and increases in extreme waves, combined with relative sea-level rise and coastal hazards,” said Anjal Prakash, lead author, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s 6th Assessment Cycle report. “One of the most affected cities is Mumb-ai. Issues like inadequate drainage system, rapid developments and loss of water bodies, encroachments on the existing drainage systems, and reduction in the coastal mangrove areas needs to be addressed on priority.” Experts warn of several projects, like the land-filled coastal road, that could only further put Mumbai’s low-lying topography at risk. “Despite several warnings from climate change scientists, the government has maintained a ‘business-as-usual’ approach when it comes to pushing development and infrastructure megaprojects like coastal road and Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link. “In fact, as opposed to strengthening environmental protections, there has been a spate of amendments and dilutions to regulations like CRZ, which will only exacerbate climate risks. The city’s wetlands and forested areas are being sacrificed for real estate development, damaging the coastal city’s ability to absorb and drain stormwater,” said Shweta Wagh, associate professor, Kamla Raheja Vidyanidhi Institute for Architecture. When making action plans, both artificial and natural defences must be considered, said Roxy Mathew Koll, senior scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Management, Pune. “Mangroves are a low-cost protection measure...We should also be trying measures like bio-drainage, networks of canals that act as drainage during floods and can retain rainwater in dry periods.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gorai-alibaug-at-higher-risk-of-flooding-experts/articleshow/81142810.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 22, 2021||Pune||Scores fined for no masks, police to intensify checks||Pune: Police in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have ramped up drives against citizens found not wearing masks in public places. On Saturday, 1,303 people without masks were fined across both municipalities. Sudhir Hiremath, the deputy commissioner of police (crime) Pimpri Chinchwad, said, “We have started 30 nakabandi points and traffic police personnel have been deployed at these locations.” A senior official from Pune police said, “Priority was on traffic control as nearly 75% of vehicles were back on the roads after restrictions were relaxed. Crime was also up. But now that Covid cases have increased, police teams have been diverted to monitor health precautions at public places.” The fine for not wearing a mask is currently Rs 500. Since April of last year, Pune city police have fined as many as 2.27 lakh individuals for ignoring the mask rule. A total of Rs 11 crore has been collected in fines. Public health experts have attributed the rise in Covid cases in some parts of the state to widespread violations of mask and physical distancing rules. For example, the experts said weddings and unregulated social gatherings may have been responsible for case spikes in Amravati and Yavatmal districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/scores-fined-for-no-masks-police-to-intensify-checks/articleshow/81142788.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab not to foot treatment bill of health workers who fail to take Covid jab||Chandigarh: Unhappy with health workers showing little interest in taking Covid vaccine, despite repeated pleas and extension of the last date, the Punjab government on Sunday announced that it will not pay for the treatment of medical professionals who will contract coronavirus. Not only that, they will also not be allowed to avail quarantine/isolation leave. Punjab is among the worst-performing states with below 40% coverage, against the national average of 60%. Pointing out the rise in number of Covid-19 cases in recent days, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said there were only 2,000 active cases about three weeks back. The number of active cases has crossed the 3,000 mark now. He said Punjab was among six states in the country where cases were rising. Urging the healthcare workers, Sidhu said that they should shun hesitancy and come forward to get vaccinated at the earliest for the sake of their safety. Expressing concern over the low rate of vaccination among healthcare and frontline workers, Sidhu said out of 2.06 lakh registered healthcare workers and 1.82 lakh frontline workers, only 79,718 healthcare workers and 42,678 frontline workers had received their first dose. He said the last date of the availing first dose of vaccination for health workers has been extended from February 19 to February 25. “The rising cases highlight the need for following Covid appropriate behaviour such as maintaining social distancing, hand hygiene and wearing mask, he said. 98 vaccinated on Sunday Only 98 healthcare and frontline workers were immunised in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive on Sunday. So far, 1,22,396 members of the two priority groups have received their first dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-not-to-foot-treatment-bill-of-health-workers-who-fail-to-take-covid-jab/articleshow/81142762.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||20 BJP MLAs not happy with limited adjournment motions||Jaipur: A section of BJP MLAs, some of them close aides to former chief minister Vasundhara Raje, has shot a letter to the party state president Satish Poonia saying they were not able to raise public issues in the budget session. In the letter, 20 MLAs have said that the upper cap of eight adjournment motions or raising issues of urgent importance is compromising their interest and rights in the assembly. The signatories in the letter include Kailash Meghwal, Narpat Singh Rajvi, Pratap Singh Singhvi, Kalicharan Saraf and Rampratap Kasania to name a few. The letter stated that the cap on the adjournment motion is preventing them from addressing issues being faced by their constituency. It also pointed out that the changed system was favouring some MLAs in the party. “So far in the assembly session, only a few MLAs have been repeatedly getting a chance to address their concerns while others despite showing interest have not been able to get the time to speak their mind in the assembly. The letter is meant to address this problem,” said Singhvi. Generally, the Speaker gets the 10-15 adjournment motion pleas, but that has been reduced to 8. Raising concern that the new system was not allowing a limited number of adjournments, Rajvi said that the new format will devoid the MLAs to address urgent and important issues being faced in the constituency. “It is unfortunate that some leaders decide to pick the motion over others. Ideally, it has to be decided in the MLAs meet which could keep everyone updated on the issue selected to be raised,’ said Rajvi. Poonia told TOI, “I have not received the letter yet but I have heard of them writing a letter to me.” The MLAs gets 2 minutes to raise concern or issue of urgent nature in between the proceedings after the zero hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/20-bjp-mlas-not-happy-with-limited-adjournment-motions/articleshow/81142784.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Delhi||DTC to add low-floor AC buses to its fleet from June, e-vehicles by 2021-end||NEW DELHI: This summer is going to be slightly more comfortable for commuters in Delhi with the first lot of Delhi Transport Corporation's (DTC) 1,000 air-conditioned and low-floor buses expected to hit the streets in June. Also, in March, 89 more air-conditioned, low-floor buses will be inducted into the Cluster Scheme fleet. Delhi’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot told TOI that the buses will start arriving in June this year. It is after a gap of 12 years that DTC placed an order to induct buses last month into its ageing and depleting fleet. All the 1,000 buses, which sources said would be painted blue instead of the usual red (AC) and green (Non-AC) coloured DTC buses, would be inducted by September this year. Sources said blue, which is also the colour of low-floor AC buses of Cluster Scheme fleet, has been chosen as these are being inducted as part of a different operating model. The government is inducting 1,000 low-floor AC buses under the Cluster Scheme, of which 311 buses are already operational and 89 are expected to arrive by March this year. Sources said the bidding process for the rest of the 600 buses is on. The government has already inducted 1,000 standard floor CNG buses with hydraulic lifts under the Cluster Scheme, many of which even arrived during the national lockdown. Sources said that the 1,000 electric buses that the government plans to run under the cluster model are expected to be inducted by September this year. This is apart from the 300 AC, low-floor electric buses of 12 metre length, for which DTC is going to engage an operator, who would bring, operate and maintain these under an 11-year contract under public-private-partnership following build-own-operate-transfer (BOOT) model. These 300 buses are expected to arrive by the end of this year. The total number of public transport buses in Delhi is 6,752 at present, of which 3,762 are in DTC’s fleet and 2,990 are in the Cluster Scheme fleet of buses. Delhi needs a total 11,000 buses to meet the current and Delhi government has been trying to match the number as soon as it can. With the addition of the 1,000 CNG air-conditioned buses in the DTC fleet, its fleet size would increase to 4,760 and the total bus fleet of Delhi will increase to an all-time high of 7,693. The last time DTC had purchased new buses was in the year 2008, when the orders were placed and the last bus was inducted into its fleet in October 2011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dtc-to-add-low-floor-ac-buses-to-its-fleet-from-june-e-vehicles-by-2021-end/articleshow/81141415.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 22, 2021||Pune||1,176 cases in Pune Metropolitan Region, highest day’s tally since October 15||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Sunday recorded 1,176 new Covid-19 cases. The last time PMR had higher daily cases was on October 15 (1,197) This took the overall tally for the region to 3,98,607. In the same 24-hour window, 484 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 3,82,238. Six people succumbed to the contagion on Sunday. With this, the region’s death toll stood at 9,183. Five people succumbed in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, while one person died in municipal council areas. Of the 1,176 new cases, PMC reported the highest at 634. Pimpri Chinchwad had 298 new cases, while the rural areas reported 185 new patients. Covid-19 cases continued to rise in the state for sixth day in a row. The state added 6,971 cases on Sunday, highest in 121 days. Mumbai addied over 900 cases after 84 days. Sunday’s addition of 921 cases took the city's tally to 3,19,128, and the state's to 21,00,884. On Sunday, state reported 35 deaths, taking the toll to 51,788. Of them, 15 occurred in previous 48 hours and 20 in previous weeks. In Mumbai, daily deaths rose to six from 3 reported on Saturday, taking toll to 11,446. (Inputs by Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1176-cases-in-pmr-highest-days-tally-since-oct-15/articleshow/81142836.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Aurangabad||Exam centre bungling, eligibility denial plagues health dept recruitment||Aurangabad: The mega recruitment drive being carried out by the Maharashtra public health department has run into controversy with several candidates alleging they have been assigned more than one examination centre in different cities or given a centre in a distant city. Some candidates have also complained of being denied eligibility for more than one post. The examination for over 8,000 posts in around 54 categories is scheduled for February 28. Vasant Pawale, a youth from Nanded district of Marathwada, said he has been given both Bhiwandi and Pune as examination centres. “How can I give the examination in two different cities on the same day?” he wondered. Govind Chopade from Hingoli district of Marathwada said, “I was eligible for two posts in the recruitment drive and applied accordingly. However, I am now being allowed to appear for the examination for only one post. Besides, I have been given an examination centre in Nagpur despite putting my choice of Parbhani, Nanded or Aurangabad.” Candidates said the registration for the mega recruitment drive was done in 2019. They claimed they were then told by the authorities that they could apply for even more than two posts. “We had called the help desk at the time of registration to get more clarity and the authorities concerned had told us that different examinations will be conducted on different days for different posts. It was only after this assurance that some of the candidates applied for multiple posts, some for even as many as 50 posts. But now the help-desk authorities are saying only two applications will be considered and that there would be a single-day examination only,” a candidate said. Vinod Patil of R R Patil Foundation said the public health department should address the issues of the candidates before February 28. “The difficulties faced by candidates are genuine,” he said. State health minister Rajesh Tope, who recently tested positive for Covid-19, could not be reached for comment. The help-desk number 8800192240 was not attended despite numerous attempts to reach it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/exam-centre-bungling-eligibility-denial-plagues-health-dept-recruitment/articleshow/81142796.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||Raje, Poonia camps claim to hog limelight during Delhi meeting||Jaipur: The meeting in Delhi attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP national president J P Nadda has special relevance for the Rajasthan leaders as state BJP chief Satish Poonia and former chief minister Vasundhara Raje were attending amid reports of rift between the two. Throughout the day rumour mills from both the camps were making speculations of their leaders getting more attention than the other. By evening a picture of Raje and Modi in a frame started doing rounds in the state social media ecosystem with different captions. Some called it the re-beginning of Raje in state politics, while others ran by giving a detailed account of the chat between the two. According to a source, who also attended the meeting, claimed that both the leaders just crossed each other and without even exchanged any pleasantries. In another frame being circulated parallel to Raje was of Poonia’s sharing space with Modi. “Modi on a lighter note said that meet the guy who had Covid twice and inquired his health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raje-poonia-camps-claim-to-hog-limelight-during-delhi-meeting/articleshow/81142801.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||AMC to buy 23 vehicles worth Rs 5cr||Ajmer: Ajmer Municipal Corporation will purchase 23 vehicles worth Rs 5.27 crore under the smart city project for different public utilities. According to officials, the work order for the purchase has been issued. These vehicles will be used for collecting garbage and for cleaning drains. Among the purchases will be four dumpers worth Rs 1.08 crore for transporting 8 to 10 tons of garbage. Similarly, two excavators costing Rs 62 lakh, 5 tractors costing Rs 25 lakh, 3 small dumpers worth Rs 39 lakh and 1 ambulance for animals costing Rs 14 lakh are among the list. Officials said that looking at creating a pollution-free environment, it has been decided to purchase vehicles of BS-6 standard. The new infrastructure will help to remove garbage from the city and to clean drainages and roads as well as help to collect street animals and help in fire-fighting rescue operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/amc-to-buy-23-vehicles-worth-rs-5cr/articleshow/81142827.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||After 1 yr, MR Bangur to begin non-Covid admissions at old building from March||Kolkata: The state’s largest Covid facility at MR Bangur Hospital is gearing up to resume admission of non-Covid patients from next month, following in the footsteps of Kolkata Medical College and Hospital.Turned into a dedicated Covid hospital in April last year, MR Bangur Hospital in Tollygunge has already started realigning and disinfection of the 500-bed old building that has only one patient now. It is preparing to admit patients suffering from other diseases from the second week of March. The other building will, however, continue to function as a Covid treatment facility.“We have already received a nod from the state health department and are in the process of reconverting our old building back to how it was a year ago. However, we shall need a few days as in order to treat Covid patients we had changed the alignment of beds and other facilities. We need two weeks to get the facility back to its old shape,” said Sisir Naskar, superintendent of MR Bangur Hospital.The largest healthcare facility in South 24 Parganas, hundreds of patients from the state and outside used to come to the hospital every day prior to the pandemic with various ailments, burn injuries, accidents as well as for general surgeries, childbirth and child care. But Covid-19 forced the hospital to move the existing patients to other hospitals like SSKM, Sambhunath Pandit Hospital and NRS as it got converted into a dedicated Covid hospital.“With the numbers slowly coming down and several patients from South 24 Parganas daily coming over to the hospital for treatment, we took the decision to use the old building. There is only one patient in there right now — one of our staffers. He will be released in a day or two,” said Naskar. The other building still has 50-odd Covid patients and will continue to function as a Covid hospital, Naskar added.The move comes around two weeks after Kolkata Medical College and Hospital also shed its status as a dedicated Covid hospital and began admitting other patients. “We have kept around 200 beds on the three floors of a superspecialty building for Covid patients. The rest of the hospital has started admitting other patients like it used to function before the pandemic,” said an official of the state health department.On Sunday, there were 3,525 active Covid patients in the state, including 1,112 from Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-1-yr-mr-bangur-to-begin-non-covid-admissions-at-old-building-from-march/articleshow/81141363.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Sisodia, Jain carry out padyatra for bypolls||New Delhi: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday held a padyatra in Kondli and Trilokpuri assembly constituencies in support of AAP candidates for the upcoming MCD bypolls. The AAP candidates, along with local MLAs and a large number of volunteers, joined the padyatra and sought votes from the public. Cabinet minister Satyendar Jain held a meeting at Rohini Sector-24 while his colleague, Rajendra Pal Gautam, campaigned in Kondli. The party said in a statement that its senior functionaries are talking to the citizens of Delhi by going door to door before the civic bypolls. They are telling the citizens about the “corruption in the BJP-led corporations for the last 15 years”. The party further alleged that the citizens are well aware of how BJP has bankrupted the corporations. The party said that the citizens have made up their mind to throw BJP out and to elect AAP. “The citizens of Delhi are well aware of the fact that AAP, under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, is the only political party that can bring development to Delhi,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-jain-carry-out-padyatra-for-bypolls/articleshow/81141448.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Students playing key role in increasing green cover in HP||Shimla: Students are playing a key role in increasing the green cover of Himachal Pradesh. In 2018-19, about 228 schools were covered under state government’s Vidyarthi Van Mitra Yojna and 1,66,830 saplings were planted in 164.30 hectare area by the students. In 2019-20, approximately 146 schools were covered and 86,702 saplings were planted in 131.5 hectare area by the students, under the scheme. According to state government officials, rapid economic growth has had a telling effect on the natural resources of the country and conservation of forests is one of the foremost priorities. In Himachal Pradesh, 37,948 square kilometre (sqm) is forest area and 15,433.52sqm is green forest cover of the total forest area. About 16,376sqm forest area is above treeline, which is covered under snow all through the year. Officials said forest department is working towards achieving the target of improving green cover by 30% by 2030. To achieve the target, the department initiated Vidyarthi Van Mitra Yojna, which aims to create awareness by involving school students in conservation of forest and environment. Officials said schools and suitable open or degraded forest areas for plantation of indigenous tree species that can be maintained and protected by students have been identified. This would develop a sense of contribution and association among students with plants. The department also provides necessary technical information for plantation. hey said that State Government is laying stress not just in creating awareness among students on conservation of forest and wildlife but is also emphasising on conservation of the natural resources of the State for future generation with its effective management. Besides this, the Government is also ensuring conservation of forests and wildlife for those communities that are dependent on resources generated from forests for livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/students-playing-key-role-in-increasing-green-cover-in-hp/articleshow/81142832.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand win its first Vijay Hazara game||Dehradun: Amidst the controversy due to the abrupt exit of the former head coach Wasim Jaffer, Uttarakhand won its opening game of the Vijay Hazare Trophy tournament against Meghalaya by 6 wickets in Chennai on Sunday. Electing to field first, Uttarakhand bowlers restricted Meghalaya to a total of 242/6 in the allotted 50 overs. Debutant Akash Madhwal was the pick of the bowlers by scalping two wickets. Meghalaya’s batsman Sanjay Yadav scored 81 runs off 49 deliveries with 7 huge sixes. In reply, Uttarakhand chased down the target with ease thanks to a blistering century by Jay Bista. The 25-year-old opener scored 141 off 119 deliveries with 3 sixes to his name. Kunal Chandela scored a half-century in his first game as the skipper. Uttarakhand’s next game is against Manipur on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-win-its-first-vijay-hazara-game/articleshow/81140255.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||19-yr-old woman goes missing||Hyderabad: A 19-year-old woman went missing after leaving Shamshabad vegetable market on Saturday evening. The missing woman, N Malleshwari, is daughter of a flower vendor, Radha, from Indra Reddy Nagar in Shamshabad. At 6pm on Saturday, Malleshwari left the flower shop, informing her mother she was heading home. When the victim’s mother returned home at 9pm, Malleshwari was not there. After failing to locate her, the family lodged a complaint with RGI Airport police on Sunday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/19-yr-old-woman-goes-missing/articleshow/81142835.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Madurai||Teach DMK lesson for false promises: EPS||Karur: Accusing DMK leader M K Stalin of giving false promises in view of the assembly election, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Sunday asked the people to teach DMK a lesson in the upcoming election. The CM was campaigning in Kulithalai and Krisharayapuram in Karur district. Ridiculing Stalin for collecting petitions from people during his Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin campaign, the CM said that the former had collected petitions during the 2019 parliamentary elections too. “While he could garner votes by giving attractive promises to the people, he didn’t do anything with the petitions received. He has started collecting petitions again,” said the CM. EPS said DMK is run by a family unlike the AIADMK which is run by its cadre. He said that only one family can acquire positions in that party unlike AIADMK where a party worker from the grassroots level can hold party positions. “Despite many senior leaders being there in that party, only Stalin, Tuticorin MP K Kanimozhi, youth wing secretary Udayanidhi Stalin and Central Chennai MP Dayanidhi Maran are carrying out poll campaign. They won’t allow anyone other than their family members to grow in the party,” said the CM. Listing out the developmental schemes implemented by the government in the district, the CM said the AIADMK government has fulfilled promises while asking voters to bring the party to power for the third consecutive term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teach-dmk-lesson-for-false-promises-eps/articleshow/81142867.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Rs 12.5 crore mephedrone seized, third arrest in gang||Mumbai: Dongri police on Sunday seized 25kg of the banned drug Mephedrone (MD) worth Rs 12.5 crore from the flat of an accused in Kalina village, Santacruz. Three of this gang have been arrested so far. A team led by additional police commissioner (south region) Satya Narayn Chaudhry and senior inspector Shabana Shaikh on Thursday first arrested accused Isaq Sayyed (38), and seized 12 grams MD from Dongri. While working on the case, the police team arrested Abdu Wasim Shaikh (31) from Vashi and seized 56 grams of MD and other articles. During their interrogation, police learnt about the involvement of another accused, Deepak Bangera (55), and arrested him from Ghatkopar on Saturday. In a search on Bangera’s flat in Santacruz on Sunday, investigators seized the Rs 12.5-crore MD, Rs 5 lakh, two weighing machines and drug packing materials. Further probe is underway to find the source of the drug and where it was to be supplied. Also, the Worli unit of the Anti-Narcotic Cell on Saturday arrested a 27-year-old man with 212 grams of the banned drug heroin, with an approximate value of Rs 63.6 lakh. Accused Salman Shaikh was booked under the NDPS Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-12-5-crore-mephedrone-seized-third-arrest-in-gang/articleshow/81142861.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Pune||Restaurants & bars across Pune fear drop in business over latest restrictions||PUNE: Restaurants and bars in the city are worried about the new restrictions imposed in the district on Sunday, in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. As per the new orders, restaurants and bars must close by 11pm, instead of 1am, till February 28. The operators of such establishments said their business would suffer a body blow. “Since the first phase of unlock and a relaxation in closing hours, business slowly improved. We are getting an average of 60% footfalls per day, and the fresh curbs would set us back by 20-30%,” Ganesh Shetty, president of Pune Hoteliers Association, told TOI. “If we have to close by 11pm, we need to start winding down at least an hour before that. This means we cannot allow any customers in after 9.30pm. We currently operate from noon to midnight. Even with the relaxations, our profit margins have drastically come down as people aren’t spending as much as they did in pre-pandemic times,” a manager with Agent Jack bar, which has six outlets in Pune, said. Two small eateries in Kondhwa, which had opened just a couple of months ago, were alarmed by the new restrictions. “My business had started to pick up only a month ago and the new restrictions scare me. I have a lot riding on this venture,” the operator of one of the eateries said. A representative of the other eatery, which specializes in kebabs, blamed the current situation on the authorities’ inaction. “Some people never followed the norms. Patrons would get belligerent when we ask them to maintain social distancing. Why couldn’t the authorities clamp down on such behaviour earlier?” he said. “We open only at 7pm. How can we do business if we must close by 10pm? Many of my colleagues lost their jobs during the lockdown. Our very survival is at stake,” an employee of Step Inn said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurants-bars-across-pune-fear-drop-in-business-over-latest-restrictions/articleshow/81142863.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 22, 2021||Madurai||HC dismisses film producer’s plea to quash chitfund case||Madurai: Taking into account that the investigation was in the initial stage, Madras high court has dismissed the plea moved by film producer K E Gnanavel Raja who sought to quash two chit fund scam cases registered against him. One case was registered by Ramanathapuram Bazaar police and another by Madurai Economic Offences Wing (EOW) in connection with the fraud.The prosecution case is that second accused Anand, who was known to complainant Thulasimanikandan, introduced him to first accused Neethimani who had a financial institution by name Bullion Fintech LLP. Believing the words of Neethimani and his wife Menaga (third accused) about cash incentives, Thulasimanikandan collected money from friends, relatives and public from Ramanathapuram and invested it in the company. Thulasimanikandan had mobilised Rs 3 crore including his own money between July 2018 and March 2020.Since he stopped receiving interest for the deposited money from October 2019, the people who invested money started questioning him. When Thulasimanikandan sought return of the Rs 3 crore, the trio refused and threatened him. Based on his complaint, Bazaar police registered a case against the three. During investigation, the officials found out that the trio had financed film producers Muruganandam, 7G Siva and Gnanavel Raja, who were arrayed as fourth, fifth and sixth accused in the case.Similarly, another woman who mobilised Rs 40lakh and had deposited in the film company had also lodged a complaint with the Ramanathapuram district crime branch. The case was subsequently transferred to Madurai EOW. Justice R Hemalatha observed that there has been a large network involved in the financial racket and many gullible investors had been taken for a ride by first to third accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-film-producers-plea-to-quash-chitfund-case/articleshow/81142878.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Pune||Jumbo units ready to start at short notice||Pune: The director of MedBros Private Healthcare Limited, Sangram Kapale, said that if the need arises, they were ready to resume the medical facilities at the College of Engineering Pune jumbo unit and Annasaheb Magar Stadium jumbo facility, on short notice, in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases in the district. The facilities were shut on January 15. The firm was looking after the medical facilities at both units. The Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Sunday said they would require at least a week’s time if they had to activate the services at the jumbo facilities.  “Even though most of our staff has gone back to their native places after the closure of the facilities, they can be called on short notice,” Kapale said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jumbo-units-ready-to-start-at-short-notice/articleshow/81142876.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||70-year-old UP man found lost in Mumbai, reunited with son within 24 hours||MUMBAI: Using their contacts and a web-based messaging app, the police reunited a lost 70-year-old man with his family less than 24 hours after he was found dishevelled on a pavement in central Mumbai. A resident of Uttar Pradesh, Thakurdas Sunar was picked up by the NM Joshi Marg police on February 13 during ‘Operation All Out’. As a part of this operation, every officer heads out of the police station to clamp down on common violations. Sunar gestured to the police that he wanted to go home. “He gave us his name, but his speech was otherwise not very clear. He appeared disoriented. His clothes were unwashed and he hadn’t had a bath. He also looked hungry, so we offered some tea and biscuits which he gulped down,” said sub inspector Pallavi Kotwal, who was on duty at the police station at the time. Sunar later produced a railway ticket that had been booked from Uttar Pradesh. Kotwal clicked a photo of Sunar and shared it with a colleague, constable Rajesh Pandey from Andheri police station, who is known for solving missing persons cases. Pandey sent the photo to his contacts in different state police departments. He also uploaded the photo on groups on the web-based messaging app Telegram. In less than three hours, a police officer from UP responded that a man resembling the one in the photo had gone missing from Mathura. The officer also sent a poster that Sunar’s family had put up in Mathura with his details. The poster said that Sunar had left home on February 11 without telling anyone and his memory was foggy. “I called up a deputy superintendent (DySP) of the UP police and explained that Sunar had been found dishevelled on a Mumbai street. The DySP directed a Mathura police officer to get in touch with me. We got the address and contact number of Sunar’s family the same day. When I called up his son Vishnudutt, he said he was already in Mumbai looking for Sunar,” said Pandey. “My uncle had been telling neighbours for days that he would go to Mumbai as he had worked here when he was younger. When he disappeared, we suspected he may have got on a train headed for Mumbai,” said Sunar’s nephew Sunny. On February 14, Sunar was reunited with Vishnudutt at the NM Joshi Marg police station. The father-son duo left for home shortly afterwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/70-yr-old-up-man-found-lost-in-city-reunited-with-son-in-hours/articleshow/81142880.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 22, 2021||Pune||Pressure builds for students of Stds X, XII||Pune: Many junior colleges and schools that had planned for the preliminary exams for the secondary school certificate (SSC, std X) and higher secondary certificate (HSC, std XII) students from Monday have now decided to replan them. The divisional commissioner's decision to shut down schools and colleges for one week has compelled educational institutions to changes their exam time tables. Many schools and colleges had also announced a break for a week after the Covid cases started rising in the city. The decision has also hit the functioning of senior colleges that had reopened just a week ago. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Sunday announced a series of decisions, including closure of all schools, colleges and private coaching centres in the district till February 28. Stricter Measures Were Needed To Check Spread Principal of St Mira's College for Women, Gulshan Gidwani, said they were scheduled to start their prelims for standard XII on Monday. “This kind of uncertainty is very hard on students. The psychological impact on them cannot be measured. It is immense. We are very saddened by the way this is being handled,” she added. Gidwani said the administration had given permission for weddings with guests up to 200, hotels and restaurants can still remain open till 11am. All this left a feeling with students that their education was just not a priority any more. Principal director of Symbiosis Society, Vidya Yeravdekar, said they are yet not sure whether the schools and colleges should be totally shut or only students are not allowed to come to classes. “We would want teachers and other staff to come as we will have to conduct online classes again till February 28.” Outstations Pupils Could Suffer The Most Many outstation students had arrived in the city due to the announcement of the opening of colleges from February 15. Yeravdekar said the university will have to manage these students in hostels and teach them online. Trustee of Sanskriti Group of Schools, Praneet Mungali, said, “We had already declared a precautionary one week break on Saturday. We already had back-up plans ready for such a scenario and they will be put in place to ensure that there is no loss of learning for any student. The education and health of children are both non-negotiable.” Principal of New English School on Tilak Road, Manisha Minocha, said they had no other option as the closure is regarding health. Principal of Vidya Pratishthan Magarpatta City Public School, Chandrika Banerjee, said, “As we deal with the challenges of Covid-19, we must do everything in our power to help our students succeed. Health and safety of students will continue to be at the forefront of every decision. All classes will be held online and the revision will continue for our board classes.” Well-Being Is Important Principal of SM Choksey Junior College, Tanzeela Memon, said they have been teaching online since May 2020 and both standards X and XII portions are nearly done. “The mental health of students is more important right now and we as educators need to concentrate on their mental well-being,” she added. Junior colleges in the city are also reorganising their plans. Principal of Abasaheb Garware College, P B Buchade, said in spite of a reduced syllabi for theory and practicals, it was difficult to follow the timeline of examination declared by HSC board. “Our major concern is completion of practicals before the written exams,” he added. Principal of Orbis School, Nalini Samuel, said the school will go back to online classes. “We have finished practice sessions for the practicals for standard XII, so we need not call them back to school till our final practicals are fixed in March,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pressure-builds-for-students-of-stds-x-xii/articleshow/81141450.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Tejas Exp skips Andheri halt; loco driver, his asst suspended||Mumbai: As many as 42 passengers on Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas Express waiting near the door to get off at Andheri station on Sunday were shocked as the train did not make the scheduled halt. Instead it sped past the station before halting on the tracks near Vile Parle. The loco driver and and his assistant have been suspended and Western Railway has initiated an inquiry into the incident. “I had bought a ticket from Surat to Andheri,” said a woman commuter. “What was frustrating was that at Borivli station there was an announcement that the next stop was Andheri. An electronic display inside the train also mentioned the Andheri halt.” Another passenger said: “After halting on the tracks near Vile Parle, the train stopped at Dadar station. We had to make our own arrangements to get back to Andheri by taxi or local train.” When TOI contacted WR divisional railway manager GVL Satya Kumar, he said: “This is a serious incident...The drivers have been suspended. They should have been alert and known about the timetable.” Sources said the drivers belong to Ahme-dabad division. —Somit Sen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tejas-exp-skips-andheri-halt-loco-driver-his-asst-suspended/articleshow/81142895.cms||Somit Sen
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||65-yr-old beggar found dead||Hyderabad: A 65-year-old beggar was found dead near Ganesh temple in Barkatpura on Sunday. Narayanguda police received an alert from locals about the man lying dead on the road near Ganesh temple. The victim was clad in purple shirt and blue trousers. Police later found out that he was Govind, a footpath dweller. Cops suspect that he died due to ill-health. A case was registered under section 174 of CrPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/65-yr-old-beggar-found-dead/articleshow/81142888.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Madurai||Property deeds must have clause to take care of parents: HC||Madurai: When senior citizens bequeath their property to their children by way of gift or settlement, a clause will henceforth have to be incorporated in the deed saying that the transferee will provide basic/physical needs to their parents under section 23 of Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007, the Madras high court has ruled. Justice S Vaidyanathan said that if the transferee refuses to do so, the said transfer of property shall be deemed to be made by fraud or coercion or undue influence. The sub registrar/registrar, who registers a deed of conveyance, must ensure that the condition stipulated in Section 23 is incorporated in the said deed. If it is incorporated in the deed or gift or settlement or otherwise automatically, the transferee will not be in a position to sell the property and in case of sale, the buyer will be at risk to buy such property. However, if the above condition is absent, then the senior citizens cannot approach the tribunal to get the deed made void, the judge said.The court passed the order while hearing a batch of petitions regarding cancellation of deeds, some filed by senior citizens. Though there are provisions under the Act for prosecuting those abandoning senior citizens, several of them have been abandoned on the streets by children once they get their properties. Justice Vaidyanathan observed that if those who are responsible of taking care of their elderly parents leave them in the lurch, they shall be imprisoned according to section 24 and imposition of fine will only be secondary. Even though the word used is ‘either’ in Section 24 of the Act, the imprisonment should be made mandatory. “Even though the discretion is given to magistrates to try the offence and impose punishment, unless the sword of damocles is hanging on the youngsters, there will be lots of old age homes mushrooming,” observed the judge. The judge further said that the cases filed by senior citizens will have to be heard on a day-to-day basis without adjourning it beyond seven working days. The batch of petitions that the court heard challenged the unilateral cancellation of deeds and as to whether registrars have powers to register the deed of cancellation. Taking into account the two conflicting judgments in this regard, the judge directed the registry to place these petitions before Madras high court Chief Justice for constitution of a larger bench to decide whether a registrar has got powers to cancel the deed unilaterally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/property-deeds-must-have-clause-to-take-care-of-parents-hc/articleshow/81142884.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 22, 2021||Madurai||Can’t issue memo against retired govt employee: HC||Madurai: Disciplinary proceedings against a government employee cannot be continued after his retirement in the absence of a specific clause in the employment rules providing for such inquiry. Saying so, Madras high court has set aside the charge memo issued to a Tangedco assistant executive engineer who challenged the same. Justice M Dhandapani said that petitioner L Nagaraj worked as assistant executive engineer in the department for more than 33 years and retired without any blemish. Hence, the charge memo issued against him after his retirement is unsustainable. He was working in Tangedco at Pugalur in Trichy district and retired from service on June 30, 2014. After the petitioner’s retirement, there was a family dispute between the petitioner and his second son-in-law Vijaya Kumar. Due to this, Vijaya Kumar made a complaint before the authorities stating that the petitioner misappropriated government money and purchased a property in his name while he was in service. Based on this complaint a charge memo was issued. Nagaraj challenged this in the present petition before HC Madurai bench in 2016. His counsel submitted that Nagaraj was allowed to retire and thereafter the charge memo was issued during November 2015, after a lapse of one and a half years and without following any provision of law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cant-issue-memo-against-retired-govt-employee-hc/articleshow/81142896.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Just three dists see zero cases, health experts flag protocol laxity||Hyderabad: After clocking zero cases for a while, the number of districts logging zero dropped to just three on Sunday. Nagarkurnool, Kamareddy and Narayanpet were the only districts to log zero cases. Health experts warn laxity on social distancing norms and mask etiquette can lead to spike in number of cases. A few days ago at least six to eight districts were reporting zero cases. Districts like Mulugu, Sircilla, Nirmal, Wanaparthy, Asifabad, Jayashankar-Bhupalpally, Yadadri-Bhongir and Mancherial had zero cases at least two or three days a week. The trend now seems to be slowly changing with districts reporting more cases. Though all these districts had zero cases at least once a week, the earlier trend of having zero cases more than once a week has changed except in case of Jogulamba-Gadwal and Kamareddy, which have reported zero cases more than once in the last one week. Another change observed is that on a day more than seven districts used to report zero cases. Currently, it has reduced to just three districts. The first district in the state to have zero cases is Wanaparthy, but in the past week it had reported zero cases only once. Health department director Dr G Srinivas Rao said: “Small outbreaks happening in districts on some occasions. Several strains of Covid- 19 are around, if we don’t take care, there is every possibility that in the next two months cases will increase.” According to Dr Subodh Kandamuthan, professor and director, Centre for Healthcare Management, Administrative College of India, experience of Kerala and Maharashtra have to be kept in mind. “Kerala had best containment measures and best practices, but cases are increasing even though vaccine hesitancy is low there. We should be careful for at least next six months” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/just-three-dists-see-zero-cases-health-experts-flag-protocol-laxity/articleshow/81142916.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 22, 2021||Madurai||Mkt promoting sustainable living turns hit among Madurai citizens||Madurai: Yaadhum, Madurai’s sustainable living movement, which is promoting the importance of healthy eating habits and safe environmental practices, organized its first market that drew a large crowd on Sunday in spite of the hot weather.Chockalingam, a farmer, had brought a bunch of ash plantains and freshly-harvested pumpkins, which became an immediate hit among the customers. A vendor had setup a stall of a variety of organically-grown vegetables and greens. “The very texture of keerai is different from what we usually buy from other markets,” said Sharmila, a customer.Krishnan N Subramanian, founder of Yaadhum, which has reached out to the people not just in Madurai but other states too with its organic market, said that he is a passionate promoter of minimalistic living initiatives.Another stall had displayed nano-herbal extracts, hill garlic from Kodaikanal, organic honey and hand-made soaps for sale. A series of seminars on fitness communities, alternate education enthusiasts, conscious consumers, home gardeners and repair and reuse enthusiasts were also conducted.Children, too, enjoyed this outing leaving the venue with books and pots with seedlings. “It think it is important that children are introduced to such sustainable living options and not just the glamour of shopping malls and consumer fairs,” said Thiruchelvi, another visitor at the market.Sangita Desai, one of the participants, said that this was a much-needed unique initiative. “It was good to see so many like-minded people, who wanted to make this world a better place to live in,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mkt-promoting-sustainable-living-turns-hit-among-madurai-citizens/articleshow/81142917.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||121 cases new cases in Hry, seven dists report none||Chandigarh: Haryana recorded 121 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, up 10 from 111 reported on Saturday. The state also reported 76 recoveries and no deaths on Sunday. With this, the overall Covid tally of the state has gone to 2,69,730 total cases, 26,5,827 recoveries, 3,042 deaths. There are 861 active cases at presnt in the state. With Panchkula district topping the table with 14 serious patients, the state has total 30 serious patients who are on ventilator or oxygen support. Despite an increase in the number of new patients, the Covid positive rate remain under control with 4.86%. Death rate remained stable at 1.13%. However, fewer recoveries have resulted into slight decline in recovery rate at 98.55%. Total 14,655 tests during the day, took the testing rate of the state to 2,19,132 tests per million per day. The doubling rate is at 139 days. Gurgaon reported highest 30 cases, where tally has gone to 58,714 cases, 354 deaths and 235 active patients. Kurukshetra followed with 20 cases and total tally of 8,986. Karnal reported third highest cases at 14 cases, followed by 10 from Faridabad districts. Rest 18 districts reported less than 10 cases, out of which seven districts — Sonipat, Rohtak, Rewari, Mahendergarh, Bhiwani, Palwal and Charkhi Dadri — reported no case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/121-cases-new-cases-in-hry-seven-dists-report-none/articleshow/81142908.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Delhi||HC relies on news channel video for bail to riot accused||New Delhi: Three men accused in a northeast Delhi riots and murder case were granted bail by Delhi High Court, which observed that the video shown by a news channel was contrary to the claims made by the prosecution while opposing their bail. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait was acting on the bail applications of Junaid, Chand Mohd and Irshad, all of whom had the same evidence against them. The case pertained to the death of Shahid, who had died of gunshot wounds during the riots. The accused men were alleged to be part of the Muslim group that took shelter on the rooftop of Saptarishi building in Chand Bagh to attack Hindus on the rooftops of other buildings. Shahid allegedly died after being fatally shot on the rooftop of Saptarshi building. The bench noted that in the video of the news channel, the anchor could be seen saying that a person had fired a rifle from Mohan Nursing Home Hospital. “The investigating agency seems to have concentrated only on one side of the building, although rioters from both the sides were pelting stones at each other and were firing. Further, in the video, the firing is seen only from Mohan Nursing Home and not from Saptarishi building,” the court observed. The court stated that there was no evidence, direct, circumstantial or forensic, against the petitioners. It also found it “hard to believe” that a communal riot could be used by the petitioners to cause death of a person of their own community. The judge pointed out that the petitioners had actually let go of witnesses of the different community and asked them to leave the scene of crime to save their lives. These people were Mukesh, Narayan, Arvind and their families. “If they were really involved in the communal riots and wanted to cause harm to the members of the other community, they would not have tried to save their lives,” said the court. It also came on record that police were yet to arrest the “main assailant” who killed Shahid and no firearm or any other weapon was recovered from the petitioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-relies-on-news-channel-video-for-bail-to-riot-accused/articleshow/81141512.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Pune||Facing Rs 3,000cr losses, MSRTC to streamline routes||Pune: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), struggling with losses to the tune of Rs3,000 crore and rising fuel costs, will opt for route rationalization. The transport body aims to streamline its operations this way and focus only profitable routes. At present, 12,000 buses from MSRTC’s 20,000-strong are operational with an average occupancy of 60%. State transport minister Anil Parab recently told TOI that they were studying all routes in this regard. “Bus operations on any route found not generating revenue will be stopped or pared down. Those buses will be diverted to more profitable routes. The transport department is closely studying routes and will finalize a plan soon,” he said. “We have to make up for losses due to last year’s pandemic. We have started various schemes — such as starting tourist busses to different parts of the state — to attract passengers, and also tied up with oil companies to operate fuel pumps on MSRTC-owned land. We also have to constantly adapt to the rising fuel costs,” an MSRTC official said. “It would be difficult to say right now which routes are on the chopping block. Passengers on affected routes will not face any trouble as we will make alternative arrangements. And besides, all routes are connected in one way or another,” another official said. Meanwhile, with Covid-19 cases on the rise across the state, MSRTC has issued instructions to follow all norms on the buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/facing-rs-3000cr-losses-msrtc-to-streamline-routes/articleshow/81141456.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 22, 2021||Ludhiana||Landlord’s son booked for raping 16-year-old||Ludhiana: The police on Sunday booked a 20-year-old man for kidnapping and raping a 16-year-old girl.The minor’s father said in his police complaint, “We are tenants of the father of the accused. After befriending my daughter, the accused took her to Amritsar by a bus on February 8. There, he raped her in a hotel room and promised to marry her. On February 12, he dropped her at Noorwala Road and fled.”Later, he refused to marry her.Investigating officer ASI Gurmukh Singh said the FIR has been registered under sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/landlords-son-booked-for-raping-16-year-old/articleshow/81140286.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Pune||Air Asia flight delayed, then cancelled 6 hours later||Pune: Around 160 passengers waiting to board the Air Asia flight (I5817) from Pune to Delhi were left in limbo for over 10 hours on Sunday at the Pune airport. Eventually, the passengers were allegedly told that the flight had been cancelled. The flight was supposed to take off from Pune airport at around 11am and reach Delhi by around 1.15pm. “The flight was scheduled to fly at 11am so we reached the airport by 9am and completed all the formalities. So, we have been at the airport for 10 hours now. We kept asking the airline authorities to tell us what had caused the delay but they were not clear and just said that there was a technical problem,” said Ashu Madan, a passenger who had been waiting at the airport since 9am. A query pertaining to the cause for the delay and the kind of technical issue the aircraft suffered was sent to Air Asia. However, an answer was awaited until the filing of the report. Madan related that passengers were first told that the flight would take off at 3pm. “It was extremely frustrating as almost all passengers were at the airport and waiting. When nothing happened at 3pm, many passengers lost their cool. Finally, at around 4.30pm, the airline officials said that we would have to take a flight on Monday,” said Madan. Another passenger said that although some refreshments were provided, the delay in providing the right information was extremely frustrating. “We only got out of the airport at 6pm when the airline finally confirmed that there will be no flight today. Such service is unwarranted. Passengers should have been clearly told about the problem and informed much earlier that the flight stands cancelled. Many people had important work in Delhi and hence were travelling on a Sunday,” the passenger said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/air-asia-flight-delayed-then-cancelled-6-hours-later/articleshow/81141493.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 22, 2021||Pune||Crime branch cracks whip on duplicate cables racket||Pune: After raiding two shops, which were found to be supplying duplicate and substandard electric cables, the Pune city crime branch has claimed to have unearthed a chain of shops in Delhi and Pune, which have been running the market of duplicate electric cables of a prominent company.The crime branch raided the two shops last week. The Faraskhana police had registered a case of violation of the Copyright Act against the two shopowners. The police had recovered cables worth Rs1 crore from the two shops. “These cables are manufactured in Delhi and then distributed across the country. In Pune, we have established a chain of 34 shops selling such duplicate and substandard wires,” crime branch inspector Rajnish Nirmal said.A majority of the customers of these shops were builders involved in construction projects in and around Pune. “It is dangerous to install such cables, which have a good amount of lead in them, in houses. The original cables do not have lead content in their plastic casing over the copper, so they are safe to use,” Nirmal said. Based on a primary report by the College of Engineering Pune (CoEP) on the quality of the duplicate cables, the police have invoked Section 308 (Attempt to commit culpable homicide) of the Indian Penal Code on the two shops. “We invoked Section 308 of the IPC considering that the substandard, duplicate cables were capable of causing fire in flats because of short circuit and damage to property and life,” Nirmal said.“A customer generally looks for packed wires with the ISI mark before buying the wires. However, the duplicate manufacturers pack the cables in boxes that look similar. These boxes also have ISI marks on them, which can be very misleading,” he said. “We gave samples of these cables to the CoEP for further analysis. We are waiting for the report from the college. We will invoke separate laws against the shopkeepers and producer of the wires, if the report hints at further poor quality of the cables, such as thickness of the copper among others,” Nirmal said. A team will soon leave for Delhi for further probe, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crime-branch-cracks-whip-on-duplicate-cables-racket/articleshow/81141521.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||E-fraudsters now use gaming apps to duck cops||Mumbai: Online fraudsters have devised a new trick to evade being tracked down by the police. The latest is to cheat people and get money transferred to a gaming app so as not to leave any footprint. This gaming app con was used twice with two people recently, said the police. A chartered accountant lost Rs 1 lakh to a cyber fraudster while a retired man lost Rs 2.6 lakh. In both cases, the conmen had the money transferred to accounts with a popular gaming app. In the first case, the chartered accountant .received a phone call for updating his customer database information, also known as KYC, for his cellphone. He received a one-time password which he shared with the caller The chartered accountant lodged a complaint at D B Marg police station, stating that the caller who claimed to be from the phone company’s customer care department had sent him an App’s link to update his details. Later, a one-time-password appeared in his message box and the caller asked him to share it. The caller then asked him to transfer Rs 10 to an account. With that, the accused got access to his mobile and online transaction. “Soon, Rs 1 lakh was transferred to an account with a gaming App,” said sub-inspector Pradip Patil. In the second case, the septuagenarian lost Rs 2.6 lakh. The accused used a similar trick to get his one-time password, and transferred the money from his credit card in five transactions, said sub-inspector Dattatrey Yadav from the cyber police station (south region). A senior police officer pointed out that this could be a new trick to duck the police by transferring money to the gaming app. “We have sought details of these accounts. It’s possible the fraudsters use the money money to play games online,” said the senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/e-fraudsters-now-use-gaming-apps-to-duck-cops/articleshow/81142930.cms||Mateen Hafeez
February 22, 2021||Ludhiana||Weekly Covid cases in dist surge to this year’s highest||Ludhiana: Covid-19 cases are again increasing in the district, with the previous week’s figure crossing the 300-mark—for the first time this year.The latest health department data shows that between February 14 and 20 the district recorded 332 cases—the highest since the third week of December last. There were 467 cases between December 13 and 19 last, after which there was a fall. An analysis of data since July 6 last shows that after reaching the highest value of 2,802 cases between September 13 and 19, the weekly count declined to 523 between October 11 and 17 and 325 from October 25 to 31. After that there was a rise to 439 cases between November 1 and 7 and 610 from November 8 to 14 before reaching 696 between November 22 and 28. The weekly case count dropped to the lowest value of 196 between January 10 and 16 before rising to 287 from January 31 to February 6.On the weekly-case chart, the district was second in the state with 332 cases (37% more than the preceding week). While SBS Nagar topped the list with 402 cases, Jalandhar was third (262 cases). Barnala had the lowest number at four. A health department official said, “There is an increase in the number of cases reported daily. More than 60 cases were registered during the past two days. Many people have started taking the pandemic lightly and are not following the rules, which are leading to the surge.”The health department officials said people should take precautions as the pandemic was not yet over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/weekly-covid-cases-in-dist-surge-to-this-years-highest/articleshow/81140310.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||160 Covid-19 cases, one death in state||Hyderabad: Telangana on Sunday recorded 163 new cases of Covid-19 and one death. The total number of cases so far in the state has now touched 2,97,598 while th death toll is 1,624. So far, 2,94,243 patients in the state have recovered from the coronavirus infection. The number of active cases in the state is currently 1,731 and the recovery rate is currently 98.87%. The case fatality rate (CFR) is currently 0.54%. On Sunday, a total of 23,607 samples were tested. With this, Telangana has completed 84.6 lakh tests and has reached 2.27 lakh sample testing per million population. GHMC recorded 29 new cases on Sunday — the highest among districts. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/160-covid-19-cases-one-death-in-state/articleshow/81142926.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Techie ends life over financial problems in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 44-year-old software engineer—Narisetty Bala Sridhar, a team leader at TCS—ended his life by hanging himself at his house in Ameerpet on Sunday. Sridhar, his wife Padma and their two children had been staying at Pallavi Apartment in Siddhartha Nagar, Ameerpet. At 9.30 am on Sunday, Padma along with her children went to a supermarket near their house to buy groceries. Sridhar was alone at home. When Padma and the children returned home, they found Sridhar hanging from a rope attached to the ceiling fan in the bedroom. Padma informed her brother Sudheer Kumar about the incident, who then rushed to the house and found Padma unconscious. Padma’s 14-year-old daughter informed him that she fell unconscious after Sridhar’s suicide. Sudheer shifted Padma to a nearby hospital for treatment and she is out of danger. In his complaint to police, Sudheer mentioned that Sridhar had attempted suicide six months ago due to financial problems. “The family believes that Sridhar ended his life due to financial problems as people who borrowed about Rs 40 lakh from him have not returned the amount. There was no suicide note,” SR Nagar inspector Saidulu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techie-ends-life-over-financial-problems/articleshow/81142923.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: No room for new parties in DMK alliance, says K S Alagiri||KANYAKUMARI: Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K S Alagiri said that there is no possibility for new parties to join the DMK alliance for the assembly election as the alliance has been finalised. He was talking to reporters in Nagercoil on Sunday after reviewing the arrangements for Rahul Gandhi’s visit on March 1 that is part of his three-day campaign in the southern districts starting on February 27. The decision on seats where the party will be contesting will be decided at the TNCC executive committee meeting on February 24. The party will give an opportunity to those who worked hard and for the new faces in the assembly election, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-room-for-new-parties-in-dmk-alliance-says-alagiri/articleshow/81142921.cms||---
February 22, 2021||India||Stop blaming previous govts, profiteering off people’s miseries, Sonia writes to PM||PM Narendra Modi should stop looking for excuses and blaming previous governments for problems like fuel rise despite being in office for around seven years, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said on Sunday.. In a letter to the PM, she urged a partial roll back of excise duty on petrol and diesel. She dubbed the plea as a reminder to the PM of his “raj dharma” as the government was “profiteering” off people’s miseries amid erosion of jobs and wages and runaway inflation. She said it was baffling that the increase has come despite moderate crude prices in the global market which was half of what it was during the UPA regime||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stop-blaming-previous-govts-profiteering-off-peoples-miseries-sonia-writes-to-pm/articleshow/81143838.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
February 22, 2021||Delhi||How return of 4-year UG programme at Delhi University will change course of your studies||NEW DELHI: The Four-Year Undergraduate Programme (FYUP) is set to return at Delhi University with the NEP Implementation Committee (NIC) suggesting an overhaul to align the course with the National Education Policy 2020. Students can now opt for a four-year undergraduate course with the final year earmarked for multi-disciplinary research and dissertation. The committee has also suggested that the BA programme at DU be now known as four-year BA Honours. NIC has suggested a series of additional courses that student will have to pursue in the four-year UG programme. These courses include one on language and literature wherein students will be required to study two language and literature courses, of which at least one should be in an Indian language. Students will have to pursue “social and emotional learning” — an interdisciplinary course to promote well-being and health; and a course on ethics and culture, which will include the experience of community service in its curriculum. NIC, which met 14 times since October 8, 2020, was tasked with preparing a multi-disciplinary programme aimed at “capacity building for gaining as well as creating employment, engagement with industry and society, enhancing prospects for socially and economically disadvantaged and differently abled students and a provision for credit transfer in both national and international contexts”. Seema Das, member of the committee and part of DU’s Executive Council (EC), said: “DU will no longer have BA programmes or BSC general courses; these are now being converted into honours courses. The BA programme has been upgraded to BA Honours in Humanities and Social Science.” While some pointed out that the changes were similar to the FYUP implemented under vice-chancellor Dinesh Singh, she said “the difference is that, back then, the BA programmes were subsumed. There are some similarities, but there are additional courses and a multi-disciplinarily approach has been promoted”. Das, however, claimed that she had suggested that these changes should go through both the Academic Council (AC) and EC before being implemented. “The statutory bodies should not be bypassed and AC and EC members should scrutinise these suggestions.” DU acting VC PC Joshi clarified that “these suggestions will go through the statutory bodies as per university rules. We will implement them only after that”. Joshi added that the additional courses and changes were in accordance with the NEP guidelines. “We are not replacing our programmes, but only making additions. The suggestions include adding a fourth year wherein students can do research or internships and, thus, widen the scope of their academic activities.” DU has also decided to bring changes to its BA courses where the Bachelors of Science in Physical Science/Life Science/Mathematical Science Programme will now be called a Bachelors of Science (Honours) in that course; Bachelor of Arts Programme will now be called as Bachelors of Arts (Honours) in Humanities and Social Sciences; and Bachelors of Commerce Program will now be called as Bachelors of Commerce Studies (Honours). These courses will be either of three or four years; with the students required to prepare an interdisciplinary research dissertation on the major and minor disciplines of study in the final year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-return-of-4-year-ug-programme-at-du-will-change-course-of-your-studies/articleshow/81141569.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 22, 2021||Madurai||Beautified Yannaikal flyover’s underside in precarious state||Madurai: The Yannaikal flyover, which was given a facelift with paintings about five years ago as part of the city’s beautification programme, is posing danger to its users as the underside of the bridge is damaged and iron rods are jutting out.A Venkatesan, district president of Tamilaga Kattada Tholilargal Mathiya Sangam, an organisation working with construction workers and aiding them with their social causes, said that he had been very concerned when he witnessed the underside of the flyover connecting Yannaikal with Meenakshi College.“This bridge was beautified with paintings in 2016 but the authorities have not taken into consideration more important things like maintenance in regard to the bridge,” he said. Top portion of heavy vehicles, moving from Alwarpuram to Sellur or the opposite direction, have rubbed against the underside of the flyover damaging the concrete resulting in the iron rods jutting out and it is concerning, Venkatesan said.As this bridge also goes above the Sri Meenakshi Govt Arts College for Women, students walking under it could be injured if concrete continues to chip off.“As a person in the construction industry, I know how dangerous such a condition is for a bridge. It is time that the stability of the bridge is tested and the beams strengthened immediately,” he said.Most of the city’s bridges are in bad shape, said Shanmuganathan, a resident of Goripalayam. Venkatesan said that the authorities should repair it and put up girders to prevent the entry of heavy vehicles into this section to prevent future damage. City engineer S Arasu said that he would send some engineers to check the bridge and repair it immediately if needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/beautified-yannaikal-flyovers-underside-in-precarious-state/articleshow/81142943.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Pune||Fraudster dupes senior citizen of Rs 50k||Pune: The cybercrime police on Saturday registered a case of cheating after a 68-year-old share market consultant from Karvenagar complained that an unidentified man, representing himself as a police officer, duped him of Rs50,000 on Friday morning. Police said the caller told the complainant, who is also a retired bank officer, that he was in trouble and needed money urgently. Hearing his pleas, the elderly man transferred Rs50,000 to the suspect from his UPI application in two instalments on Friday and Saturday. The victim then tried to contact the caller but the latter had blocked the victim’s number, police added. Inspector Rajkumar Wakchaure of the Pune cyber police, probing the case, said, “The victim knows a police officer with the same surname and believed the caller to be genuine person. The caller then narrated how they were helping the citizens during the pandemic, claimed that he was in trouble and needed some money urgently.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fraudster-dupes-senior-citizen-of-rs-50k/articleshow/81141549.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Pune||Pune: Cops rescue maid locked inside flat by employer||PUNE: The Wanowrie police have registered a criminal case against a woman residing in an upscale housing society in Lullanagar after her 22-year-old maid complained that she has been confined in the flat since January 2020 and was frequently beaten up by her employer. Assistant police inspector Bhagwan Kamble, who is investigating the case, told TOI, “The maid, a school dropout from Mahad in Raigad district, came to Pune in January last year along with her friend for a job. She was employed by the woman, who runs a dance academy, while her husband is into the furniture business.” In her FIR, the maid said she was not allowed to leave their home or communicate with her parents, relatives and friends. The couple took away her cellphone and would frequently beat her, she added. Some three to four days back, the couple locked the maid inside and left and have since gone incommunicado, the police said. “We are looking for the couple and have texted them 20 times besides making repeated calls but they have not responded in any way,” Kamble said. Senior inspector Deepak Lagad of the Wanowrie police said, “On Saturday, the maid found a cellphone in the flat and called her brother who told her to dial 100 for help,” Lagad said. “When our team broke open the locks to the flat, the maid ran out. Some local residents also raised an alarm on hearing her cries,” Lagad added. The maid also told the police that the woman kicked and punched her on several occasions. Police have registered the case under the sections 344 (Wrongful confinement), 346 (Wrongful confinement in secret), 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insults) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-rescue-maid-locked-inside-flat-by-employer/articleshow/81141536.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Madurai||Vandiyur residents forced to repair road by themselves||Madurai: Residents of Madurai’s Sundar Nagar and its adjoining areas in Vandiyur complained that most roads in the area are damaged and they had to fill the potholes with construction debris. They said that many streets in the area do not even have proper roads.G Malarvizhi, a resident of Kamarajar Street said that Madurai Corporation officials only maintain main roads in the city. “Riding vehicles is always risky. There have been a few incidents of bikers falling off from the vehicles in the past,” she said.Residents said that they are tired of taking the issue to the corporation officials. They tried everything from meeting the officials personally with petitions to sending the photos of damaged roads through WhatsApp complaint number, but nothing has changed in the last decade, residents said.V Saravanan, a resident of Sundar Nagar said, “I have been waiting for a tenant to occupy first floor of my house for the past two years, but no one has shown interest as people don’t want to live on the streets with bad roads.”“Our area has been completely neglected by officials for several years now. We have taken the issue to various officials but nothing worked out. We do not have elected representatives now to take up the issue to the corporation council,” said I Ramasamy, a resident of Manthoppu.An official from the corporation said that road works are being carried out in some residential areas at present. New works will be taken up after completion of the ongoing works. A survey will be carried out in Vandiyur to check the condition of the road, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vandiyur-residents-forced-to-repair-road-by-themselves/articleshow/81142931.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Major city roads to make way for bicycles: Aaditya||Mumbai: Mumbai’s guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray said infrastructural agencies in the city will undertake refurbishment of major arterial roads to make them pedestrian-friendly and provide cycling tracks wherever feasibility is established. Thackeray was speaking at an event at which chief minister Uddhav Thackeray performed the bhoomipujan for the 4.5 km Sewri-Worli connector and inaugurated a cycle track as well as smart parking in Bandra-Kurla Complex, besides throwing open one arm of the flyover at Kalanagar. Aaditya said, “BMC and MMRDA are going to improve arterial streets like SV Road, Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road, Western Express Highway, LBS Marg. We will improve pavements and pedestrian crossings in the coming five years. Wherever feasible, cycling tracks will also be provided.” Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said, “We are not working only for the elite. The opening of the cycling tracks in BKC is a proud moment.” One arm of the Kalanagar flyover, which will take traffic from BKC to Bandra-Worli Sea Link, was also opened. The work on the other two arms of the project is 80% complete. The Rs 1,500 crore four-lane Sewr-Worli connector will criss-cross above monorail and railway tracks at Sewri and Parel-Elphinstone. It will have a double-deck design, similar to Santacruz-Chembur Link Road, at Parel-Elphinstone. The connector will link Bandra-Worli sea link to under-construction Mumbai Trans Harbour Link Road, on which 40% work has been completed and is scheduled to open in September 2022. Work on the bridge over tracks will be executed by Maharashtra Railway Infrastructure Development Corporation.MMRDA chief R A Rajeev said around 10,000 vehicles enter BKC for which parking lots will be allotted. Vehicle owners can book space online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/major-city-roads-to-make-way-for-bicycles-aaditya/articleshow/81142948.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 22, 2021||Dehradun||In order to minimise wildfires in higher reaches, U’khand to seek SC nod for felling ‘problem trees’ on British-era firelines dotted with over 1.5 lakh trees||Dehradun: The presence of around 1.5 lakh trees on the firelines in the upper reaches of the Himalayan state has emerged as a major cause of concern for forest officials who are now considering chopping off the ‘problem trees’ so that the wildfires don’t spread. The firelines – which are man-made trails that are set ablaze ahead of the wildfire season so as to minimise impact of wildfires in forests when they occur – were set up by the British, and have been maintained by the forest department. However, they are not managed above 1000 meters altitude as a Supreme Court ruling of 1981 has banned green tree felling above this height. Since no felling or even clearance of shrubs and bushes has been done in these areas, forest officials say that the firelines here are choked with vegetation. “An internal assessment done by the forest department some time ago found that there are over 1.5 lakh trees on the fire lines. This count is just of those trees which have a diameter of over one feet as they fall in tree category according to our forest standards, so one can imagine how many small trees and shrubs might exist in the firelines, and are posing the threat of accentuating the wildfires,” said Rajiv Bhartari, head of forest force (HOFF), Uttarakhand. He added that “the chief minister has directed us to take clearance from the Supreme Court to allow felling because we cannot afford to lose our rich biodiversity to wildfires.” “The weather is very dry now and risk of wildfires is imminent, hence we are working on war footing to manage the situation before it flares up. A committee has been formed to swiftly take up the matter before the stakeholders to get clearance from the Supreme Court,” Bhartari said. Uttarakhand has a forest cover spread across 24,303 sqkm. This year, the state for the first time in its history, has recorded ‘winter wildfires’ and there are apprehensions that the wildfires may continue to cause devastation in the summer months. Data of forest department accessed by TOI indicates that since October last year, over 400 hectares of forest land has been gutted in wildfires while four lives have been lost in almost 350 incidents of jungle fires. As per the data, the state has 100-feet-wide fire lines spread over 2463.510 km, 50-feet- wide fire lines spread over 2472.34 km, 30-feet-wide fire lines spread over 2085.68 km and remaining smaller ones are spread over an area of 12,145.84 km. According to the authorities, the most challenging is clearing of the 100-feet-wide forest lines as they have robust trees. Incidentally, the state government has been trying for five years to get permission for silviculture felling above 1000 metres. In particular, permission is being sought to clear wide-spread chir pine trees, which comprise about 26.07% of the state’s overall forest cover. Their removal, it is argued, will help in control of forest fires since their needle-like leaves which fall to the ground are highly combustible and contribute to spread of wildfires. Scientists of Doon-based Forest Research Institute (FRI) have supported the contention that green felling be allowed, pointing out that absence of felling has “reduced carbon absorption in the area where green felling stopped since 1981.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-order-to-minimise-wildfires-in-higher-reaches-ukhand-to-seek-sc-nod-for-felling-problem-trees-on-british-era-firelines-dotted-with-over-1-5-lakh-trees/articleshow/81139835.cms||Shivani Azad
February 22, 2021||Pune||Man cuffed for abusing traffic cop||Pune: The Bhosari police on Saturday arrested a man (48) for abusing a traffic police officer, when the latter caught him while riding triple seat and told him to pay the fine. The incident occurred around noon on Saturday at Phuge Wadi Chowk. The woman traffic constable lodged an FIR against the suspect, Abdul Ansari. He has been charged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. An officer from the Bhosari police said the complainant noticed Ansari riding triple-seat on a bike. “When Ansari found the traffic police had noticed him, he told the third rider to get down from the motorcycle,” the officer said. However, the constable stopped Ansari and told him to pay the fine for triple-seat riding. “He started claiming that the constable was lying and refused to pay the fine. He also abused her and used lewd language,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-cuffed-for-abusing-traffic-cop/articleshow/81141555.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Madurai||47 cases, 1 death in southern region, 40 cases in central TN||Madurai/Trichy: One Covid-19 death was reported in Dindigul as 47 new cases were reported among southern districts on Sunday. In the central region, 40 new cases were reported and no deaths. The patient, 69-year-old man from Dindigul, who died had systemic hypertension and myasthenia gravis and was admitted at the Coimbatore medical college and ESI hospital on February 13. According to the health department bulletin on Sunday he died on February 17. This takes the total Covid-19 deaths in Dindigul to 200, making it the seventh district in the southern region and 17th in the state to touch this figure. Of the 11,407 total cases recorded in the district till date, the death rate is 1.75%, against the region’s death rate of 1.56% and the state’s death rate of 1.47%. Among the fresh cases, Kanyakumari (13) recorded the highest while the other districts recorded less than 10 cases- Madurai (7), Sivagangai (7), Tirunelveli (6), Dindigul (5), Virudhunagar (3), Ramanathapuram (2), Theni (2), Tuticorin (1) and Tenkasi (1). Total active cases in the south remained below 400 for the second day and continued to drop further to 365 from 389. Madurai (64) with the highest number of active cases in the region continued to witness a decline in the number of active cases. Kanyakumari (55), Dindigul (54), Tirunelveli (51), Sivagangai (50) and Tenkasi (34) are the other districts with more than 20 active cases. Theni (12), Ramanathapuram (12), Virudhunagar (15) and Tuticorin (18) are districts with less than 20 active cases each. The number of active cases in the central region has come down to 350 from 366. Thanjavur district stands top with 18 new positive cases recorded on Sunday. All other districts reported cases in single digits - Trichy (7), Nagapattinam (4), Tiruvarur (4), Ariyalur (3), Karur (2) and Pudukottai (2). Perambalur recorded no new cases on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/47-cases-1-death-in-southern-region-40-cases-in-central-tn/articleshow/81142945.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Pune||2 held on charge of bid to extort||Pune: The city crime branch officials arrested two men from Bopdev village near Kondhwa on Saturday on the charge of demanding Rs20 lakh from a real estate agent as extortion money. The real estate agent lodged a complaint with the police soon after. The duo, who are distant relatives of the complainant, told him over call, earlier on Saturday, that they had received Rs50 lakh as contract money to eliminate him and demanded Rs20 lakh from him for not executing the act, police said. The duo asked the man to deliver the cash at an isolated spot in Bopdev Ghat. Sub-inspector Vijay Zanjad and his team nabbed Sagar Dattatray Phadtare (29) and Ganesh Dattatray Phadtare (28) when the duo reached the spot for collecting the money. “Phadtare has completed his MS-CIT course while Ganesh works in a godown and has studied till the Class XII. They wanted to make some quick money and decided to make the extortion call,” said inspector Balaji Pandhare. “The duo knew that the man had earned good money by working as a real estate agent. They made the extortion call after watching a television serial, where a villain was shown making extortion calls,” he said. “They took a separate SIM card to make the calls,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-held-on-charge-of-bid-to-extort/articleshow/81141562.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Ludhiana||Arrested interior designer accuses Mathura jewellers of fraud||Ludhiana: Two days after Mathura police arrested a Ludhiana-based interior designer Yogeshwar Sood for allegedly committing a fraud of Rs 1.31 crore on a jeweller of Mathura, the cops have now booked the same jeweller and his two brothers for duping Sood and his brother of Rs 95 lakh.According to the FIR lodged by the Sadar police on Saturday, the Mathura-based jeweller brothers had hired Sood brothers for the interior designing of their house, for which a deal was fixed for Rs 9.50 crore, out of which the jewellers have not paid Rs 95 lakh. The jeweller brothers instead got a false FIR lodged against him and his brother for Rs 1.31-crore fraud, claiming that the interior designers did not pay for the ‘chhatra’ they had made for them. The Soods had offered the ‘chhatra’ at Badrinath temple in Uttarakhand. In his police complaint, Yogeshwar’s brothers Gyaneshwar Sood said through a priest of Vrindavan, they had come in contact with Praveen Agarwal, Prabhat Agarwal and Ashok Agarwal, who are famous jewellers of Mathura, in 2016. The jeweller brothers hired them for the interior designing of their house at a cost of Rs 9.50 crore. The accused gave them some money and they started the work.Meanwhile, in April 2018, the priest with the help of some donors got a diamond-studded ‘chhatra’ made by the Agarwal brothers for Rs 1.31 crore, which was offered by the Sood brothers at Badrinath temple. Praveen Agarwal had also been invited to attend a function organised by the Soods in Ludhiana after offering the ‘chhatra’, and he had stayed at a city hotel. Gyaneshwar’s had booked the room on his own ID proof.Thereafter, the Agarwal brothers started dilly-dallying in paying the remaining Rs 95 lakh for the interior designing work, and to deter them from asking for the money, to jewellers filed a fake complaint that Sood brothers had ordered the ‘chhatra’ and did not pay for that. He also alleged that Agarwal brothers misused his ID proof given for the hotel booking to forge a bill for the ‘chhatra’. After this, Gyaneshwar lodged a complaint with the police in 2019. Sadar police station SHO inspector Jagdev Singh said an inquiry was conducted by an ACP-rank officer, after which a case on charges of fraud and criminal conspiracy was filed against the three Agarwal brothers. The investigation report suggests that the Agarwals did not make payment to the Sood brothers and also forged a bill using Gyaneshwar’s ID to implicate them in a fraud case over the making of ‘chhatra’.Earlier, on August 31, 2019, the Mathura police had lodged a case against Gyaneshwar and Yogeshwar in the alleged fraud case. In connection with that case, the Mathura police had visited the city on Thursday and arrested Yogeshwar.Meanwhile, speaking with TOI over phone, Praveen Agarwal said, "The Ludhiana police has never approached him or his brothers for the investigation related to the alleged fraud. We had hired Sood brothers and transferred money in their account, but they did not complete the work."He alleged that the Sood brothers have got this FIR lodged to build pressure on them, as the Mathura police has arrested Yogeshwar Sood in the fraud case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/arrested-interior-designer-accuses-mathura-jewellers-of-fraud/articleshow/81140363.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 22, 2021||Pune||Starting today, schools, colleges in Pune district shut till Feb 28; curbs on going out from 11pm to 6am||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Sunday announced a series of Covid-19 precautionary measures, including closure of all schools, colleges and private coaching centres in Pune district till February 28 and “limited movement” on streets from 11pm to 6am, starting Monday. Rao said no restrictions have been imposed on inter-district travel. On the night-time curbs, Rao said, “We are consciously not using the word ‘night curfew’ as there won’t be any restriction on essential services such as newspaper deliveries, milk and vegetable supply and travel to hospitals for medical emergencies. But people are expected to avoid non-essential travel.” The fresh measures follow a review of the Covid situation in the district, which over the last fortnight has been recording a test positivity rate nearing 10%. Officials said there will be another review next Friday to discuss the future course of action. “Pune’s (district) positivity rate was between 4.5% and 5% a fortnight ago,” Rao told reporters following Sunday's review meeting, which was attended by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar (also Pune’s guardian minister), MPs, MLAs from the district, the district collector, municipal and police commissioners of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad and other key officials. “Coaching centres engaged in training aspirants for upcoming competitive exams will be allowed to operate at 50% capacity,” Rao said. The closure timings of hotels, bars and restaurants have been revised to 11pm (from the earlier 1am) from Monday and no wedding ceremony, political or social event will be allowed without a no-objection certificate from the police. Also, attendance at these events has been limited to 200 people. “The police have been told to set up a single-window system to clear requests within two hours of receipt,” Rao said. The divisional commissioner said the positivity rate of nearly 10% called for the activation of standard operating procedures (SOPs) to ensure key indicators are under control. He said, “The situation is not alarming, but it calls for precautions. Identifying hotspots and declaring micro-containment zones; better contact tracing and testing; improved vaccination of frontline workers; and a sustained public awareness drive form the four-point strategy to address the situation in Pune district, which is now 12th in the state in terms of daily test positivity rate.” Rao added that all restriction orders in the civic areas will be issued by the municipal commissioners after consultations with the police and other departments, under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/starting-today-schools-colleges-in-district-shut-till-feb-28-curbs-on-going-out-from-11pm-to-6am/articleshow/81142956.cms||Vishwas Kothari
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Surgery can help in some cases of epilepsy||Hyderabad: As compared to earlier when surgical intervention was considered to be the last choice to treat epilepsy, experts now opt for surgical procedures in select cases early in the treatment. In some cases, surgery during childhood can even cure the disease and is being increasingly adopted. “Among advanced surgical modalities available are magnetic resonance–guided laser interstitial thermal therapy, and responsive neurostimulation. The latter is the implantation of a device on the lines of pacemaker, which detects unusual electrical activity in the brain and works as the seizure inhibitor,” said Dr P Ranganadham, senior consultant neurosurgeon, Sunshine hospitals. While 70%-80% of patients can manage the disease with medical and lifestyle changes, surgery is for the remaining patients. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/surgery-can-help-in-some-cases-of-epilepsy/articleshow/81142972.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Pune||KCB releases new land use plan, seeks feedback||Pune: The Khadki Cantonment Board has released a new land use plan marking residential, market, bungalow, military and institutional zones and invited suggestions and objections, if any, from public. The new land use plan (LUP) will enable the administration to keep a tab on unauthorized use of plots marked for specific purposes. Pramod Kumar Singh, the Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB)’s CEO, said, “We have made the plan available for a public feedback exercise. The LUP would actually prevent land-related issues in the Cantonment areas.” The KCB, spread on a little over 3,207 acres, is divided in eight wards and houses key defence establishments, including two ordnance factories — Ammunition Factory Khadki and High Explosives Factory. The Directorate-General of Defence Estates had issued a notification last year, asking all 62 cantonments across the country to prepare LUPs for their respective areas and get the same approved in the respective general body meetings. “The move was mainly to prevent misuse of Cantonment properties, which has been a major concern across the country. Often, many residential properties are used for commercial purposes. After the zones are earmarked, these issues can be dealt with effectively,” a senior official from the defence estates office said. Moreover, people encroached upon defence land over the years for various purposes, another official said. “If the general public has the idea about land zones, these kind of incidents could be prevented at the early stage only,” the official from the KCB’s engineering section said. Another official from the defence estates office said, “Thousands of acres of defence land across the cantonments are vacant and they are now prime properties. There had been instances where land dealers had illegally shown vacant defence land as their properties and had cheated people. Having available LUP would prevent such instances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kcb-releases-new-land-use-plan-seeks-feedback/articleshow/81141571.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 22, 2021||Ludhiana||2 die, 7 students among 49 new cases||Ludhiana: Two residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 49 tested positive on Sunday. As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 69-year-old woman of Samrala, who had diabetes and hypertension, and a 62-year-old man of Fatehganj with hypertension. The day also saw three patients from Moga, Hoshiarpur and Fatehgarh Sahib succumbing to the virus at the city hospitals and six cases from outside Ludhiana testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the district toll tally has risen to 1,018 and that of outsiders to 497.To date, 6,48,795 persons have been tested.Of the 49 new cases, six were from flu corner, six contacts of positive patients, 16 from OPD, 10 through tracing process, one health-care worker, two government employees, seven students (two from Chaunta, three from Bode village and two from a private school in Samrala) and a teacher from Bhumadi. The local health department officials said the district case count was 26,664 and that of outsiders 4,108.So far, 25,232 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.62% of the total cases.There are 411 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 852. On Sunday, 80 persons were quarantined and 2,025 samples collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-die-7-students-among-49-new-cases/articleshow/81140368.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Dehradun||STF Kumaon arrests man with 7 country-made pistols||Rudrapur: As many as seven country-made firearms have been allegedly confiscated by Special Task Force (STF) from an arms dealer in Pulbhatta town of Udham Singh Nagar district on Sunday. The STF also recovered four cartridges and one motorcycle from his possession. The accused has been identified as Virendra Pal, 47, a resident of Gauneri Dan village in the Pilibhit district of Uttar Pradesh. Chief of the STF Kumaon unit, inspector MP Singh, told TOI that the accused had been residing in Khurpiya Farm of Kichha town in the district for the past ten years. “He used to buy country-made weapons at Rs 10,000 per unit from Jahanabad in Pilibhit. Subsequently, he would sell the guns at Rs 20,000 in various towns of the district. We are interrogating him about his clientele,” he added. Singh further said that the weapons include — four pistols of .315 bore and three pistols of .12 bore. “He has been booked under section 3/25 of the Arms Act,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stf-kumaon-arrests-man-with-7-country-made-pistols/articleshow/81139848.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 22, 2021||Ludhiana||Holiday package queries pour, but no business for travel agents||Ludhiana: Amid their struggle to come out of the impact of coronavirus on the tourism sector, the city’s travel agents have started getting plenty of enquiries for holiday packages to Goa, but high airfares and non-availability of hotel accommodation there are playing the spoilsport.According to the tourism sector experts, a large number of Ludhiana residents are now keen on visiting Goa, but due to the high tourist arrivals in Goa of late, the occupancy in hotels has gone up several times, leading to shortage of accommodation there and a consequent spike in the tariff rates. Besides, there is also less availability of seats and high fares in Goa-bound flights.G S Chawla, president of Micro and Small Travel Agents Association, said, “This is a very unusual problem for us — on one hand, there has been no big business for us in the last one year, and now that we have started getting queries for Goa, only 10% of the bookings are materialising. Also, airfares are very high from Chandigarh or Delhi. In case if we manage to get air tickets at right prices, we do not get hotels of clients’ choice. This is for the first time that Goa is witnessing such huge demand in February-March. It is because people are fed up with not being able to move out for a long time. However, the overall scenario remains disappointing for us."A travel agency employee, Rakesh Sharma, said, "I had an enquiry for 5 nights’ package starting February 28 for a family of four, but the one-way airfare from Chandigarh is more than Rs 15,000 per person. So, the client decided to cancel his trip. In another case, we could not manage accommodation in two five-star hotels selected by a group of people and as a result, they have also dropped their travel plan."According to Kajal, manager of a city-based travel portal, this is an unusual situation for them, as there is no dearth of queries, but no business. “We are losing big earning opportunity as Goa is a destination where people mostly travel in groups and stay for more than two or three days, which means good earnings for us. If more direct flights start operating from Chandigarh to Goa, the situation will improve. Be it airlines, travel agencies or clients, it will be a win-win situation for all," Kajal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/holiday-package-queries-pour-but-no-business-for-travel-agents/articleshow/81140366.cms||Mohit Behl
February 22, 2021||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad police arrest 17 Marne supporters||Pune: Pimpri Chinchwad police on Saturday arrested 17 supporters of gangster Gajanan alias Gaja Marne who had gone to Urse toll plaza on February 15 to welcome the gangster after his release from Taloja prison. The police on February 16 had registered an offence against Marne and his supporters and had seized a drone camera from them. Marne and eight of his aides are on the run after Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune police filed four cases against them. “We have sent four teams to arrest the gangster,” assistant commissioner of police Pimpri Chinchwad Prashant Amrutkar said. The police have seized 11 cars worth Rs 4.5 crore, which were part of the huge cavalcade in which Marne his supporters drove to Pune via the Pune-Mumbai expressway. “We have also seized 12 smartphones,” Amrutkar added. There were more than 300 vehicles in the cavalcade. “We have yet to trace about 200 vehicles and Marne’s supporters travelling by them. We have sent nine teams to trace them. We are also taking the help of special teams from the crime branch,”senior inspector of Shirgaon police chowkey Kishore Mhaswade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimpri-chinchwad-police-arrest-17-marne-supporters/articleshow/81141563.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Dehradun||Two killed, one hurt in Kashipur road accident||Rudrapur: Two youths died and another sustained critical injuries when two speeding motorcycles collided head on at Manpur road in Kashipur town of Udham Singh Nagar district on Sunday. The victims were identified as Ubais, 18, a resident of Amaoon colony; and Sanjiv Singh, 22, a resident of Veerpuri village. Meanwhile, Nabi Jaan, riding pillion with Ubais, sustained serious injuries and is undergoing treatment at the Intensive Care Unit of a private hospital. The accident took place when Ubais, along with Nabi, was heading to the market for shopping. At the same time, Sanjiv was going towards the Vaishali Colony. According to police, the two motorcycles coming from opposite directions rammed into each other. Ubais and Sanjiv died on the spot. Nabi was admitted to a private hospital by the police. The bodies were later sent for postmortem. SHO of the Kashipur police station, Sanjay Pathak, said that the bikers were not wearing helmets and thus, succumbed to head injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-killed-one-hurt-in-kashipur-road-accident/articleshow/81139844.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 22, 2021||Madurai||Cops create green corridor to transport woman’s heart||Madurai: A green corridor was created in Madurai to transport the organs of a woman from Dindigul to recipients in other parts of the state. Premila, 52, wife of Sekhar of Palani in Dindigul district, had fallen down while alighting from a minibus near her house on February 19. She was brought to Meenakshi Mission Hospital in Madurai for treatment. She was declared brain dead on February 20. Her sons agreed to donate her organs and permission was obtained from the Transplant Authority of Tamil Nadu. Her organs were harvested through a five-hour surgery. A kidney and liver were used for recipients at the same hospital. The lungs and heart were airlifted to a private hospital in Chennai for which Madurai city police helped create a 30km green corridor from the hospital to the airport. M Balasubramaniam, the ambulance driver who transported the organs to the airport, said he covered the distance in 13 minutes. Another kidney was sent to a hospital in Coimbatore.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cops-create-green-corridor-to-transport-womans-heart/articleshow/81142971.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||With uptick in early detection, epilepsy cases on the rise in Telangana||HYDERABAD: With an average of 12,000 cases of epilepsy being recorded in the state for the last 3 years now, largely on account of more cases of childhood epilepsy being detected, the disease burden of epilepsy is substantial in the state. Trauma during birth continues to be one of the key causes of increase in childhood epilepsy cases, say experts. “Childhood epilepsy is common and is increasing. It is being detected more frequently with the advent of new investigations and technologies. Also, since the public awareness has increased, cases are being detected more easily. Another reason for the increase, apart from more detection, is that many children who suffered trauma during birth and would die during birth previously are now surviving due to better technology, but sometimes they are left with epilepsy,” said Dr Subhash Kaul, head of neurology department, Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS). While delivery and birth-related problems are the common causes, experts stress on the need to improve perinatal care. “Delivery and birth-related problems include injuries during birth, less oxygen supply to the brain after birth, low blood sugar level after birth and overall perinatal care around delivery including feeding advice to mothers. Some of the cases, particularly around delivery period, are preventable and hence better perinatal care is required,” said Dr Konaki Ramesh, paediatric neurologist, Rainbow Hospitals. Meanwhile, epilepsy is a chronic condition of the brain characterized by recurring seizures. “These are physical reactions to sudden, brief & excessive electrical discharges in brain cells and can occur anytime, anywhere. Even with increased awareness levels about the disease, patients continue to suffer discrimination and stigma,” said Dr Sindhu Vasireddy, neurologist, Aster Prime Hospital. Apart from childhood epilepsy cases, other types of cases are increasing too. “These include epilepsy because of stroke and cardiovascular diseases, as we are seeing an increasing trend in the latter. Also, epilepsy cases due to head injuries have increased,” added Dr Kaul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-uptick-in-early-detection-epilepsy-cases-on-the-rise-in-t/articleshow/81142969.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 22, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Post discharge, new mother in Bhavnagar goes to vote first with 2-day-old baby girl||RAJKOT: A women stepping out an ambulance carrying a bundle in her arms left many an onlooker bewildered at a poll booth at Kumbharvada of Bhavnagar on Sunday. But her responsibility and sense of duty as a citizen left her with many admirers too after 25 year old Vaishali Makwana, carried her 2-day-old newborn baby girl first to the poll booth straight after her discharge from Sir T Hospital. While on her way home, Mawana expressed the desire to first cast her vote before reaching home and the 108 ambulance staff were only too happy to oblige. So, the vehicle carrying mother and infant made a stop at the voting booth and while the staff took care of her infant, the mother went inside to cast her vote. “I believe that voting is a duty of every citizen and except unavoidable circumstances every citizen should come to vote. I am happy that ambulance staff accepted by request and my family members also support me to discharge my duty as a citizen,” said Makwana after her deed was done. Program manager of 108 ambulance service for Bhavnagar, Chetan Gadhe said “When the woman wanted to sacrifice her physical comfort for the service of the nation, it was also a call for us to fulfil her desire to participate in the festival of democracy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/new-mother-takes-two-day-old-baby-girl-to-poll-booth-first-before-going-home/articleshow/81140393.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Meerut||RTE admissions: Application process to begin from March two in UP's private schools||MEERUT: The application process for Right to Education (RTE) admissions is set to begin from March 2 in the state’s private schools. While according to the norms, the application process has to be completed online, but those who are unable to use the online platform can contact the authorities of the education department. “The application process will begin on March 2 and conclude on March 25. We lay emphasis on the online application process. Those who do not have access to the online platform may contact the education department authorities,” managing director of school education, UP, Vijay Kiran Anand said. Under the RTE Act, it is mandatory for private schools to admit 25% students of the total strength from BPL. The admission process is completed when the lotteries are conducted on the applications. “The applications will be verified from March 26 to March 28. The lottery system will be conducted by March 30 and students will be admitted in the schools by April 5. Meanwhile, in the second phase, the application process will be done from April 1 to April 23,” Anand said. The RTE Act mandates providing free education to these students. While Rs 5,000 per student is deposited into the bank account of the parent for the child’s uniform, books and stationery, Rs 450 or a month’s fee, whichever is less, is deposited to the school’s account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/rte-admissions-in-private-schools-application-process-to-begin-from-mar-2/articleshow/81139851.cms||Ishita Bhatia
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Four more arrested in Delhi's Mangolpuri murder case||NEW DELHI: Four more suspects in the murder case of lab technician Rinku Sharma were arrested by Delhi Police Crime Branch on Sunday. The youth’s stabbing, which took place in Mangolpuri last week, was captured on video, a copy of which is with police. A chargesheet is likely to be filed by mid-March, sources said. Earlier, five accused had been arrested by cops from the local police station. The total number of arrested people now stands at nine. Police have not yet elaborated on the motive behind the murder and said they would be able to comment once the investigation concluded. Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said the four fresh arrests were made after examination of witnesses, video clips and CCTV footage. “They have been identified as Deen Mohammad alias Sakruddin, Dilshan alias Aftab, Fayaz alias Sadri and Faizan alias Nirale,” he added. All four were spotted attacking Sharma (25) in a video footage. Among the five arrested earlier, one is a former home guard, two are tailors and the other two claim to be students. They were identified as Tajuddin, Danish, Zahid, Islam and Nasiruddin. The investigation was transferred to the Crime Branch on February 13. Forensic experts had re-examined the scene of crime and recorded the statement of witnesses and Sharma’s family members afresh. The accused were also interrogated again. The probe has revealed that Sharma had not opened any restaurant along with the accused. Instead, the accused had opened a dhaba in Rohini. Sharma’s friend’s brother had also opened a dhaba and business rivalry could be the reason behind the murder. The FIR talks about a brawl between Sharma and the accused men during Dussehra regarding a religious programme at the Ram temple in a park in the locality. It mentions that the accused would often taunt Sharma after that. The family’s complaint mentioned that the accused were also miffed with Sharma’s involvement in Ayodhya’s Ram Mandir-related activities. Sharma, who was associated with Bajrang Dal and BJP’s youth wing, was not only assaulted outside his house, but the accused even barged into his house, dragged him outside and stabbed him. He lived with his parents and two brothers in K-Block of Mangolpuri and worked as a lab technician at a hospital in Paschim Vihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-more-arrested-in-mangolpuri-murder-case/articleshow/81141625.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Ludhiana||Factory worker killed in accident||Ludhiana: A 23-year-old man died in a road accident when a speeding concrete mixture truck hit him near Suffian Bagh Chowk on Sunday evening. The deceased has been identified as Sushil Jha, 23, of Islam Ganj area. According to the police, the man was walking his way towards Vijay Nagar, where he worked at a factory. After the incident, the onlookers vandalised the truck. The police said when Sushil was close to Suffian Bagh Chowk, the speeding vehicle hit him. When Sushil fell down on the road, the truck crushed him to death. On seeing this, the onlookers raised an alarm and stopped the vehicle.On getting information, the police reached the spot and pacified the enraged people. Thereafter, the body of Sushil Kumar was taken to hospital. ASI Gurmel Singh from Division No. 2 police station said the police are recording statements of the kin of the deceased to lodge an FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/factory-worker-killed-in-accident/articleshow/81140381.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Madurai||Valuables worth Rs 14L looted from locked house||Madurai: Unidentified people broke into a locked house near Thirumangalam in Madurai district on Saturday and decamped with valuables worth Rs 14 lakh. The inmates of the house had gone out when the burglars broke into the house. The house belongs to M Sundararaj, 42, from Chinthalai village near Thirumangalam. Sundararaj, a loadman, had gone for work, whereas his wife had taken their goats out for grazing. The woman returned home in the evening to find the front door left open. She checked the house and found gold jewels weighing 44 sovereigns and Rs 80,000 cash missing. Based on a complaint from Sundararaj a case was registered with the Thirumangalam Taluk police station. In another incident, gold jewels worth Rs 1.5 lakh, Rs 6,400 and a two-wheeler were stolen from a house belonging to a special sub-inspector of police. SI Manimaran had gone to a relative’s house in Alanganallur on Wednesday and came to know about the burglary when he returned home on Friday.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/valuables-worth-rs-14l-looted-from-locked-house/articleshow/81142975.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Madurai||Rally held in memory of dog beaten to death||Madurai: Animal lovers in Madurai took out a procession on Sunday in memory of a community dog in Sellur, Lucky, that was killed by two men a month ago. Following protests from citizens, they were booked under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. Lucky was beaten to death by Vimalraj and Muthusaravanan with sticks in Sivagami Street in Sellur on January 21. The procession was organised by Nandrimaravel, an organisation working with community dogs, and the procession was flagged off by DCP R Sivaprasath from Raja Muthaiah Mandram and till the district collectorate. During the procession, participants distributed pamphlets, which stressed on the importance of nurturing community dogs. K P Marikumar, founder of the NGO, said that dogs were among the animals that travelled with humans and cared for them. They participants also said that the society for prevention of cruelty to animals (SPCA) has not been functional in Madurai for many years, which was against the constitution. The district administration should also take steps to spread awareness about the prevention of cruelty to animals Act. People, who abandon their sick and aged dogs in many parts of Madurai, especially, in the outskirts like Alagarkoil and Pandikoil, should be punished. Government’s veterinary clinics should be fully functional and camps should be conducted to vaccinate community dogs. “Community dogs are excellent guards and people should be educated that they need compassion,’’ said Mayur, one of the participants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rally-held-in-memory-of-dog-beaten-to-death/articleshow/81142991.cms||---
February 22, 2021||India||Caves unravel how Silk Route traders survived Ladakh cold||NEW DELHI: The freezing caves on an isolated stretch on the Leh-Manali route, 4,000m above sea level, look anything but hospitable. The path is treacherous, cutting through mountains, but part of one that connected ancient India to China and Central Asia — the Silk Route. That traders, travellers and pilgrims took this route has been known for years. What isn’t known is how they survived it. A study by geochemists from the Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences in Lucknow may have found the answer — in a maze of interconnected caves beyond the last pass before Leh, near the Rumtse, Sasoma, Sumdo, Gya and Meru villages in the Ladakh valley. Scattered across these caves, about eight-12 feet high and 10 feet wide, are traces of life — broken pottery, diyas and, the key to their findings, soot. “It seems the caves have been in use since before the 11th century,” Dr Anupam Sharma, lead author of the paper published in the ‘Journal of Archaeological Science: Reports’ by Elsevier, told TOI. “The caves were used intermittently by travellers and transhumant communities (those who move with livestock seasonally to look for summer and winter pastures), mostly in summer. But they could have been in use throughout the year.” Ladakh had been the convergence point between central and south Asia when the Silk Route was thriving. “The 60-day journey on the Ladakh route linking Amritsar (Northwest India) and Yarkand (Southwest China) on the Silk Route (southern branch) was employed by merchants until the late 18th-- 19th century when mainland borders between India and China were closed for strategic reasons,” the paper said. Co-author Dr Amritpal Singh Chaddha said, “The Himalayan economy was dependent upon its trade with central Asia and China.” Evidence of human presence in these areas is not new. But winters are excruciatingly long and the mountains remain snow-covered for three to four months. The air is thin, there is barely any rain and vegetation is restricted to the valleys alone. “We found soot on the roof of the caves. These go back to the 17th-18th century… It is believed that it is the last known date up to which the caves were used by humans,” Sharma said. The Ladakh samples suggest wood was burnt inside these caves, depositing a hard, sticky, shiny, and resinous black charred material on the roof. “Such coatings may be the result of a condensed smoke generated by fire based activities (cooking and heating), most likely to maintain habitable conditions inside the caves,” the paper said. “Additionally, the use of oil for lighting torches also supports the formation of smoke.” Sharma said the presence of “the nearby Stupa and Mane (small Buddhist structures) suggest the caves may have been also used for religious purposes.” With time, the concentrated pollutants inside the caves may have thrown them into disuse. Pneumoconiosis, lung diseases caused by dust inhalation, is prevalent across Ladakh. And with its emergence two centuries ago, people stopped using thee caves as stopgap shelters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/caves-unravel-how-silk-route-traders-survived-ladakh-cold/articleshow/81143986.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
February 22, 2021||Goa||Goa: Sawant, Rane to meet today to take stock of Covid-19 steps||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant will on Monday chair a meeting to discuss what Goa needs to do in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, which has compelled its government to reimpose restrictons. “A meeting has been called,” health minister Vishwajit Rane told TOI. “CM has given us time on Monday morning to discuss the issue. The chief secretary, health secretary and myself will attend the meeting.” He said that since a large number of people from Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka come to Goa, there is a need for a review of the situation. “I feel we need to put in place some SOPs or have layered measures,” Rane said. “But that is my personal view. During Monday’s meeting, after proper discussion, appropriate decision will be taken by the chief minister in the interest of the state.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-rane-to-meet-today-to-take-stockof-covid-steps/articleshow/81143023.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||IIIT-Hyderabad to build multi-lingual speech recognition system||HYDERABAD: The International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad (IIIT-H) is all set to build a multi-lingual Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) using a common phone set by August 2021. The researchers at Speech Processing Lab, IIITH, said that in the next six months, the institute will also be the first laboratory in India to have a monolingual system for Telugu language with 2,000 hours of corpus, data for which will be crowdsourced from the regions of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Rayalaseema, each with its own distinctive dialect. This can be extended to a commercial purpose by using emotion recognition to analyse voice analytics in call centres, the researchers added. “While uttering a word, lungs pump out air via vocal tract. What we do is split the word in the manner in which it is pronounced and transcribe it into the corresponding acoustic sound biologically, and give it a phonetic representation,” said Ganesh S Mirishkar, a research scholar. IIITH is currently working on a multi-lingual model with nine languages, Hindi, Marathi, Urdu, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam, and Gujarati. As of now, IIITH has built a framework for 3 languages in a single block — Telugu, Tamil and Gujarati. Anil Kumar Vuppala, professor, Speech Processing Lab, said a neural network learns from inputs of a data-rich language, that can then be effectively utilized by resource-scarce languages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iiit-h-to-build-multi-lingual-speech-recognition-system/articleshow/81142993.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Agra||Agra’s SNMC to operate regular OPD from today||Agra: SN Medical College (SNMC) in Agra will resume operating a regular out-patient department (OPD) from Monday. Doctors will be available at the OPD for six hours from 8 am to 2 pm. Following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, the OPD was completely closed for non-Covid patients. On November 2, regular operation of the OPD was started on alternate days as per the roster plan for different departments. SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said, “Duties have been assigned for operation of regular OPDs from Monday onwards. Arrangements have been made for thermal screening and social distancing of patients. Wearing a mask will be compulsory for all patients. The decision has been taken following a drop in number of Covid-19 cases. It is also aimed at ensuring that common people do not suffer due to lack of medical care.” Meanwhile, two new Covid-19 cases were reported in Agra district on Sunday. Out of the 10,522 cases reported in the district so far, 98.22% (10,335) have been declared cured of the infection. On Sunday, the number of active cases in the district dropped to 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agras-snmc-to-operate-regular-opd-from-today/articleshow/81139858.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Madurai||Kovilpatti will be district if I win: Kadambur Raju||Tuticorin: Information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju on Sunday said he is working towards bifurcation of Tuticorin district and making Kovilpatti a new district. It will comprise three of the six assembly segments, two revenue divisions and five panchayat unions, but for the plan to materialise, he has to emerge successful in the upcoming assembly election.A two-time MLA from Kovilpatti, he hinted that this might be the last time he is contesting from the segment and appealed to the people to help him emerge victorious if given a seat. The minister was speaking at a function organised by various outfits to felicitate him for his 10 years of service as an MLA. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kovilpatti-will-be-district-if-i-win-kadambur-raju/articleshow/81143028.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Police arrested over 6,000 people for gambling last year||New Delhi: Delhi Police arrested 6,291 people in over 2,400 cases of gambling in 2020, officials said on Sunday. Around Rs 2.52 crore was also recovered from the accused, Delhi Police officers claimed.  According to the data released by Delhi Police, 2,414 cases of gambling were registered across the national capital last year.  The maximum arrests were made from Vasant Kunj (south) area where 58 people were nabbed after police busted illegal casinos which were being run in hotels, while another 51 were arrested following raids at illegal casinos in Alipur area. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-police-arrested-over-6000-people-for-gambling-last-year/articleshow/81141659.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Patna||Patna: Opposition doubts motive behind one nation, one election idea||PATNA: The proposal regarding the ‘one nation, one election’ put forward by Odisha CM Navin Patnaik at the Niti Aayog governing council meeting on Saturday evoked sharp reaction from the RJD-led grand alliance, which described it as the push of the RSS and PM Narendra Modi for more centralization of power, even the Presidential form of government. “BJP has been the first to initiate the nationwide debate on it. Both PM Modi and the party’s functionaries have spoken on it from various platforms periodically,” BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said on Sunday. He said ‘one nation, one election’ will help the governments concentrate on development and work. While the JD(U) functionaries were unwilling to speak on the matter, Patel maintained that all the Bihar NDA components shared similar stand and concerns. “As to the JD(U), even CM Nitish Kumar has gone on record favouring the ‘one nation, one election’ in principle. He, however, felt that a consensus among political parties should be first reached at on the matter before its implementation,” Patel said, adding: “The hitch is only on the method of its implementation.” In contrast to the NDA camp, those in the grand alliance appeared to be concerned about the side-effect on the country’s federal polity and pointed to the impracticability of the proposal itself. “So far, the proposal has not come to the Congress Working Committee (CWC). If it comes, the CWC will discuss it and also put forward its point of view on the matter,” state Congress functionary and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said, adding: “Nonetheless, BJP is in favour of the US model for the Indian polity. That apart, in India, elections are held from Parliament to state legislature and panchayat levels. Is it possible to hold one election on one day? Is it implementable?” Senior RJD leader Shivanand Tiwary described the proposal as the “brainwave of the RSS”. “It is for long that the RSS has been talking about one nation, one language, one culture and one election. There is a long list. Patnaik appears to have fallen for it. If implemented, it will throw up problems that the country will be unable to cope with,” Tiwary said. CPI(ML) state secretary Kunal, CPI and CPM secretariat members Ram Babu Kumar and Arun Kumar Mishra, respectively, felt the BJP’s proposal, if implemented, would “endanger the federal character of the country and, eventually, lead towards the Presidential form of government with unprecedented concentration of power at the Centre.” For the BJP, things like one nation, one market, one tax, one language, one culture and now one election have become fads which it must speak occasionally, Kunal said. “When it brought in the GST, it talked about one nation, one tax, one market. Now, the small and other traders have announced their protests against various provisions of the GST. It is this kind of unseen and unanticipated problem that the BJP and Patnaik’s proposal is pregnant with. In any case, the Constitution has to be amended,” Kunal also said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/oppn-doubts-motive-behind-one-nation-one-election-idea/articleshow/81140401.cms||Abhay Singh
February 22, 2021||Goa||Will rehabilitate those affected by double-tracking: CM Pramod Sawant||MARGAO: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday that the government was committed to providing all required compensatory facilities to those whose houses would be affected by Railway’s double-tracking project, including rehabilitating them on alternative land that could be acquired nearby. Stating that he inspected the villages of Cansaulim, Velsao and Pale along with Cortalim legislator Alina Saldanha two days ago, Sawant acknowledged that there were “some issues” concerning 8-10 houses, but that those needed to be discussed across the table. “The government and Railways are trying to resolve them. If they (people) are willing to, the government can acquire land to rehabilitate them somewhere nearby. We can ask Railways to build houses for them for their rehabilitation. The government will solidly stand behind the people,” Sawant said. “When the government is supporting the people in such a way, why can’t the people cooperate with the government?” Sawant said, addressing a gathering at an event held by South Western Railway at Curchorem. He added that the government would ensure rehabilitation or restoration of the house, compound, or structure damaged by the double-tracking project. He however stressed that the people need to come for talks with the government. “They can’t say scrap the project altogether; solutions need to be found out through dialogue,” Sawant told reporters. Saldanha had said that during the inspection, the chief minister was informed that the only access the houses had was across the existing SWR track. “As per the demarcations on ground, 13m from the centre of the existing SWR track is the land that is needed for laying the second track. Unfortunately, this demarcation lands, in most cases, inside the compounds of these houses, ensuring that should the second track become a reality, the residents will have to move out of their houses,” Saldanha had said. TOI had earlier pointed out how ancestral heritage houses located close to the tracks faced threat to their structural stability owing to the vibrations caused by the fast-moving trains. “Homes alongside the railway track are covered in dust throughout the year, the vibrations rattle our homes, which develop cracks and finally collapse,” Ela Mascarenhas from Arossim told TOI. “Residents who live alongside the track suffer from respiratory ailments, heart diseases, strokes, insomnia, hearing loss due to dust, and sleepless nights, with the noise of goods trains rushing throughout the night and their loud blaring horns,” Mascarenhas had said. “Villagers are opposing the double-tracking because it will lead to an increase in the frequency of trains, increase in speed of trains, increase in volume of coal transported, resulting in an increase in pollution, and their lives will be a living hell.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-rehabilitate-those-affected-by-double-tracking-cm/articleshow/81143054.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Need for MEA nod for webinars irks students, academics||New Delhi: With the Union ministry of education ordering universities to take prior permission from ministry of external affairs before conducting online international webinars and virtual conferences, many claim that it amounts to curtailing academic activities. However, some said permission was needed to invite foreign scholars to physical conferences earlier and the policy had just been extended to international online events. Students and academicians of international relations claimed that they would be the most impacted by it as taking permission from the government would take time. The January 15 order mentioned that online international conferences could have topics related to India’s “sensitive subjects”, including “political, scientific, technical, commercial and personal”. It also stated that approval would be required for conferences that discuss India’s “internal matters” and those that have foreign funding or sponsorship. Moushumi Basu, associate professor at JNU’s Centre for International Politics, Organisation and Disarmament, said the memorandum was ambiguous and could be misinterpreted to deny permission for such webinars. “It doesn’t specify what are internal matters. International relations is a study beyond national security as we talk about agriculture, refugees, etc. How can holding a webinar threaten the sovereignty of the country? Academics talk to one another and create knowledge. This circular will put a brake on that,” she added. A PhD student at Jamia Millia Islamia claimed, “International studies shed light on India’s foreign policies and interaction with other countries. It’s natural that India will come into the discussion. If everything requires a nod from the government, then academic activities will be delayed by red tape.” He asked what criteria would the government use to grant or deny permission. Ridhi Sanyal, a PhD student of diplomacy and disarmament at JNU, said “This order confines freedom of thought. Those studying international relations analyse the country’s policies and there are times that it may not align with the stance of the government. Since these online events allow students to think more and speak up, perhaps that is why the government is limiting our reach.” However, professor of Chinese studies at JNU, Srikanth Kondapalli, said the order was nothing new. “Even earlier, permission was sought from the government whenever foreign scholars were to be invited. Now the order has included webinars as part of the policy,” he added. Another JNU professor believed that the order would standardise webinars. “These days anyone can conduct a webinar without any permission. This order will curb that. We’ll have to wait and see what sort of penalty would be imposed by the government,” he added. Reiterating the same, Sujata Ashwarya, associate professor at Jamia’s Centre for West Asian Studies, said, “We had to take permission for holding physical conferences. Since webinars are substituting international seminars, the order has included them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/need-for-mea-nod-for-webinars-irks-students-academics/articleshow/81141678.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 22, 2021||Bareilly||Man burns hand, feet after falling in boiling vat in Budaun jaggery unit||Bareilly: A labourer at a jaggery unit, Anuj Kumar, 23. sustained burn injuries in his hand and feet when he accidentally fell into a big vessel in which the juice extracted from sugarcane was boiling in Budaun’s Bharkuiyan village on Sunday morning. He was immediately rescued by his co-workers and admitted at the district hospital. Doctors said he was out of danger but would take time to heal. Kumar, who hails from Muzaffarnagar district, was pouring boiled cane juice into a vessel when the accident took place. Sudhakar Pandey, SHO of Civil Lines police station, said, “The victim has not filed any complaint in this regard and we have recorded his statement. It was an accident and his condition is stable. His employer has ensured his treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-burns-hand-feet-after-falling-in-boiling-vat-in-budaun-jaggery-unit/articleshow/81139867.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Brother of ex-AIMIM neta arrested in cheating case||Mumbai: The city crime branch on Thursday arrested Irfan Qureshi, the brother of 2019 Maharashtra assembly candidate from Chandivali Vidhan Sabha constituency, Imran Qureshi of All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), in cheating and forgery case. While Irfan was arrested from Jari Mari area in Kurla, the cops are looking for his brother Imran, who is accused of allegedly opening a fictitious garment trading company and duping a Surat based businessman to the tune of Rs 1.2 crore last year. And when the victim went to ask for his money back, the Qureshi brothers and their father Akram allegedly threatened him with dire consequences.AIMIM leader Waris Pathan said that Imran is no longer connected to their party.TOI, had on February 2, reported the story ‘AIMIM man booked for cheating Surat businessman of 1 crore’. The two brothers had sought anticipatory bail at the sessions court, but failed to get any relief and the next court hearing has been scheduled on February 23. Qureshi’s lawyer Wahab Khan said that it was a false case and politically motivated.Congress MLA, Arif Khan, from Chandivali Vidhan Sabha constituency had lost his seat to Sena leader Dilip Bhausaheb Lande by a slender margin. Imran had also contested and had wrested away 1,167 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/brother-of-ex-aimim-neta-arrested-in-cheating-case/articleshow/81143069.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 22, 2021||Dehradun||No rains post monsoon, country’s 1st moss garden turns brown & dry||Nainital: A prolonged dry spell over the past five months has now started to affect the country's first moss garden in Nainital’s Khurpatal area. The mosses at the garden have turned brown and at several spots, dry patches of land are also visible. The forest department officials tasked with maintaining the garden told TOI that unusual dry winters this season is now drying out several species at the garden even though it is located at one of the most wettest and moist places in the region. “The lack of rains this year has been unprecedented. Our visits to places in Mandal as well as Nainital and Khurpatal have revealed that the ground has been unusually dry this year and its effects are now also being seen at the garden in Khurpatal. We have noticed over the last several weeks that greenness in the garden is reducing and browning has started,” said Sanjiv Chaturvedi, chief conservator of forests (research). Most areas of the state have received little or almost no rains post monsoon. Even the snowfall in the winters was minimal with barely a day or two of rains. This has led to a dry spell across the state and also led to an increase in the number of forest fires. Meanwhile, Tanuja Pandey, a junior research fellow (JRF) working at the garden, said that they have put up a net to protect the mosses from excessive dryness. “Even though dryness becomes an issue every winter, this year is very unusual. Therefore, to keep the mosses in the shade, we have put up a net. Several other arrangements are also being made to keep the mosses green,” Pandey said. The moss garden was inaugurated in November last year as a conservation effort. The garden has over 30 moss species and at least two of them are in the red (endangered) list of the IUCN. The garden also has a 1.2km long moss trail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-rains-post-monsoon-countrys-1st-moss-garden-turns-brown-dry/articleshow/81139861.cms||Prashant Jha
February 22, 2021||Pune||Only 35% repairs completed in busy Swargate underpass||Pune: Around 35% repairs of the busy Swargate underpass at Jedhe Chowk have been completed so far. The work was initiated in the last week of December. The carriageway of the underpass had developed potholes, which was hampering traffic movement and causing hardships to regular commuters. The underpass was constructed by Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) and it has taken up concreting of the entire carriageway to eliminate recurring problem of potholes and water seepage. An MSRDC official said that the work is progressing at a normal pace and it can further be expedited if additional space is provided. The space requirement can be met by diverting movement of cars and tempos from the main chowk instead of the underpass. The MSRDC plans to approach the traffic police to work out a vehicle movement plan to help fast track the work.The official said, “Despite heavy traffic on the route, we have managed to make progress in the work but the traffic police hasn’t allowed us to close the underpass so we are managing the work within the available space. If more space is provided, it will help complete the work quicker, which will also reduce hardships faced by people. We are planning to discuss the issue with the traffic police. There is a plan to complete the remaining work by April.” As per the plan, bikes and cars are allowed to use one lane of the underpass whereas movement of heavy vehicles is diverted through Jedhe chowk. However, even tempos have been spotted using the underpass. Raju Baheti, who travels from Swargate chowk everyday, said, “The work should be completed at the earliest as it is leading to huge traffic snarls during rush hours. Authorities should also check the quality of work so that another round of repairs is not required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-35-repairs-completed-in-busy-swargate-underpass/articleshow/81141672.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 22, 2021||Madurai||Piyush Goyal opens railway facilities in southern TN||Madurai: Projects worth several crores of rupees in the southern districts of the state were inaugurated by Union minister of railways, commerce, industry, consumer affairs, food and public distribution Piyush Goyal through video conferencing on Sunday. It was among the 88 projects worth Rs 1,000 crore that he had dedicated in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka.It includes nine foot overbridges constructed at Vanchi Maniyachi junction (Rs 5.8 crore), Naraikkinar (Rs 1.9 crore) and Thattaparai (Rs 1.9 crore) in Tuticorin district, Kallal and Melakonnakulam (Rs 3.75 crore) in Sivagangai district, Kadayanallur in Tenkasi district (Rs 1.9 crore), Gangaikondan (Rs 1.9 crore) in Tirunelveli district, Srivilliputhur (Rs 1.85 crore) in Virudhunagar district and Palani (Rs 1.9 crore) in Dindigul district.In Madurai, he dedicated a foot overbridge constructed spending Rs 1.9 crore at Thiruparankundram and passenger facilities and an ATM complex (Rs 65 lakh) at Madurai Junction. Piyush Goyal also dedicated two elevators worth Rs 67 lakh at the Kanyakumari station and Nagercoil Junction and one at Nagercoil town railway station (Rs 60 lakh) that will be completed this month.Additional general manager of Southern Railways B G Mallya inspected the Rs 280-crore work on the new Pamban Bridge and the existing old Pamban Bridge on Sunday. Madurai divisional railway manager V R Lenin told reporters that the new bridge is likely to be completed by December. Regirdering is being carried out at one of the girders of the old bridge, he said. Lenin also expressed satisfaction over the structural stability of the century old bridge and that it is being monitored by the IIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/piyush-goyal-opens-railway-facilities-in-southern-tn/articleshow/81143040.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Agra||UP: ‘Cop killer’ illicit booze mafia head shot dead by cops||AGRA: A dreaded criminal whose illicit liquor brewing business ran in Agra region for over seven years was on Sunday morning shot dead in an "encounter" by UP Police in Kasganj district, 11 days after he had allegedly led an attack on a police team that left a constable dead and a sub-inspector seriously injured. Police released a photo of the body of Moti Singh Dhimar (35), lying in the dark, illuminated by a beam of torch light with a pistol still stuck on his right hand. Dhimar’s younger brother and an alleged accomplice in the crime, Elkar Singh, had also fallen to bullets in a similar encounter on February 10, a day after the attack on the police team. On February 9, Dhimar and his aides had allegedly waylaid and attacked constable Devendra Singh (26) and sub-inspector Ashok Kumar Singh who had gone to raid the hooch trader. The cops were stripped of their uniforms, dragged to a field and beaten with iron rods. Devendra succumbed to his injuries during treatment. As news of Dhimar’s death arrived, local residents in the region sought to compare him with Vikas Dubey of Kanpur, another dreaded criminal who was on the loose till he killed eight policemen in an ambush in July last year. He was also shot dead in an encounter a week after the attack on the police team. Police had formed six teams to find Dhimar and announced Rs 1lakh for any information leading to his arrest. Superintendent of police (SP) of Kasganj, Manoj Kumar Sonkar, said a team found Dhimar camping near Kartala Road on the banks of the Kali river in Kasganj district. “We got a tip-off that Dhimar was hiding in a forest near the river. When a police team started cordoning the area at 2.30am, the miscreants opened fire. Policemen retaliated in self defence and Dhimar was shot. He died during treatment at the district hospital, Kasganj. We recovered a looted revolver which belonged to the sub-inspector along with a country-made pistol from him,” the SP said. Dhimar had been operating over 20 illicit liquor manufacturing units around Nagla Dhimar village of Kasganj. Sources had told TOI that he had a network spread across the Agra region. In the last seven years, 11 criminal cases were registered against him and he was also declared a history-sheeter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cop-killer-illicit-booze-mafia-head-shot-dead-by-cops/articleshow/81139862.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Musi revival: Citizens can breathe easy along river||HYDERABAD: Musi at LB Nagar, which used to be one of the dirtiest places in the city and avoided by people due to poor sanitation, has now turned into a lung space with a walking and cycling track and greenery. Musi is finally getting a facelift after decades as till date most projects merely remained on paper. People who avoided passing through vicinity of the water channel running through LB zone had breakfast on the banks of Musi along with Musi Riverfront Development Corporation Ltd (MRDCL) chairman D Sudheer Reddy post rejuvenation. Residents of eleven localities had breakfast at the water channel. As on date, 9.5 km of the walking and cycling tracks have been built, while 3.5 km of walking track is built on the Kothapet-Nagole stretch the place where people had breakfast. For construction of the 3.5 km walkway, Rs 6 crore has been spent. In all, 10 floating trash barriers (FTBs) would alo be put in place at multiple locations including Bapu Ghat, Nagole, Nayapul and Chaderghat, on the Musi. According to authorities, boating would also commence in Musi soon and warned people against dumping debris in the water body. “As per the vision of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao by 2022-23, we will try to introduce boating in Musi. The works are being executed on a war-footing basis,” the LB Nagar MLA said, who completed one year as chairman of the Musi croporation recently. “If citizens see people dumping debris or garbage in the Musi, they could click picture where the vehicle number is visible and report it to MRDCL,” he added. M Anil, who also had breakfast, said he used to avoid the stretch due to the rancid smell. “Several commuters, including me, used to avoid the roads in vicinity of Musi due to rancid smell and poor sanitation standards, rejuvenation pending for decades came as a surprise,” he said. According to officials, detailed project report (DRP) would be finalised by August–September. As per the DPR, a 120 feet road would be laid on either sides of Musi. The road would connect Gandipet and Nagole (eastern part of the city) with connectivity to existing bridges/flyovers in order to ease traffic. Before the DPR was prepared, a drone survey of Musi, the 53-km stretch from Bapu Ghat to Bacharam (Hayatnagar mandal), was done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/musi-revival-citizens-can-breathe-easy-along-river/articleshow/81143035.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||One killed, 3 hurt in blast at IDA Bollarum||Hyderabad: A 34-year-old woman was killed and three others were injured in a blast that took place in a factory located in Industrial Development Area (IDA) Bollaram, Sanga Reddy district, on Sunday evening. Radhika, the woman who was killed, died while undergoing treatment. The injured are still being treated. According to police strands of coir of the fan located inside the industrial oven got over-heated, as a result causing a blast. All four victims had been working close to the oven. The blast did not result in a fire. “A blast occurred at SYS Electronic Pvt limited Company, in IDA Bollaram on Sunday evening. Due to the blast four people were injured and shifted to Mamatha Hospital in Bachupally,” said Ramesh Reddy, circle inspector of Bollarum police station. The three injured—Vijay Yadav, Kamalesh and Chandan—are still undergoing treatment. This is the second accident in IDA Bollarun in the past three months. In December 2020, 20 people were injured after a major fire broke out at Vindhya Organics, a chemical factory located at IDA, Bollaram. In May 2020, a reactor blast was reported in the same area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-killed-3-hurt-in-blast-at-ida-bollarum/articleshow/81143068.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||India||In Phase-1, Corbett bird survey finds 350 species||NAINITAL: The first phase of the Corbett Tiger Reserve’s (CTR’s) first-ever bird survey has documented over 350 species spread across the region. The three-day first phase which concluded this week has identified 11 types of woodpeckers along with five species of barbets and five types of parakeet, among many other species of birds. It is estimated that Corbett has around 500 bird species. However, no official survey has been done as yet to document the exact number of bird species in the reserve. Speaking to TOI, Shah Belal, senior wildlife biologist at CTR, said the three-day survey reiterated that there is little to be concerned about the Great Hornbill species whose numbers were believed to be decreasing. “The birds indicate the health of a forest. Till now, it was believed that there are around 500 bird species here but we now estimate that the number is much higher. We have also found Great Hornbills in several habitats which allay the fear that their numbers are decreasing,” he said. The survey was undertaken by 26 teams, each with a bird expert. Belal said the next two phases of the survey will be conducted after the monsoons and during winters to document migratory birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-phase-1-corbett-bird-survey-finds-350-species/articleshow/81143988.cms||Prashant Jha
February 22, 2021||Madurai||7 come by car to steal goats, held||Madurai: A seven-member gang which came by cars and stole sheep on the Ettayapuram national highway was nabbed by the police and remanded in custody on Sunday. Ramamoorthy of Ettayapuram had lodged a complaint with the police alleging that nine of his sheep valued at Rs 9,000 were missing. The police registered a case, and a Ettayapuram sub inspector Ponraj was on the lookout.  Meanwhile, police became suspicious when a vehicle loaded with nine sheep, crossed Sinthalakarai Samathuvapuram and questioned the seven people who were in it. The seven-member gang-Balakrishnan,37, Agniraj, 41, Solai,40, Thirupathi,35, Lakshmananm,33, Arunchunai,50, and Subramanian,70-confessed to stealing the sheep and were arrested. They were produced before the judicial magistrate in Kovilpatti and remanded to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/7-come-by-car-to-steal-goats-held/articleshow/81143094.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Madurai||Robberies go up in rural Madurai as cases dip in city||Madurai: The number of robberies and snatching incidents has gone up in rural Madurai at a time when the city police have tightened their grip in the city to prevent such incidents. At least 10 cases of robbery and snatching incidents are reported in every month in rural areas, on an average, in the last six months.Eight cases of robbery and snatching incidents have been reported this month so far. Till 2019, rural areas rarely used to report chain snatching and robbery incidents while it was the opposite in the city. Madurai city police increased CCTV cameras, covering key junctions and bridges, in order to prevent crimes. After nabbing a few behind such crimes with the help of CCTV footages, the incidents came down.While gold jewellery is the main target for robbers, they get away with any valuables including phone, cash and two-wheelers. Lone women travelling on a scooter are the soft targets of chain snatchers. There have been incidents of women falling off scooters and suffering injuries in snatching incidents in the recent months. Deserted roads at night are the favourite spot for snatchers.A police official from Madurai district police said, “dedicated special teams are working to solve crime incidents. They have tasted success in a few incidents as well. In order to prevent crimes, night rounds have been intensified. The contact number of officials involved in the night rounds are being informed to the people through social media.”“Vehicle checks have also been intensified throughout the district as deterrence. Unlike cities, rural areas have fewer CCTV cameras, although the numbers have being increasing in the recent past,” the official added. “We are registering every theft and robbery case,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/robberies-go-up-in-rural-madurai-as-cases-dip-in-city/articleshow/81143070.cms||V Devanathan
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Man pulls knife on pregnant woman in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A pregnant woman who refused to give groceries on credit was threatened by a man with a knife, in Godavarikhani on Sunday. Local police said that the accused was inebriated when the offence took place on Sunday afternoon. The pregnant woman, Anusha, was unhurt in the incident. Police later took Srikanth into custody, arrested him and seized his weapon. Officials said that accused had taken groceries on credit in the past, but had not cleared his arrears. Police denied reports that the accused was an associate of a local corporator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-pulls-knife-on-pregnant-woman/articleshow/81143076.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Bhopal||MP gets nod to host Khelo India, announcement soon||Bhopal: After getting in-principle nod to host the Khelo India Games, Madhya Pradesh will get formal approval from the central govt. Sources said union sports minister Kiren Rijiju will visit Bhopal next month to formally announce the hosting of Khelo India Games 2022 in Madhya Pradesh. Sources said that Rijiju will also inaugurate the state of the art Martial Arts Academy building which is being constructed on the campus of Tatya Tope Stadium. During a recent review meeting of sports department sports minister Yashodhara Raje Scindia had informed chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that in-principle consent has been given by the Union government to organize the Khelo India Games for the year 2022 in Bhopal. Officials said that Madhya Pradesh will provide best facilities for the Khelo India Games. “We will make the Games successful,” said an official without quoting his name. Sports minister Scindia recently during an interaction with the media has said that department is always ready to host big events. “The infrastructure MP has developed in past one decade is outstanding. We have made facilities which is not available in several states. We are making our presence felt in both infrastructure as well producing medalists. This is the reason the state has attracted eyeballs for hosting big events,” said Scindia. She claimed that name the game and I will give you the name of the medalists in that game from MP. “Our reach has increased to a higher level. Despite having limited resources and budget we have achieved those milestones which is still a dream for several big states. We will keep doing the best,” said Scindia. Department has been running the martial arts academy for past several years but their venues were at different places. The under construction building will bring different martial arts games in same building on different floors, said an official. Martial art academy provides world class training in wrestling, karate, judo, boxing, wushu, fencing and taekwondo. The academy has given 113 international playes to the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-gets-nod-to-host-khelo-india-announcement-soon/articleshow/81143126.cms||Ramendra Singh
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Home guard arrested for impregnating minor||Hyderabad: A home guard was arrested for allegedly raping and impregnating a minor girl. Though the arrest took place on Saturday, it came to light on Sunday. The home guard, who is a driver in the police department, lured the 16-year-old girl on the pretext of love and sexually exploited her, police said. “As of now, the victim, a minor girl, is pregnant. She is a tenant in the residence of the accused,’’ assistant commissioner of police (Gopalpuram) Venkata Ramana told TOI. Police said the accused was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and 376 (Rape) of the IPC. The accused allegedly threatened the victim in the past not to disclose to anyone about the offence. But a few days ago, when the victim fell ill, then her parents came to know that she was impregnated by the home guard. Police said the accused has been sent in judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/home-guard-arrested-for-impregnating-minor/articleshow/81143134.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Pune||Pune: Five of family drown in Valki river at Mulshi||PUNE: A 38-year-old man, his wife and three daughters drowned in river Valki at Valen village near Kolvan in Mulshi taluka, about 34km from here, on Sunday afternoon while attempting to save their 10-year-old fourth daughter who had fallen into the waters. Another two daughters of the couple were also present on the river bank. Police said the man, Shankar Laygude, managed to save the 10-year-old daughter, Jayashree, by pushing her to safety along the river banks, but himself drowned as his wife and three other daughters, who did not know to swim, grabbed him out of fear. All five drowned, police said. “Laygude drowned along with his wife Pornima (36) and daughters Arpita (20), Ankita (13) and Rajashree (12),” inspector Ashok Dhumal of the Paud police told TOI. “Laygude, who worked with a poultry farm, had three daughters from his first marriage. After the death of his first wife, he married Pornima, who also had three daughters from her first marriage,” said Dhumal. “On Sunday morning the entire family had gone to the river to wash clothes. Laygude was working at a nearby farm. Jayashree was standing at the river bank when she accidentally fell into the waters. Pornima, who saw this, immediately jumped into the river to save Jayashree but started drowning too.” “At this point, Arpita, Ankita and Rajashree tried to save Pornima and Jayashree. One of them threw her dupatta into the waters. Laygude reached the river then and jumped in to save his wife and daughter,” Dhumal said. Pramod Balkawde of Mulshi Disaster Management told TOI that while saving Jayashree, the three sisters too fell into the river and started drowning. “None of them knew to swim. Even as Laygude saved Jayashree, his wife and the other three daughters grabbed him in desperation and all of them drowned in the river,” he said. Balkawde said local villagers pulled out three bodies and a rescue team that arrived soon pulled out two. “Jayashree is safe and out of danger,” Balkawde said. The police have registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-of-family-drown-in-river-at-mulshi/articleshow/81141684.cms||Mihir Tanksale
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Security guard among 3 held for stealing Rs 8L from bakery||Hyderabad: Three persons, including a security guard, have been arrested for stealing Rs 8 lakh cash from Vac’s Pastries store at Jubilee Hills. During the early hours of February 19, Sohaidul, a security guard of Vac’s Pastries store on Road Number 10, Jubilee Hills, along with two of his friends stole Rs 8 lakh cash from the shop. “The accused stole the cash kept in the cupboard of owner’s office. Sohaidul committed the theft and his associates kept a watch outside,” a Jubilee Hills police officer said. Based on the complaint lodged by victim, Amar, Jubilee Hills police have registered a servant theft case and launched a manhunt to nab the offenders. During the preliminary probe, police found that after committing the theft, the trio decided to escape to their native place in Assam. As part of the plan, they went to Vijayawada by bus and from Vijayawada they had boarded another bus to Kolkata. To arrest the offenders before they reach Assam, a police team went to Kolkata by flight and intercepted the bus in which the accused were travelling before it reached Kolkata on Saturday. The trio has been arrested and they are being brought to the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/security-guard-among-3-held-for-stealing-rs-8l-from-bakery/articleshow/81143103.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Goa||Goa: Unheard of in winter, hailstones, thunderstorms surprise scientists||PANAJI: The hail and thunderstorm over the weekend, unheard of in Goa in winter, has surprised scientists and meteorologists even as unusual weather events increase in frequency in the state. “Thunderstorms stop once monsoon sets in. To the best of my knowledge, this type of event has never occurred in the winter season in Goa,” said M R Ramesh Kumar, meteorologist and chief scientist (retd), National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), Goa. Smog, hail and dust storms are either rare, or as special weather events, not reported in the state. While squalls develop during June and July, thunderstorms occur on either side of the southwest monsoon season during May and October. A combo effect of two troughs at 1km and 6km triggered the unseasonal cloud formation, disrupting the first spell of a mild chill after the warmest January in three decades. On Friday, many rain-gauge centres, especially Sakhali, Quepem, Sanguem and some others recorded moderate rainfall. But what baffled scientists was the widespread thunderstorm and a shower of hail in Quepem and Shiroda. Another rarity during winter — vertical cloud formation — triggered the twin events in February. The ‘wonder’ clouds literally stood from a few kilometres above the earth to thousands of feet into the sky instead of being carpeted across. “Vertically-developing clouds like Cumulonimbus can stretch up to the top of the troposhpere (tropopause) up to about 15km to 16km in height in some cases,” the former NIO scientist said. The atmospheric height at which the temperature drops to zero level — called zero degree isotherm — is conducive to ice formation in moist conditions, which were ensured by the two troughs, Rahul M, scientist, India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, said. “In winter months, usually the zero degree isotherm is slightly lower, and even cloud heights of 8km-10kms are enough for ice to form. As it falls to earth, the ice particles don’t get enough time to melt,” the IMD scientist stated. After a few cyclonic and other weather events, scientists view this episode with interest. “It looks as if there is a substantial change in the weather pattern this year, anomalous rain in winter, thunderstorms and hail,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unheard-of-in-goa-winter-hailstones-thunderstorms-surprise-scientists/articleshow/81143139.cms||Paul Fernandes
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Adaptive fashion dresses up disabled with dignity||Pigtails. Frock. Knee-high socks. Ribbons. Don't even get Soumita Basu started on the ribbons. "I want to burn them," says the chic Kolkata-based fashion entrepreneur who finds it ridiculous when Hindi movies dress people with disabilities like they were "little kids". Usually found in the kind of wrap-around saris and airy kurtas that convey her easy, mature demeanour, the 38-year-old's sophisticated wardrobe was born out of her desire to burn something else: a shawl that sat heavy on her frozen shoulders for three Kolkata winters. That was the time a debilitating autoimmune disorder called psoriatic arthritis had started in her 'gugai' — the nickname she had given her sausage-like painful toes — before it spread to other joints that winced each time her caregiver tried to get her into the sleeves and necklines of oversized clothes. Able-bodied till the age of 30, Basu had to abandon normal clothing when the condition relegated her to a wheelchair. Unable to find elegant options to keep her warm, her mother would wrap her in a shawl in winter and a stole in peak summer. Desperate to shed these skins that required constant adjusting, the former social research and communications specialist decided to style her skirt as a dress and prop the stoles as sleeves. The experiment paid off. "I became my own muse," says Basu, recalling the string of ensuing trials and errors which led to the pre-lockdown launch of her own inclusive fashion label that offers everything from wrap-around saris that can be worn lying down to mastectomy gowns that have secret passageways for fluid pipes connecting the breast area with the pockets carrying fluid bags. Welcome to adaptive fashion, a fledgling Instagram-based world that sees designers and entrepreneurs across the country fiddling with metal snap buttons, zippers, velcro, magnets and other stitches in time that would make dressing up not only easier but also dignified for those with disabilities, the elderly and others constrained by conventional clothing. Internationally, the most prominent face of this space is Los-Angeles-based disability fashion stylist Stephanie Thomas, who was born a congenital amputee. While two major global apparel brands have started selling button-down pants and other "adaptive" wear, in India, though, the fashion market tends to disappoint the nearly one crore people living with disabilities. "The world's largest minority are arguably stigmatized by the majority of current clothing solutions," feels Kerala-based fashion designer Joe Ikareth, whose search for solutions for his daughter Tilotama — who has a partially paralyzed right arm — led him to develop artisanal clothes based on creative movement therapy, a field of psychotherapy that uses "personal movement language" and dance for the health and wellness of an individual. Not too far from his Kochi boutique, lives the creative mind of fashion designer Ashima Bhan, currently preoccupied with waterproof umbrella cloth after getting a call from the caregiver of a bed-ridden mentally-challenged patient from Gurugram who soils his bed clothes every night. Though inclusivity has become something of a buzzword in the fashion industry, Anita Iyer Narayan of Ekansh Trust, a Pune-based NGO, recalls finding no sponsors for their adaptive fashion show in 2019 for which they had approached garment firms and fashion labels. Narayan now worries the emphasis is on selling “when it should be about educating people”. She might just be impressed by Mumbai-based Bachelor of Fashion Technology graduate Saakshi Manhot, who has designed T-shirts inserted with six removable weights for autistic individuals based on Deep Compression Therapy. "Clothes that feel normal for us, cause irritability on their skin. This is known as tactile defensiveness, in which an individual is extremely sensitive to light touch. These weights press against their body and create the feeling of a hug among them, necessary to calm them down," says Manhot, who had found while researching on fire repellent garments as part of her graduation project that clothing can be a cause of hyperactivity amongst autistic individuals. While Manhot is waiting for the day brands start incorporating "disorder clothing" as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility, Basu -- who is now designing adaptive inner wear -- would like people to stop asking whether her clothes are available for free. "There's a perception that people with disabilities are all poor which is not the case," says Basu. "Paying for clothes ensures my dignity as a consumer."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/adaptive-fashion-dresses-up-disabled-with-dignity/articleshow/81143187.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||BioAsia from today, focus on India as innovation hub||Hyderabad: One of India’s largest life-sciences and healthcare forums, BioAsia, will kick off today. With the theme of ‘Move the Needle’, BioAsia 2021 has gone virtual this year in its 18th edition and the event is expected to have a participation of about 30,000 life sciences professionals from around the world. The two-day event will feature global leaders such as Satya Nadella, CEO, Microsoft, Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientific officer, World Health Organization, Peter Marks director at the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) at the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA), Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog and Debjani Ghosh, president, Nasscom, among others.  The event will have industry leaders such as Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, MD & CEO, Fortis Healthcare Limited, Sangita Reddy, Joint MD, Apollo Hospitals, Krishna Ella, CMD, Bharat Biotech International Ltd, Mahima Datla, managing director, Biological E and Shravan Subramanyam, president & CEO, GE Healthcare India & South Asia, among others. BioAsia 2021 will witness a wide array of panels focussing on the Covid-19 pandemic and how it has led to various changes in the life sciences industry. Some of the panel discussions will be around topics such as how Covid has pushed digitisation of the healthcare sector, India’s potential in the vaccines space, supply chain disruption during the pandemic and Covid-induced changes in R&D, among others. This year, the CEO conclave will deliberate on making India an innovation hub by focussing on complex generics and biosimilars. The Genome Valley Excellence Award this year will be bestowed upon homegrown vaccine major, Bharat Biotech International Limited, for its pioneering research, development and commercialization of vaccines including Covaxin, Rabies vaccine, Rotavirus vaccine, Japanese Encephalitis vaccine, Polio vaccine and Typhoid Conjugate vaccines, among others that have helped save billions of lives globally. Krishna M. Ella, CMD and Suchitra Ella, joint MD, Bharat Biotech International will receive the award on February 22, 2021, during the inaugural event of BioAsia 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bioasia-from-today-focus-on-india-as-innovation-hub/articleshow/81143100.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Goa||Those with comorbidities need jab most, they must take it: Dr Jagdish Kakodkar||PANAJI: A top Goa Medical College (GMC) doctor has said that it is important that those with diabetes, hypertension, kidney failure and asthma receive the Covid-19 vaccine. “The death rate in people who have comorbidities due to Covid is several times higher than the normal population” said head of preventive medicine and nodal officer for vaccination at GMC, Dr Jagdish Kakodkar. “These are the people who need the vaccine the most.” “Whatever your age, those above 18 with heart disease, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease, high blood pressure, cancer, kidney failure and asthma have all the more reason to take the vaccine,” he said. “If you don’t take it and you get Covid, look at the death rate in this category, whether in the US, China, India or Goa.” Kakodkar, who was speaking at a session at a Mapusa college, said that before getting vaccinated, people should talk to their doctor about any previous severe allergic reaction they may have had to any food, vaccine, or component of the jab. However, he also said that those with a cough, cold or fever must disclose this to the healthcare provider, and postpone their vaccination till after recovery. He also said that those with bleeding disorders or those who use thinners must share this information, so that the jab is administered under medical supervision. Others who need to share their medical information before getting the vaccine include those who are immunocompromised, those undergong chemotherapy or radiation for cancer, and those taking steroids for severe asthma. He said that the vaccine hasn’t been declared safe for children below 18 and for pregnant women, lactating and breastfeeding mothers. He also said that those who had a severe allergic reaction to the first dose must refrain from taking the second one. Commenting on adverse effects following immunisation (AEFIs), Kakodkar said that all those who had pain, swelling, fever of mild rash were fine after taking paracetamol. “Paracetamol is the only medicine that is safe to take,” he said. “Crocin, Dolo, Metasin or Capol contain Paracetamol. But please don’t take any other painkillers like Ibuprofen, Enzoflam, Brufan, or Combiflam, as they have side effects. They can cause bleeding problems, and painkillers called NSAIDs are known to reduce the effect of the vaccine.” He also warned against taking painkillers prophylactically (in advance, in anticipation of pain). “Don’t take Crocin or paracetamol in anticipation that you’re going to get a side effect,” he said. “Wait for the side effect to occur. If there is no side effect, why do you want to take these medicines? Why do you want to reduce the effect of your vaccine? Only if you get a side effect should you take these medicines to reduce the severity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/those-with-comorbidities-need-jab-most-they-must-take-it-gmc-doc/articleshow/81143098.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Garbage cafes: Corporation ties up with eateries in Delhi's Karol Bagh||NEW DELHI: To manage plastic waste in its area, North Delhi Municipal Corporation has tied up with at least 25 eateries/restaurants as garbage cafes in areas under Karol Bagh zone. Of them five were inaugurated at different places on Saturday. At these places, residents can provide one kilogram plastic and get refreshment/one meal for free. “We have tied up with a company, which will lift the plastic collected by these restaurants and eateries for further recycling. This will ensure end-to-end recycling of plastic waste and reducing garbage on the road,” said a north corporation official. Karol Bagh zone deputy commissioner Himanshu Gupta inaugurated one of the outlets at Deshbandhu Gupta Road, opposite Khalsa College. “Four other restaurants located in nearby areas were also opened on Saturday. The project is very important to encourage people to segregate waste and understand its relevance,” he said. Jagpreet Arora, president of Hotel Association of Karol Bagh said, “We were informed about the initiative by the civic body sometime back and we came forward to participate in the drive. We are offering one meal to people giving us plastic in the form of bottles, bags, etc.” A similar project was launched by South Delhi Municipal Corporation earlier, for giving food packets to people against one kg of plastic. The civic body has a total of 34 such cafes in its jurisdiction, 12 in the south zone, 10 in the central zone, 11 in Najafgarh and one in the west zone. “Anybody depositing one kg of plastic waste with garbage cafes will get a coupon for a free breakfast, lunch, or dinner in restaurants, which are our partners for the green initiative,” an SDMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/garbage-cafes-corpn-ties-up-with-eateries-in-karol-bagh/articleshow/81141686.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||Parents slam mandatory offline internal exams||Nagpur: As cases of Covid-19 rise in Nagpur district, many parents are questioning why some schools are putting stress on internal exams being held in offline mode. For Std IX and XI, final exams are conducted and evaluated internally, and parents say there is no logic in a mandatory offline exam set up. Parent of a CBSE school student said her child was not feeling comfortable going to school for the Std IX exam. “We were told attendance in school is not mandatory, then why should exams be made mandatory if they are to be evaluated internally. It’s not like board exams where one does not have a choice,” she said. Some CBSE schools have implemented the online exam system and modified it to represent a traditional pen-paper setting. Jain International School has not reopened for physical classes as parents did not give consent, so the final exams are being proctored. Anmol Badjatia, principal of the school, said, “Before the exam starts, children place their cameras in a way that we can see their desk and surroundings. The question paper is shared on their screens and they have to solve it in the traditional pen-paper format. There are some online questions too which students solve. An observer is continuously monitoring their screens to ensure that fair practices are being followed.” For X and XII, preliminary exams are the crucial internal exams before the actual board exams start. Almost all schools which have reopened for physical classes have finished their prelims. And many schools hold more than one round of prelims. Zafar Khan, president of School Headmasters’ Charitable Association, said purpose of holding prelims has to be kept in mind. “This exam gives the student a chance to experience the atmosphere of a board exam. Those in Std X will be appearing for board exams for the first time, which will be in a pen-paper format only. So prelims give us a perfect idea of where our students stand and also gives them a feel of the exam environment which they will face in less than two months from now,” said Khan. He added that it’s common practice for many schools to hold three or more rounds of prelims. “The paper is set exactly in the board format, and going through the process a couple of times helps students to improve their performance,” said Khan. Even though Std V-VIII have reopened and final exams are held, in reality they do not carry much weightage. As per the existing rules, no student can be failed till Std VIII and hence, the exams become a mere formality. The central government has amended the no-fail policy specifically for Std V and VIII, its implementation is up to the state. Ashnarayan Tiwari, a senior academic and principal of Adarsh Vidya Mandir (Gandhibagh), said, “Education rules have to be implemented at the state level and that’s why as of now, no student can be held back till Std VIII. We conduct exams and those who fail are called for extra classes during summer vacation following which another round of exam is held after which the child moves to the next class.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parents-slam-mandatory-offline-internal-exams/articleshow/81143189.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 22, 2021||Delhi||11 children working as bonded labourers freed||New Delhi: Eleven children working in hazardous conditions as bonded labourers were rescued during raids conducted in seven places in north Delhi on Friday. The raid was conducted by a team consisting Alipur sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Ajit Singh Thakur and other district officials, cops from Samaypur Badli police station, officials from labour department and Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR), besides a team from NGO Sahyog Care for You. The children were working as bonded labourers in bakery units, lathe machine units and auto centre units, except for one child who was rescued from a house where he was working as a domestic worker. A statement from DCPCR said that the rescued children were exposed to all kinds of physical and mental trauma, especially in the times of a pandemic. It said that all the children were provided medical care and underwent Covid tests, after which they were placed in a child care institution. They will be now be sent to their parents, guardians or families at the earliest. The statement said, the children were mostly found to be working for over 12 hours a day in extremely unhygienic conditions, without even masks. “The commission’s aim of making Delhi child labour-free by 2023 can be realised only through proper social reintegration and rehabilitation of the rescued children and collective efforts of all citizens,” Anurag Kundu, chairperson of DCPCR, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/11-children-working-as-bonded-labourers-freed/articleshow/81141716.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Workstations at district collectorate||Hyderabad: The IT department has asked district collectors to make workstation provisions for the Telangana IT Association (TITA) in all districts, if possible within the district collectorate. The move is aimed at helping TITA in its initiatives like digital literacy for students of government schools and Telangana early coders. “Having global chapters in 18 countries, TITA is also keen in bringing investment opportunities for innovations and startups in Tier II and Tier III cities. Its TITAs additional efforts to extend those focused initiatives and for best connectivity within districts," IT secretary Jayesh Ranjan said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/workstations-at-district-collectorate/articleshow/81143159.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Agra||UP: Jeweller’s son kills mother, loots Rs 1 crore from own house||AGRA: Upset with his mother for not supporting him financially after his marriage, a 24-year-old jeweller's son allegedly murdered his mother, Kanchan Verma, and looted valuables worth over Rs 1 crore from the house in Saroj Nagar Colony of Aligarh on Friday. The accused, identified as one Yogesh, and his three associates, including two women, were arrested on Sunday and stolen gold, diamond and silver jewellery have been recovered from them. The Aligarh police nabbed the suspects within 48 hours of the crime and unravelled a gory trail of greed. Police said jeweller Kuldeep Verma’s son Yogesh, who is a Commerce graduate, was living separately in a rented accommodation for the past six months after he tied a knot with a married woman Sonam against his parents' wishes. He was also jobless. Facing financial issues, Yogesh chalked a plan to loot his own house. His wife, Sonam; friend, Tanuj Chaudhary; and Tanuj’s girlfriend, Shehjal Chauhan; were all part of the plot. On Friday, he first dropped his pregnant wife to a doctor’s clinic for a check-up and then went to his parents' house with Tanuj and Shehjal. While they left Shehjal a few metres away from the house to keep an eye outside, the duo stepped into the house for the crime. Kanchan - in her 50s - opened the door for her son and let him and his friend in. During interrogation, Yogesh confessed that he told his mother that he had come to pick his clothes and then strangled her with her saree to avoid leaving behind any evidence. They later dragged her body to the bathroom and cut a geyser pipe to make it look like an accident. An unconscious Kanchan was found in the bathroom by a neighbour, who called on her and found the main door open. She immediately informed the police. The cops took her to hospital, where she was declared brought dead. Kanchan’s husband, Kuldeep Verma, was in his shop at the time of the attack, police said. Circle officer (CO) Anil Samaniya told TOI that Yogesh confessed to his crime and the looted jewellery worth Rs 1 crore along with Rs 1 lakh cash has been recovered from them. The CO said that the grinder used to cut a locker has also been recovered. He added that they all were booked under IPC sections 302 (murder), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 120B (criminal conspiracy).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/jewellers-son-kills-mother-loots-rs-1-crore-from-own-house/articleshow/81139874.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 22, 2021||Delhi||DIAL in Delhi HC over Rs 80 crore dues from Centaur Hotel||NEW DELHI: Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) has moved the Delhi high court to recover long outstanding lease dues of about Rs 80 crore from Centaur Hotel. The dilapidated 1982-era hotel, run by Air India subsidiary Hotel Corporation of India (HCI), was recently allowed to operate till March 2032. Neither AI nor DIAL commented on the issue till the time of going to press. A source said that Centaur Hotel’s dues have been outstanding for several years. “Airports, airlines and the entire aviation ecosystem are struggling to survive due to the Covid pandemic,” said the source. “DIAL shares 46% revenue with Airports Authority of India (AAI). Centaur’s dues, when recovered, will be shared with AAI. While we understand the financial position of AI, airports also need funds to survive.” DIAL had been seeking the demolition of Centaur Hotel to expand the airport. In 2019, the aviation ministry had first asked HCI to hand over the land to AAI. Later that year, the government decided to not to terminate the lease of the hotel till March 31, 2032. That decision read: “AAI and DIAL requires this land for aeronautical purpose in Phase-IV development. According to the master plan submitted by DIAL in 2016, development work is proposed for 2026-2034. Therefore, HCI may use the land/structure up to the expiry of the existing period, March 31, 2032, only and to vacate the land positively upon expiry of existing lease period.” The ministry had, at that time, directed that arbitration process start between AAI and HCI over the default of lease rentals. “Since HCI has defaulted in paying AAI the dues from 2002 onwards, according to the agreement, AAI chairman is empowered to appoint the arbitrator,” the 2019 ministry communique to the hotel corporation had said. Centaur has 378 rooms, of which a significant number are in a bad condition due to maintenance issues like seepage and remain locked. Of the remaining, about 100 rooms on an average remain occupied by Air India staff travelling on duty and passengers of AI’s delayed flights, say airline sources. Paying guests are negligible and parent AI — which is being privatised — itself has no funds for the hotel. The hotel desperately needs funds to attract guests again. “The time is so short that it remains to been seen if any private investor will pump in funds to renovate the hotel and then recover it by 2032. That too in the given situation when Covid has all but crippled travel and when world class hotels abound in nearby Aerocity,” said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dial-in-hc-over-rs-80cr-dues-from-centaur-hotel/articleshow/81141762.cms||Saurabh Sinha
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||Covid cases rise to August level, experts sound caution||Nagpur: In a clear indicator of the spike in Covid-19 positive cases in the district, the number of cases last week (February 15-21) was almost at par with the that seen in second week of August, when the district was heading towards the peak of the pandemic. Weekly test positivity rate (TPR) has also increased to 10% in the last week. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI, “There are chances of further rise in cases in this week (February 22-28). This week is crucial and will indicate whether we are heading into second wave or not. We are taking all measures to control the spread and have increased the number of tests. Early detection and treatment is top priority.” As per data released by the district civil surgeon, 4,998 cases were registered between August 8 and 14, 2020. The number was just 2,355 in the week before that. Then, the district went on to witness a peak of six weeks — last two weeks of August and entire September month. Last week of September had recorded 12,905 cases. The cases started to decline from first week of October. The decline continued till first week of February. Lowest number of cases was 1,824 (average 261 per day) between February 1 and 7. The cases increased to 2,657 (380 per day) in second week (February 8-14). The cases were two short of 500 on February 15. For six consecutive days, the cases have been over 500 per day, with highest 754 cases was on February 19. Thus, there were 4,378 total cases in third week (February 15-21). The number of tests also increased to 44,288 (6,327 per day) in third week. Still, the TPR increased to 9.89% in third week of February. TPR was 6.44% in last week of January, 6.63% in first week of February, and 8.58% in second week. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “Rise in cases is likely till first or second week of March. Respiratory infection cases are high now due to sudden change in temperature in last three weeks. Cases may increase to 1,000 per day or more. But I don’t think they will go over 2,000 per day like in September. There are chances of decline from second or third week of March. Rise in temperature in March might give some relief.” Dr Shinde also said, “Transmission of the disease seems high in last two weeks but disease is not severe, which was observed in August or September 2020. At that time, we had to keep patients on consistent oxygen supply if CT score was above 6. Now, patients are not requiring oxygen supply even if CT score is up to 15,” he said. Similarly, deaths were on decline from October to first week of February. They have started to increase slightly in third week of February, with 45 fatalities registered between February 15 and 21. There were 38 deaths in second week and 34 in first week. The fatalities were 63 in first week of January followed by 57 in second week, 56 in third week and 52 in fourth week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-cases-rise-to-august-level-experts-sound-caution/articleshow/81141755.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Irrum Manzil Palace abuzz with film shoots||Hyderabad: With the government allowing shoots by following Covid-19 norms, heritage palace Irrum Manzil is abuzz again with the familiar call: ‘silence...roll camera...action...’ The front portion of palace was packed with film crews, whirring of generator sets, screens and a line-up of expensive vanity vans on Sunday. “The palace is packed with two to three different film shoots in a day,” roads and buildings (R&B) department officials said, disclosing that the department used to earn nearly Rs one crore per annum as income. After the government gave the nod for film and TV shoots in the state, movie-makers are flocking to the R&B department at Irrum Manzil in Khairatabad for two reasons — the landscape and low tariff. “The palace is booked for film shoots till May,” executive engineer, R&B (Buildings) I Ramesh, who granted permissions, told TOI. “Movie-makers who want to shoot on our premises, they have to get the clearance of the engineer-in-chief, R&B Department. Then, we will check availability of dates and grant permissions. A nominal deposit of Rs 10,000 is collected per hour from producers/movie-makers and issue guidelines stipulated by the state government,” he said. No property of the palace should be damaged as the entire building has been recognised as a ‘heritage monument’. In fact, the deposit amount will not be refunded and in case, the producer deserves to extend shooting for some more days and has to pay the deposit amount for extended days, said R&B official. The R&B department earned nearly Rs 1 crore per annum by renting out the palace premises for movie shootings, officials from the department said. “We have a strong sentiment that any film shot at the palace becomes a hit at the box office and sets the cash registers ringing,” a manager of a film unit confessed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/irrum-manzil-palace-abuzz-with-film-shoots/articleshow/81143175.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 22, 2021||Dehradun||Putrajeevak seed aided fertility in zebrafish, claims Patanjali||Haridwar: The officials of Patanjali Ayurved on Sunday claimed that a research — conducted by Patanjali Research Institute in Haridwar — on zebrafish aided fertility in the fishes. According to a communique sent by Patanjali Ayurved CEO Acharya Balkrishna, the study, published in the journal ‘Molecules’ indicated that the oil component of Putrajeevak Seed (Putranjiva roxburghii) when used in male and female zebrafish increased ovarian follicle count as well as nature of mature eggs in females and enhanced sperm count as well as sperm motility in males. “The research indicates that Putrajeevak Seed has ability to treat not only female infertility but is also useful to increase the fertility in males,” Balkrishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/putrajeevak-seed-aided-fertility-in-zebrafish-claims-patanjali/articleshow/81140439.cms||MS Nawaz
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena, NCP to fight local body polls together, Congress undecided||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena and NCP have decided to jointly contest the forthcoming local body elections, including the BMC polls. Congress, however, is yet undecided and may contest the BMC polls on its own, reports Sujit Mahamulkar. The elections are expected to be held between May 2021 and May 2022. Sena MP and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Sunday told TOI that the ‘election formula’ has been finalised. “Sena and NCP will contest polls together,” he confirmed. He also said that they were trying to discuss a pre-poll alliance with the Congress, their partner in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. When told that Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap has already announced that his party will fight the BMC polls on its own, Raut said, “We will discuss the issue with Congress leaders too as the formula that has been decided is that the elections will be contested under the leadership of the party which has a stronghold in a respective local body.” Sena has strongholds in Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Aurangabad and Nashik municipal corporations, NCP in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, and Congress in Nagpur. However, a minister, on the condition of anonymity, told TOI, “Sena and NCP want Congress to contest independently in the BMC, to corner BJP. The strategy could be that Sena and NCP would be in power, while Congress would be the largest party in the opposition to defuse BJP.” Raut further said that the MVA partners will try to contest the local body polls together, wherever possible. “There will not be any friendly fight, but in coordination if decided to contest separately.” Raut said he plans to soon discuss the poll strategy with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar of the NCP. NCP spokesperson and minister for skill development Nawab Malik said that MVA’s prime intention will be to keep BJP away from the power. “The MVA strategy will be depending on the party strength in local bodies. Wherever necessary, the three parties will contest together so that BJP should not benefit,” he concurred. On the BMC polls Malik said, “We feel that Sena-NCP-Congress should fight together in BMC.” The five municipal corporations to go to polls within the next six months are Navi Mumbai, Aurangabad, Vasai-Virar, Kolhapur and Kalyan-Dombivli, while 10 others—Mumbai, Thane, Ulhasnagar, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Solapur, Nashik, Akola, Amravati and Nagpur—will hold elections between February and March 2022. The civic polls in Bhiwandi, Malegaon, Latur, Parbhani and Chandrapur will be held in April-May 2022, besides a few municipal councils and zilla parishads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sena-ncp-to-fight-local-body-polls-together-cong-undecided/articleshow/81143693.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Goa||Goa: Ex-Navyman chases his dream on a cycle as he pedals to see India’s entire coastline||PANAJI: When one approaches their late-50s, and that salt ‘n’ pepper look gets increasingly difficult to hide, most look forward to their retirement and a quiet life. But not Milind Tambe. At 56, the Mumbaikar has started pedalling along India’s coastline to see how much “torture his body can take” before he hangs up his boots. Tambe, a former naval architect, along with software engineer Aakash Sinha, plan to cycle from Mumbai to Kanyakumari and from Kanyakumari to Kolkata. They completed the first leg from Mumbai to Goa on Sunday, cycling into Panaji after a tiring but enriching eight-day journey. They had a third colleague, Shriram Kondhawekar, when they started out from Mumbai, but Kondhwekar had to drop out after a family member fell ill. Milind Tambe (right) with his riding partner Aakash Sinha, an engineerTambe always had the desire to see India’s entire coastline, including the islands, but family commitments, his marine consultancy venture and work pressures kept him from chasing his dream. It was only in December, while on a trek in the Himalayas, that he decided to give it a shot. However, he isn’t chasing any records. “Being from the forces, I am a strong believer that your body can endure a hell lot of torture, and I want to see how much of torture my body can take at this stage,” said Tambe. “If you keep your mind and your body separate, your body can go to extreme levels.” Tambe and Sinha, 30, have never cycled long distances, and their month-long preparation involved 25-km runs every alternate day. On weekends, they would try and cover 100 km to get their body in shape. To cap it all, Sinha, who plays professional football, has taken to cycling for the first time since completing his SSC. “We start riding from 6am, and we pedal for sometime and then stop for breakfast. We take a few pit-stops around noon and then have lunch around 1pm. We find accommodation and then work and explore around,” said Sinha, is currently building an AI-powered solution for his company. Yes, they are working while cycling. The duo works from noon to night where-ever they halt for lunch. “We cycle for half a day and in the second half, I coordinate with my colleagues and work with them. By 9pm or 10pm, I finish work. Except for weekends and a day here and there when the network was bad, I have been working during this time,” says Sinha. The two, on their aluminium-frame cycles, have taken the less travelled but scenic route that has seen them hugging the coastline for 70% of their journey. Along the way, they have also seen that the pandemic has done little to dampen people’s kindness. From strangers stopping to talk to people helping them fix flats, Tambe and Sinha have surprisingly positive stories to tell. “We are doing around 10 km per hour, and when you live life at 10km per hour, you see so many things that you otherwise tend to miss when you travel at 50 km per hour,” said Tambe. “When you pedal, you see a lot of things. When you go slow and reduce your pace of life, things become beautiful.” The duo will spend time in Goa till February 25 and will then return to Mumbai, where work beckons. Once summer is complete, they will pick up where they left off and complete their next leg from Goa to Kanyakumari, and from there, they aim to cycle all the way to Kolkata in one go.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-navyman-chases-his-dream-on-a-cycle-as-he-pedals-to-see-indias-entire-coastline/articleshow/81143194.cms||Newton Sequeira
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||KTPS floats tender for installing FGDs on 3 units||Nagpur: The Koradi Thermal Power Station (KTPS), run by Mahagenco, has floated a tender to install flue gas desulphurisers (FGDs) on its three 660MW units. It had awarded the tender to a public sector undertaking (PSU) last year, but later cancelled it as this PSU had collaboration with a Chinese company. The FGDs control sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions. A Mahagenco spokesperson said the cost of the tender was around Rs800 crore. “The last date for submission of the bids was February 17, but as some companies sought extension, the last date has been extended to February 24. So far three companies have bid for the tender,” he added. The ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) had made installation of FGD on one 660MW unit mandatory in the environmental clearance granted to the three 660MW units in 2010. However, Mahagenco has not installed a single FGD so far. According to sources in Mahagenco, the awarded contract would not have to be cancelled had the top officials shown some speed in processing the tender. The FGD tender was floated in December 2019 and for months there was no progress on it. Sunil Dahiya, analyst in Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA), charged Mahagenco with apathy towards installation of FGDs. “As per the deadline given by the MoEFCC, Mahagenco has to install FGD on 660MW unit 10 by December 2020 and on remaining four units by March 2021. The officials very well know that it takes two years to install an FGD after the work order is issued. If the officials were serious, they would have started the tender process months ago. According to data submitted to Central Electricity Authority (CEA), the officials were conducting feasibility study till November 2019,” said Dahiya. The environmentalist further flayed Mahagenco for informing CEA about cancellation of tenders. The CEA website shows that the bids for units 8, 9 and 10 have been opened. According to an MoEFCC report, the level of sulphur dioxide (SO2) in Koradi area is between 7 and 14 times the permissible levels. FGDs absorb SO2 and thus reduce sulphur pollution. According to experts, the FGDs are must for Koradi and Khaparkheda power plants as they are close to Nagpur, having population of over 3 million.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ktps-floats-tender-for-installing-fgds-on-3-units/articleshow/81141765.cms||Ashish Roy
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||8,000 cops get ‘covid alert’ to take vaccine||Nagpur: The police department has come up with an innovative idea of bulk messaging pattern to policemen asking them to take the vaccine “as and when get the SMS”. The alert message has already reached 8,000 cops from the department cautioning them about the resurgence of the virus and advising them to take medicines and other precautions. The message, which reads, “Dear all, corona is again spreading on the city. You are advised to take the vaccine as and when you get the SMS...”, also have the names of the medicines suggested for cops and their families. It has the advisories for them to follow like repeated inhalation, drinking warm water and checking of oxygen saturation and fever periodically. Last year, 17 policemen had died of coronavirus and 1,638 had tested positive. Another 1,468 family members of policemen too were positive. City police chief Amitesh Kumar ensured the innovative advisory was issued to the force under him. Apart from almost staring at another lockdown enforcement duty with the increasing numbers of cases, Kumar is also at present challenged with the rising crime graph in the city especially murders for which he had to channelize police stations, crime branch and traffic wing staffers simultaneously in different operations leading to the more vulnerability of cops. The police units are at present tasked with rounding up and checking thousands of criminals to reign them in as per the mammoth ‘surveillance list’ prepared to zero down upon them following their crime records. With the viral infection seemingly having made a comeback with numbers of cases rising, at present 46 policemen are active positive. The top cop, who has already made antigen testing must for the accused before arrest, has now also started making provisions for meeting emergency situations related to Covid in the department. “We have already vaccinated 1,993 personnel while 1,640 likely to have developed antibodies post the infection. The rest of 50% staffers will need to be vaccinated in the coming days,” Kumar said. He further said, “We have sent advisory messages to 8,000 cops but we can’t force them to take the vaccine. We can only motivate them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8000-cops-get-covid-alert-to-take-vaccine/articleshow/81141768.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||Wardha farmers leaders booked for protest meet||Wardha: A case has been filed against farmer leaders of Wardha Jilha Shetkari-Kamgar Samanvay Samiti at City police station. A meeting of farmers leaders from New Delhi was planned at Bajaj Square on Saturday, where hundreds of farmers gathered despite Covid restrictions, though main speaker Rakesh Tikait had not come. In support of the farmers' agitation in New Delhi, a protest has been going on for the last 68 days at Bajaj Square by more than 40 organizations in Wardha. The agitation is being carried out under the name Wardha Jilha Shetkari-Kamgar Andolan Samanvay Samiti. Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait was scheduled to visit the agitation tent on Saturday. Due to rise in coronavirus cases in city and district, district collector Prerana Deshbhratar has imposed restrictions on gatherings of more than 5 persons, all rallies or any social events. Meanwhile, police refused permission for the public gathering when permission for the meeting was sought from the committee. Rakesh Tikait did not attend the meeting as his visit was cancelled due to Covid restrictions. However, some farmer leaders from New Delhi who are colleagues of Tikait arrived in the city, and a bike rally was held from Dhuniwale Math to Bajaj Square. Hundreds of farmers from the district attended the meeting. As a result, city police filed a case against farmer leader Avinash Kakde, Anil Javade, Neeraj Gujar, Mangesh Shende, Gajendra Surkar, and Shrikant Taral for violating the Covid restriction order. Police said section 144 has been enforced in the district due to increase in coronavirus cases. Cops have filed a case against the leaders under Sections 188, 269 of IPC and Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act for violating the rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-farmers-leaders-booked-for-protest-meet/articleshow/81143200.cms||Balwant Dhage
February 22, 2021||Patna||Jehanabad SP among 7 IPS officers transferred||Patna: Jehanabad SP Meenu Kumari and six other IPS officers were transferred on Sunday night. Meenu has been made SP in Vigilance Investigation Bureau. BMP-10 commandant Deepak Ranjan will be Jehanabad SP. Nilesh Kumar has been made SP training (STF). Rashid Jaman will be SP in special branch. Rajeev Ranjan has been posted as SP (operation) in the STF wing. Katihar ASP Hari Mohan Shukla has been made SP (security) in special branch with additional charge of SSG commandant. Saharsa ASP Baliram Kumar Chaudhary has been made home guard commandant in Patna with additional charge of assistant state fire officer. BMP-5 commandant Harpreet Kaur has been given additional charge of BMP-10 commandant. BMP-8 commandant Manoj Kumar Tiwari will handle additional charge of commandant of 2nd battalion of industrial security force. AIG (training) Satyanarayan Kumar will handle additional charge of SP (wireless).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jehanabad-sp-among-7-ips-officers-transferred/articleshow/81141767.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||MD worth 5.72 lakh, car of accused seized||Nagpur: The special cell of the crime branch intercepted around 58 gms of Mephedrone powder, known as MD in local parlance, worth more than Rs5.72 lakh from two peddlers who were bringing the consignment to the city in a car on Saturday. The car, worth more than Rsfour lakh, and four mobile phones too have been seized from Sayyad Sajjad alias Sadam Liyaquat Ali and his accomplice Vinek Sandekar. The team was led by senior inspector Sarthak Nehete, APIs Bajirao Kurel and Suraj Suroshe under the supervision of Addl CP Sunil Phulari and DCP Gajanan Rajmane. It’s learnt that Ali and Sandekar had flown to Mumbai on February 16. They purchased a car in Mumbai and were bringing the consignment by road when they were trapped near gate number one of Ambajhari Ordnance Factory. Ali already has two offences registered against him. An offence was registered at Wadi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/md-worth-5-72-lakh-car-of-accused-seized/articleshow/81143202.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Dehradun||Nainital ropeway becomes functional after a year; free rides offered on first day||Nainital: The Nainital ropeway, which was undergoing maintenance for over a year, finally became functional on Sunday. The ropeway operated by Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam (KMVN) is a major tourist attraction in the lake town and ferries tourists from town to locations like Snow View Point. The ropeway was free for locals as well as tourists on Sunday and hundreds thronged the Mallital ropeway station to take a ride. Officials said that KMVN will start charging for the rides from Monday onwards. “The ropeway was closed for upgrades since last year but now it is fully functional. Around Rs 1.3 crore have been spent on it and it has been made fully automatic. The ropeway can now be operated even at night,” said an official of the KMVN, adding that it will help in easing the traffic as many people were taking cars to the upper reaches of Nainital when the ropeway was not functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nainital-ropeway-becomes-functional-after-a-year-free-rides-offered-on-first-day/articleshow/81139941.cms||Prashant Jha
February 22, 2021||Aurangabad||One Day-One Village to boost agri production: MSEDCL||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), as a part of its ongoing public outreach campaign ‘One Day-One Village’ in Marathwada, has been offering different tangible benefits to the consumers, including reduction in th transformer repair time to about one month. While the transformer repair time was earlier up to three months, the reduced time for the desired maintenance has been offering relatively smoother electric supply in the rural areas.Dnyaneshwar Ardad, MSEDCL public relations officer for Aurangabad zone, said the success of ‘One Day-One Village’ drive has also reflected in terms of the rate of transformer failure coming down from 16.4 per cent to 11.7 per cent in Aurangabad district. “The drive has covered 838 villages from Aurangabad district alone and resolved 65,373consumers complaints on the spot. The ongoing public outreach campaign covering rural areas would definitely increase agricultural production as farmers and others can have smooth power supply,” he said.Brainchild of state power utility’s joint managing director (Aurangabad region) Naresh Gite, the campaign has been witnessing engineers and other staff directly visiting every village to resolve different problems faced by the consumers.“As many as 65,373 works related to maintenance have been carried out so far under the drive in Aurangabad district. The works include checking the oil level in transformers, removing the sludge in the power cables, cutting tree branches that obstruct power lines, repairing distribution boxes, checking of earthing, replacement of rusted poles, straightening of bent poles and replacement of dangerous service wires,” Ardad said. Besides, the drive has also witnessed 8,428 works such as replacement of faulty electricity meters, correction of electricity bills, installation of meters outside the houses and new power connections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/one-day-one-village-to-boost-agri-production-msedcl/articleshow/81141772.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Double murder accused on the run hangs self||Navi Mumbai: A murder accused, pursued by the Panvel city police for killing a mother and daughter, has allegedly committed suicide by hanging from a tree in the forest area close to his native village in Hingoli district. Prakash More had stabbed Sujata (19), whom he wanted to marry, and her mother Surekha Balkhande in his neighbourhood in a Panvel taluka village after his proposal was rejected on Friday and had escaped. On Sunday, More posted on Facebook that he was committing suicide. He also called his mother and told her the same. While the Panvel cops rushed in to thwart him, the forest officer of a nearby village informed about a man found hanging from a tree. The cops have confirmed his identity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/double-murder-accused-on-the-run-hangs-self/articleshow/81143209.cms||George Mendonca
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Driver held for selling PDS rice||Hyderabad: Uppal police arrested a 21-year-old driver, Moiz Hussain, of Bholakpur, for indulging in illegal sale of PDS rice. Acting on specific information, police conducted a raid near Uppalama Temple in Berappagada and arrested Hussain, who was trying to transport 30 quintals of PDS rice in a van to Nacharam. Hussain confessed to police that he purchased 1kg of PDS rice for Rs 5 and sold the same to poultry farmers in Nacharam at a higher price. Police seized the rice and the van. The accused will be remanded in judicial custody. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/driver-held-for-selling-pds-rice/articleshow/81143205.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Dehradun||DMC approves Rs 10 cr budget, focus on performing better in Swachh Sarvekshan||Dehradun: The working committee of Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) has approved a budget of Rs 10 crore during its first meeting for the year 2021. The meeting was chaired by mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama who put emphasis on achieving star ranking in the Swachh Survekshan 2021. To this end, a budget of Rs 50 lakh has been set aside. As door-to-door collection of garbage plays a crucial role in deciding the rankings, DMC will also buy vehicles for garbage collection in 31 new wards. According to officials, some of the vehicles for door-to-door collection will be managed by the agency hired for the purpose, while the remaining vehicles will be purchased by the DMC. The approved budget earmarks Rs 10 lakh for each ward. The funds will be used to complete pending development works, including the construction of drains. Additionally, the working committee has also decided to charge money for issuing a no objection certificate for cutting down trees for any construction activity from residential and commercial property owners. It has been decided that Rs 2,000 will be charged per tree from residential property owners and Rs 10,000 in case of commercial properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-approves-rs-10-cr-budget-focus-on-performing-better-in-swachh-sarvekshan/articleshow/81140446.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||50-yr-old man found dead in Saroornagar||Hyderabad: A 50-year-old man was found dead near a nala in Saroornagar. Locals alerted cops about the body, who shifted it for PME. A case was registered under section 174 of CrPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-yr-old-man-found-dead-in-saroornagar/articleshow/81143212.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||Covid labs again flooded with swab samples round the clock||Nagpur: The five public labs — IGGMCH, GMCH, AIIMS, NEERI, and NU — are now working under immense pressure with samples rising exponentially within a week. The five labs on Sunday collectively performed RTPCR on over 3,100 samples, a jump of over 1,000 from February 15. At the same time, 1,705 rapid antigen tests (RAT) were also done. Covid warriors in some labs have now started working in three shifts beyond 12am to ensure there are no backlogs. Sources say 6,000 to 7,000 samples are being received in 24 hours. The need to have additional shifts was felt after NMC and other agencies started sending samples at any time. The five labs collectively have an approximate per day capacity of 3,600 RTPCR tests. Just a week back, the labs would receive samples only once a day and staff had to work only in morning and afternoon shifts, officials said. Some lab staff questioned the district and civic administration’s decision to perform RTPCR on each suspect. “Ideally, the swab collection centres must first use rapid antigen test (RAT) and then use RTPCR judiciously on persons showing symptoms but getting a negative RAT,” they said. This flooding of samples has left the lab staff fatigued and stressed, officials say. Also, the large amount of samples has led to errors in entry real of time data. In December, NMC had streamlined the distribution of samples and asked all collection centres to send samples as per the capacity of each lab. But, again the labs have started receiving more samples than the fixed limit. The city is also now one lab short of its earlier capacity, as MAFSU lab has stopping Covid testing. Civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar didn’t answer TOI’s calls and messages. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said as of now there is nothing to worry. “Our testing capacity is much higher,” he said. However, he didn’t comment when asked about burden on lab staff and stretching the capacity of testing machine. Some lab officials said the administration must understand RTPCR is gold standard for a different reason, while need of the hour is to detect as many positive persons as possible in the community. “Each round of RTPCR requires at least three hours to give the result. In one round two plates having 90 to 100 samples are processed. A 30 minute break has to be given to the machine or else it will break down. On Saturday, we had to process 12 plates which took 18 hours of work,” said a top official. Official from another lab said the post-midnight working on samples is not recommended because it affects the quality of result. “But we are helpless. We have to deliver results the same day,” the official said, adding that right now this kind of load can be easily avoided by increasing RAT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-labs-again-flooded-with-swab-samples-round-the-clock/articleshow/81141775.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||480 ‘Charlie’ cops will patrol localities in ‘camouflage fatigues’||Nagpur: Around 480 beat marshal constables, who are identified as ‘Charlies’, would be soon found patrolling in localities in ‘camouflage fatigues’ or commando-like uniforms as a measure to control crime. Their visible patrolling is planned to reign in illegal activities and also improve vigilance at the grass roots level. The police department is also procuring 120 bikes which would be modified to fit special accessories to meet emergencies and also assist in discharging their functions. This is part of the revamp of the traditional ‘beat marshal’ system under city police chief Amitesh Kumar. The change is expected to also bring in smarter looking two-wheelers which would be upgraded too. The beat marshals would be expected to work as the ‘first responders’ to any situation after the control room get an alert call. Kumar said workshops are being organized for beat marshals by the three additional CP level officers, where they are being imparted training to ensure calls are get response in right manner and promptly, apart from other duties. “A beat marshal buddy pair is expected to reach the spot of incident within five minutes of the control room issuing the alert,” said the top cop. “The beat marshals are expected to crack down upon illegal rackets like gambling and bootlegging in each locality. They would also be expected to hold meetings of local residents as ‘shantata committee’ or peace committee or mohalla committees for developing local contacts and networks,” he said. Kumar has said the beat marshals would also have names of criminals and past offenders of their areas, which they shall check to collect information about their current activities and whereabouts. “The idea to give them camouflage uniform is to ensure their visits have a surprise element to catch the goons unaware and put them on the defensive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/480-charlie-cops-will-patrol-localities-in-camouflage-fatigues/articleshow/81143210.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||NCPA cancels live shows due to Covid spike||Mumbai: Barely 18 days after reopening to the public, the National Centre for Performing Arts (NCPA) Sunday cancelled live shows owing to the resurgence of the pandemic. The city’s leading cultural venue located at Nariman Point had reopened as recently as February 3 after 11 months of lockdown. “The safety of the artistes, members of the public and our employees is a priority at the NCPA. In the wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, we felt it prudent to postpone our events. We hope to welcome back audiences soon to our theatres in the safest manner possible,” its chairman Khushroo Suntook said. NCPA has five theatres, namely Tata Theatre, Godrej Dance Theatre, Experimental Theatre, Jamshed Bhabha Theatre and Little Theatre. Additionally, there is the Piramal Art Gallery, Open Air Plaza, Tata Theatre Garden and Experimental Theatre Garden among other sites. The centre will issue refunds for tickets to patrons. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncpa-cancels-live-shows-due-to-covid-spike/articleshow/81141807.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar launches telemedicine, digital health services in Bihar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday said his government would make such a better arrangement of health and medicare services in Bihar that no person would need to go outside the state for treatment. Addressing a health department’s event after launching digital services like e-Sanjeevani telemedicine facility, Wonder app, referral transport tracking system for ambulance and Ashwin portal, he said, “We have taken a resolve to provide such health services in the state that no one will require to go outside Bihar. If anyone wants to go outside the state for treatment on his/her own wish, it is a different matter.” After launching the digital health-related services, Nitish said through the e-Sanjeevani, patients living in the remote villages would be provided medical advice through videoconference linked to the primary health centres and district level Sadar hospitals. Similarly, the Wonder app would help in providing better medicare to pregnant women. “By use of the referral transport tracking system, people would get better and timely ambulance facility. Through the Ashwin portal, the ASHA workers would get their remuneration on time,” Nitish said. The CM further asked the health department officials to inform people about the technology-based advance facilities so that maximum number of people could be benefited from such facilities across the state. On the occasion, the rural development department and health department officials signed an MoU through which the Jeevika members are empowered to run ‘Didi Ki Rasoi’, a canteen, in all district and sub-divisional hospitals across the state. As per the MoU, all indoor patients at government hospitals will be provided meals from the Jeevika canteen. No other canteen will be allowed to run where the Jeevika will operate its ‘Didi Ki Rasoi’. Nitish further asked the officials to use social media platforms to highlight the achievements and good works of the state government and also to counter negative propaganda of some elements. Deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, health minister Mangal Pandey and principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit also addressed the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-launches-telemedicine-digital-health-services-in-state/articleshow/81141789.cms||Madan Kumar
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: A tryst with ‘little Europe’ on heritage boat ride||KOLKATA: Encouraged by the response and its potential to attract more tourists, West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) plans to include former European settlements like the Dutch at Chinsurah and Portugese in Bandel in its European Settlements Boat Ride (ESBR) along the Hooghly. However, to cover the entire stretch it may add a few more hours to the trip or use a faster vessel to reduce the journey time. Ambassador of Denmark to India, Freddy Svane took the ride on Sunday. Svane was surprised to see a packed vessel with enthusiastic riders eager to explore Danish and French history along the Hooghly. “European Settlements Boat Ride is a fantastic initiative. It is a part of the revitalization of the great history of Kolkata and West Bengal. It may be seen as a great step to re-look at European history in India,” said Svane. The ride was inaugurated on Valentine’s Day and has been totally sold out since then. The ESBR takes people to the settlements of Serampore and Chandernagore where the Danish and the French East India Company had established colonies. This 11-hour trip is like a perfect weekend getaway where one can travel with family and get absorbed in the history of Europe in India on a boat. “The journey takes you along the places where Europeans had settled and set up colonies hundreds of years ago. Travelling along the river is still the most romantic and ideal way to see these colonial structures,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, managing director, WBTC. Thomas Sehested, director, Danish Cultural Institute India, said: “The area is an important part of our common pre-colonial history.” Priti Paul of Oxford Bookstores, who took the ride recently, said: “It’s good to have such unique initiatives that make people understand history and appreciate global cultures.” The vessel has been decked up with souvenirs, photos, memorabilia of Europe and a library.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-tryst-with-little-europe-on-heritage-boat-ride/articleshow/81141787.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana conducts consultation to formulate space tech policy||HYDERABAD: In a bid to attract investments in the space sector that has been recently opened up to the private sector, the Telangana government is set to roll out a space tech policy for which it conducted an extensive stakeholder consultation. The policy aims to push domestic production of launch vehicles, satellite systems & sub-systems and ground equipment manufacturing. The policy will also provide equal emphasis on downstream applications of remote sensing that have the potential to solve real-life problems in agriculture, disaster management, insurance, urban flood modelling and forestry, among others. The consultation was attended by hardware startups, analytics startups and academia. Uma Maheshwaran, scientific secretary, ISRO, and Ravi Kumar, director, National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC) also participated in the event. Commenting on the development, Telangana IT and industries principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said, “Telangana is creating a holistic framework to develop an end-to-end space tech ecosystem in the state and attempt to capture the emerging global opportunities in space-related investments and innovations. This can potentially create a trickle-down impact on other areas of innovation such as universal connectivity and big data analytics for agriculture, remote education, disaster management.” Kranthi Chand, lead - special projects, Hyderabad-based space startup, Dhruva Space, pointed out that one of the major things that needs to be kept in mind before the policy is framed is that in the space sector, there is upstream application as well as downstream application. While upstream application is about planning of the mission, building a satellite, launching a satellite, collecting the data at a ground station level, the downstream application is all about what is done with the data. So, the policy needs to keep in mind both these applications. “So, for the upstream application players, the requirement would be more on land, providing electricity support, GST refund etc but when you go into downstream applications, sensitisation of various government departments on how to procure such data is important …,” Chand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-conducts-consultation-to-formulate-space-tech-policy/articleshow/81143216.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||5 TB dists from city stake claim to rewards for decline in cases||Mumbai: Five tuberculosis districts from Mumbai and six from the rest of Maharashtra have been nominated for the first-ever national contest rewarding decline in TB incidence. These districts have claimed a 20-40% reduction in cases between 2015- 2020. Across India, 74 districts have submitted claims, the highest number being from Kerala (14). Last year, the centre had called for this “healthy competition” to give an impetus to the drive against tuberculosis. The rewards for an entire state range between Rs 10lakh and Rs1 crore. For districts, it starts from Rs 2lakh (bronze), Rs 3lakh (silver), Rs 5 lakh (gold) and Rs 10lakh for ‘TB-free status’, which refers to a 80% reduction in incidence. Prabhadevi (G south), Parel (F south), Ghatkopar (N), Grant Road (D) and Centenary (M East) have entered the competition from the city. All but Parel have applied for bronze, claiming an incidence drop of 20%. Parel, claiming a reduction of 40%, has applied for the silver category. In 2012, Mumbai’s 24 civic wards were categorised into TB districts following the discovery of totally drug resistant strains. While smaller wards, such as A, B and C were clubbed into one district, wards with higher TB burden such as L and M east were split. M east, that was the city’s biggest hotbed for drug-resistant TB, was split into Centenary and Govandi. “We hope to win at least in some as TB incidence in Mumbai has shown a steady decline,” said Dr Pranita Tipre, head of TB programme, BMC. A team of experts from the National Institute of Epidemiology and National Institute for Research in TB, Chennai, Indian Association for Preventive and Social Medicine (IAPSM) and the WHO’s country office will be verifying the claims based on multiple parameters. IAPSM representative Dr Lalit Sankhe said a door-to-door survey has been started to study prevalence, wherein samples will be collected and checked for TB. “An important element of claim verification will also be studying drug consumption in private pharmacies and public sector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-tb-dists-from-city-stake-claim-to-rewards-for-decline-in-cases/articleshow/81143220.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||Petrol rates may be a week away from Rs100/litre||Nagpur: With petrol price touching Rs97.51 a litre in the city, the rates were only Rs2.49 away from the Rs100-mark on Sunday. On the other hand, diesel rates have eased by 23 paise since February 1. Petrol prices have gone up by Rs4.14 a litre in February. This is an increase of Rs6.66 since December last year. The major hike happened only in February. On February 11, petrol rates were increased by 45 paise a litre — the highest in a day, so far. The month saw a rate hike for 14 days. With an average increase of 30 paise each day, the Rs100-mark may be just eight days away, though there was no hike on Saturday. The premium petrol is already at Rs100.3 a litre in the city. At Rs96.87, the fuel is cheapest in Akola among the district places in Vidarbha. Amravati has the highest rate of Rs98.36 a litre, according to the pricing app of one of the oil marketing companies. A little further crossing into Madhya Pradesh, it’s in the range of Rs99.87 to even Rs100 a litre. A petrol pump owner says business has still not reached the pre-Covid level as increased rates have also hit the sales. Vilas Salpekar, executive committee member of Federation of All Maharashtra Petrol Dealers Association (FAMPEDA), said rising prices have reduced sales in the range of 10% to 15%. The overall sales are still 80% of the pre-Covid times and now there is a further hit, he said. Infrastructure works going on around the city have also affected sales in some outlets. The work has hampered access at certain pumps which has affected sales too, he said. “People do complain of high rates. Customers complain that incomes are already down and they have to pay more for fuel. Generally, consumers used to fill up for Rs100 at least. Now, they have reduced it to Rs70 to Rs80,” said an attendant at Salpekar petrol pump in Sitabuldi. Navnit Kamble, who runs Khair Mohamed Bakery and Kusum Bakrey in Sadar, says, “There has been an across the board increase in the rates of raw materials. We had to pass on the increase in some of the items, which has also left the customers displeased.” Shahid Sharif, a consumer activist, says he has come across instances of vehicle pooling to save money. A food delivery boy said, “We had demanded an increase in the commission due to rising petrol rates. The company has agreed for a hike from Monday. Hope it covers the cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/petrol-rates-may-be-a-week-away-from-rs100/litre/articleshow/81143235.cms||Shishir Arya
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||4 steppe eagles among 7 raptorselectrocuted at Jorbeer habitat||Jaipur: Electrocution has become the top cause of death of raptors at Jorbeer habitat, the hub of migratory birds of prey in the state. Despite a pact, signed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to protect these birds, the winged guests have not been provided protection as the state has failed to effectively manage the Jorbeer habitat, which hosts the highest number of raptors in Asia. On Sunday, carcasses of seven raptors - four steppe eagles, two Egyptian vultures and one Eurasian griffon - were recovered from the Udairamsar region of the dumping site. A steppe eagle, which was severely injured after perching on a power line, was also rescued by environmentalists. Dr Dau Lal Bohra of Save Vulture Community, Bikaner, said, “When the MoU was signed four years ago, it was thought that monitoring and research on migratory species of raptors would increase. But nothing has been done till date and birds of prey are becoming victims of power lines due to lack of coordination among government agencies.” Thousands of raptors, which come under the Wildlife Protection Act, have been sighted this season at the dumping site, a forest staff said. But nothing much has been done for the conservation of birds as the dumping site land is in close proximity to a power house. “In 2016, when the PM signed the ‘Raptor MoU’, India became the 54th signatory to it. As a signatory, the state agreed to work for the conservation of raptor species and their habitats. The MoU extends its coverage to 76 species of birds of prey. Out of this, 46 species are found in India. The matter of electrocution is of grave concern, but can only be resolved at the state government level,” a source said. Green activists claim the country spends crores of rupees for captive breeding of vultures in Pinjore, Haryana, and has plans to release 200 pairs into the wild by 2026. However, although Jorbeer is a natural habitat, the state government is not paying heed. “A conversion plan for the site should be prepared. The state has not made any effort to be part of the Vulture Conservation in India (2020-2025), despite having the highest population. The state should take steps to sincerely conserve its bird population,” said Rahul Tyagi, a birdwatcher who visits Jorbeer annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-steppe-eagles-among-7-raptorselectrocuted-at-jorbeer-habitat/articleshow/81143233.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Dehradun||First phase of bird survey documents over 402 species in Corbett||Nainital: The first phase of the Corbett Tiger Reserve’s (CTR’s) first-ever bird survey has documented over 402 species spread across the region. The three-day first phase which concluded this week has identified 11 types of woodpeckers along with five species of barbets and five types of parakeet, among many other species of birds. It is estimated that Corbett has around 500 bird species. However, no official survey has been done as yet to document the exact number of bird species in the reserve. Speaking to TOI, Shah Belal, senior wildlife biologist at CTR, said that the three-day survey reiterated that there is little to be concerned about the Great Hornbill species whose numbers were believed to be decreasing. “The birds indicate the health of a forest. Till now, it was believed that there are around 500 bird species here but we now estimate that the number is much higher. We have also found Great Hornbills in several habitats which allay the fear that their numbers are decreasing,” he said. The survey, which concluded this week, was undertaken by 26 teams — each with a bird expert and two to three volunteers. The teams had divided the Kalagarh and the Ramnagar regions of the reserve into 26 points and each group was tasked with surveying one point. Belal added that the next two phases of the survey will be conducted after the monsoon season and during winters to document the migratory birds which could not be covered in the current survey. “There are several migratory species which cannot be documented in spring. Therefore, we will have to conduct two more phases and by the end of this year, we aim to document all the bird species in CTR,” he said. Though several grassland birds like Bush Chat, Warbler and Accentor have also been documented but not many species could be found in the grasslands of Dhikala due to the ongoing fire management exercise to contain wildfires. “We aim to document the rest of the bird species in the next two phases,” Belal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/first-phase-of-bird-survey-documents-over-402-species-in-corbett/articleshow/81139982.cms||Prashant Jha
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||Less than 20% frontline workers from NMC, municipal councils in district take vaccine||Nagpur: Only 19% of scheduled frontline workers (FLWs) from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and municipal councils of the district have taken the Covid-19 vaccine in 17 days. The turnout is less as compared to healthcare workers (HCWs). The achievement is less even as the NMC and municipal councils are executing agencies for the vaccination programme in their areas. NMC and municipal councils had started inoculation of FLWs from February 5 and conducted it on 13 days till February 20. The vaccination programme saw 41,414 FLWs from departments falling under housing and urban affairs, revenue and home affairs getting registering in the district. As on February 20, only 11,062 (26.71%) FLWs had taken the jab. From NMC and municipal councils, 17,237 employees had registered. State and central police had registred 17,620 personnel, followed by 5,498 from panchayat institutions (staff on Covid duty from Zilla Parishad and gram panchayats) and 1,059 from revenue department working with collector and divisional commissioner office. According to NMC and ZP officials, scheduling of 75% of registered FLWs from home affairs, revenue and urban affairs was completed as on February 20. It means around 12,928 FLWs from NMC and municipal councils were scheduled for vaccination. Only 2,371 (18.34%) took the jab. The turnout is more for state and central police. Out of the 13,215 scheduled FLWs, 7,275 (55%) turned up for the inoculation. In revenue department, scheduling of around 794 FLW was done, out of which 310 (39%) were administered the vaccine. The vaccination of FLWs from panchayat institutions started late. Among the 17,237 registered FLWs from urban affairs, around 15,000 are from the NMC. NMC officials told TOI, “Vaccination is voluntary and not compulsory. Messages were given on Co-WIN application, and calls were made from NMC control room and vaccination centres. We are planning floor-wise or department-wise vaccination of NMC employees from Monday. We will provide buses from NMC head office and other offices to vaccination centres so that more and more can avail the benefit,” they said. President of NMC employees union Surendra Tingne said, “All employees should take vaccine as they come in contact with citizens on daily basis. Many employees have contracted the disease and some have died. We will hold meetings and create awareness about vaccination,” he said. NMC officials said majority of around 7,000 sanitary workers are not taking the jab. President of sanitary workers’ union Kishor Samundre said, “Sanitary workers are not aware of vaccination as NMC did not issue any circular. They need vaccine as they work on streets, sewage lines. I will inquire with NMC officials and encourage sanitary workers to take the jab,” he said. Sources from the NMC said the government has set deadline of February 27 for first dose of FLWs. “Chances are there will be extension as in case of HCWs,” said sources. Vaccinating all FLWs within deadline seems a distant possibility. Of the 47,175 HCWs registered in the district, 27,948 (59.24%) have taken the jab in 37 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-than-20-frontline-workers-from-nmc-municipal-councils-in-district-take-vaccine/articleshow/81141834.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Student dies in accident, friend booked for giving bike||HYDERABAD: A 20-year-old dental college student died at KPHB colony when her scooter was hit by a truck. As she did not have a driving license, police booked a case of culpable homicide against her friend for giving her a scooter despite knowing that she did not have a license. The truck driver was booked for causing death due to negligent driving. The deceased, M Adhi Reshma, 20, was a native of Badwel in Kadapa district of Andhra Pradesh. She was a student of Dental College in Gulbarga, Karnataka. On February 20, Reshma along with her friends, Sreeja, Mamatha, Ajay Singh and Sravan Kumar went to GSM Mall at Madeenaguda to watch a movie. After watching the movie, at around 11.40pm, while they were returning to KPHB colony on two-wheelers, Reshma lost balance of her scooter when a water tanker overtook her at a high speed and fell on the road. A truck coming from behind ran over Reshma and she died on the spot. After the accident, the truck driver abandoned the vehicle and fled from the scene, KPHB police said. During the investigation, police found out that Reshma’s friend Ajay Kumar gave her the scooter despite knowing that she did not have a driver’s license. Reshma also did not wear a helmet, police said. Police booked a case against Ajay Kumar under section 304 (ii) of the IPC and truck driver Krishna was booked under section 304-A of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/student-dies-in-accident-friend-booked-for-giving-bike/articleshow/81143229.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Roadblock for Ambedkar bridge work a boon for foot overbridges||KOLKATA: Taking advantage of the roadblock put up for the load testing of the Ambedkar bridge on EM Bypass, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), the implementing agency for the New Garia-Airport Metro project, has overnight constructed the basic structure of one of the two foot overbridges (FOBs) to access the nearby Ritwik Ghatak Metro station. The EM Bypass’s keeper, KMDA that is also responsible for maintenance of some of the city’s bridges, has taken a roadblock from Kolkata Police’s traffic department for the Ruby-bound flank. The roadblock started from 11pm on Friday. Having utilised the roadblock, RVNL on Friday night launched three girders of the FOB on the flank, where vehicles have been barred. It took nine hours — from midnight till 9am on Saturday to complete the job. This way, RVNL has done its work in what is called a “shadow block”. An RVNL engineer said, “The traffic block was already there for KMDA’s work. So we didn’t have to seek another traffic block from Kolkata Police. Our schedule coincided with the existing block and we completed the FOB’s work within the time frame.” Construction of the 32km Metro corridor has been saddled with land logjams and delay in availability of site as the traffic department is unable to free stretches. “We have to wait for months to get traffic blocks. For this FOB, when we had sought the traffic block two months ago, but Tiljala police station told us to wait until KMDA took its roadblock. So the job was done without delay,” said the RVNL engineer. The FOB girder-launching will be followed by construction of deck slab and roofs. “But these will be automatic. No traffic block is needed for the rest of the FOB construction,” said the engineer. Similarly, girder-launching for the other FOB will be done next weekend when KMDA takes another roadblock for load testing on the other flank. Loaded trucks are being mounted on the 30-year-old structure, which is crucial for vehicular movement on the Bypass. Located near PC Chandra Gardens, it was listed by the engineering consultancy firm, RITES, in 2016 among the five bridges in need of immediate repairs. The bridge’s expansion joints have been replaced. Now it’s time for load test when deflection of the bridge’s components (deck slab, bearings, piers and cables) is being scanned under static and dynamic load. The results will be sent to the bridge monitoring committee set up after the Majerhat ROB collapse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/roadblock-for-ambedkar-bridge-work-a-boon-for-fob/articleshow/81141851.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 22, 2021||Patna||Bihar has average 53.71 fresh Covid cases daily||PATNA: Though no new variant of Covid-19 virus has been detected in Bihar till Sunday, the state witnessed a slight increase in the number of fresh cases with 94 more people testing positive during the past 24 hours. This was more than what Bihar registered in the past one week, that was average 53.71 cases per day from February 14 to 20. In the seven days, only 38 new cases were registered on February 17 and maximum 67 on February 19 with active cases below 500. However, the fresh 94 cases took the number of active cases in state to 536. State health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said he has not got a report of any new variant in the state so far. But he advised people to follow the norms. “Put on a mask, use sanitiser and maintain social distance in any gathering. We are on alert mode and one thing should be clear that even after taking the vaccine, people should follow the norms,” he added. Following a spike in daily cases in several parts of the country recently, the Centre also wrote to all the states on Sunday to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests and subject the people found negative in rapid antigen test to mandatory RT-PCR test and maintain strict surveillance. When asked about the instruction from the Centre, Pratyaya said they have the capacity to test 20,000 to 22,000 samples through RT-PCR daily and a meeting will be held on Monday to discuss these issues. He further said Bihar was ready to tackle any situation. As per the press statement issued by the Centre, Maharashtra and Kerala alone had more than 74% of active cases in the country and a spike in daily cases were also being registered in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir. For instance, Maharashtra reported 6281 new cases on Sunday, followed by Kerala (4650), Karnataka (490), Tamil Nadu (438) and Punjab (352).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-has-average-53-71-fresh-covid-cases-daily/articleshow/81141867.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Scores of docs fail to get jab as names missing from app||Mumbai: A senior professor of medicine from JJ Hospital, Byculla, who was at the forefront treating Covid-19 cases when the pandemic struck, is now among the hundreds who haven’t managed to get the vaccine yet. Though the vaccination drive is a month old, scores of healthcare workers haven’t managed to get their names registered in the application, leave alone get vaccinated. At JJ Hospital alone, the names of an estimated 700 healthcare workers are yet to reflect in CoWin app, owing to which they haven’t got the vaccine yet. Across Maharashtra, the list of missing names is believed to be as high as 20,000, although state officials claimed they didn’t have an estimation of how many names are yet to be registered. Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, said the state has discussed the matter with the Centre on several occasions. “We have been told there is a freeze on registration for both health and frontline workers, but it will most likely be opened again,” he said. Physician Dr Krishnakant Dhebri, 68, from Girgaum has been running pillar to post since the past three weeks but hasn’t managed to get his name registered. “When the Covid-19 outbreak happened, the BMC asked us to keep our clinics running. But when it came to vaccination, a senior doctor is made to run around,” he said, questioning why the drive was so centralised that local authorities couldn’t even register legitimate beneficiaries despite ample doses being available. “Everybody in the institution knows we work here, yet we cannot be given the vaccine because of some software issues,” another senior doctor from Sion Hospital said.Immunisation head Dr Patil said the state was trying to give at least one dose of the vaccine to all 10.54lakh registered healthcare workers and 7lakh frontliners by the end of the month. So far, 6 lakh health workers and 2.5lakh frontliners have got at least one dose. “Once that is done, the registration of those who missed may be allowed again,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/scores-of-docs-fail-to-get-jab-as-names-missing-from-app/articleshow/81141872.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Phase-I bridge load test may be over by Monday||KOLKATA: Even as KMDA officials have indicated that they want to complete the load test on Ambedkar bridge in the next weekend by blocking the north-bound (Science City-bound) flank, cops are having second thoughts on the issue. The Phase-I test, for which the south Garia-bound flank was blocked, started last Friday and this work is likely to be over by Monday morning. There were traffic snarls on Saturday for the Phase-I work when the jam reached till Tagore Park in the south on Bypass and Metropolitan near Captain Bhery in the north . However, the traffic movement on EM Bypass was comparatively smoother on Sunday. “We want them (KMDA) to complete the work by March 1. There are some ground issues that cannot be ignored. Most importantly, two Brigade rallies have been planned in the next two weekends, the first by the Left and the other by BJP. Besides, we expect more activities at Trinamool Bhavan because of the impending elections. If VVIP movement starts, it will be difficult to allow work by blocking the road,” said a police officer. Police said a report by Tiltala traffic guard for Phase-I work and recommendations for Phase-II work will be sent to the headquarters soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/phase-i-bridge-load-test-may-be-over-today/articleshow/81141868.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||14-year-old girl married off in Gadchandur, rescued||Chandrapur: District child protection cell, in coordination with other agencies, rescued a minor girl who was married off to a man in Gadchandur. Police have registered offence against parents of the girl and also the groom and his parents. District child protection officer Ajay Sakharkar said a tip-off about a minor girl being married to a person in Gadchandur town in Korpana tehsil was received on helpline number of the Childline on Friday. Sakharkar immediately alerted relevant agencies and sought details about the girl in question, including her age, from the tehsil education officer. “We had information that the girl would be married by 4pm and hence we rushed to Gadchandur with coordinator of Childline and councillors. While our raiding party was still on its way, the education officer confirmed that the girl was just 14 years old. However, by the time we reached the spot, the marriage was solemnized,” he said. Sakharkar told that they immediately stalled further rituals and summoned the police, who booked the girl’s parents and the groom and his parents under relevant sections of law. “Marrying a minor is serious offence and such tradition is a blot on the society. The girl in this case was saved thanks to information given by concerned citizens,” he said. Sakharkar called upon the people having information about such child marriage to call on helpline number 1018 of Childline or approach local gram sevak, anganwadi teacher, rural integrated child development officer or nearest police station, and assured that name of the informer will be kept secret.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/14-year-old-girl-married-off-in-gadchandur-rescued/articleshow/81143245.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Maha Cong to discuss farm law agitation, poll readiness||Mumbai: The state Congress parliamentary board led by Nana Patole will meet in Mumbai on Tuesday to draft a strategy for the ensuing civic elections, agitation plan against the farm laws and strengthening of the organization at district- and tehsil-level. The Congress parliamentary board comprises 70 members, including most cabinet members, Balasaheb Thorat and former chief ministers Ashok Chavan, Prithviraj Chavan and Sushilkumar Shinde. Patole said he will review the party’s preparedness for municipal polls. While BMC polls are scheduled in 2022, elections to Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Aurangabad and other municipal corporations and 98 municipal councils are scheduled this year. “We will work out an action plan to ensure Congress secures majority in these corporations. Simultaneously, we will draft a strategy against anti-farmer laws imposed by PM Narendra Modi. District-wise meetings will be held from February 24-26,” he said. In addition, Patole said, a decision on a state-wide agitation against spiralling fuel prices too will be taken in the meeting. Even as CM Uddhav Thackeray has made it clear that Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP will contest the civic polls jointly, Patole said a decision will be taken after consulting district-level workers. “We will consult our activists at the grassroots level and then take a decision. When we formed the government with Sena and NCP, our aim was to keep BJP out of power,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-cong-to-discuss-farm-law-agitation-poll-readiness/articleshow/81143252.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||6-month-old given new breath of life||Amravati: Six-month-old Rakesh Rama Kasdekar is breathing a new life after being down with what medicos call ‘pleural effusion’. Thanks to the timely operation performed successfully by the doctors of the health department at district general hospital here, Rakesh is now breathing normally. Rakesh, a resident of tribal village Tembru in Chikhaldara tehsil of the district, had difficulty breathing on January 14. His parents were reluctant to take him to hospital. When health worker Smita Raut and Asha worker Sunita Kasdekar came to know about Rakesh’s condition, they counselled the parents and took the kid to Dr Sagar Kogade, who referred him to rural hospital, Churni where Dr Daraswar referred him to district general hospital here. All referral services were made available to the family. At district hospital, paediatricians checked his health and started treatment. Pleural effusion in chest was diagnosed. Despite giving all types of antibiotics, the infant’s health did not improve but deteriorated further. Civil surgeon (CS) Dr Shyam Sunder Nikam and additional CS Dr Fetish Humane were called and it was decided to operate upon the kid in their presence. A special plastic tube was inserted in the infant’s pleural space and the pus was taken out. Dr Santosh Raut performed this task, while Dr Nagalkar took care of the treatment. The end result was improvement in Rakesh’s health, who is now breathing normally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-month-old-given-new-breath-of-life/articleshow/81143250.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||Medical insurers rejecting claims over hospital stay of some Covid patients||Nagpur: Getting a hospital bed may not be a big problem for a Covid patient now, but a refund from the insurer may be. When Covid cases were at the peak a few months ago, there was a rush of patients at hospitals. Even as hospitals were reluctant to offer cashless treatment, medical refund was available after deductions, which went up to 40% to 50% of the bill. These days, insurance companies are denying the entire claim, as they are questioning the very need for hospitalization of a patient in some cases. The claims are being approved only if the insurers’ panel of doctors finds it a fit case to be admitted. The claims are being rejected on the grounds that the patient could have even been treated at home. Sources in hospitals here said the insurers have their own norms, which often overrule their doctors’ judgment. As a number of such cases have come up, the Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) has taken up the issue with the divisional commissioner, seeking his help. The letter says, “Even if the bills are made according to the capped rates, the insurance companies are decreeing on their own that the patient should have been treated in a general ward or at home on OPD basis. This creates unwanted acrimony with relatives at the time of discharge. The ethical discretion of placing a patient in home treatment, general bed or an ICU lies with the doctors, and neither the hospital administration nor the insurer have the right to opine.” Dr Anup Marar, convener of VHA, said the insurers apply their own criterion for the need of hospitalization, which leads to friction with the hospital. Generally, the lung involvement, co-morbidities and age factor are considered for admitting a patient in hospital. It all depends on the doctor’s judgment, he said. In the earlier days, almost every patient used to prefer getting admitted to the hospital to remain on the safe side. This had also led to shortage of beds. Now, as home treatment can also happen, the insurance companies have taken such a stance, said sources. “There have been cases in a couple of hospitals where the insurers have rejected the claims entirely. This may be because the company’s doctors have thought that the case did not need hospitalization. However, views of the doctors treating the patient should also be considered,” said a general insurance agent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/medical-insurers-rejecting-claims-over-hospital-stay-of-some-covid-patients/articleshow/81141877.cms||Shishir Arya
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Five months after son’s death, four from family commit suicide in Sikar||JAIPUR: Four members of a family committed suicide on Sunday evening by hanging from the ceiling of their house at Purohit Ji Ki Dhani area under Udyog Nagar police station in Sikar. The family had lost their 17-year-old son to a heart attack nearly five months ago in September last year. According to police, the milkman who came to the house at 5am was the first to get wind of the tragedy. “He got no response from the family members and entered the drawing room which was open. When he noticed that the bedroom was locked from inside, he informed the neighbours who in turn alerted us,” said a senior police officer from Sikar. A team of senior officers, including Sikar SP Kunwar Rastradeep, rushed to the spot with a team from the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL). “When we broke open the door, we found four persons, a man and three women, hanging from the ceiling. The deceased have been identified as Hanuman Saini (45), his wife Tara Devi (40) and their daughters, Pooja Saini (22) and Cheeku (20),” said the SP. Police also recovered a suicide note from the room. “In the suicide note, the family had stated that they lost their son Amar Saini on September 27, 2020. They said that since it was difficult to live without him, they were ending their lives. They have stated that they were the only ones responsible for the decision to commit suicide and has requested nobody else to be held responsible," said a senior police officer. The family also stated that they had no debts and requested one of their relatives to conduct their funeral following rituals. A large number of local residents gathered at the spot after knowing about the incident. “Locals also claimed that they have been saying after their son's death that they will not live without him,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/five-months-after-sons-death-four-from-family-commit-suicide-in-sikar/articleshow/81143246.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||With libraries out of bounds, Kolkata schools give students access to digitised books||KOLKATA: Several new age schools have digitized books that do not fall within the ambit of copyright laws and are allowing children to access to these through links since use of libraries has been restricted due to Covid. These schools have also digitized previous years’ question papers and given links to students to help them prepare for exams without visiting the library. In some of the old schools where such digitization has not yet happened, teachers are sending links of reference material from open access sites to help the board-exam candidates. Most schools have held special meetings to take a call on library use after the state government announced school re-opening. While most have said no to lending and borrowing of books, some are allowing limited access to the reading rooms where a roster is being followed section-wise. Hindu School, for example, has allowed only students of classes X and XII to visit the reading room in small numbers but no lending is being allowed. “Fumigation chambers are expensive options, so we are isolating books,” explained librarian Jishnu Bhattacharya. Some fiction and non-fiction books that have no copyright infringement have been digitised and teachers are supporting kids by giving links to books they need for their exams. Many other schools like La Martiniere for Boys and Girls and Loreto Convent Entally have suspended their library services for the time being. “The pandemic has taught us all the importance of the virtual space and soon we will be making provisions for digitizing books that are legally not bound by copyright laws,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, principal of the girls’ school. At St Paul’s Mission School, the reading room facilities have been suspended but the school might allow students to borrow. Both Heritage and DPS Ruby Park have taken to the digital mode. At Heritage, primary section students are being allowed to join virtual library classes where pages from story books are being digitized and screen is being shared for them to read. For the senior students, classics have been digitized in large numbers and links have been shared. “We have even shared movie links and all text books have been converted into PDF formats so that students could access them during the lockdown phase,” said librarian Anindita Dutta. DPS Ruby Park has shared free e-books with students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-libraries-out-of-bounds-schools-give-students-access-to-digitised-books/articleshow/81141882.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 22, 2021||Vadodara||Four GRD cops booked for stealing fruits in Gujarat||VADODARA: Four gram rakshak dal (GRD) jawaans believed that they would get away by paying money to a fruit seller after stealing fruits from his cart in Bhayli. But the adamant fruit seller wanted them to pay for their crime and not let them get away so easily. The fruit seller Atul Chunara told police that the GRD jawaans paid him Rs 3,500 for the fruits worth Rs 3,900 that they had stolen on the intervening nights of January 29 and 30. After getting the money, Chunara did not want to escalate the issue, but a couple of days ago he decided to lodge a complaint against them at the same police station where they work. “I decided to lodge a complaint so that they do not repeat this and no other poor seller has to suffer like me,” said Chunara. Based on Chunara’s complaint an offence of theft was registered against Vishal Rohit, Raju Rohit, Hitesh Maheriya and Sanjay Parmar at Vadodara Taluka police station on Saturday. On the night of January 29 Chunara had packed the leftover fruits worth Rs 3,900 on his fruit cart before leaving for home. When he returned the next morning, he did not find the fruits. Chunara said that he suspected that the GRD jawaans, who sit at a watch point opposite his fruit cart, must have stolen. On confronting them, the four cops admitted that they had stolen the fruits and eaten them. “They had said that they will pay the money, which they did, so that I do not register a complaint,” said Chunara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-grd-cops-booked-for-stealing-fruits/articleshow/81140649.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Vijayawada||21 bus stations to get facelifts as part of APSRTC modernisation drive||VIJAYAWADA: To provide better amenities for passengers, the Andhra Pradesh State Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is going to modernise all major bus stations across the state. As many as 21 bus stations have been identified for this program in the first phase. APSRTC is also planning to develop four new bus terminals via the public private partnership (PPP) model to decongest bus stations at major cities and to create additional commercial space for sustainable development. APSRTC vice-chairman and managing director, R P Thakur, has identified certain areas which require improvements, give facelifts to the bus stations and provide satisfactory services to passengers to suit their needs. Based on the volume of bus operations and average daily passenger count, 21 bus stations that include all stations at district headquarters have been identified. Officials have identified nine focus areas to facelift bus stations. Providing adequate number of toilets based on average daily passenger flow, toilets for people with special needs, WiFi services, baby feeding rooms, floor repairs, better seating facilities within bus stations, painting and better illumination in bus station premises are to be provided as part of the modernisation drive. While the APSRTC is planning to modernise 21 bus stations in the first phase, works are going to be launched at Machilipatnam, Visakhapatnam and Kurnool on trial basis. Based on the outcome of trial and a comprehensive review with feedback from passengers, the modernisation drive will be initiated for all 21 bus stations. On the other hand, APSRTC is also focussing on creating new bus terminals at Maddilapalem in Visakhapatnam, Kurnool’s Raj Vihar, Tirupati and Auto Nagar in Vijayawada. These four places have been strategically selected for commercial development as the locations are seen to have potential for creation of additional commercial space. Thakur said the detailed project reports (DPR) for these bus stations are being prepared and the target is to call tenders by the end of March. APSRTC is planning to upgrade these bus stations with two pronged approach. One, by routing some of the bus services through these developed terminals, thus reducing congestion at main bus station for free flow of traffic. Secondly, creating additional commercial space to generate extra revenue for the state owned corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/21-bus-stns-to-get-facelifts-as-part-of-apsrtc-modernisation-drive/articleshow/81140539.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 22, 2021||Vijayawada||Officials transferred for record tampering||Vijayawada: The Board of Intermediate Education Andhra Pradesh (BIEAP) has cracked down on officials who had allegedly tampered records to renew the recognition for vocational junior colleges. The BIEAP has denied renewal of recognition to vocational colleges that have amenities and faculty only on paper and directed the college managements to rectify the matter and improve standards. The managements of some colleges had bribed BIEAP officials, who forged the signatures of regional inspection officers (RIO) to issue permissions for vocational courses. The discrepancies were identified by board secretary V Ramakrishna, who questioned the erring officials. The board’s inquiry revealed that large sums of money were involved behind the issuance of permissions. The secretary passed orders taking disciplinary action against accused officials. Deputy secretary Patniak was demoted and posted as RIO while superintendent Pawan has been transferred and posted to Srikakulam. Senior assistant Nagaraju has been transferred to Ongole. A few other officials suspected to be involved are also under the scanner. Board authorities said the investigation will continue and stringent action will be initiated against officials and college managements involved in the scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/officials-transferred-for-record-tampering/articleshow/81140778.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Vijayawada||Leopard electrocuted near canal in Kadapa district||Tirupati: A leopard which ventured out of the reserve forests in search of water was electrocuted to death near the Handri Neeva Sujala Sravanthi (HNSS) canal close to Settivaripalli village in Muddanur mandal of Kadapa district on Sunday. Local farmers who spotted the dead cat informed the police and forest department officials. Forest department staffers confirmed that the wild cat accidentally came into contact with electric fencing and was electrocuted on the spot. Owing to difficulties in moving the carcass to the zoo hospital, a postmortem was carried out at the spot. The leopard was buried near the forest area close by Settivaripalli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/leopard-electrocuted-near-canal-in-kadapa-district/articleshow/81140864.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal government to appoint college teachers, seeks vacancy list from principals||KOLKATA: The Bengal government has sought from college principals a list of vacancies for the post of assistant professors in their respective colleges. The officials of higher education department said the government is going to fill up the vacancies in this academic year as it has sought applications from eligible candidates for the vacant posts. According to an association of college professors and teachers, many vacancies have been created due to the establishment of new colleges and reconstitution of syllabus under choice-based credit system. Some sources said the move might prove productive with assembly elections on the anvil. The college principals will have to send the list of vacancies by March 31. They will also have to mention whether it is an existing post or a new post and explain the reason behind the vacancy. “The format has already been shared with the colleges in the state. The colleges will have to furnish information like the shift, in which vacancy exists, if it’s in reserved category and the reason behind the vacancy,” said an official of West Bengal College Service Commission. According to sources, close to 8,000 posts have been filled up since 2011. “Many new colleges have come up in the past few years. So, professors and teachers are required. Due to the reconstitution of the syllabus under CBCS, the colleges are in need of more teachers. Moreover, new subjects have been introduced in colleges where assistant professors are required,” said Krishnakali Basu, president of West Bengal College and University Professors’ Association. The College Service Commission has also invited applications from eligible candidates for the post of assistant professors. The counselling is likely to start soon. The candidates, who have cleared the National Eligibility Test conducted by UGC or similar tests conducted by the state government, are eligible to apply. “Filling up of the vacancies will help run the colleges smoothly. Several new vacancies have been created too,” said Tapan Kumar Poddar, president of the Calcutta University unit of All Bengal Principals’ Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-to-appoint-college-teachers-seeks-vacancy-list-from-principals/articleshow/81141875.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 22, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Ganta Srinivasa Rao faults Andhra Pradesh BJP unit over VSP stance||VISAKHAPATNAM: Former minister and Vizag North MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao on Sunday criticised the changing stance of the state BJP wing on the proposed privatisation of RINL-Vizag Steel Plant. Talking to reporters here on Sunday, Ganta said that following a meeting with top party leaders in Delhi, Andhra Pradesh BJP president Somu Veerraju and other party functionaries changed their tack and came out with a new statement saying that the Union government was yet make a final decision on VSP but ruling YSRC leaders and opposition TDP were misleading the public. Expressing that he was against the privatisation of VSP, Ganta claimed that the agitation over it began with his resignation from assembly, followed by an indefinite fast by former Gajuwaka MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao of TDP and massive protests by all political parties and trade unions. “Now the agitation against the privatisation of VSP has gained momentum but BJP and Jana Sena parties are yet to join in the protest,” Ganta said. The former minister appealed to Jana Sena party president Pawan Kalyan to put pressure on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other union leaders to save VSP citing that the steel plant was not only an industry but also had an attachment to the sentiments of the people of Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ganta-faults-state-bjp-unit-over-vsp-stance/articleshow/81140885.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Dehradun||Five electric AC buses start operating on Doon roads||Dehradun: Five electric buses were made operational by Dehradun Smart City Limited on Sunday. The buses will run between ISBT and Rajpur Road after every 10 minutes and the minimum fare has been fixed at Rs 10 and the maximum at Rs 55. The other public transports will run in coordination with electric buses. The newly-inducted buses also have an anti-lock braking system (ABS) for ensuring safety of the passengers and can run 150-to-180 kilometres in a single charge. A facility for charging the electric buses will be put in place at the UTC depot in Transport Nagar. On the occasion, officials of the Dehradun Smart City Limited said that 25 more buses will be inducted in a phased manner to cover other routes of the city. All buses will be air-conditioned and be equipped with CCTV cameras. Keeping in mind the safety of the passengers, especially women, panic buttons have been installed near each seat. The buttons will send an alert directly to the integrated control command centre. The other features of the buses include — dedicated USB port for every seat, announcements during the travel in English, Hindi, and Garhwali languages Each bus has a seating capacity of 25 passengers with a hydraulic ramp to lift a handicapped passenger on a wheelchair. The officials said that the fares of the electric buses will be kept affordable for the convenience of local travelers as well as tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/five-electric-ac-buses-start-operating-on-doon-roads/articleshow/81140527.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 22, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Raid on retired engineer unearths assets worth over Rs 4 crore||PATNA: The Vigilance Investigation Bureau on Sunday raided the house of retired engineer Dhananjay Mani Tiwari at Siwan and unearthed assets worth more than Rs4 crore disproportionate to his known sources of income. Tiwari had retired from Siwan district board. Vigilance sources said Tiwari and his wife Sanjana Tiwari were named accused in the disproportionate assets (DA) case registered on February 19 before his three-storey house at Malviya Nagar under Mufassil police station area in Siwan town was raided by a vigilance team led by DSP Kanhaiya Lal. The value of disproportionate assets was above Rs4 crore as per the estimated government rates and the raid was still going on till late evening, a source said, adding that the market value of Tiwari’s properties must be worth several crores. “Altogether 78 land deeds worth around Rs2.5 crore, 22 bank accounts, jewellery worth around Rs10 lakh, Rs4.92 lakh in cash, a harvester, an SUV and bikes worth around Rs40 lakh and at least 20 papers of investment and insurance worth more than Rs16.5 lakh were already recovered,” a bureau source said. He said Tiwari had joined his service on November 10, 1993 and retired on September 30 last year. “This entire duration has been taken as check period for calculating disproportionate assets amassed by him and in his wife’s name,” a vigilance source said. “Tiwari’s total income from all known sources come to be around Rs1.51 crore. This includes his complete salary for the service period, loans and earnings from selling land,” he said. He said at the FIR stage, Tiwari and his wife were found to be in possession of total movable and immovable assets worth at least Rs2.64 crore, which is much more than all of his income from known sources. The officer said his loosely calculated saving is around Rs1.08 crore and expenses about Rs43 lakh during the entire check period. “The couple has four children, including two daughters. Both the daughters are doctors. One is in Bhubaneswar and another at IGIMS in Patna. Both sons are engineers with one working in BSNL and another at the ordnance factory in Jabalpur,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raid-on-retd-engr-unearths-assets-worth-over-rs4-crore/articleshow/81141880.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 22, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP: Police ready for municipal polls, says DGP D Gautam Sawang||VISAKHAPATNAM: Director general of police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang on Sunday said the police are geared up to ensure incident-free polling in the upcoming elections to 12 municipal corporations and 75 municipalities across the state, commencing on March 10. The DGP visited panchayat polling stations in Vizag’s Pendurthi and Vizianagaram’s Kothavalasa on Sunday to inspect arrangements. Sawang said that while the schedules for MPTC and ZPTC elections are yet to be declared, the police is prepared to ensure smooth conduct of those elections too. Lauding the state police department, the DGP said the state witnessed very few disturbances during the panchayat elections this year, which he attributed to the prompt and appropriate response of police personnel across the state. The DGP pointed out that stray incidents were handled in a timely and professional manner. He said the police had managed to bring the situation under control where incidents had erupted and dispersed troublemakers to ensure the polling process was not disturbed. He added that action had been taken against those who had tried to disrupt the process. Sawang, during his visit to Kothavalasa, interacted with voters and expressed satisfaction with the voter turnout. He said this was indication of police personnel efficiency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/police-ready-for-municipal-polls-dgp/articleshow/81140525.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Rajkot||Cap age for all candidates in elections: Vala||Rajkot: Governor of Karnataka, Vajubhai Vala, who arrived in the city to cast his vote on Sunday advocated capping age for candidates contesting elections in local bodies, assembly, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. Talking on the sidelines after casting his vote, Vala also expressed his happiness that the BJP selected more youth candidates this time in the corporation election. “It’s good that more youths got ticket this time. I advocate that there should be age bar in constitution for poll contestants in every election so all the party workers get motivated,” he said. When asked what age bar would he recommend, Vala quipped: “I will talk only when I go in Lok Sabha and get a chance to amend the law.” Imploring voters to exercise their franchise the veteran leader said, “I have come from Bengaluru to Ahmedabad and then to Rajkot to cast my vote. People should not give into the wrong thinking that one vote won’t make any difference. If you don’t want to give vote to any candidate then use NOTA.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cap-age-for-all-candidates-in-elections-vala/articleshow/81140904.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Vigilance squads in Navi Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: NMMC has reactivated its special vigilance squads comprising officers from the civic body and the police to crack the whip on those flouting Covid-19 safety norms. Teams will conduct surprise raids at crowded places, marriage functions and event venues and penalise those found violating safety protocols. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vigilance-squads-in-navi-mumbai/articleshow/81141884.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Centre to support Andhra Pradesh set up EV charging infrastructure||VISAKHAPATNAM: As part of its national policy, the Union government will support Andhra Pradesh in developing infrastructure for electric vehicle (EV) charging. The Centre had recently announced phase-II of FAME (faster adoption and manufacturing of hybrid and electric vehicles) to incentivise the deployment of public charging infrastructure and increase uptake of electric vehicles in the country. Under this, Andhra Pradesh will set up 400 charging stations in 73 locations across the state. Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, and Tirupati will be declared model electric mobility cities with phase-wise goals to adopt electric vehicles, charging infrastructure, and new EV enabling building codes. Energy Efficiency Services Ltd (EESL) executive vice-chairman Saurabh Kumar said the EESL will extend its full support to develop EV charging infrastructure in Andhra Pradesh. “The government of India has aimed at having electric three-wheelers operating in the country by 2023, and electric two-wheelers by 2025. A separate institution, namely Convergence Energy Services Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary company of EESL, has been established to mainly focus on e-mobility in the country,” Kumar said. “E-mobility would have a major impact on environmental protection and economic benefit for which we have considered Andhra Pradesh as one of the best states in the country for producing results, keeping in view APs track record,” the EESL vice-chairman added. The EESL has already established 80 charging stations in AP and supplied 300 e-cars to various government departments. It has now asked the state givernment to scale up e-vehicle charging stations. Officials of NREDCAP, the state’s nodal agency for EVs, said they are contemplating converting APSRTC’s fleet of over 11,000 buses into electric buses by 2029. The first phase of 100% conversion of bus fleet in top four cities is likely to be completed by 2024 and fossil fuel-based commercial fleet and logistics vehicles would be phased out, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/centre-to-support-state-set-up-ev-charging-infra/articleshow/81140502.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Goa||Panaji: CAs, auditors scrutinise claims of up to Rs five lakh at Mapusa Urban bank||PANAJI: After obtaining the clearance to release over Rs 7 crore to settle the claims of 45,268 depositors, Mapusa Urban Co-operative Bank has begun working on the claims of up to Rs 5 lakh. Chartered accountants and auditors are scrutinising claims of those who had between Rs 10,000 to Rs 5 lakh in deposits when MUCB lost its banking licence on April 16, 2020. The bank is also working on tracing account holders who are yet to file claims for around Rs 25 crore in deposits with the bank. “Over 45,000 depositors who had up to Rs 10,000 in their accounts have been cleared to receive their money, and now we have taken up those accounts where Rs 10,000 to Rs 5 lakh was in deposits,” said general manager Shailendra Sawant. He said that statutory chartered accountants who had been appointed as part of the liquidation process are camping in Goa to verify the claims and the accounts. “We have to be thorough from our side and from the deposit insurance and credit guarantee corporation (DICGC) side. The chartered accountants will submit their report to DICGC in a fortnight or so,” said Sawant. He said that he could not comment on when the funds would be released to the account holders, but said they would be released through accounts with Bank of Baroda. In a letter dated February 1, the DICGC issued in-principal approval to settle claims of depositors who have a single account and whose deposit balance does not exceed Rs 10,000.DICGC, a subsidiary of the RBI, agreed to relax the norms of verification for small amounts of up to Rs 10,000 after noticing that audit verification of the claims was taking longer than expected. Of the 2.48 lakh depositors who had a total of Rs 355 crore in deposits, claims have been filed for Rs 330 crore. The stricken bank had 1.19 lakh shareholders when it was wound up for failing to meet statutory banking norms. The former bank, which had outstanding loans to the tune of Rs 50.9 crore in April last year, succeeded in recovering just Rs 8.5 crore. As on February 2, the outstanding loans are at Rs 42.4 crore. Anxious depositors have been waiting for close to five years to withdraw their hard-earned money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cas-auditors-scrutinise-claims-of-up-to-rs-5l-at-mapusa-urban-bank/articleshow/81143268.cms||Newton Sequeira
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: This sensor & smartphone app detects sleep apnea||HYDERABAD: Diagnosis of sleep apnea is set to get easier with researchers at BITS Pilani, Hyderabad, innovating a small, light-weight sensor that can accurately analyse breathing patterns and raise an alarm when a person stops breathing for over 15 seconds. Just like a falling heart rate triggers an alarm to alert doctors in the intensive care unit (ICU), a hybrid biomedical sensor fitted on a mask and integrated with a smartphone through bluetooth could soon help doctors diagnose obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and even monitor patients in ICUs. Sleep apnea is a serious disorder in which a person’s breathing repeatedly stops and starts. It causes issues such as excessive day time sleeping, fatigue and can even trigger cardiovascular diseases. Currently, Polysomnography is a common invasive technique, which needs bulky instruments that have strict positional requirements and cause immense discomfort to patients. This often results in inaccurate readings, making diagnosis difficult. Not anymore. For, researchers at the Birla Institute of Technology (BITS), Pilani (Hyderabad) campus, have come up with a new technology that will analyse breathing patterns of patients using a very small sensor made of a highly porous material that is also used for gas storage due to its ability to absorb and store. The researchers have developed a sensor embedded mask that is efficient in detecting various kinds of breaths such as deep, fast, slow, hydrated and dehydrated breath. Connected to a signal processing unit, the sensor triggers an alarm whenever it finds a patient has missed a breath or two. “The device senses different breath types. The amount of water molecules in a hydrated breath will be different from a dehydrated breath. This device differentiates between different breath patterns based on the humidity levels of the breath,” said Himanshu Aggarwal, assistant professor, BITS, Hyderabad, adding that the breath sensor shows a fast response time of just 0.38 seconds to record the breath. A smartphone-based prototype has already been prepared by the four-member team (two faculty members and two students) to demonstrate the real-time application of the hybrid device. The sensor-embedded mask will be connected to an Android application via bluetooth. The mask transfers the breath analysis data to the application in order to analyse the sleep apnea risk of patients. “If a patient doesn’t breathe for 15 seconds then the device generates an alert to the relatives, doctors etc. for intervention. We now want to collaborate with hospitals to verify its efficacy and commercialise it,” said Aggarwal. The research titled ‘MOF based flexible, low-cost chemi-resistive device as a respiration sensor for sleep apnea diagnostics’ was also published in the Journal of Materials Chemistry on October 5, 2020. The researchers are now in the process of identifying hospitals where the prototype can be tested and plan to miniaturise the device further so that it can sit below the nostrils sans even a mask, after which it can be made available for commercial use. While Aggarwal rues that Covid-19 has slowed down plans to test their prototype in a hospital setting to get a validation from the medical fraternity, he is quite confident that they can miniaturise the device in just a week’s time on the BITS Pilani-Hyderabad campus itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/this-sensor-smartphone-app-detects-sleep-apnea/articleshow/81143285.cms||Preeti Biswas
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Rail Roko’: FIR against 150 in Ambala||Ambala: The Railway Protection Force (RPF) here has registered a case against about 150 identified and unidentified farmers for blocking the Delhi-Ambala railway track near Shahpur village in the district as part of the Rail Roko call given by Sanyukta Kisan Morcha on Thursday. The case has been registered under sections 147 (trespass and refusal to desist from trespass) and 174 (obstructing running of train) of the Railways Act at RPF post in Ambala Cantonment railway station. Activists, including women and children, had blocked railway tracks near Shahpur for four hours, but there was no violence during the protest. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana (Charuni) Ambala district vice-president Gualab Singh had also apologised to the passengers for inconvenience and blocking the tracks. “We are forced to take such calls by the government as it is not repealing the dangerous anti-farmer laws that it has passed. These laws will not only affect farmers, but all sections of society,” said Gulab. Asked about the names of farmers who have been identified and booked in this case, RPF post in-charge Shyam Sundar refused to provide a name and said the matter was under investigation. “We are investigating the case and cannot disclose the names as of now.” Sources claimed that some key active farm leaders from Ambala associated with BKU Haryana (Charuni) had been booked by name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rail-roko-fir-against-150-in-ambala/articleshow/81141911.cms||JK Singh
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||Dakshineswar Metro to link Kolkata with districts||KOLKATA: With the Dakshineswar extension, Metro will now link Kolkata with the districts. The services will start from Tuesday, a day after the link’s inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. Snaking into the city’s extreme northern fringes, the lifeline will thus become a key transport link for Howrah and Hooghly residents. They can simply cross Bally bridge to come to Dakshineswar Metro station. On the other hand, in the absence of Tallah bridge, the new Baranagar station will help thousands of office-goers from Dunlop, Bonhooghly, Belghoria and other areas of the northern suburbs. No wonder, Metro officials have started calling this the best Metro project conceived by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. As railway minister, Banerjee had unfolded a plan to construct an ambitious Rs 11,000-crore Metro Railway network to ease travel in and around the congested metropolis. But for years, the half-a-dozen ongoing Metro projects remained mired in land logjams. Even this 4.1km Dakshineswar extension of the 28km north-south corridor was saddled with encroachment issues for seven years. “This is one Metro project that the people of north Kolkata and the districts of Howrah and Hooghly have been eagerly waiting for,” a senior engineer said. Howrah resident and LIC agent Saheb Chandra Das, who has to travel to his workplace on CR Avenue, said, “Frankly, I have always been more interested in the Dakshineswar Metro rather than the beleaguered East-West Metro which is supposed to connect Howrah with Kolkata. From Tuesday, life will become easier.” The new Metro link will also benefit thousands from the city’s northern fringes, for whom travel has become a nightmare ever since the Tallah bridge, a key link between Kolkata and its northern fringes, was closed in September 2019 and subsequently razed. It won’t be replaced in the next two years. The bridge closure has led to traffic curbs and diversions. “There are prolonged snarls on BT Road. Bus routes to Dum Dum Metro station from BT Road have become all the more crowded. In any case, not all buses are plying because of the pandemic. I will access the new Metro from Baranagar station,” said Sankar Chatterjee, a Dunlop resident. Many commuters have been using the Metro through Noapara station, which isn’t easily accessible because of narrow roads and poor connectivity. Paramita Sarkar, a hospitality employee who avails the Metro from Noapara to reach her Park Street office, said, “The roads leading to the Noapara station are full of craters. The bus stop is far from the station and autos are a nuisance. I will opt for Baranagar station instead and reach office faster.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dakshineswar-metro-to-link-kol-with-districts/articleshow/81141926.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Minorities could be persecuted in future: Acting Akal Takht jathedar||Godharpura (Gurdaspur): Officiating Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh equated the decision of the Union government to deny permission to the Sikh jatha to go to Pakistan with the British regime’s decision of stopping a Sikh jatha going to free the Sikh shrine from mahants. He alleged that minorities in India could be persecuted in future too. Speaking during the centenary function organised by Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to mark the 100th anniversary of Saka Nankana Sahib here on Sunday, Harpreet Singh claimed, “the BJP-led Central government has stopped Sikhs from proceeding to Nankana Sahib in the same manner as the British stopped the jatha led by Kartar Singh Jhabbar, that had gone to free the shrine from the control of mahants.” He alleged that the Centre had denied permission to the Sikh jatha because it wanted the ‘community’ to call back its members who were protesting on the borders of Delhi against the three farm laws. “This will never happen even if the central government refuses permission to Sikh jathas every year,” he asserted. Warning against infighting, he said, “Today, we are fighting between ourselves, if we continue like this, our very existence will be at stake.” Expressing apprehensions that minorities could be persecuted, he urged the community to unite and become politically powerful. SAD (B) president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who was present on the occasion, claimed that denial of permission to send the Sikh jatha to Pakistan was akin to an attack on the Sikh community. Despite the Centre listing reasons for not sending the jatha to Pakistan in the letter written to the SGPC president, Sukhbir asked the government to explain why it had denied permission to the jatha. “Even a few days back, a few persons were granted permission to visit Pakistan at the instance of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh,” he alleged, while asking the chief minister why he had not taken up the issue with the centre. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur announced that SGPC would observe year-long events in various institutes and also construct a Guru Ka Langar hall in remembrance of Mata Inderjit Kaur and a library in memory of the martyrs of Nankana Sahib in their villages. Various religious and political personalities as well as family members of Shaheed Lachhman Singh Dharowali and others were honoured on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/minorities-could-be-persecuted-in-future-acting-akal-takht-jathedar/articleshow/81141892.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||KCR picks PV Narasimha Rao’s daughter Vani for Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar MLC poll||HYDERABAD: Surabhi Vani Devi, daughter of the late former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao, will make her electoral debut as a TRS candidate from Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar Graduates MLC constituency on March 14. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s decision to field her is a coup of sorts with both the BJP and the Congress trying to claim the legacy of Telangana’s iconic leader PV Narasimha Rao. Analysts said that now both BJP and Congress will have to rework their strategies as opposing PV’s daughter would be a difficult affair for them. An artist, educationist and social activist, she is the founder president of several educational institutions, including those on pharmacy, architecture, fine arts colleges and schools. The TRS leadership had kept her name under wraps, keeping the opposition and the party cadre guessing whether the ruling party would contest the Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar seat at all. However, labour minister Ch Malla Reddy and excise minister V Srinivas Goud said they were hopeful that KCR would announce the candidate by Monday afternoon and he did it in his inimitable style taking everyone by surprise. Vani Devi will file her nomination papers on Monday. She thanked CM KCR for finalising her name and said she would try to follow the footsteps of her father. Vani Devi’s brother PV Rajeshwar Rao had served as an MP from Secunderabad from the Congress and NV Subhash, grandson of PV Narasimha Rao, is a BJP leader. Earlier, in an interview to the TOI, Vani Devi said she would accept the MLC seat if offered by the TRS. Vani Devi had also expressed her ire and disappointment against the Congress for not giving the due respect to her father PV Narasimha Rao after his death. It was tactical move by CM KCR when he announced year-long celebrations of PV (a leader from the opposition Congress) in June last year and sought to own his legacy, terming him as Telangana’s Muddu Bidda (beloved son), rekindling the Telangana sentiment. Political analysts said KCR’s move to own the legacy of PV and now fielding Vani Devi was meant to kill two birds with one stone — the rise of BJP and further decimating the Congress. KCR had achieved Telangana state mainly on the plank of regional sentiment and rode back to power in 2018 Assembly polls again by raising the issue of Telangana sentiment after AP chief minister and TDP president N Chandrababu’s Naidu’s entry into the political turf of Telangana. However, the TRS juggernaut could not continue in the parliament elections in 2019, with the BJP winning four and the Congress three Lok Sabha seats, leaving only 9 for the TRS and one for the Asaduddin Owaisi-led AMIM. Political observers said KCR hopes to reinvigorate the regional sentiment by projecting Narasimha Rao as an icon of Telangana to match the BJP’s Hindu nationalist agenda and further decimate the Congress which is blamed for not giving PV due place and recognition after his demise. Telangana Congress had also announced year-long celebrations of PV, saying that the party welcomes any political outfit or organisation celebrating PV’s anniversary, who was a Congressman all through his life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-picks-pvs-daughter-vani-for-hyd-rr-mnagar-mlc-poll/articleshow/81143726.cms||Roushan Ali
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Turncoats be made to wait: NCP MLA and cabinet minister Jitendra Awhad||THANE: NCP MLA and cabinet minister Jitendra Awhad, Sunday, appealed his party to delay re-induction of turncoats who earlier deserted the party and joined BJP and are now seeking a return apparently to enjoy the perks of power.  Awhad was speaking at a party rally in the presence of colleague Supriya Sule, ahead of civic elections in Ambernath and Badlapur and demanded these turncoats be made to wait for atleast two years and deprived from their craving to be in power. Sule also took a dig at former party colleagues Kishan Kathore and Ganesh Naik, who defected ahead of the 2019 polls. Meanwhile, Awhad, tweeted raising concerns about some agency snooping over his phone conversations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/turncoats-be-made-to-wait-awhad/articleshow/81143258.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Shiv Kumar reaches GMCH for medical, father catches glimpse||Chandigarh: A team of Sonipat police brought jailed activist Shiv Kumar to the GMCH-32 in Chandigarh for a Punjab and Haryana high court-ordered medical check-up on Saturday. Shiv, president of Mazdoor Adhikaar Sangathan, was illegally arrested on January 16 and tortured in police custody, it has been alleged. On record, he was booked on January 23, arrested two days later, and has been in police custody ever since. Bespectacled and lean-bodied, the 24-year-old man, who stands a couple of inches over 5 feet, was brought to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in sector-32 of Chandigarh after the high court order to Sonipat police on Friday, on a plea filed by Shiv’s family. While Shiv was taken straight to the emergency medical officer’s room after he reached here around 11am, his father struggled to catch a glimpse of his son after more than a month. His father, Rajbir, left Kundli at 4am and reached Chandigarh at 9.30am. He had been waiting in a garden outside the hospital’s emergency block with two of Shiv’s friends. Though the report of Shiv’s medical examination would take another two days and be given to police, there was swelling on his feet and the nails on his feet were blue. Shiv’s friend Ankit, a member of Chatra Ekta Manch, Kundli, said though he was not limping, he had trouble walking when they saw him. In a choked voice, Rajbir refused to speak when approached. Ankit claimed: “He (Shiv) was given spectacles only last night. All this while, he had not even been able to see properly. Wounds are already a month old, we hope doctors do the right thing.” A police official accompanying Shiv said they left Sonipat at 7am. Shiv is facing two cases, in which Nodeep Kaur is a co-accused. One case of extortion was filed on the complaint of an employee of an industrial unit in Kundli and another of attempt to murder for allegedly attacking Sonipat cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shiv-kumar-reaches-gmch-for-medical-father-catches-glimpse/articleshow/81141978.cms||Siddarth Banerjee
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||Vidarbha recorded 10k+ cases in last 5 days||Nagpur: Giving enough hint of a second wave, Vidarbha region reported more than 2,000 new cases in a day for the 4th day in a row on Sunday. At 2391, the number of new cases increased for the 7th consecutive day. In the last five days, (from February 17), the region has reported 10,882 new cases. About 53% of them came from 5 districts of Amravati division where strict lockdown-like restrictions have been imposed for the next seven days. In Nagpur division, barring Nagpur district, no other district has reported sudden surge in new cases like in Amravati. On Sunday, cases came from Nagpur (626), Amravati (709), Akola (342), Buldhana (301), Wardha (153), Washim (125), Yavatmal (75), Chandrapur (29), Bhandara (21), Gadchiroli (7) and Gondia (3). Total Covid-19 cases are now at 2,98,547 and coming closer to the 3 lakh mark. There was slight improvement in recoveries on Sunday. Total 1,144 patients recovered in a day from Nagpur (455), Amravati (259), Wardha (133), Buldhana (94), Akola (89), Yavatmal (53), Chandrapur (22), Gondia (21), Washim (9), Bhandara (7) and Gadchiroli (2). Now, 275441 patients have recovered. Still, due to high number of new cases, the recovery rate has gone down to 92.2% which is less than state and national average. The region reported 18 deaths due to Covid-19 on Sunday. These include Nagpur (8), Wardha (3), Amravati (3), Gondia (1), Akola (1), Yavatmal (1) and Buldhana (1). Total death toll reached 7,223 and case fatality rate came down to 2.41%. But, more Covid-19 patients are now under treatment in Vidarbha. Total 15,862 patients are under treatment which is more than 5% of the total cases reported till date. Though more than 70% of these patients are recovering in home isolation or staying in the institutional quarantine facilities, several of them are hospitalized which has increased bed occupancy in Vidarbha in the last five days. In case, a similar rate of increase in cases continues for next one week, there would be crucial shortage of hospital beds and medical facilities in the region. The administration has taken strict measures only to avoid this situation. Akola: The district conducted 1,157 tests on Sunday. Out of them, 288 tested positive. This took total caseload to 13,935. With 89 patients recovering in a day, total 11,585 of them have recovered so far. An 88-year-old man from Murjizapur died during treatment. This increased Akola’s Covid-10 death toll to 353. Now, 1997 patients are under treatment in the district. Buldhana: Total 1,536 tests were conducted in Buldhana district in a day on Sunday. Out of them, 301 tested positive which increased the caseload of Buldhana to 16,146. Total 94 patients recovered in a day. This took total recoveries to 14,590. An 80-year-old man from Savna village in Chikhli Tehsil died during treatment which took the toll of Buldhana to 187. Now, 1369 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 125 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday which is a record for Washim in the last three months. Only 9 patients recovered. No death was reported. Total cases in Washim are now 7,773, including 7,114 recoveries, 156 deaths and 502 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: Seven new cases and two recoveries marked Sunday in Gadchiroli district. No death was reported. The district now has 9,459 cases, including 9,290 recoveries, 105 deaths and 64 patients under treatment. Recovery rate of Gadchiroli is 98.2% which is highest in Vidarbha. Gondia: The district reported 3 new cases of Covid-19, six recoveries and a death on Sunday. This took the total caseload of Gondia to 14,325, recoveries to 14,085 and death toll to 185. Now, 55 patients are under treatment in Gondia. 30 of them are in home isolation. Bhandara: The district conducted 514 tests in a day on Sunday. Out of them, 21 tested positive. This took total number of Covid-19 cases in Bhandara to 13,497. Out of them, 13,008 have recovered at the recovery rate of 96.3%. No death was reported on Sunday. Total 326 deaths have been reported till date in the district and 163 patients are under treatment. Chandrapur: Active patients climbed to 129 with the detection of 29 new cases on Sunday. There were 22 recoveries, but no death was reported leaving the toll stable at 396. The total caseload now amounts to 23,368, while total recoveries stands at 22,843. Wardha: A spike of 153 new cases were registered with three more deaths due to coronavirus on Sunday. Now, caseload is 11,322 and after 133 discharged, recoveries are 10,324 while 679 patients are active positive. Death toll reached 329 on Sunday while new cases were reported from Wardha (79), Hinganghat (24), Deoli (19), Ashti (15), Selu (8), Arvi and Karanja (4 each). In light of the rise in cases, the district is under lockdown till Monday 8am. Amravati: Despite being in a weekend lockdown, the district recorded 709 new cases on Sunday that took the caseload to 29,524. Three Covid deaths took the total toll to 463 while 259 recoveries took the total to 25,821. This left 3,703 active cases under treatment. Yavatmal: Death of a 40-year-old man from Kalamb took the toll to 450 so far. On Sunday, the administration received 529 reports of which 75 were found positive. Currently, there are 950 active positive patients undergoing treatment in the district. Out of the 16,045 positive patients treated in the district so far, 14,648 including 53 of Sunday have recovered and got discharge from the hospitals. Curfew has been imposed from Sunday midnight onwards and brought back various restrictions. Schools and colleges will remain closed till further orders. Shops will open from 9am to 5pm. Offices will have to maintain their staff strength up to 15% or 15 in number. The district administration has declared 13 containment zones with the highest zones in Pusad. Yavatmal city has two containment zones where movements of residents are restricted. Adviser to chief minister Deepak Mahaisekar came down to Yavatmal and held discussions with officials and issued instructions. He visited some of the containment zones and oversaw arrangements. The Covid-19 threat is alarming and precautionary measures should be initiated strictly, said Mahaisekar, adding, swabs of those infected for the second time should be sent to the NIV lab for further study. During the survey, care should be taken to know the oxygen level of the patient. Patients should be accommodated in Covid-19 care centres instead of admitting them en bloc in GMC. He also suggested setting up of a three-member panel to study why deaths are showing an upward trend. There has been an increase in Covid positive patients from Pusad, Yavatmal, Pandharkawda and Wani tehsils.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-recorded-10k-cases-in-last-5-days/articleshow/81141953.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||3 arrested by Delhi police for Youth Cong leader Gurlal’s murder||Bathinda: Delhi police have arrested three residents of Faridkot for allegedly conspiring to kill Faridkot District Youth Congress president Gurlal Singh Bhalwan. They were arrested near Uttar Pradesh. Expecting the accused to be hiding outside Punjab, Faridkot police shared details of the conspirators with Delhi, Haryana and UP police. A team of Faridkot police is in Delhi to bring the three arrested accused on transit remand. They have been identified as Sukhwinder Singh, Gurwinder Singh and Sourav Kumar, allegedly members of Lawrence Bishnoi group. Gurlal was killed on Friday evening at Faridkot and the same evening, responsibility was taken in the name of Lawrence Bishnoi through a social media post. During preliminary investigations, police found that the Bishnoi group members were behind the killing. The Bishnoi group claimed that Gurlal Bhalwan was killed to avenge the murder of Gurlal Brar, who was killed in Chandigarh in October 2020. Faridkot SSP Swarandeep Singh said, “Delhi Police Special Cell has arrested the three from somewhere on UP side. A team of Faridkot police is already in Delhi to take custody of those arrested and investigations will be conducted by taking them on transit remand.” After Bishnoi group took responsibility, the Davinder Bambiha gang, in a social media post on Saturday, said that Bishnoi group has not avenged Gurlal Brar as Gurlal Bhalwan had nothing to do with Brar’s murder in Chandigarh. Gurlal Bhalwan was innocent and now they (Bambiha group) will take on the opposite party, they declared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-arrested-by-delhi-police-for-youth-cong-leader-gurlals-murder/articleshow/81141959.cms||Neel Kamal
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata may get 80th Police Station in Golf Green today||KOLKATA: A new police station — Golf Green — is likely to become functional from Monday. The new police station will be carved out from the existing Jadavpur police station.  It’s the 80th divisional police station in the city and the ninth in the south suburban division, popularly referred to as Jadavpur division. The present Jadavpur police station extends from Jubilee Park in Tollygunge to Baghajatin and there was a long standing demand for a new police station. The new police station will have parts of Tollygunge, the entire Golf Green and a portion of Bikramgarh. The Golf Green area has a sizeable population of elderly people and stray incidents of thefts have been a challenge. PWD minister Aroop Biswas and the brass of Kolkata Police will be present at the inauguration on Monday evening at the new police station that has been constructed at the Dhaka Kalibari bus stop. The police said the senior citizens will be their priority. “Our focus will be on protecting them from new age crimes like cyber crimes and ATM frauds,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. Sources said there is a proposal to further carve out a portion of Jadavpur police station, along with Patuli and Netaji Nagar, and form a separate Baghajatin police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-may-get-80th-ps-in-golf-green-today/articleshow/81141971.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Two cops booked for firing at wedding in Punjab's Ferozepur||FEROZEPUR: Two police officers, one sub-inspector of Punjab Police and an assistant sub-inspector (ASI ) were booked after they allegedly fired bullets with assault rifles at a marriage function. The accused, ASI Jagroop Singh and SI Gurtej Singh were identified on watching the CD provided to the investigating officer. ASI Jagroop Singh allegedly used his assault rifle during the marriage of his son at Thetha Kalan village near Ferozepur under Ghall Khurd Police Station and sub-inspector Gurtej Singh followed him. A video of the incident has been circulated on social media. Both the ASI and SI have been booked under relevant sections of the IPC but they have not been arrested yet. The DIG has ordered an inquiry and further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-cops-booked-for-firing-at-wedding-in-ferozepur/articleshow/81141931.cms||Dinesh K Sharma
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||DoT team raids Bhiwandi, shuts down 93 illegal network boosters||Bhiwandi: The wireless monitoring organization of department of telecommunications (DoT) has taken action against 93 network boosters (network radiating devices) installed in Bhiwandi and seized 38 of them, mostly smuggled from China. The team conducted surprise raids and deactivated 55 boosters and seized 38. The team also issued 14 notices to the users who were either individuals or establishments at home or offices. The illegal equipment interferes with all mobile networks, impact signal quality and degrades network experience in the area. The drive was conducted on February 18 and February 20 in Bhiwandi . IES officer Amit Gautam of the wireless monitoring organisation who conducted the raids along with his team said, “The mobile boosters, mostly smuggled in from China, wreak havoc on mobile networks.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dot-team-raids-bhiwandi-shuts-down-93-illegal-network-boosters/articleshow/81143266.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Lehragaga group protests over result in 2 wards||Patiala: The supporters of Lehragaga Vikas Manch (LVM) in Sangrur held a protest rally against the state government, alleging that the district administration had aided the victories of Congress candidates. The manch claimed that independent candidates suported by it had won the recent civid body polls in two wards of Lehragaga, but district officials declared Congress nominees under political pressure. LVM chairman Barinder Goyal said, “There are 15 wards in Lehragaga municipal council, of which Congress won nine and independents won six, including my son, daughter-in-law and sister-in-law. First, the ruling party captured booth and then they managed to win two seats with influence over election officials on duty. We have been sitting on protest near the Bhatthal College where EVMs of these two wards have been kept safe as we didn’t allow the administration to shift these EVMs. On Sunday, we have held a massive protest at Mandir Chowk,” said Goyal. He added they would file a petition in the high court. SDM Jiwanjot Kaur said free and fair elections were held and independent candidates had left before the completion of counting of votes on the day of result and assumed their victory, and later they had made this an issue. She said EVMs were kept safe in the strong room and those having objections should fight a legal battle, instead of using pressure tactics on officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lehragaga-group-protests-over-result-in-2-wards/articleshow/81141988.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||Covid control: No active cases in 4 Rajasthan districts, but tests continue||JAIPUR: Active Covid-19 cases have dropped below 1,300 in the state, with four districts having no such cases now. These four districts are Churu, Hanumangarh, Sawai Madhopur and Jhunjhunu. They have not reported even a single new Covid case over the past few days and all positive cases have recovered from the infection. “The last Covid case was reported in our district on January 24 and, since then, no case has been reported, said Dr Navneet Sharma, chief medical health officer (CMHO), Hanumangarh. “The last person recovered from Covid on February 7 and we have not had a single active case since then. But, we are on alert, continue with our surveillance and conduct 600 to 650 RT-PCR tests every day,” said Dr Navneet Sharma. In Jhunjhunu district too, health department officials have been testing 400 to 500 samples daily but none has tested positive for over 10 days. “The last case of a person from Jhunjhunu testing positive was reported 10 days ago. He was found infected in Jaipur. Earlier, we were collecting 1,000 samples daily but, as no cases have been found, we have reduced the number to half. It has been a coordinated effort of health department officials, public representatives in rural areas and urban areas as well as government agencies, which helped in spreading awareness and containing the spread of the virus,” said Dr Chotelal Gurjar, CMHO, Jhunjhunu. In Jhunjhunu, the health department is collecting samples from 57 places for Covid tests. In Churu, over 10,000 samples have been collected since the last case was reported on January 13. But none of them tested positive. “We have not had any active cases since January 25. The last Covid positive case recovered on that day. Churu has been strictly following campaigns such as 'no mask, no entry',” said Dr Manoj Kumar Sharma, CMHO, Churu. Sawai Madhopur too has not reported any positive case in the past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-control-no-active-cases-in-4-dists-but-tests-continue/articleshow/81143269.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Dehradun||Jumbo electrocuted in Lansdowne barely 100m from forest post||Dehradun: A 15-year-old female elephant succumbed to electrocution on Sunday in Laaldhang forest range of Lansdowne forest division, barely 100m away from the Chillarkhal checkpost, raising questions on the effectiveness of patrolling by forest guards. A farmer is suspected to have deliberately electrified the fencing of his farmland after noticing that the pachyderm was returning to the forest after raiding his crops. Another elephant was similarly found electrocuted on January 31 near the boundary of Corbett Tiger Reserve. Since its formation in the year 2000, Uttarakhand has lost 450 jumbos in total, of which, 43 died of electrocution. Even though poaching is not being ruled out, the postmortem states the elephant’s body was intact. According to a source, forest department staff has registered a case under Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and an investigation is on. Incidentally, forest officials had claimed in January that they had already identified 17 spots in and around Corbett Tiger Reserve which have sagging high tension cables, and that a meeting with power officials was also due to fix such zones that are vulnerable to wildlife. Chief wildlife warden J S Suhag had also announced that those found guilty will be prosecuted as per law, and had strictly prohibited using electric fencing or transformers around animal corridors, wildlife sanctuaries and national parks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/jumbo-electrocuted-in-lansdowne-barely-100m-from-forest-post/articleshow/81140570.cms||Shivani Azad
February 22, 2021||Pune||Covid-19: Lockdown back in Amravati, ‘preventive’ closures in Pune||PUNE/NAGPUR: A Covid-19 test positivity rate inching towards 10% in Pune district and a surge in cases in Amravati division made authorities act swiftly on Sunday to reimpose measures like school and college closure, limitations on movement at night and restrictions on events like weddings for the remainder of the month. While in Amravati division the terms night curfew and lockdown were used by authorities to describe the strict, September-like curbs that in some cities there shut down almost everything except essential services, Pune authorities called the steps in the district as being “precautionary” and said there was no cause for alarm. Restrictions were also upped in Nagpur district, where over 500 cases were reported for the sixth consecutive day. In Nagpur city, guardian minister Nitin Raut is likely to announce a night curfew from 11pm to 6am and closure of commercial markets for one day in a week on Monday. A decision on closing schools would be taken on Monday or Tuesday. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said all schools, colleges and private coaching centres would remain closed in Pune district till February 28 and announced that only “limited movement” would be allowed on streets from 11pm to 6am from Monday. He said there were no curbs on inter-district travel. On the night-time curbs, Rao said people were expected to avoid non-essential travel. “We are consciously not using the word ‘night curfew’ as there will not be any restriction on essential services such as newspaper deliveries, milk and vegetable supply and travel to hospitals for medical emergencies,” Rao said following a review meeting that was attended by Dy CM Ajit Pawar, who is also Pune guardian minister, MPs, MLAs from the district, the district collector, municipal and police commissioners of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad and other officials. Bars and restaurants would have to close at 11pm. No wedding ceremony, political or social event would be allowed without a police NOC. Attendance at these events is limited to 200 people. Amravati guardian minister Yashomati Thakur held a meeting with the divisional commissioner and district collector and declared the lockdown in Amravati and Achalpur cities and very restricted business elsewhere in the district. Later, Akola district collector Jitendra Papalkar came out with lockdown orders for Akola city, Murtijapur and Akot. In these cities in Amravati division, shops and other public places will remain shut. No gatherings will be permitted. The other four districts in Amravati division will have curbs like the ones during the mid-September Covid-19 peak. Divisional commissioner Piyush Singh issued a circular ordering all shops and establishments to remain open only from 9 am to 5 pm, restricting restaurants to accepting parcel orders, and capping wedding parties to 25 persons, including the bride and groom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-is-back-in-amravati-preventive-closures-in-pune/articleshow/81142013.cms||Vishwas Kothari
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Two men drown in Kundalika river in Raigad; bodies fished out after 24 hrs||After 24 hours, the bodies of two Mumbai-based youth were fished out from Kundalika river in Roha, Raigad, on Sunday afternoon. The duo, identified as Ajinkya Salvi (30) and Pranav Parab (28) had gone there for a picnic. Both were residents of Kala Chowki area in Mumbai.“The duo had tried to save another man, Raju Ghoshalkar (40), from drowning. However, while trying to save Ghoshalkar, Salvi and Parab lost their lives,” said Roha police inspector Namdev Bandgar. “The bodies have been sent for post mortem. Also, both the victims did not know how to swim,” added Bandgar. A case of accidental death has been registered by the Roha police. — Umesh K Parida||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-men-drown-in-kundalika-river-in-raigad-bodies-fished-out-after-24-hrs/articleshow/81143281.cms||Umesh K Parida
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Use posters of Ajit Singh on tractors’||Bathinda: Days after former teacher of Jawaharlal Nehru University and chronicler of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh, Professor Chaman Lal, called for celebration of the 140th anniversary of Ajit Singh on February 23 as Kisan Diwas, Samyukta Kisan Morcha has urged people to observe Pagdi Sambhal Day on February 23. The Morcha has asked farmers to observe the day to assert the self-respect of farmers in memory of Ajit Singh, uncle of Bhagat Singh and founder of the Pagdi Sambhal Jatta movement. The song Pagdi Sambhal, written by Banke Dayal, editor of the weekly Zhang Sial, was a precursor to the peasant movement against agricultural laws enacted by the Colonial government in 1906-07. On Friday, morcha leaders asked all the farmers to participate in this programme by placing poster or banner of Ajit Singh on tractors and other vehicles and by wearing green turban. Kisan Morcha members also remembered Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj on his 391st birth anniversary. Shivaji Maharaj is known as a great warrior and skilled strategist, whose governance has always been in public interest. Farmer leaders said that Shivaji Maharaj is a symbol of courage and inspiration for this struggle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/use-posters-of-ajit-singh-on-tractors/articleshow/81142020.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Harvest on, farmers adopt new ways to sustain stir||Jind: With wheat-harvesting season almost here, farmers protesting against the three contentious farm laws in Haryana and on the borders of Delhi have adopted new ways to sustain the agitation. Farmers from Punjab, who make a short halt at a langar site in Jhanjh Khurd village of Jind district, claimed that they have hired personal vehicles which ferry farmers from village to Delhi borders and back. They said they had decided on this as diesel prices had increased and tractors took time. They said this was helping them waste less time on travel. Jaswant Singh of Barnala district (65) said the Centre should forget that farmers would be busy in wheat harvesting, as teams had been formed at village level to ensure their presence on Delhi borders in shifts. When a team goes to Delhi to stay for a week, the other team manages their work in the village and even helps in the fields of those have been camping on borders. Thereafter, the next team moves,” he added. Gurpreet Singh of Patiala district, who had stopped at the Jhanjh Khurd langar site, said paddy sowing would also not affect their presence at the protests. “Now the fight has reached a do-or-die sitiation; farmers will back step down,” he added. In Jind district, protesters have set shifts for groups of 15 villages to protest at each of the two toll plazas in the district at a time. This means that nearly 30 villages of the total 306 in the district would be on protest duty at Baddowal and Khatkar toll plazas at a given time. . BKU district president Azad Singh Palwa said they were making the arrangements to ensure participation even in harvesting season..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/harvest-on-farmers-adopt-new-ways-to-sustain-stir/articleshow/81142042.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Pune||Stargaze housing society embraces new initiative||Pune: Enthusiastic residents at Stargaze cooperative housing society in Bavdhan started their Sunday with a morning yoga session. In an hourlong session, the residents learnt necessary ‘asanas’ and their health benefits which have proven to be helpful, particularly during the Covid-19 pandemic. The Times of India, in partnership with the Yoga Institute in Mumbai, has launched a “Yoga at your doorstep” initiative which was conducted at Stagaze housing society at Bavdhan on Sunday. For the benefit of the residents of the housing societies in the city, a series of yoga sessions will be conducted on every Sundays. The session at the Stargaze housing society was the second in the series. First session was conducted on February 14 at Mont Vert Pristine Society on Aundh Road in Bopodi. The session included breathing exercises, meditation and a few basic poses for the participants. Shrimant Jagtap, treasurer of the Stargaze housing society, told TOI, “Yoga is an effective way to deal with the stress of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. It also boosts immunity, which is necessary to fight Covid-19.” Jagtap said, “The members of the society had been doing yoga sessions before the pandemic struck but we had to take a break due to Covid-19. I thank the Times of India for organizing the session and also our committee members.” Another resident, Prakash Hamand, who had participated in the session with his wife Ashwini, said such type of sessions are necessary in the current situation. “Our society is located at a scenic spot, surrounded by hills. We did not have any patients when the pandemic was at its peak in Pune,” Hamand said. Resident Suchitra Badkar said the morning yoga session was the perfect start to a Sunday. “Thanks to the Times of India and our society’s committee,” Badkar said. Captain Prakash Mane found the session to be very useful. “We learnt new yoga techniques in Sunday’s session.” Pune is the first to host the “Yoga at your doorstep” initiative. Other cities in the county will follow it soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stargaze-housing-society-embraces-new-initiative/articleshow/81142129.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||At Barnala rally, Punjab unionists call for unity||BARNALA: Taking the fight against central farm laws to the next level, especially to uplift the struggle after a pause upon the happenings of January 26, a massive rally was organised by farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) and farm labour organisation Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union (PKMU) in Barnala on Sunday. Giving credence to unity, many leaders from Sanyukta Kisan Morcha attended the rally despite the fact that farm organisations from Punjab had decided against holding mahapanchayats in the state. As BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) was not part of that decision, it went ahead with the ‘Kisan Mazdoor Ekta’ rally. Going by the massive response, leaders of farm organisations appreciated the step, saying a rally at such a massive scale lifted the morale of struggling organisations. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said there was a need to strengthen the non-religious character of this struggle and to protect it from the interference of opportunistic political parties, which was possible with the unity of farmers. Commenting on the incidents of January 26, he said the Centre tried to communalise the farm struggle, but its attempt was defeated. He said the people’s struggle against imperialist multinational companies was “true patriotism”. Farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said this was a historic struggle. “To make it successful, unity should be achieved by overcoming the differences of caste, religion and regions. Farmers who are protesting on the borders of Delhi will script a victory with their patience and sacrifice,” he said. PKMU state president Lachman Singh Sewewala said the issue of farm laws would harm employment and livelihood of agricultural labourers. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) women wing leader Harinder Kaur Bindu said the women have greatly contributed in this agitation and will continue to do so. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) vice-president Jhanda Singh Jethuke and general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said the struggle should become a struggle of all toiling people of Punjab, in which everyone should participate. They asked Punjab government to its promise to repeal the contractual farming law and should restrain from introducing any similar act, as was done the anti-farmer amendments in the APMC Act 2017, which should be revoked Ruldu Singh Mansa also addressed the gathering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/at-barnala-rally-punjab-unionists-call-for-unity/articleshow/81142062.cms||Neel Kamal
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Number of bird species in Delhi up||NEW DELHI: The number of bird species has gone up at most of the biodiversity parks in the city compared with last year. The survey was done on the Big Bird Day, an annual event in the region where birders set out to record different species. The grey-headed fish eagle was among the rare birds sighted on Sunday. The final results of all sites in Delhi-NCR would be compiled in two days. At Yamuna Biodiversity Park, the bird count increased from 83 in 2020 to 101 this year, while it doubled at Kalindi Biodiversity Park. Tughlaqabad Biodiversity Park reported a marginal decrease in bird numbers than 2020, while the species count dropped to 46 this year against 54 last year at Aravalli Biodiversity Park. Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at Yamuna Biodiversity Park, who coordinated with the other parks, said, “Yamuna and Kalindi biodiversity parks are in the river floodplain and known for their functional wetland ecosystems for migratory birds. During winter, about 30 species of migratory birds come from Europe, Siberia, Central Asia and China at Yamuna Biodiversity Park in which Red-crested pochard and Ferruginous pochard are prominent among wintering ducks.” “Aravalli Biodiversity Park is known for its beautiful restored scrub jungle, thorn forest and Kullu and Dhawa, typical vegetation that is home to many migratory and resident terrestrial bird species,” added Khudsar. The bird count took place for two hours at the seven biodiversity parks, but the duration varied from two to seven hours at other locations in Delhi-NCR. “The grey-headed fish eagle was spotted at Okhla Bird Sanctuary. Sunday was the fourth time ever when this bird was spotted in the region,” said Nikhil Devasar, organiser of the event. The other rare sightings included grey-winged black bird, Tickell’s thrush, Orange-headed thrush, greater white fronted goose, black-necked grebe and great crested grebe. “We recorded 51 bird species at Asola, which was higher than last year. The highlight was the sighting of the great crested grebe for the first time this winter,” said Sohail Madan of Bombay Natural History Society. The great crested grebe was also spotted near Najafgarh drain on the Haryana side. The other species there included five black-necked grebes. The grey-winged black bird, Tickell’s thrush and orange-headed thrush, which are Himalayan birds, were sighted at Bhondsi Nature Park near Gurgaon. Over 150 teams covered different locations in Delhi-NCR. Apart from the prominent locations, some groups conducted the bird count at small sites like Humayan’s Tomb and Lodhi Garden. “Due to the pandemic, we formed small groups to maintain social distancing. As there was no fog and the sky was clear, many bird species were recorded,” added Devasar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/birds-of-different-feather-flock-together-numbers-up-at-parks/articleshow/81140598.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Tree damaged? Go to forest department’s site to file complaint||NEW DELHI: The forest and wildlife department will soon have a link on its website where people can lodge complaints on concretisation, illegal pruning or felling of trees. Following an order from Delhi High Court in September last year, the department has started the process of adding an option on its website for the convenience of locals to register complaints. “We are in touch with National Informatics Centre for this purpose. Though we had launched a helpline in September 2020, the link on the website will make it convenient for people to register complaints against damages done to trees,” a forest officer said. Among the tree-related complaints include illegal felling or pruning, concretisation of tree or installing boards or nails on a tree. The helpline, launched in September last year, catered to complaints regarding tree felling and wildlife. Of the 377 complaints received on the helpline till February 10, 248 were related to tree offences, while 129 were regarding wildlife rescue. “The complaints, mostly received from locals, are about illegal felling or pruning of trees. As most people are not aware that concretisation of trees is prohibited, we hardly get complaints related to it. When the helpline was launched, many complaints were related to rescue of reptiles during the monsoon,” said an official. National Green Tribunal had earlier ordered that no construction activity would be allowed to take place within one metre radius of the trunk of trees. In another case of concretisation of a heritage tree in Chandni Chowk, Delhi High Court had directed the forest department to make arrangements on its website where people could lodge complaints against concretisation, or other damages done to trees. According to forest officials, when a tree-related complaint is lodged, it is transferred to the nodal officer of the area concerned. Following the complaint, a team of forest department inspects the site to check if illegal work has been carried out or not. The tree officer, thereafter, serves a notice to the accused individual or organisation for a hearing. “If the allegation is proved true in the hearing, the accused is asked to plant additional saplings and environmental compensation is also levied. However, in complaints related to wildlife in distress, the forest team immediately visits the spot to rescue the animal,” an official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tree-damaged-go-to-forest-depts-site-to-file-complaint/articleshow/81140601.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||JMC-Greater lodges FIR against birth paper fraud||JAIPUR: Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Greater, has registered an FIR against a birth certificate fraud that was revealed recently. According to information received from the department, around 150 fake birth certificates were made in JMC-Greater in the last two months raising serious questions on the working of the corporation. This issue surfaced in the civic body’s Jhotwara zone office where more than 150 birth certificates were made of people who are either dead or were born in 1950s or 1960s. In January, 33 certificates issued were found fake while in February 117 fake certificates were issued. The fraud came to light when a person who had made a fake birth certificate reached the zonal office to make some amendments in it. When his record was checked, the details were found to be wrong and later on all records were checked by the officials many of which were found to be fake. Jagat Rajeshwar, deputy commissioner of Jhotwara zone, said that they have doubts that someone must have hacked their system to get the birth certificate register. “For a person to get a birth certificate before one year, he has to get an affidavit sign from first class magistrate. But one person got a birth certificate without any signature and when we investigated, we found many such certificates being issued. We have filed an FIR and are trying to get the IP address of the person who issued this. Meanwhile, show-cause notice has been issued to the relevant officials," said Rajeshwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-greater-lodges-fir-against-birth-paper-fraud/articleshow/81142087.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Shimla||Less snowfall: Manali-Spiti road to open soon||MANALI: Most roads in Himachal Pradesh, which used to remain closed in winter season, are open in February for the first time in years has snowfall has continued to elude the Himalayas. Manali-Spiti highway, which used to open in June, is expected to open in April for the first time in history. The highway, which has entirely been handed over to Border Roads Organisation (BRO), remains covered with 10 to 40 feet of snow at most places. With the region receiving little snow this season, BRO has cleared snow from Kaza to 15,000ft high Kunzum pass which was impossible in February, the peak winter month. A BRO official said clearing snow from Gramphoo-Kunzum stretch will depend on weather conditions. “Koksar is already connected with Manali and Keylong. If weather permits, the Spiti valley will also connect with Koksar very soon. Earlier, Manali-Kaza (Spiti) road, which used to block with snow in November, used to reopen in June or July,” he said. For many people, this is unusual that roads connecting villages in Spiti, Lahaul and Pangi valley should be open at this time of the year. The snowfall had blocked all the roads, but the little snow had been cleared easily. Snow from many link roads has melted itself. The roads in these valleys used to remain blocked with snow till March and sometimes till April. The Aut-Luhri highway, which connects Chandigarh-Manali highway (NH-3) with Hindustan-Tibet road (NH-5), also used to remain blocked in winter season following heavy snowfall at Jalori pass. This road, which was temporarily blocked after recent spells of moderate snowfall, is also open this season. If Spiti valley is connected with Manali and Lahaul before May, it will not be just a record but also a miracle. Deadly Kunzum, which remains covered with over 25ft snow and witnesses dozens of avalanches, has been reconnected by road from Kaza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/less-snowfall-manali-spiti-road-to-open-soon/articleshow/81142071.cms||Suresh Sharma
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Muslims lend support to farmers, pray at Jind site||Jind: Members of the Muslim community reached Khatkar toll plaza on Sunday to extend their support to farmers protesting against the three contentious farm laws. They also donated Rs 21,000 to farmers. After announcing their support, they offered Namaz at the toll plaza. Welcoming the group, farmers provided them space near the dharna site for Namaz. Muslim community members assured the farmers of support till their demands were met. During the protest on Sunday, farmers raised the slogan, “Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Isaai, Bharat ke char sipaahi.” BKU Jind district president Azad Singh Palwal said, “The BJP government has shattered our fraternity with Muslims in the name of Covid-19 and other issues. Muslims also have equal rights in this country, which were being pushed back by the saffron party by playing a politics of divide and rule. But now every religion and community has come together to fight against the three farm laws. ” Firoj Khan from Safa Kheri village said, “The government may try to split the agitation by hatching a conspiracy, therefore, farmers need to be alert. Muslim community is standing firmly by the farmers. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/muslims-lend-support-to-farmers-pray-at-jind-site/articleshow/81142093.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Dispensary opened in Amar Colony||New Delhi: General secretary All India Congress Committee Ajay Maken inaugurated a dispensary in Amar Colony, Lajpat Nagar IV on Sunday. in the presence of area councillor Abhishek Dutt. Dutt said that the locals had been waiting for a dispensary for over 60 years. “The facility would help people in Garhi village, Amar Colony and other areas to get medical facility at nominal rates,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dispensary-opened-in-amar-colony/articleshow/81140611.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Cops arrest four for stealing gold worth Rs 18 lakh||The city crime branch personnel arrested four members of a gang that had stolen gold ornaments worth Rs 18 lakh from the residence of an officer working with a government bank in Goregaon on February 17. There was no one at the flat when the theft took place. A case was filed with Vanrai police. A crime branch team laid a trap and arrested four when they got a tip that robbers had planned to sell jewellery in Dahisar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-arrest-four-for-stealing-gold-worth-rs-18-lakh/articleshow/81143309.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 4 from Dubai booked for slipping out of quarantine centre||MUMBAI: Police have booked four travellers from Dubai after they slipped out of institutional quarantine within a day of checking in. The police are now looking for the quartet. The travellers had landed at Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport on February 10. They checked into Golden Nest Hotel at Andheri east, which is a designated quarantine hotel for international travellers. But when a BMC doctor went to check on them the next day, the four had disappeared. The doctor then complained to the civic officer and, on Friday, a complaint was lodged at Andheri police station. Those booked include Sushil Sabnis from Ambernath, Zubair Mohammad Ghalte from Murud in Raigad, Nikita Chandar from Ulhasnagar and Swapan Chandradas from Kalyan. Last week, mayor Kishori Pednekar and deputy mayor Suhas Wadkar conducted a surprise inspection. It was found that four international travellers who were to quarantine at a hotel in Santacruz had fled. Taking serious cognizance of the lapse, the mayor directed that action be immediately initiated against the hotel authorities and the four travellers. “Once passengers are brought to the hotel, it is also the responsibility of the hotel owner to ensure they remain quarantined. Hotel owners should inform the police station concerned and the BMC if passengers slip away, but they are not doing so. Stern action needs to be taken against those involved in such incidents,” she said. A senior civic official said after the mayor’s surprise visit exposed several international travellers skipping the mandatory quarantine, the BMC has begun random checks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-from-dubai-booked-for-slipping-out-of-quarantine-centre/articleshow/81142149.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Amritsar||Punjab farmers at risk of genotoxic damage||CHANDIGARH: Due to excessive use of pesticides, agriculture workers in Punjab are at a greater risk of genotoxic damage, which refers to property of chemical agents that damages the genetic material within a cell causing mutations and lead to serious disorders such as cancer. Punjab, an agrarian state, is the third highest consumer of pesticides in the country. A study by Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, to assess chromosomal aberrations among agricultural workers exposed to pesticides and non-agricultural workers not exposed to pesticides suggests that chronic pesticide exposure leads to more abundant loss of chromosomes. Blood samples of 296 individuals — 148 agriculture workers and 148 non-agriculture workers — were examined and a high frequency of aberrations was found in peripheral blood lymphocytes of exposed subjects as compared with non-exposed ones. The agriculture workers included in the study had an average exposure history of 25 years while half of them reported previous exposure to pesticides within the last 15 days. Throughout their occupational activity,70% of them never used personal protective equipment (PPE) while handling pesticides. Over 93% of the agriculture workers exposed to pesticides were found to be exhibiting a higher burden of chromosomal aberrations with a higher value of aneuploidy. Over 26% of the exposed participants reported the occurrence of acute health issues during the handling of pesticides. A significantly high presence of abnormal metaphases (15.47± 0.81) was found in participants exposed to pesticides as compared to non-exposed subjects (3.70 ± 0.33). To minimize the exposure and possible health outcomes in individuals coming in direct or indirect contact with pesticides, stress has been laid on strict measures for safe disposal and handling of these dangerous chemicals. As in the current Covid19 pandemic scenario, people are aware of the benefits of PPE kits, it has been recommended to make it mandatory for farmworkers to wear PPE while handling pesticides. The study, conducted by Anupam Kaur and Meenakshi Ahluwalia of the Department of Human Genetics, GNDU, emphasised promoting the use of alternative farming such as organic farming and the use of biological pesticides should for pest management. “The essential oils are composed of aromatic hydrocarbons and are plants secondary metabolites that provide insecticidal, nematocidal, fungicidal, ovicidal, and bactericidal effects. They can be used as an alternative to chemical pesticides and must be encouraged as a method for pest management,” said Anupam Kaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pb-farmers-at-risk-of-genotoxic-damage/articleshow/81150278.cms||Vinod Kumar
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers at risk of genotoxic damage||CHANDIGARH: Due to excessive use of pesticides, agriculture workers in Punjab are at a greater risk of genotoxic damage, which refers to property of chemical agents that damages the genetic material within a cell causing mutations and lead to serious disorders such as cancer. Punjab, an agrarian state, is the third highest consumer of pesticides in the country. A study by Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, to assess chromosomal aberrations among agricultural workers exposed to pesticides and non-agricultural workers not exposed to pesticides suggests that chronic pesticide exposure leads to more abundant loss of chromosomes. Blood samples of 296 individuals — 148 agriculture workers and 148 non-agriculture workers — were examined and a high frequency of aberrations was found in peripheral blood lymphocytes of exposed subjects as compared with non-exposed ones. The agriculture workers included in the study had an average exposure history of 25 years while half of them reported previous exposure to pesticides within the last 15 days. Throughout their occupational activity,70% of them never used personal protective equipment (PPE) while handling pesticides. Over 93% of the agriculture workers exposed to pesticides were found to be exhibiting a higher burden of chromosomal aberrations with a higher value of aneuploidy. Over 26% of the exposed participants reported the occurrence of acute health issues during the handling of pesticides. A significantly high presence of abnormal metaphases (15.47± 0.81) was found in participants exposed to pesticides as compared to non-exposed subjects (3.70 ± 0.33). To minimize the exposure and possible health outcomes in individuals coming in direct or indirect contact with pesticides, stress has been laid on strict measures for safe disposal and handling of these dangerous chemicals. As in the current Covid19 pandemic scenario, people are aware of the benefits of PPE kits, it has been recommended to make it mandatory for farmworkers to wear PPE while handling pesticides. The study, conducted by Anupam Kaur and Meenakshi Ahluwalia of the Department of Human Genetics, GNDU, emphasised promoting the use of alternative farming such as organic farming and the use of biological pesticides should for pest management. “The essential oils are composed of aromatic hydrocarbons and are plants secondary metabolites that provide insecticidal, nematocidal, fungicidal, ovicidal, and bactericidal effects. They can be used as an alternative to chemical pesticides and must be encouraged as a method for pest management,” said Anupam Kaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-farmers-at-risk-of-genotoxic-damage/articleshow/81142063.cms||Vinod Kumar
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Amid Delhi Police action, morcha to oberve Feb 24 as ‘Anti-repression Day’||Bathinda: Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has decided to observe February 24 as ‘Anti-repression Day’, even as Delhi Police are booking more farmers in cases related to incidents which took place in the national capital on January 26. The morcha has also given call to remobilise farmers to Delhi borders to begin the third phase of the struggle. The decisions were taken in a meeting of SKM at Singhu border on Sunday. SKM leader Yogendra Yadav and Prem Singh Bhangu said due to the actions of the central government and the Delhi Police, the sword of arrest was hanging over farmers. They said 44 FIRs had been registered and notices were being sent to many to join investigations. Farm leaders are being named in these FIRs. So far, 122 persons have been arrested. On February 24, demonstrations will be held at district and tehsil headquarters and memorandums to be given to the President will be handed over to officials. Farm leader Jagmohan Singh said till now farm struggle had seen two phases, first was up to January 26 and the second phase was after January 26 happenings, and now the protest would be taken to the third phase after February 27, and its details would be outlined by holding a meeting on February 28. Also, a ‘Young Farmers Day’ will be observed on February 26, when stages will be managed by youth at all protest sites. Bhangu said the details of those arrested, those got bails so far are being worked out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amid-delhi-police-action-morcha-to-oberve-feb-24-as-anti-repression-day/articleshow/81142065.cms||Neel Kamal
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Three arrested for murder of Youth Congress president in Punjab||NEW DELHI: Three people have been arrested by Delhi Police’s Special Cell for their alleged involvement in the murder of Youth Congress president Gurlal Singh Bhalwan. A day after the civic body election results on February 18, the shooters had shot dead Bhalwan (35) in Faridkot, Punjab The accused have been identified as Gurvinder Pal, Sukhvinder Dhillon and Saurabh Verma, all locals of Faridkot. The murder, police said, was orchestrated by Canada-based gangster Goldy Brar. His associate and jailed gangster Lawrence Vishnoi executed his orders. DCP Manishi Chandra said that it was revenge killing over the murder of Brar’s cousin, Gurlal Brar. “Gurlal, former state president of Student Organization of Punjab University (SOPU), was murdered in October 2020. Brar, through his henchmen, first eliminated gangster Rana Sidhu, who was shot 15 times, and then targeted Bhalwan who they suspected of supporting the rival Bhambhia gang,” the DCP said. Police said that the gang planned to kill Bhalwan on February 5 at Singhu border, but he was surrounded by protesters. The shooters then followed him to Jantar Mantar and tried to take him down there but Delhi Police happened to detain him briefly for protesting illegally. However, the shooters kept following him to different places. On February 18, the shooters shot dead Gurlal Singh, while he was about to get into his vehicle after coming out a from a friend’s shop at Faridkot’s Jubilee Chowk. The men also shot Bhalwan about a dozen times before escaping on a motorcycle kept ready by their associates. Bhalwan’s murder had caused ripples in Punjab and the state’s chief minister, Captain Amarinder Singh, had expressed his shock in a tweet. The three men were arrested from southeast Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan when they were trying to flee to Uttar Pradesh. Accused Pal is a relative of the Brar cousins. The cops said that Dhillon and Verma are direct underlings of Vishnoi, while the two other absconding accused came through Kala Jathedi. All these accused were provided shelter in a flat at Landar Road, Chandigarh. After the murder, the accused were picked-up by Pal at the outskirts of Faridkot in a Hyundai Verna. From there, they drove to Salasar, Rajasthan and then to Jhajjar, Haryana the next day. Vishnoi, through Brar, instructed that the shooters should part ways and accordingly, the two booked a cab for Bahadurgarh Metro Station, leaving behind Pal, Dhillon and Verma, who traveled to Delhi en route to Uttar Pradesh where they were intercepted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-arrested-for-murder-of-youth-cong-prez-in-punjab/articleshow/81140615.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Bareilly||Uttarakhand flash flood: A father’s last wish to bury son, 20, fulfilled as rescuers spot his remains in tunnel||Bareilly: Jalal Ali, 20, wanted a smart TV for his family. His pursuit took him to Uttarakhand’s Tapovan hydroelectric power plant, over 500km from his home in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri. On Sunday morning, his body was spotted with four others inside a tunnel, decomposed and covered in muck. Like Jalal, at least 29 others -- mostly youngsters -- had gone to the plant from Lakhimpur Kheri to ensure a better life for their families. Their bodies are yet to be traced. A flash flood had killed hundreds in Chamoli district on February 9. All along, Jalal’s family members knew that he had not survived. They just wanted a bit of his body for the last rites. His father Nashrat Ali told TOI, “His brother had seen him washed away, so there was no hope. We just wanted to get his body so that we could bury him according to the rituals. He was unmarried and always used to think about us. He wanted to buy a smart television for us, which is why he went to work in Uttarakhand.” Jalal was working at Tapovan tunnel with his elder brother Ishrat Ali and brother-in-law Mujeem Khan. Ishrat and Mujeem survived as they had left to get hydrogen cylinders. Jalal’s body will be brought to his village on Monday. Sub divisional magistrate (SDM) of Lakhimpur Kheri’s Nighasan, Om Prakash Gupta, said, “Jalal’s body will be brought here after autopsy. We will provide a compensation of Rs 2lakh to the aggrieved family. Bodies of 29 residents of Lakhimpur Kheri are still missing. We have taken the blood samples of their family members for matching with the DNA of the unidentified bodies.” The health department has collected blood samples of the family members of the labourers who are still missing. Around 50 bodies recovered from the tunnel in Chamoli are yet to be identified and experts would try to now identify them through DNA matching, the SDM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/uttarakhand-flash-flood-a-fathers-last-wish-to-bury-son-20-fulfilled-as-rescuers-spot-his-remains-in-tunnel/articleshow/81140047.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 22, 2021||Pune||Demand for ready-to-move-in housing picks up, says report||Pune: A report by the real estate consultancy firm PropTiger has noted that the share of ready-to-move-in homes in the total number of homes sold in 2020 inched up to more than 20%, as new homebuyers — generally seen as risk-averse — chose safer options. PropTiger is part of the same umbrella as the housing aggregator start-ups Housing.com and Makaan.com. The report noted a large dip in housing sales for 2020 over 2019 due to the pandemic, falling by nearly half. In the report, PropTiger reported that the ready-to-move-in homes’ sales formed 21% of the total sales in 2020, up from about 7% in 2015. The report further added that even when opting for under-construction real estate, homebuyers are looking at legacy brands with a record for executing projects. “Risk-averse homebuyers are increasingly opting for ready-to-move-in flats. Even in under-construction properties, the preference is towards branded developers or those with an impeccable track record of execution,” said Dhruv Agarwala, group CEO of PropTiger. Also in the report, which assessed the housing market up to December 2020, is a shifting preference towards large homes, with up to 47% of those surveyed preferring a larger home by the end of the year. That figure stood at 33% at the end of May 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demand-for-ready-to-move-in-housing-picks-up-says-report/articleshow/81142099.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Chugh takes on Priyanka, Rahul over fuel prices||Chandigarh: BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh, on Sunday, slammed Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi for “making a hue and cry over increasing petrol and diesel prices.” He said that the two leaders have forgotten that during the UPA government, the prices had skyrocketed more than the current prices. In a statement, Chugh said Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is working on a mechanism to check prices. He stated that the petrol prices in Delhi had increased by 112% during 10 years of UPA rule but only 13% in the four years of NDA rule. Diesel too, saw a steep hike during the UPA years with an increase of 160% compared to 28% under the NDA, he said. Chugh said the real damage to fuel prices took place during UPA-II regime. On May 16, 2009, petrol price in Delhi was Rs 40.62 per litre. On May 16, 2014, when the UPA ceded office to the NDA, the price of petrol in Delhi was Rs 71.41 per litre, he said. Similarly, in Congress-run Punjab, an extraordinary mess has been created, he alleged. On June 15, 2020, Punjab government announced an increase in VAT on both petrol and diesel.  The Punjab government increased VAT on petrol to 26.43% and on diesel to 15.98%. Through this move, the Punjab government is looking to generate an additional Rs 250 crore to Rs 300 crore per annum as revenue. Last year in February, the Punjab government increased the petrol price by Rs 5 and diesel price by Rs 1, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chugh-takes-on-priyanka-rahul-over-fuel-prices/articleshow/81142105.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||Offline or online? Schools in dilemma over mode of exam||JAIPUR: Schools in city are facing a dilemma whether to conduct final examination online or offline. Many schools tried to go completly offline especially for students studying in Class IX and XI, but faced backlash from parents. Maharaja Sawai Man Singh Vidyalay conducted a survey by giving parents consent forms to let their wards sit for offline examination. Out of 500 forms submitted, only 60 parents agreed for offline mode of examination. Damodar Goyal, board member of the school, said, “We tried to convince parent to go for offline mode of examination, but with majority of them wanted online mode. We decided to give both the options to the parents – offline and online. Parents can choose to send their children or not.” Recently, CBSE issued a circular to schools to conduct classes following Covid protocol for classes IX and XI but they haven’t mentioned specifically name of offline mode. A private school principal said that this has created confusion among schools as Covid protocol has to be followed only in offline mode. “We tried to go offline as now everything has opened but parents are still not ready to send their wards to school. CBSE circular didn’t mention any specific mode. Now most schools who wanted things to be normalised have decided to give options to parents between both the modes,” said a school principal. President of Rajasthan Parents Forum Sunil Yadav said that with indication of third wave of Covid and vaccines still not available to public in large is a major reason that parents are apprehensive in sending their wards to schools. Although senior class students are attending other family functions and not confined to homes, parents are not comfortable in sending them to a place without supervision, he said. Pratima Sharma, principal of Bal Vidya Vidyashram, said that this is unfortunate that we are no letting our children out of our comfort zone. “We tried to convince parents but when they have an easy option to study, they don’t want to take any step further. This is not a good sign and parents must try to take a step further to normalcy,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/offline-or-online-schools-in-dilemma-over-mode-of-exam/articleshow/81142114.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||VAT on fuel lower than other states, claims Hry CM||Karnal: Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said VAT on diesel and petrol prices in Haryana was lower than other states. It is being charged for welfare works done in the state and to maintain balance between states, he said in Karnal on Sunday. Khattar was interacting with media after a meeting with district administration to review development work in the district. Khattar said, “India imports crude oil from a foreign country. Value-added tax on fuel prices is being used on welfare works in the state. VAT is being charged as per the rate imposed in other states to maintain balance between states.” VAT charged by the state government is lower than several other states in the country. “I think that reducing the VAT on fuel will affect developmental works being carried in the state as the revenue is being utilized on several development works,” the CM added. He admitted to prices of petrol and diesel rising 10-15% in the last four to five years, but cited international rates for this. Reply to a question of several illegal temporary property IDs that were created on no-dues certificate portal of the Karnal municipal corporation (KMC) for the registration of properties in unauthorised colonies in the city, Khattar said police have registered a case in this regard. The Chief Minister also listened to public grievances at PWD Rest House here in Karnal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vat-on-fuel-lower-than-other-states-claims-hry-cm/articleshow/81142090.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Captain rebuts Niti Aayog vice-chairman||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh expressed surprise at Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar’s claim that no one spoke about the farm laws in the sixth governing council meeting of the Aayog held on Saturday. Reacting to Kumar’s claim, the Punjab CM stated that though he could not personally attend the virtual conference due to ill health, his speech, which was submitted to the Niti Aayog on Thursday, had clearly highlighted the issue. Not only had he reiterated his government’s stand that agriculture was a state subject and law-making on it should be left to the states in the true spirit of “cooperative federalism”, he had also underscored, in black and white, the need to resolve the farmers’ issues on urgent basis, Captain Amarinder said, rejecting the claim of the Niti Aayog VC as false and baseless. Capt Amarinder said his government’s stand on the farm laws had been consistent all through, at every forum, and the state amendment bills, passed in the Vidhan Sabha, were an endorsement of the same. It was unfortunate that the governor was sitting over these Bills instead of forwarding them to the President for assent, he said. The central government should not make it an issue of prestige and should be willing to revoke the legislations to find an effective, long-term solution to the problem, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/captain-rebuts-niti-aayog-vice-chairman/articleshow/81142119.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Living to tell a tale of fuel price hike||‘Considering shutting down my business’ Making losses and with loans to pay, M Murugan, who has been into the hotel business for more than 25 years, said this is the first time he is considering closing it. “I have already closed a lodge and a small hotel near Central. Even during the pandemic we were hopeful that things would become better but the hike in fuel prices has increased the price of vegetables and groceries. It is difficult to make profits,” he said. Murugan runs a small mess and a tea stall in Jafferkhanpet. “I used to sell vada and bajji at Rs 10 before Covid. Now I have reduced the rate to Rs 5 as people are unable to afford it. Also, meals at the hotel which sold for Rs 35 are now Rs 30. Roadside eateries have also reduced their rates giving us tough competition,” he said. “Due to the hike in fuel rates, I am spending more for preparing meals,” Murugan said. He said he used to purchase groceries for about Rs 15,000 and vegetables for Rs 2,000 a day before the fuel price hike. But now vegetables cost Rs 2,500 and groceries Rs 17,000. His daily sales, which were Rs 25,000 before Covid, have gone down by 30%. “We cannot cut labour as they depend on us for livelihood,” he said. ‘Have cut down on food to keep auto running’ M Chandrasekaran, an auto driver in Red Hills, used to make Rs 600 profit a day but now his net earnings have fallen to Rs 200-300 a day. “For one litre of petrol which costs Rs 92, we need to put oil that costs Rs 14. So my fuel cost is Rs 106 a litre. I get a mileage of 25km. Usually, we need to travel at least 100-125km every day which means at least Rs 600 is my daily fuel expense. Above all this, I also have the auto rent which is Rs 200 a day,” he said. Competition from cab aggregators and private auto companies has forced Chandrasekaran to reduce rates which he is adjusting by cutting down on food. “We had taken a lot of loans by pledging jewellery during the lockdown as I couldn’t drive the auto for almost six months. And now, we are not even able to meet the expenses, forget making profits. Since my auto is old I cannot fit LPG into it as that will cost me more. Also, the price of LPG has gone up. So shifting to LPG also doesn’t make sense now,” he said. ‘Petrol price has skyrocketed, cut salary remains same’ “The petrol prices have skyrocketed but my salary, which was halved last year due to Covid, remains the same. I have to travel 80-100km a day because of my work,” said K Bala, marketing and salesperson from Porur. Bala works for a private firm in Maduravoyal and his work involves travelling in and around central and south Chennai selling and promoting his company’s products. “I used to spend about Rs 800 in four or five days on petrol, but now I have to spend about Rs 1,500 for two days or less, because my workload has increased, due to the current crisis. My financial situation at home has taken a hit,” he said. Bala said post the fuel price hike, his wife and he had to sit down and rework their weekly home budget, which included cutting down several expenses, so that they can pay the house rent. “We have cut down on vegetables such as onions, okra and tomatoes. We have cut down on our weekly grocery purchase. My wife and daughter never nag me to buy anything now,” he said. Bala is worried that petrol prices may surge again and he has been discussing it with his colleagues at work. “This is the only thing we talk about. And if there is any further hike, we will be in very bad shape, because when petrol prices go up, there’s a surge in other prices,” he said. ‘Cost of transporting vegetables has tripled’ A Poongavanam, a vegetable vendor in T Nagar, said the petrol price hike has increased the cost of transportation. “We used to spend about Rs 100 a day on transport to get fresh vegetables from the wholesalers. But today, the vehicles are charging Rs 300 for every trip,” she said. Poongavanam said since the price hike she’s been spending more and earning less. “Business has been dull since the lockdown and we have not increased the price of the vegetables much because people would then go and buy online. We have to be reasonable and not charge high prices, but the problem is we are hardly getting anything in return,” she said. She said she would earlier spend about Rs 200 a day, while now her daily expense is at least Rs 500. Poongavanam lives with her sons near Greenways Road. While her sons take care of the house rent she looks after other amenities by earning through her vegetable stall. But given the circumstances, she has cut down on her expenses. Poongavanam has been selling vegetables for 17 years and is worried about the current crisis. “We are already struggling due to the pandemic. We are hardly earning an income, and over this, the government wants to hike petrol prices exorbitantly. What is the point in electing a government if they don’t address a common man’s issues? I fear the situation might get worse in the coming days,” she said. ‘Govt must understand out plight, reduce fuel prices’ “Seeing the price of petrol, I’m thinking if I should move to other businesses,” said G Annamalai, a sugarcane juice seller at T Nagar. Annamalai uses a petrol-operated sugarcane juicer machine, and since the price hike, he says he has been incurring losses. “I no longer get customers as I did before the pandemic. My revenue has decreased and the petrol price hike has made it more challenging,” he said. In a day, Annamalai earns about Rs 200 to Rs 300. “Apart from paying the sugarcane trader every week, I also have to pay my house rent, pay for the education of my two sons who are in college and take care of my ailing mother,” he said. Being the sole breadwinner of his family, Annamalai said he is constantly worried. “I have too many loans to pay. I had taken them during the lockdown. The government must understand our plight and reduce the fuel prices,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/living-to-tell-a-tale-of-fuel-price-hike/articleshow/81142132.cms||Aditi R
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid-19 affects every part of body, reveals multi-city study||HYDERABAD: Contrary to the common belief that lungs and heart are mostly affected by Covid-19, a team of Indian researchers from five cities, including Hyderabad, found that the virus can damage almost every part of the body, including small intestines and even the rectum. The team, which studied the histopathology (damage to tissues of various organs), of Covid-19 patients, noted that even kidneys, reproductive organs and the brain are also hit by the virus. In short, Covid-19 troubles the body from head to toe. The research team was drawn from the departments of anatomy, All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Nagpur, Patna, and Deoghar units, ESIC Medical College and Hospital, Hyderabad, and the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh. As part of the study, the research team comprising Vishwajit Deshmukh, Rohini Motwani, Ashutosh Kumar, Chiman Kumari, and Khursheed Raza analysed 45 research publications. “Although Covid-19 mainly affects respiratory and immune systems, other systems like the cardiovascular, urinary, gastrointestinal tract, reproductive system, nervous system, and integumentary system (involving the skin, hair, nail and endocrine glands) are not spared, especially in elderly cases and those with comorbidity,” the researchers said in their study published in the Journal of Clinical Pathology. They said Covid-19 causes a systemic disease as it possibly involves the kidneys, the heart and blood vessels, the liver and the pancreas. “It also regulates alterations in circulating lymphocytes and the immune system. The maximum expression of the ACE-2 receptors (through which the virus binds itself to the host’s cells) according to the consensus dataset from the human protein atlas is found in the small intestine, duodenum and colon followed by kidney, testis, gallbladder, heart, thyroid gland, adipose (fat) tissue, rectum and lungs,” the report said. In mild and moderate cases, the virus hits the lungs causing symptoms like sore throat, fever, malaise (discomfort), and respiratory distress. In severe cases, it causes respiratory failure leading to death. Referring to studies in a mouse model, the researchers said there is no gender difference in ACE-2 activity in lungs and heart but an expression of ACE-2 is more in male kidneys as compared with female kidneys. “This makes the males more prone to kidney-related disorders,” they said. In the initial days of the pandemic, doctors had found the presence of the virus in the epithelial (outer) lining of the respiratory tract, digestive tract, distal convoluted tubules of the kidney, the sweat glands of the skin and testicular epithelium. Moreover, earlier it was believed that the virus was capable of transmission through the respiratory system. This had called for compulsory wearing of masks and social distancing. But now researchers have found that “in addition to respiratory transmission, the virus might also be transmitted through faeces, urine and skin,” the study said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-affects-every-part-of-body-reveals-multi-city-study/articleshow/81143730.cms||Syed Akbar
February 22, 2021||India||Govt body defers test on ‘cow science’ after furore||NEW DELHI: Amid criticism about a central government body spreading “superstition and unscientific” information about cows through reference material on cattle, the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA) on Sunday deferred its ‘Gau Vigyan’ (cow science) online exam scheduled for February 25. The exercise was intended to create awareness around indigenous varieties of cows and the importance of preserving the country’s 51 ‘desi’ breeds of cattle. The decision to postpone the exam came just a couple of hours ahead of a mock test, scheduled on Sunday as a practice test for the main exam. Many scientists and certain organisations including Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad have been demanding cancellation of the ‘Gau Vigyan’ exam ever since the Aayog uploaded reference material for the exam early last month. They questioned the exams on the basis of the reference material which they said contained controversial and non-verified content which did not have scientific validity. Aayog chairman Vallabhbhai Kathiria, however, told TOI on Sunday that the exam was simply postponed due to “administrative reasons” and a new date would be set in the next three-four days, considering huge interest of general public and students across the globe. “Instead of conducting the exam on a weekday, we may possibly look for a new date on any weekend so that more people can take the exam,” he said. The RKA has received over 5.2 lakh online applications for the exam from 52 countries, including Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Afghanistan, UK and the US. Among foreign participants, the maximum number of registrations has come from the US. “We will also reopen the registration process for the exam which attracted a lot of attention after the University Grants Commission (UGC) recently wrote to all vice-chancellors of universities to encourage more and more students to take this exam voluntarily,” Kathiria said. The multiple-choice questions (MCQ) based online exam is open for school and college students, and the general public. It’ll be conducted in 12 languages including English. The successful participants will be given cash prizes/certificates by the Aayog. The RKA was constituted two years ago by the Centre as a high-powered permanent apex advisory body with mandate to help the government to develop appropriate programmes for conservation, sustainable development and genetic upgradation of Indigenous breeds of cows. Though the reference materials for the exam, uploaded by the Aayog on its website, contain several unverified information on cows, one of the materials is dedicated to “cow entrepreneurship” which may actually help livestock farmers and entrepreneurs in the country. It explains how one can “generate revenue of Rs 4 crore per annum with 200 Indian (indigenous breeds) cows” through breed improvement, bio energy & bio fuels, bio pesticides and bio fertilizers, cow tourism, dairy value addition and eco-friendly cow dung/urine-based products. Its content on ‘Panch Gavya’ - a blend of milk, ghee, curd, urine and dung of indigenous breeds of cows – and many other aspects including its comparison with non-indigenous varieties of cattle may, however, be severely contested in absence of any peer-reviewed scientific papers on these issues. The reference material claims medicinal value of ‘Panch Gavya’, noting how it is traditionally consumed during religious rites and also used as medicine to have a “cleansing effect on the mind and the body”. The reference materials also refer to certain myths around cows as historical facts, noting that the indigenous breed of cows have some unique features like a hump on their back that has “special power to absorb the sun’s energy with the help of the ‘solar pulse’ situated on their humps running through the spine. It goes on saying that a unique colour and a curved backline - Suryaketu Nadi - located in the 'Desi' cow’s back “absorbs many positive and medicinal energy from the sunlight and the atmosphere, leading to more nourishing milk, cow dung, and urine”. “Research further endorses the greatness bestowed on Indian breed [desi] cows by our ancestors and further underlines the importance of it to develop a great nation. These special and unique features in the Indian cows were developed during the course of evolution and celestial origin for ages, which is the reason why they are very popular across the planet,” says the reference material. In one of the questionable remarks, the RKA’s reference material for exam in Hindi says that the indigenous breeds of cows appear to be quite emotional towards living beings including humans while there is no such emotion reflected in foreign breeds of cows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-body-defers-test-on-cow-science-after-furore/articleshow/81143992.cms||Vishwa Mohan
February 22, 2021||Chandigarh||Five booked for attacking team investigating electricity theft||Fatehabad: Police have registered a case against five residents of Fatehpuri village for allegedly attacking members of the team who had come to investigate alleged power theft. SDO Ved Prakash and JE Suresh Chand were admitted to the general hospital in Fatehabad after they sustained injuries. Sadar Tohana police station has registered a case on the complaint of Ved Prakash, SDO of Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) against Rajendra and three to four unknown persons, all residents of Fatehpuri village under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. In his police complaint, he said he was informed that Rajendra, a resident of Fatehpuri village uses electricity in his grocery shop and flour mill without having a legal connection in the village. “I went to the scene with six employees and he refused to show the electricity bill on our demand. When the team started making a video, Rajendra and three to four friends attacked the team with sticks. He and JE Suresh Chand were injured in the attack. Later, everyone was admitted to Fatehabad general hospital for treatment,” the SDO said. Police said a case has been registered and investigation has been handed over to sub-inspector Satish Kumar, but no arrest has been made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/five-booked-for-attacking-team-investigating-electricity-theft/articleshow/81142131.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Dehradun||‘Don’t concretise old trek route from Rajpur to Jharipani, leave it alone’||Dehradun: Several citizens have reiterated the need to exercise caution while undertaking the ‘development’ of the Rajpur-Jharipani bridle path by the state tourism department. Recently, a notice board was ercted at the site by the tourism department inviting suggestions and feedback regarding the project. The proposal of the department which envisages among other things building toilets on the trail, has received a strong response from several residents who want the route to be left alone. Voicing the concerns felt by many, Lokesh Ohri, Doon-based heritage activist, told TOI, “I feel that the state tourism department doesn’t have any clarity regarding this project. The Jharipani route is mainly for walkers and I don’t see any reason to concretise it since there are already two roads (New Mussoorie and Old Mussoorie road) for cars and bikes. This route should be exclusively for walkers or cyclists.” The almost 8.5km-long trek route starts from Rajpur on the outskirts of Dehradun and ends at Jharipani below Mussoorie. It is a historic route that during colonial times was the main road to go from Dehradun to Mussoorie. Vestiges of the past still exist on the trail, like an old signboard that has details of the toll tax that travellers need to pay depending on the kind of conveyance used (palki, dandi, horse cart etc) as well as remains of the Halfway House, a colonial-era rest house where travellers used to stop for refreshments and rest during the journey uphill. Famous English writer Rudyard Kipling also took the trail while going to Mussoorie in the summer of 1888 and the path is also known as Kipling trail in his memory. Meanwhile, the Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB) when apprised of the concerns of residents, said that they will “not destroy the aesthetics of the route.” “We intend to first conduct a cleanliness drive over there. Also, we will proceed further as per the feedback we receive from the residents. For this, we have placed the board in which details are given where residents can send feedback,” said Poonam Chand, additional director of UTDB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dont-concretise-old-trek-route-from-rajpur-to-jharipani-leave-it-alone/articleshow/81140677.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||One dead, 1 hurt as fire breaks out in labour colony||One labourer, Tapan Mahaldar, died and another worker Suresh Kumar suffered grievous burn injuries after a fire broke out in a labour colony of Runwal my city housing project in Dombivli on Sunday morning. The fire started in a house built for workers which later spread in other rooms. Over 120 rooms built for 172 workers were gutted in fire. Luckily, when fire took place, others workers managed to save their lives. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/one-dead-1-hurt-as-fire-breaks-out-in-labour-colony/articleshow/81143319.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Chennai||Few takers for ‘boring’ menu of Amma canteens in north Chennai||CHENNAI: The Amma canteen at BRN Garden, North Chennai, run by Greater Chennai Corporation bears a deserted look and hasn’t had a single customer for a month now. The scene is similar across North Chennai where footfalls in around 100 Amma canteens have fallen. These canteens, which used to get 2,000 customers a day, do not get more than 100 now. Those working in the canteens said the government’s free food scheme during the pandemic has caused a huge dent in its revenue. “People thronged when hotels were closed and the food was free. Now, they are not willing to pay for the food. At many Amma canteens, people complain about lack of variety especially for breakfast and dinner,” said a staff. There are about 407 Amma canteens in the city with each division having at least two. Most of them are located near slums, railway stations, inside government hospitals and near Tasmac shops. “During the lockdown, people didn’t have money. Now, everyone is travelling and they have money. They prefer eating from a roadside eatery that serves a curry with its variety rice unlike the canteens that offer just pickles,” said an official. R Usha, a resident of Kakka Thoppu said she doesn’t go the canteen as the menu is “boring”. “We can eat one or two meals a week. But we cannot eat the same idli and chapatti every day,” she said. Out of the 407 canteens, about 200 get 1,000 customers a day. Around 100 of them have about 500-700 customers. The remaining have very few or no customers at all. The running cost of one canteen is around Rs 5,000-8,000 a day which includes staff payment, electricity bill, gas bill, vegetables and groceries. “Each canteen has 8-12 staff each earning Rs 300 a day,” said an official. According to data, in 2020-2021, around Rs 83 crore was spent on Amma canteens by the corporation which included its bill for free food distribution. “We are trying to implement the government order that has proposed to bring it under Companies Act. We are working on the structure of the company and the functions of the directors, shareholders and other officials. Once it is finalized, hopefully after the elections, the canteens will be run by a company. Then menu change, sponsorships and donors to run it will be sought,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/few-takers-for-amma-canteens-in-north-chennai/articleshow/81142161.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||Slain Army jawan cremated; Gehlot, Raje condole death||Jaipur: The jawan from Jaipur who was killed in action in Kashmir’s Kupwara was laid to rest in Niwaru on Sunday. The soldier was killed during a military operation in the Valley on Friday. He is survived by his wife and three children. His mortal remains were flown from Kashmir to Delhi and brought to Jaipur by road. The deceased was identified as 45-year-old Dataram Jat who was from the infantry regiment of the Indian Army. “The entire family is shocked beyond consolation and they had just met him just less than a month ago when he was here on leave. Having served the army for 24 years, Dataram’s elder brother is also a retired army man. Originally from Bharatpur, Dataram had settled along with his family in Jaipur for the last few years,” said a relative after the soldier was cremated with full military honours at Niwaru. The market was also shut in Niwaru in memory of the slain soldier. Dataram had an illustrious career and had served for majority of his service years in J&K. Following the news of the soldier’s demise, many political leaders took to social media to express their condolences. CM Ashok Gehlot tweeted, “My tributes to the brave son of Jaipur, Dataram Jat, who attained martyrdom in the line of duty in Kupwara, Jammu & Kashmir. Heartfelt condolences to his family members. May God give them strength. We all stand with them in this difficult time.” Former CM Vasundhara Raje also condoled the jawan’s death and tweeted that she salutes the sacrifice made by Dataram and the entire country is proud of him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/slain-army-jawan-cremated-gehlot-raje-condole-death/articleshow/81142169.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Dehradun||Satellite antenna system air-dropped near newly-formed lake, Navy divers gauge depth||Dehradun: The State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) on Sunday air-dropped a Quick Deployable Antenna (QDA) system near the lake which formed 5km upstream of Tapovan after the flash floods and has been a cause of concern since. Area around the lake, which is is estimated to be roughly around 500-metre long and 250-metre wide, and is situated at a height of around 14,000 feet is a no-signal zone. On Saturday, Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopters had also air-dropped three Navy divers near the lake to ascertain its exact depth. According to sources, the divers used a hand-held echo sounder to gauge the depth of the lake and estimated it to be around 9 mtr although a detailed report on the lake’s dimensions is yet to be submitted. Meanwhile, commenting about the satellite communication system air-dropped at the site on Sunday, DIG SDRF Ridhim Agarwal said, “The QDA system will help the scientists and experts visiting the lake to inspect it to establish communication with the people back at control rooms. The equipment will enable video-conferencing and transfer of data. She added that “QDA technology is based on satellite communication and helps in making and receiving voice or video calls and transferring data from no-signal areas.” “There are two types of QDA systems — static and mobile. The static QDA is established at the SDRF headquarters in Jolly Grant and at the State Emergency Operation Centre in Dehradun, while mobile QDA is flown to disaster-affected areas,” Agarwal said. Several teams of experts have been visiting the lake to ascertain the risks posed by the water accumulated. Their findings will be assessed to decide on a course of action. Meanwhile, two weeks after the flash floods, the total death toll stands at 67, with five more bodies being retrieved from Tapovan tunnel on Sunday. A total of 137 persons continue to be missing. Thirteen bodies have been recovered from the main tunnel of NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydro-power project where around 30 workers were believed to be trapped initially. The rest were recovered from other upstream and downstream areas of the affected areas. Of the 67, 37 bodies have been identified so far. “As many as 33 bodies remain unidentified. Twenty-eight body parts have also been found at different places,” an official involved in rescue operations said. Teams comprising members of the Army, NDRF and SDRF have been clearing muck from the slush-filled tunnel and have managed to reach up to 162m inside, as per the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC). It has been estimated that the personnel trapped inside the tunnel were working at a point 180m inside the tunnel when disaster struck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/satellite-antenna-system-air-dropped-near-newly-formed-lake-navy-divers-gauge-depth/articleshow/81140059.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 22, 2021||Delhi||21k schools to take part in skill championship||New Delhi: With an objective to enhance integration of technical and vocational education at schools, National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) has collaborated with over 21,000 CBSE-affiliated schools across the country for the first edition of the Junior Skills Championship 2021. With registrations ending on May 31, the competition aims to leverage its experience and expertise in leading India’s participation at World Skills International competitions since 2011. “This initiative aims to create wider awareness about the importance of skill development among youth at an early age. The championship, which will be held virtually this year, will provide students an opportunity to identify their talent and make informed career choices,” stated NSDC. Targeted at students in classes VII-XII, the championship will provide a platform for talented children to showcase their skills. At the same time, it will create a pipeline for forthcoming World Skills Competitions and will connect education with industry-related skills. It will have activities planned over the course of next two months, including skill competitions for schools, career counselling webinars, digital seminars and panel discussions, online boot camps and roundtable conference of academicians and corporates leading up to the final national competition in April 2021. Prakash Sharma, CFO, NSDC, said, “This is the first time it is done as part of the National Education Policy 2020 where the emphasis has been laid on the integration of vocational courses in schools.” While schools may reopen physically, as of now, we are targeting skills like graphic design, fashion technology and others in online mode, but may do the final competition physically in the next few months, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/21k-schools-to-take-part-in-skill-championship/articleshow/81141321.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||VAT’s burning a hole in your pocket: Telangana 2nd in country in taxing petrol & diesel||HYDERABAD: A close scan of VAT (value-added tax) levied by states in the country shows that Telangana has the second-highest VAT for both petrol and diesel in the country. With petrol price hovering at Rs 94.18 and diesel at Rs 88. 31 per litre, experts said the high VAT will lead to additional cost for consumers each time there is a change in base price by oil companies. Currently, the state is charging 35.2% as VAT for petrol per litre and 27% for diesel per litre. Rajasthan leads in the country with the highest tax across the country at 36% VAT on petrol and Rs 1,500 per kilo litre as road development cess. Odisha is the top state in having the highest VAT on diesel with 28% followed by Telangana with 27%. Karnataka closely follows Telangana with 35% tax on petrol, while Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Delhi, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh are other states which have more than 30% VAT on petrol per litre. In case of diesel, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh are the only states having more than 25% VAT along with Telangana. Earlier, Telangana used to levy about 33% tax on petrol and additional Rs 4 as additional tax. But some time back the state adjusted the tax to only 35% without additional tax. Applying the present rate and VAT% of diesel and petrol, consumers are paying Rs 17.79 and Rs 23.06 per litre respectively to the state government directly. Though excise duty levied by the central government on per litre petrol is constant at Rs 32.90 and Rs 31.80 for diesel, the VAT levied by state governments goes up each time there is a base price change and consumers are forced to shell out extra. Industry sources say the small change in the price in the last one week helped Telangana earn Rs 100 crore. But there is a flip side to it also. “Because of the high VAT on diesel, states will lose the volume of sales to other states. For example, Karnataka has high VAT on petrol but due to less VAT on diesel, it is able to attract diesel buyers (mostly transport vehicles) from other states. This will dent the state’s income as well as petrol bunk sales,” a source privy to the development said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vats-burning-a-hole-in-your-pocket-t-2nd-in-country-in-taxing-petrol-diesel/articleshow/81143734.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal to slash Re 1/litre in state tax for petrol, diesel till June 21||KOLKATA: Mamata Banerjee-led Bengal government has taken up the Centre’s challenge and decided to reduce taxes on fuel. State finance minister Amit Mitra on Sunday announced a Re-1/litre cut in state taxes on both petrol and diesel from Tuesday. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said states must reduce the tax and only then would Centre consider some measures to cut down on taxes. The slash in state tax will mean consumers here will get a relief of Re 1/litre to buy petrol and diesel. The slash will continue up to June 21, 2021.  The basic price of petrol in Kolkata is now Rs 37.02 and that of diesel is Rs 37.97 though petrol now cost over Rs 90/litre and diesel Rs 84-85/litre. The slash in tax, officials said, would mean Bengal losing around Rs 50 crore per month but it could be offset by an increase in demand. The total demand for petrol in the state is around 1.2 lakh kilo litre (1 KL is 1000 LTR) per month, while that of diesel is around 3 lakh KL. The taxes in petroleum products include customs duty, excise duty, cess and sales tax. There was also an additional excise duty along with countervailing duties (CVD). Mitra pointed out that Mamata Banerjee on humanitarian grounds decided to offer some relief to people though the central tax component was much higher than that of the state. “We shall issue a notification on Monday. This reduction is not ad valorem,” he added. There was a lump sum (fixed tax on quantity) tax of Re 1/litre on both petrol and diesel in the state, along with sales tax of 17% and 25% on diesel and petrol. The Bengal government withdrew the lump sum tax from 2018 to March 2020. According to Mitra, the central taxes on petrol is now Rs 32.90/litre, while that on diesel is Rs 31.80/litre. “A major part of central taxes on petrol and diesel is cess, which is not shared with states,” he added. Cess for petrol is Rs 20/litre, which is around 60% of the central component, while it’s Rs 22/litre for diesel, almost 70% of central component. “This is also against the federal structure. When the Modi government came, cess was 8% of the central taxes, which has now almost doubled to 16%. The states do not get anything from cess,” he added. The state taxes on petrol is now Rs 18.46/litre and diesel Rs 12.57/litre. Gyan Agarwal, a leading petroleum dealer, said despite a higher crude price in 2013-14, petrol and diesel prices were lower then than now. He added there had been additional central taxes since October 2019 though state taxes as a percentage remained at 25% for petrol and 17% for diesel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-to-slash-re-1/litre-in-state-tax-for-petrol-diesel-till-june-21/articleshow/81143322.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||40-year-old man held for stealing gold chain at CST||Mumbai: A 40-year-old man has been arrested for stealing a chartered accountant’s gold chain worth Rs 70,000 at CST recently. The accused, Anwar alias Munawwar Shaikh, befriended the victim by telling him that they were childhood friends. “The victim was walking on the road outside CST station when the accused stopped him saying that he was his friend. He then lured the victim into giving him his gold chain. The accused using sleight of hand stole the chain and fled from the scene,” said a police official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/40-year-old-man-held-for-stealing-gold-chain-at-cst/articleshow/81143338.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Dehradun||30 new Covid-19 cases surface in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand on Sunday recorded one death and 30 new Covid-19 cases (more than double of the 13 cases recorded a day before). A 69-year-old Covid patient died of cardiac arrest and pneumonia at Jolly Grant hospital, according to the health department. Five hill districts - Almora, Bageshwar, Uttarkashi and Champawat recorded no new cases on the day. Uttarakhand at present has 457 active cases, while 4,755 sample results are awaited. On Sunday, 16 patients recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 93,158 in the state. Dehradun again reported the highest number of cases at 13, followed by six in Nainital, four in Haridwar, three in US Nagar, two in Tehri and one each in Pauri and Chamoli. So far, 1,37,005 have received the Covid-19 vaccine in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/30-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/81140069.cms||Shivani Azad
February 22, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Heroes of 1971 Indo-Pak war recall march to Dhaka||CHENNAI: As the country celebrates ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ to mark the 50th anniversary of the Indian armed forces’ victory in the 1971 Indo-Pak war, war veterans from the city narrated the events from the battlefield that led to the birth of Bangladesh. From heavy shelling on the Srinagar aerodrome to securing Dhaka, the former defence personnel shared their experiences of the war. The former soldiers participated at an event in the city on Sunday organised by the headquarters Dakshin Bharat Area to commemorate the year-long celebrations of the war. A book titled ‘The Brave Never Die’ written by Vijaylakshmi on the valour of Indian soldiers who fought the war was released on the occasion. Colonel A Krishnaswamy, who headed a company of 90 soldiers that marched into Dhaka, said the war was the shortest in the history that eventually resulted in the creation of a separate country. “It started on December 3 and ended on December 16. I was a major in the 10th battalion of the Jammu and Kashmir Rifles, which was chosen to proceed towards Dhaka,” he said. The mission was to reach Dhaka at the earliest to prevent the entry of Pakistan defence forces. “Had they (Pakistan troops) gone back to Dhaka, it would have been a street fight inside the town, which would have been difficult.” he said. About 93,000 Pakistani troops surrendered in Dhaka following which a declaration of the ceasefire was brought into force to end the war. Krishnaswamy, who was awarded Vir Chakra, said he was present at the surrender ceremony. “I was there at the surrender ceremony when Pakistani soldiers laid down the arms at the Dhaka Race Course on December 17,” he said. More than 5,000 to 6,000 Pakistani soldiers surrendered at the race course, he said. Another retired defence personnel, S Ramalingam, a corporal with the Indian Air Force based out of the Srinagar aerodrome during the war, recalled how the airbase was bombarded during the war. “Flying officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhon hit two to three aircraft of the enemy, but was also killed. They (Pakistani troops) were targeting on the runway such that we do not move on it,” he said. (Sekhon is the only air force officer to have been given the Param Vir Chakra.) Also, on Sunday, the ‘Swarnim Vijay Run’ was organised in which 700 people participated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/heroes-of-1971-indo-pak-war-recall-march-to-dhaka/articleshow/81142186.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Pamela Goswami levels fresh charge as search held at New Town salon||KOLKATA: A day after trying to shift blame on a party colleague, BJP Yuva Morcha leader Pamela Goswami on Sunday named a senior officer involved in the probe. “I want a CID probe. Or let DD probe this. Let an SIT be formed that will investigate this case. Then, all truth will come out,” she said. Goswami made the fresh allegations while the police led her inside a mall at New Town from where she ran a salon. “CCTV footage has been seized from the spot. Those can be crucial to the probe,” said an investigating officer. The police team remained at the spot for over three hours. The 1,300sqft salon in New TownBut the police refused to read much into the allegations made against a senior cop. “We have allowed her parents to visit her. Similarly, we will allow her advocate to be present during her questioning, according to the law. As far as we are concerned, we are video recording everything. From the search made inside her car to the search at her office, we have videographed everything,” said an officer, adding that the seized drugs were in court custody and would be sent to CFSL soon. BJP leader Rakesh Singh, whom Pamela had named earlier, said on Sunday that he had written to Kolkata Police commissioner to thoroughly probe the case, raising questions about cops from the New Alipore police station. “I have not met her in the past one year. She had tied me rakhi once at a party event two years ago. I haven’t even deleted that photo from my social media account. But I have nothing to do in whatever business she was arrested for. I believe I am being framed,” Singh said. “If police can point me or any of my companions in their video graphic evidence, I will quit politics.” Pamela’s lawyer Subhodip Roy said, “Lawyers will be present with Goswami from Monday during her questioning. We are not moving any petition in court right now and will let cops complete their interrogation. But we will move for her bail petition as we are confident wherever they might take her, they will not find any evidence against her as she is not involved in any racket.” Police said they would investigate how the 1,300sqft shop, where Goswami and co-accused Pabir Kumar Dey had invested, changed hands. “It was a furniture shop earlier, one that was running successfully,” claimed an officer. Police said they would also probe the antecedents of a couple of people who had met Goswami right before her arrest. “We have identified a few people,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pamela-levels-fresh-charge-as-search-held-at-new-town-salon/articleshow/81143334.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 22, 2021||Coimbatore||Rough road ahead for this mobile vendor||Coimbatore: K Chandran of Karamadai criss-crosses tiny villages on his two-wheeler that is fitted with a portable public address system, selling groceries, toys and stationery items. The 37-year-old man, who hails from the narikuravar community, uses all his soft sales skills and often revisits the villages the same day to make a sale. He travels about 200 kilometres a day and spends 70% of his income to buy fuel for the vehicle. Chandran used to sell beads at temples and public places before the lockdown was imposed. “I purchase grocery and fancy items from wholesalers in Coimbatore for about Rs 6,000 on Sundays and sell them within the weekend. While I manage to earn 10% profit per item, sometimes I am forced to sell without any profit,” he told TOI. “I earn Rs800 a day, but spend Rs500 on fuel. I am left with Rs300 to meet household expenses but have to save at least Rs100 to reinvest in the business. My daughter is in Class IX. After her school reopened, she has been asking me to buy a good schoolbag. Though I started saving for it a month ago, I’m still a few hundreds short. Only if the fuel price goes down, I would be able to take care of expenses better,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rough-road-ahead-for-this-mobile-vendor/articleshow/81142277.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 21 lakh Covid cases, Sunday’s 6,971 highest in 121 days||MUMBAI: Covid-19 cases continued to go up in Maharashtra for the sixth day in a row, even as several districts imposed varying degrees of restrictions. The state added 6,971 cases on Sunday, the highest in 121 days. Mumbai too mirrored the surge, adding over 900 cases after 84 days. Sunday’s addition of 921 cases took the city's tally to 3,19,128, and the state's to 21,00,884, beyond the 21 lakh mark. The surge is still far from the peak in September 2020: the state’s daily cases crossed the 20,000 mark on September 5, peaking at 24,886 within a week (see graphic). State authorities have maintained that despite the current surge, hospitalisations have not increased in big numbers. Mumbai circle added the highest number of cases (1,678) followed by Akola circle (1,585) and Pune circle (1,309). Among corporations, after Mumbai, Amravati added the second highest number of cases (666), racing ahead of Pune city that reported 640. Nagpur city too reported around 600 cases, a 284% jump from 156 cases it reported a month ago. Akola and Yawatmal added 145 and 96 cases, respectively. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said he was worried about the surge in Amravati and particularly that new cases detected were almost matching with the previous peaks seen in districts. “This is a war against viruses and mask is an effective shield,” he reiterated, adding that lockdown may not be the solution, but could be the only option to break the transmission chain. The principal health secretary said that of active cases (51,788), 78% are hospitalised. “About 13% of active patients (6,000-plus) are on ventilator. These numbers have been steady over a long period of time,” he told TOI. Active cases in the state have jumped by 14% in the past 30 days. The Centre has written to states to bring in curbs. It said Kerala and Maharashtra account for 74% of the country's active cases. “In Maharashtra… the weekly positivity has also increased from 4.7% to 8.1% (the highest in the country, Kerala following with 7.9% and AP 3.3%). The areas of concern are Mumbai’s suburban areas where weekly cases have risen by 19%. In Nagpur, Amravati, Nashik, Akola and Yavatmal, weekly cases have increased by 33%, 47%, 23%, 55% and 48%,” the Centre said, underlining that states should focus on more RT-PCR testing, monitoring of mutations, and clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths. On Sunday, the state reported 35 deaths, taking the toll to 51,788. Of these, 15 occurred in the previous 48 hours and 20 in previous weeks. In Mumbai, daily deaths rose to six from three reported on Saturday, taking the toll to 11,446. Dr V Ravishankar, CEO of Lilavati Hospital, said there has been a marginal increase in admissions. “There have been few ICU admissions though,” he said. Dr Samrat Shah, consultant Internist at Bhatia Hospital said most cases are mild to moderate. “It is not going into severe till now,” he said. Thane city reported 177 cases on Sunday, which is nearly double of the 91 cases reported last week. Navi Mumbai and Panvel reported 101 and 77 new cases, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-crosses-21l-covid-cases-suns-6971-highest-in-121-days/articleshow/81142272.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 22, 2021||Delhi||North corporation moves to ‘legalise’ makeshift temple on central verge||New Delhi: The issue of the “prefabricated” Hanuman Mandir that came up on the central verge near Kucha Mahajani in Chandni Chowk a couple of days ago took another twist on Sunday when the BJP-led North Delhi Municipal Corporation announced that it would start the procedure to “legalise” it. This steel structure is close to the Hanuman temple that was removed in January on the order of Delhi High Court. Jai Prakash, north corporation mayor, told TOI that they would be holding a meeting with the legal department to figure out a way to legalise the structure. “After that, a private resolution will be moved in the House meeting. Once approved, we will send the proposal to Delhi government for the final nod and implementation,” he added. “On one hand, the AAP-led Delhi government is supporting the structure, on the other hand its own department (PWD) has filed a complaint with Delhi Police calling the temple an obstacle for the redevelopment project. If Delhi government is actually in favour of the temple, then they should approve our proposal,” alleged Prakash, adding that the decision to “legalise” the structure came in the wake of sentiments of local traders and residents. In a letter to Kotwali police station, PWD stated, “The prefabricated structure was placed without permission from the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project executing authorities. It is requested to take necessary action at the earliest.” However, it didn’t mention the word “temple” anywhere. A senior Delhi Police officer confirmed that no FIR had been lodged. “PWD just shared information with us and no FIR was filed,” he added. When TOI visited the place on Sunday, a few devotees were seen sitting on bollards and priests were present in the temple. A few bikes parked near a police tent and a water cooler and barricades placed there were affecting the movement of visitors on one side of the road. Prakash said that once the structure was legalised, the corporation would ensure that there was no congestion in the form of parking or encroachment there, even during festive celebrations. In a letter to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that the new site of the temple was undisputed. “The CM should ask the religious committee headed by minister Satyendar Jain to review and approve the new mandir and make it a part of the beautification plan,” he added. Delhi Congress vice-president Mudit Aggarwal blamed both AAP and BJP for misleading the public and doing politics in the name of religion. “Both parties were involved in removal of the old structure. After local residents rebuilt the structure, they claimed credit for it,” he said. Despite repeated attempts, AAP did not respond to TOI’s queries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-corporation-moves-to-legalise-makeshift-temple-on-central-verge/articleshow/81141320.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 22, 2021||Bhopal||‘As a Covid survivor, I know nothing can beat art or human spirit’||Bhopal: Sangeet Natak Akademi award winner and one of the most illustrious names in Bharatnatyam arena today, Padma Shri Geeta Chandran was elated to perform at Khajuraho festival on Saturday. “I have performed at Khajuraho earlier too, but this is the first time I performed on the temple premises. When we rehearsed there on Saturday morning, I had tears in my eyes,” said she. Geeta is a Covid survivor and faced harrowing times. She said, “I had high fever for a few days. At that time there was a lot of stigma attached with Covid. Nobody would pick up the garbage from our house, there was a board displayed outside our home and we were almost like untouchables, even medicines were not delivered. But I remained positive. I think fear is more deadly than the ailment itself. But, as a Covid survivor I know nothing can beat art or human spirit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/as-a-covid-survivor-i-know-nothing-can-beat-art-or-human-spirit/articleshow/81142213.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
February 22, 2021||India||5G, Netflix in sign language lexicon now||Netflix” is a tap with two fingers on the palm and then a sweeping N, “5G” is five fingers and then a fist, and “video call” is a quick circle around an ear and then a calling sign. Included in the third edition of the Indian Sign Language (ISL) dictionary, launched this week, are terms relevant to the times — social media, relationships and political parties. The 2021 edition adds 4,000 signs to the previous repository of 6,000. The new dictionary includes 1,300 everyday terms, over 1,000 academic terms, 800 agricultural terms, 500 technical terms and 400 legal terms. For India’s 1.3 million people with hearing impairments, this is one step ahead in a largely gap-riddled space. Now, there are signs for “turban” and “hijab”, “hashtag” and “like”, “AAP” and “BJP”, “aloo tikki” and “momos”, and “Tom & Jerry” and “Batman”. And there are now signs for “love marriage,” “arranged marriage”, “breakup” and “divorce”. Among legal terms, “abrogation” made the cut, as did “annexation”, “honour killing” and many IPC sections. “Discrimination” goes under academic terms, along with “exploitation”, “deaf suppression” and the word “deaf” itself. The 2019 dictionary had “deafness” alone. “Sign languages are natural languages with the same linguistic properties as spoken ones. They have their own grammar and lexicon, and are not just representations of spoken words on hands,” AN Narayanan, president of the National Deaf Association told TOI. “Yet, only 58 countries have accorded sign languages the status of national spoken languages.” The ISL is not an official language in India yet. The project to develop it had begun in 2016, a year after the Indian Sign Language Research and Training Centre was set up in New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/5g-netflix-in-sign-language-lexicon-now/articleshow/81144015.cms||Shobita Dhar
February 22, 2021||Chennai||Now, board an SETC bus to Coimbatore from Velachery||CHENNAI: Passengers travelling to Coimbatore and Madurai can now board government deluxe and A/C buses from T Nagar, Velachery, Saidapet and Broadway. From Monday, those residing in Chennai need not travel to Tambaram or Koyambedu, which were the only two authorised points to board State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) buses, till now. Three ultra-deluxe category buses, which will transport passengers to Tuticorin, Thanjavur and Kumbakonam, will depart from T Nagar between 7pm to 10pm every day. On their way, these buses will pick up passengers in Saidapet, Alandur and Chromepet. Six buses going to Coimbatore and Madurai will leave from Broadway and reach the city’s suburbs via Adyar, Velachery and the IT corridor. With operations at the new bus terminus in Kilambakkam expected to begin in six months, SETC is hoping to add more pickup or drop-off points within city limits to attract more passengers. The proposed terminus is on the Chennai-Trichy highway, 30km from Koyambedu, and its nearest suburban railway station from Kilambakkam is 2km away. “Reaching the city will be a costly affair if passengers choose a cab or an autorickshaw,” said a senior SETC official. “Why make a passenger get down at Kilambakkam and choose another MTC bus when the same SETC bus can take them into the city?” This is expected to reduce fuel usage, the official said. “To transport 60 people, we need one bus which would consume 20 litres of diesel. Otherwise, we need 15 cars, which need 100 litres of diesel, or four vans, which will require 50 litres of diesel or 30 two-wheelers which burn 40 litres of fuel,” the official said. For travelling to Bengaluru and Kerala, SETC is planning to set up similar pickup points in the city on Poonamallee and Tambaram, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/now-board-an-setc-bus-to-coimbatore-from-velachery/articleshow/81142227.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 22, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Valasaravakkam has 2 contracted sewage trucks, 20 ply illegally||CHENNAI: Areas such as Valasaravakkam, Virugambakkam, Maduravoyal and Porur have thousands of households, but officially these have access to only two sewage cleaning trucks. A Right to Information reply obtained by social activist Pugalventhan Venkatesan shows that only two private tankers are attached to Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB), popular as Metrowater, for routine sewer maintenance in the Valasaravakkam zone. A cursory check by the activist showed that 20 sewage lorries are operated in the area. Pugalventhan said he has taken videos that show how these lorries dump sewage discretely in water bodies on highways near these areas. This zone, which was added to corporation limits in 2011, has many households that are not covered by underground sewerage system and depends on private tankers to remove waste. Metrowater has built 15 pumping stations in the Valasravakkam zone where private lorries can empty sewage by paying Rs 200 per trip. The gency does not own any sewage removal lorries, but calls for tenders for employing them on contract basis. “When we called for tenders for hiring private lorries for sewage removal, there was a poor response. We continuously advise lorry owners and drivers to not dump it illegally in the water bodies. Thecorporation and police are keeping a watch,” a Metrowater official said. Pugalventhan said despite many complaints about dumping of sewage in areas such as Thundalam, Karambakkam and Porur, no action has been taken. “A new regulation is needed. Does the civic body know how many private sewage tankers are operating? It is convenient in zones like Valasaravakkam where highways are nearby and provide an easy cover,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/valasaravakkam-has2-contracted-sewage-trucks-20-ply-illegally/articleshow/81142269.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh budget to be presented on March 2||Bhopal: The Budget session of Madhya Pradesh assembly will begin on Monday under strict Covid protocol though the House proceedings will be conducted with full capacity. As per the officials, the state budget is likely to be presented on March 2. An all-party meeting convened here at the state assembly premises on Sunday by pro tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma decided to follow social distancing and face mask rule apart from other Covid guidelines during the session. The assembly secretariat has though restricted entry to the staff and security personnel of the legislators. "The budget session will be held under strict Covid guidelines. We have decided to follow all the rules and to maintain social distancing. However, the House will run with full capacity. The state budget which was likely to be presented on February 26, will now be presented on March 2," state home and legislative affairs minister, Narottam Mishra told reporters, on Sunday. As per the schedule, the election of Speaker will be held at 11 am. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will propose the name of senior BJP MLA Girish Gautam as the Speaker. Ministers Vishwas Sarang, Brijendra Pratap Singh, former speaker Sitasaran Sharma, MLAs, Nagendra Singh Gurh, Rampal Singh and Panchulal Prajapati are likely to second the proposal. Other leaders will also support the proposal to elect Gautam as the Speaker unopposed. After the election of Speaker, Governor Anandiben Patel will deliver a customary address to the House on the first day of the budget session. The House will also pass a Motion of Thanks on the Governor's address. The state budget is likely to be presented in the House on March 3 as decided in the meeting. During the session, the House is likely to replace some ordinance with amendment bills. The important ordinances which are likely to be replaced by the bills during the session included, MP Motor Spirit Cess (Amendment), MP High Speed Diesel Cess (Amendment), Co-operative Society (Amendment), Guaranteed delivery of Public Services (Amendment), MP Bhoj (Open) University Revision, Dr BR Ambedkar University of Social Sciences Revision, Pandit SN Shukla University Revision, Religious Freedom (Amendment), VAT (Amendment), State Backward Classes Commission (Amendment) and MP Private University (Second Amendment). The House will observe a four-day holiday from March 11 to 14 due to Mahashivratri and adjourn ahead of Holi which falls on March 28-29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-budget-to-be-presented-on-march-2-session-begins-today/articleshow/81142265.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Goa||Goa: Active cases of Covid-19 drop below 500-mark||PANAJI: Although a mere 39 new Covid-19 infections were reported in the state on Sunday, the past 24 hours saw a worrying 33 patients hospitalised. On Friday, active Covid-19 cases dropped below the 500-mark, for the first time since June last year. No Covid related deaths were reported on Sunday. Positivity rate stood at 3.7, the highest seen in a week as 1,051 samples were tested. Despite cases being low, there were six deaths reported last week, of which one was a 45-year-old with no comorbidities. At a session on Covid-19 vaccination on Saturday, head of department of preventive medicine at Goa Medical College Dr Jagdish Kakodkar said complacency was setting in. He cited examples of Kerala and Maharashtra and warned that Goa could be in trouble again if people don’t continue to follow precautions. “This will cost us heavily,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-cases-drop-below-500-mark/articleshow/81143381.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||Vax jabs for pregnant women, kids who missed routine doses||Jaipur: Children and pregnant women who have missed their routine vaccine doses during the pandemic will get inoculated under Intensified Mission Indradhanush (IMI) 3.0, which will be launched in the state in two rounds starting from February 22 and March 22. In June 7, 2020 edition, TOI in its story ‘Covid fallout: Immunisation ‘ignored’ in 800 Rajasthan red zones’ had revealed that children and pregnant women in over 800 Covid red zones were being deprived of routine immunisation. The report also said those living in those active containment zones across the state had not been vaccinated against seasonal diseases. However, in non-red zones, the health department had been on an overdrive and gone beyond set targets in the category, despite restrictions due to the pandemic. Those children left out from being vaccination, will now get the vaccines under IMI 3.0. They will be identified and vaccinated during the two rounds of IMI 3.0. Each round will be for 15 days each. In the first round, 24 districts are among pre-identified 250 districts and urban areas across 29 states and UTs in the country. Beneficiaries from migration areas and hard to reach zones will be targeted as they may have missed their vaccine doses because of Covid. Health minister Raghu Sharma said they would start the IMI 3.0 from Bhilwara. He said preparations have been completed for the launch of the drive. Secretary (health) Siddharth Mahajan said 24 districts will be convered under the first round of IMI 3.0. The districts are Ajmer, Alwar, Baran, Bharatpur, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Kota, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Sikar, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dausa, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh,Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Tonk and Udaipur. The vaccination sites will be organised in hamlets, villages and urban areas. On government holidays and Sundays, vaccination will not be done. Mahajan said they are targeting 23,980 children under 2 years and 6,268 pregnant women for vaccination. He said those children and pregnant women left out due to the pandemic will be vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vax-jabs-for-pregnant-women-kids-who-missed-routine-doses/articleshow/81142282.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Bhopal||Another Vyapam-like scam in the making: Digvijaya Singh to Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Enclosing a letter written by former students of agriculture college, Sehore, senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh wrote to chief minister saying that even though Vyapam’s name has changed to Professional Examination Board (PEB), it is working in the same manner as the old Vyapam. He wrote, former students of agriculture college from your constituency have raised questions over the exam conducted by PEB for recruitment to the post of senior agriculture extension officer and rural agriculture extension officer and have expressed apprehension that there has been another Vyapam-like scam in the two exams. They have demanded the constitution of a SIT to investigate the issue, he added. He wrote, Vyapam scam not only defamed Madhya Pradesh but ruined the future of hundreds of students, he adding that agriculture graduates and post graduates, who appeared in the two exams conducted by PEB, are complaining that candidates, who somehow graduates from the agriculture colleges with average marks, have scored 190 to 198 marks out of 200 in the two papers of 100 marks each they wrote in the exam for the two posts in agriculture department. Singh said that they further complained that papers were not so easy that they could get 95 to 99 marks in each paper and they are apprehensive that the papers were leaked to a select group of candidates against money. They argue that even the meritorious students of agriculture college could not have scored as many marks and therefore there should be a probe on how the exam was conducted in some examination centres and how candidates appearing in the exam from there could get almost 100 per cent marks in the two papers — one from the agriculture department and another from C-set. He said that the aggrieved candidates have submitted a memorandum addressed to the chief minister to the Sehore collector on February 17. Singh said that 12 lakh unemployed youths would be appearing in the recruitment test for police constable scheduled in April and if the exam agency — PEB —` loses credence among the candidates, it would also have an adverse impact on the image of the state government. Therefore, a SIT should be constituted to probe the charges of wrongdoing in the two exams for recruitment in the agriculture department and if the charge of paper leak is found to be true, the exams should be cancelled and FIR should be lodged against those who leaked the papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/another-vyapam-like-scam-in-the-making-diggy-to-cm/articleshow/81142294.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||Young minds pitch ideas for a better future at ‘Innopreneurs 2021’||Nagpur: The sixth edition of the Innopreneurs Startup Contest saw HVA Chemical Solution Pvt Ltd emerging as the winner (Rs1 lakh) followed by Druksell and Solnce Green Energy, first and second runners-up (Rs60,000 and Rs40,000) respectively. In all, ten contestants were in the fray. HVA Chemical Solutions presenter Aravind S, a mechanical engineer, said that their team mainly focuses on developing solid fuel with non-recyclable plastic which can be used for burning and combustion instead of other elements like wood, bio-briquettes, coal which increases pollution. This eco-friendly method helps save the environment. Sonam Chophel from Thimpu, Bhutan, the first runner up, presented ‘Druksell’ as the largest online marketplace for authentic Bhutanese products which is made and grown in Bhutan, where customers from around the world can buy and get their products delivered at their doorstep, in their home country. Yash Tarwadi, founder of Solnce Green Energy, second runners-up, presented green energy as a stand-alone and decentralized solar thermal desalination technology, which can convert seawater into mineralized drinkable water. Of the ten final teams, Hesa Rural/Last mile Connect, GoWash and Agri Yug won the special prizes. The grand finale of an international competitive startup contest was organized by Lemon Ideas in collaboration with GIZ, an agency run by the German Federal Government, Discover Dollar, Innopreneurs 2015 edition winner and Portescap, a US-based organization in miniature motors, virtually on Saturday morning. The sixth edition of Innopreneurs Startup Contest was the first innopreneurs virtual event conducted on Zoom, which was also streamed live on YouTube, witnessed the top 10 pitchers from the country and other places in South Asia talk about innovative ideas and express their enterprising minds. Chief guest of the event, Lyonpo Loknath Sharma, ministry of economic affairs, Bhutan said, “Such platforms help in enhancing the entrepreneurship world and encourage the growing, young talent. We must support innovation and creativity and encourage young entrepreneurs to take up opportunities like these to widen their ideas with the world.” Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, who was the guest of honour, said, “Innopreneur is a very helpful medium for talented entrepreneurs who wish to share their ideas. It is highly appreciable to see such creative ideas coming up for the betterment of the future by adapting green energy ideas.” Founder of Lemon Ideas Deepak Menaria has been organizing the contest for young entrepreneurs to put forth their innovations and creations and present their ideas in front of the jury and investors. In this year’s contest, over 1500 startups were enrolled, out of which, 550+ startup pitches were presented to over 100+ jury members, out of these 10 teams were selected as the finalists and three of these teams were declared as winners, as the two runners-up and one winner. Subramanaya Rao, founder and CEO of Discover Dollar, Anil Alex, sales head at Portescap and Charu Mehta, technical expert at GIZ addressed the audience by sharing their views towards the field of entrepreneurship and startups and had a common view that “age is just a number and dedication is what matters in this field.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/young-minds-pitch-ideas-for-a-better-future-at-innopreneurs-2021/articleshow/81142292.cms||Anchal Bhatia
February 22, 2021||Business||5 companies fined Rs 7 lakh over ‘country of origin’ lapse||NEW DELHI: Five companies including a major e-payment firm, a reputed online retail store and an FMCG firm have paid Rs 6.7 lakh fine to the government for not mentioning the “country of origin” on the packaged products sold by them. So far the government has issued 123 notices. “The companies have compounded their offences by paying fine,” said a consumer affairs ministry official. The ministry said since the establishment of the Central Consumer Protection Authority 26 notices have been issued to companies for misleading advertisements and four of them have withdrawn such advertisements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/5-companies-fined-7lakh-over-country-of-origin-lapse/articleshow/81144019.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 22, 2021||Bhopal||Tikait to address farmers’ rallies in MP in March||Bhopal: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait will address a series of rallies in the state in the first week of March. The first meeting is likely to be held on March 9 in Sheopur district in Chambal division. More meetings are likely to be held in western MP and Vindhya region. Tikait has been at the helm of the affairs of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and has been in demand by the state units of the union. BKU sources said that not only Haryana, but also the units in Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have been inviting him to visit their states and address rallies. Tikait was in the limelight after he broke down in front of TV crews in the aftermath of Republic day violence and called the protesters leading to “further strengthening of the kisan andolan.” State general secretary of the union in Madhya Pradesh, Anil Yadav said, “The whole state unit wants our leader to address rallies in the state. However, he has a busy schedule and it is not possible for him to visit every place.” Yadav said that Tikat will address the first rally in Sheopur on March 9 . He may also address rallies near Indore and in some districts of Vindhya Pradesh. BKU sources said that throughout the February, Tikait is busy with kisan sammelans in different parts of the country. Yadav said that the BKU has been holding agitations in different parts of Madhya Pradesh. “Throughout the kisan andolan, the farmers associated with the BKU have been continuously agitating in MP demanding the Centre to withdraw the three controversial farm laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tikait-to-address-farmers-rallies-in-mp-in-march/articleshow/81142298.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||CP wants fast-track trial in Binekar murder||Nagpur: City police chief (CP) Amitesh Kumar has written to the state government, seeking a fast-track trial in the Balya Binekar murder case. The incident, which took place near Bhole petrol pump in full public view, had rocked the city last September. Kumar also made a request for a special public prosecutor. The CP has already given his approval for a charge sheet against eight persons under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) within 150 days. “Our investigation would be such that we shall try to get the case slotted into the ‘rarest of rare’ category so that capital punishment is awarded,” said the top cop. Kumar said criminals had ganged up to eliminate Binekar. “The chargesheet is almost ready and in the next couple of days, it shall be sent to the court after scrutiny,” added Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cp-wants-fast-track-trial-in-binekar-murder/articleshow/81142305.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 22, 2021||Bhopal||‘Being Birju Maharaj son is a privilege, but it’s your talent that does the rest’||Bhopal: It is almost after 20 years that Kathak exponent Deepak Maharaj performed at the Khajuraho Festival on Saturday, his second major event post Lockdown. He admitted, “I have travelled by train too since Unlock, but yes these are times when one worries about the precautions. We all have to live with these Covid precautions for long,” he said. Representing a lineage of legends of Lucknow gharana, he values his legacy, but there is more to it than meets the eye. “Being Birju Maharaj son is a privilege, but it is your talent that does the rest. I have had to struggle a lot, just like my father. He was nine when he lost his father and life was really tough for him, in fact it is his struggle that has inspired me.” Deepak Maharaj swears by the ‘bariki’ that his gharana is known for, but that hasn’t stopped him from experimenting with different genres. “I have performed with flamenco dancers and matched kathak steps with tap dancers. Having played Rameo in dance drama ‘Romeo Juliet’, I have improvised keeping the western sensibilities in mind. But then, it is ultimately the beat and rhythm that can mould your art in any form,” said the dancer who loves to interacts with his audience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/being-birju-maharaj-son-is-a-privilege-but-its-your-talent-that-does-the-rest/articleshow/81142317.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
February 22, 2021||Bhopal||Govt committed to provide jobs for all: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, on Sunday , ineracted with job aspirants and representatives of companies at a jobs fair in Nasrullaganj. He said that the state government was committed to get everyone a job commensurate with his ability. And, for this "job fair" is being organised in all the districts every month and they are turning out to be useful in opening up job opportunities for youths in a big way, he said. He also released a calendar and booklet of Archeological, Tourism and Cultural Council, Sehore on the occasion. He also saw an exhibition put up at the venue of the job fair. Commending the wooden toys displayed at the exhibition, he said they should be branded under "one district, one product" scheme. The chief minister distributed tricycles and other equipment to disabled persons on the occasion. Chouhan also planted saplings at the Swami Vivekananda Government Graduate College campus in Nasrullaganj. Local public representatives also planted saplings on the occasion. As per the resolve taken by the chief minister on Narmada Jayanti, saplings are being planted every day by him. Public representatives also planted saplings of different species including Sheesham, Karanj and Putrajivak on the college campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-committed-to-provide-jobs-for-all-says-cm/articleshow/81142310.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Coimbatore||943 bulls take part in jallikattu event||Coimbatore: As many as 105 bull tamers and five bulls were injured in the jallikattu held at Chettipalayam here on Sunday. Two tamers were admitted to hospitals. A total of 943 bulls and 640 tamers from across the state, including Pudukottai, Madurai, Dindugal, Viruthachalam and Trichy took part in the event, which was inaugurated by municipal administration minister S P Velumani. As many as 350 bulls were from Coimbatore, including those owned by the minister and deputy speaker Pollachi V Jayaraman. Santhosh from Pudukottai, who tamed 15 bulls, bagged the first place to win a car, a bicycle and a water pump. Karthik from Madurai tamed 13 bulls to grab the second prize, a motorcycle. Karthi from Dindugal tamed 11 bulls to win a TVS moped. Health minister C Vijayabaskar’s bull won the first place and the bull owned by president of Jallikattu Association Rajasekar came second. The bull owned by Anbu of Madurai came third. All those who tamed bulls and owners of the bulls that managed to escape were given 2g gold coins. The event was organized by the district administration and Kovai Jallikattu Association for the fourth consecutive year. Police personnel, volunteers and medical teams were deployed at the venue. Ambulances and fire engines were ready to prevent untoward incidents. Only those tamers who tested negative for Covid-19 were allowed to participate in the sport. The animal husbandry department had deployed teams to check the bulls before the event. While 20,000 people watched the event last year, only 12,000 were allowed to watch the sport this year, that too only for an hour. Animal husbandry department officials rejected five bulls as the documents were not proper. “Five bulls that entered the arena were injured during the event and were given first aid,” an official said. S Murugan from Chinnavedampatti said he was happy to watch the event with friends and family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/943-bulls-take-part-in-jallikattu-event/articleshow/81142314.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Covid policing: BMC raids packed bars||Mumbai: The BMC began a major crackdown on restaurants, bars and pubs violating Covid-19 rules over the weekend. It filed an FIR against an establishment called 145 Bandra for allowing about 250 people inside and not maintaining social distancing. The BMC also collected over Rs 32 lakh in fines from 16,154 persons for not wearing masks in public on Saturday, the highest single-day collection in the last few weeks. In the surprise raids on restaurants and bars, BMC officials said they found most of the staff members were not wearing masks. Popular restaurants and pubs raided and penalised were Irish House, U Turn Sports Bar and Quarter Pillar Bar in the Bandra-Khar area. These establishments were penalised between Rs 20,000 and Rs 30,000 for violation of Covid-19 rules. The BMC shut down 145 Bandra and penalised it Rs 50,000. “There was no social distancing and most were not wearing masks. When we asked the manager Pranay Balkate, he didn’t have any proper answers. So we shut down the restaurant by making announcements on the mike and imposed a penalty of Rs 50,000 on the restaurant,” BMC health official B S Shelke said in his complaint at the Bandra police station. The police registered an office under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC. The BMC sealed an unauthorised restaurant, AL Lazeez on Veer Savarkar Road in Mahim, for violating fire safety norms and five staffers were fined Rs 200 each for not wearing masks. BMC officials said that joint action was taken by the health department, fire brigade, encroachment removal department and the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-policing-bmc-raids-packed-bars/articleshow/81142347.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 22, 2021||Kochi||Flaws in budget: Kochi corporation may present another one||KOCHI: In what may lead to an embarrassment for the LDF-led Kochi corporation, the ruling front may have to present a revised version of the budget for 2021-22 fiscal. Corporation authorities failed to comply with the norm that projects under People’s Planning Programme (PPP) should be integrated with the budget only after getting district planning council’s (DPC) approval for such projects. As per guidelines issued by the state government on February 2, 2018, all projects under PPP should be integrated with the budget after getting DPC approval for such projects. “The PPP projects integrated with the budget haven’t received nod from DPC. The projects haven’t even got the approval of corporation council,” said opposition leader Antony Kureethra. “We will send letters to the collector who is the head of DPC and also to the mayor demanding presentation of a revised budget,” Kureethra added. According to the sources within ruling front, the budget was prepared in a hurry as notification for conducing assembly elections may be issued at any time. “We didn’t get enough time. We had to present the budget at the earliest,” one of the sources with the corporation said. The development seminar prior to submitting the PPP projects to the DPC was held on February 18. The projects presented at the development seminar should get the nod from the corporation council before submitting the projects to the DPC. Though a meeting of the corporation council was held on the next day of conducting the development seminar, the projects didn’t get the approval of the council on the day. Now, the ruling front will have to go through all these procedures before revising the budget. Another flaw in the budget, pointed out by the opposition, is that the deputy mayor failed to enter the sum allocated for Fort Kochi beach renovation. The budget document leaves the space for entering the sum vacant and the deputy mayor presented the budget as such. Clarity regarding how much is the amount earmarked for the project will have to be made. Though the budget accommodates the needs of most of the sectors and areas, there isn’t any proposal for setting up public toilets in the city. “Dearth of public toilets is an important problem which is to be addressed at the earliest. I had given a letter to the mayor raising the demand a couple of weeks ago. But, the corporation authorities miserably failed to design any projects in this regard,” said T N Prathapan, an RTI activitist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/flaws-in-budget-corp-may-present-another/articleshow/81140801.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
February 22, 2021||Bhopal||Covid cases surging in state; mask up, avoid complacency urge experts||Bhopal: Medical experts are warning of a link between new Covid-19 cases and complacency to adhere with Covid-19 protocols. Hamidia hospital, the largest tertiary care facility, was dealing with patients who were as young as 22 and those who were nearing the retirement age. “It seems many have got complacent after the drastic decline in cases over the past two months. Complacency needs to be avoided. We need to adhere to Covid-19 prevention protocols. The virus remains the same and its impact is can be as detrimental on health of patient and contacts,” said Gandhi Medical College, associate professor and pulmonologist, Dr Parag Sharma. Hamidia hospital had just about two dozen cases on Sunday. “The Covid-19 curve to flatten and dip further requires, active participation of citizens. Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) continues to levy penalties on repeated offenders who are not adhering to Covid-19 protocols,” said BMC additional commissioner, M P Singh. All 19 area health officers (AHO) of the civic body are empowered to penalise. Penalty can be a minimum of Rs 500 for not wearing a mask in public place and can go up, depending on violations on the size of mass gatherings. Government’s imperative to control the spread of the disease particularly using non-pharmacological strategies such as quarantine, isolation and public health education, said Dr Sharma. “One of the key learning from the last year after Covid-19 spread is timely interventions reduce the number of exposed and infected individuals. To a large extent, there is some level of herd immunity which has been developed in the population. However, we have seen many who did remain indoors are getting out now,” said a senior consultant from AIIMS Bhopal. “Wearing a mask, social distancing and avoiding unnecessary travel is the best control strategy to implement while population as a whole awaits to get vaccinated against Covid-19,” consultant added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-cases-surging-in-state-mask-up-avoid-complacency-urge-experts/articleshow/81142368.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 22, 2021||Kochi||Vizhinjam port: Govt appoints Kurian Joseph as arbitrator||Thiruvananthapuram: As Adani Group and the state government have been unable to settle differences over the delay in completing the much-awaited Vizhinjam seaport project, the matter has been referred for arbitration. The government has appointed former Supreme Court judge justice Kurian Joseph as the arbitrator on its behalf. Though the government requested the company to settle differences through reconciliation talks before moving for arbitration, Adani Group had refused to budge. Adani Group informed government that if it failed to appoint its arbitrator, the company would approach International Centre for Alternate Dispute Resolution (ICADR) and seek an arbitrator’s appointment on behalf of the government too, under ICADR Arbitration Rules, 1996. Adani Group appointed former Supreme Court judge K S P Radhakrishnan as their arbitrator. The government entered into an agreement with M/s Adani Vizhinjam Port Pvt Ltd (AVPPL) for constructing a deep-water multipurpose seaport, Vizhinjam International Multipurpose Seaport Project on August 17, 2015. As per agreement, the scheduled day for project completion was December 03, 2019, the 1,460th day after signing the agreement. However, the project could not be completed on time due to multiple reasons. The concessionaire company, Adani Group, had raised 16 disputes at different points, and sought extension in project completion citing force majeure clause in the agreement. The company raised cyclone, floods, strike, Covid-19, etc, as reasons for the delay. But these were rejected by Vizhinjam International Seaport Ltd (VISL), on behalf of the government. As per agreement, in the event of a dispute between the government and Adani Group, either party may call upon the independent engineer to mediate and assist them for an amicable settlement. If this fails, the matter would be referred to the principal secretary of the authority and the chairman of board of directors of the concessionaire for dispute resolution. However, as per government records, the concessionaire company skipped the initial dispute redressal steps and insisted on arbitration. The law department wrote in the file that the concessionaire invoking arbitration clause is premature and irregular, without completing steps under article 45.2 of the agreement. “Therefore, showing all these facts, an apt urgent reply has to be given to the concessionaire without delay demanding to recall the letter of request for nomination of arbitrator and continue with conciliation talks to resolve the alleged disputes,” the department said. The advocate general also said that the concessionaire’s demand for an arbitrator’s appointment would not sustain. However, the concessionaire informed the government that it would go ahead with arbitration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vizhinjam-port-govt-appoints-kurian-joseph-as-arbitrator/articleshow/81140831.cms||KP Saikiran
February 22, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Protesters wait for a positive response from government||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The protesting PSC rank-holders have decided to wait till Monday evening for a favourable response from the government, before launching an indefinite fast from Tuesday. One of the leaders of the striking rank holders, Laya Rajesh, said that the decision to go for an indefinite strike from Monday has been postponed as they are expecting a positive response from the government in the wake of the talks held on Saturday. “We are expecting the government to take a favourable decision on at least three of the demands kept forward by us. We will wait till Monday evening for a favourable response from the government,” she said. In the wake of continuing protests from the rank holders, the government had deputed additional chief secretary (home and vigilance) T K Jose and ADGP (headquarters) Manoj Abraham to hold talks with the protestors. In the discussions on Saturday, the rank holders had kept forward seven major concerns. This includes demand to restrict the working hours of night watchmen to maximum of 48 hours in a week (which now according to the protesters is 16 hours a day), and then fill the remaining vacancy from the rank list, make appointments to the office assistant posts in the higher secondary schools from the rank list, make appointments to similar vacancies in other departments from the rank list, initiate appointments to the posts in organizations like the AG’s office, PSC, general audit office, etc. from the rank list similar to how it was done till September 2019, fill all the temporary vacancies in such posts that have validity for six months or more from the existing PSC rank list, extend the validity of the existing rank list till the new rank list is published and report all the vacancies to the PSC immediately. Though the government had initially not responded to the protesters’ demands, the intervention from the CPM had forced the government to hold talks with them. Even though the protesters had initially demanded that only ministerial-level talks are acceptable, they had later agreed to the official-level talks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/protesters-wait-for-a-positive-response/articleshow/81140850.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Coimbatore||‘Our two-wheeler has become burden for us’||COIMBATORE: A housemaid, 31-year-old S Savitha had heaved a sigh of relief when she got a two-wheeler that helped her commute easily to her employer’s house at Vedapatti from her residence at Kurumbapalayam in SS Kulam block. With the fuel prices skyrocketing, the vehicle has become more or less a burden for her today and she has decided to start using public transportation. She said she had been paying a significant percentage of her monthly salary on fuel alone. “As I work in the day shift and my husband in the night shift, we usually make four trips between our house and the employer’s house, which is 20km away. Once in two or three days, we have to fill petrol for Rs400 for these trips alone. If we want to travel to other places, we have to shell out more on petrol,” she told TOI while recalling the days when they had to spend just Rs200 on fuel for a week to and cover the same distance. While she earns Rs13,000 a month, she had been spending anywhere between Rs2,500 and Rs3,000 a month on fuel of late. Explaining that they could no longer afford to purchase petrol at the prevailing price, Savitha said they had decided to use public transportation from next week as they have a bus every half an hour. “The money we have been shelling out on fuel could be used to purchase groceries and other items for our one-year-old daughter, as we are struggling to meet our expenses by month-end.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/our-two-wheeler-has-become-burden-for-us/articleshow/81142396.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 22, 2021||Kochi||Super specialty block at Ekm GH opened||Kochi: Health minister K K Shailaja inaugurated newly-built super specialty block, renovated radiotherapy unit and microbiology skill laboratory at Ernakulam General Hospital on Sunday.The specialty block has all the facilities including cardiology, cardiotherapy, neurology, neurosurgery, plastic surgery, paediatric surgery, nephrology and urology. The block has been constructed at a cost of Rs 72 crore and the fund from KIIFB. As the installation of equipment are underway, the block, which has capacity to accommodate 181 patients, will take one or two more months to become functional. The major challenge is posting of staff nurses and paramedical staff, since issuing of notification for the impending assembly election is around the corner.“The hospital currently has all facilities of a super specialty block. The only new addition is cardio therapy facility. The rest of the facilities, to be started at the block, has already been provided in the hospital. With the functioning of the block to be started in a few months, the congestion of patients in the existing facilities can be brought down. The block needs service of around 60 to 70 nurses and paramedical staff,” said an official in the hospital.The functioning of the renovated laboratory will start functioning in a week. The radiotherapy unit has been constructed at a cost of Rs 1.10 crore, funded by rotary club.Patients who need super specialty medical care will be shifted to the new block and the rest will undergo treatment at the existing facility.Sources said the hospital development committee will discuss about the posting of nurses and paramedical staff at the super specialty block at its next sitting. They will most likely be contract staff, as they don’t expect posting of the staff through PSC soon. National Health Mission will also provide manpower support on contract basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/super-specialty-block-at-ekm-gh-opened/articleshow/81140868.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Goa||Goa: Sancoale’s Lenten walk goes from 2,500 to just 30 faithful||PANAJI: Catholics across the state participated in the annual Lenten walking pilgrimage to Sancoale. The pandemic meant that several faithful set off on shorter pilgrimages from their homes to their churches for Sunday Mass where those who couldn’t be outdoors were asked to participate by walking within their houses. The walking pilgrimage, which usually attracts a crowd of around 2,500 people, was restricted to around 30 representatives from each deanery. The limited number of Catholics joined the pilgrimage to Sancoale that started from three centres in Agasaim, Cortalim and St Jacinto Bridge. They walked till the ruins of the Old Church of Sancoale where archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrao then celebrated a Mass for them. He invited Catholics to walk and grow in their faith by fulfilling their responsibilities of service to their neighbours, reaching out to the needy and protecting the environment. Faithful, who didn’t make it to Sancoale, carried lit candles and joined fellow parishioners and neighbours as they walked in small groups from the nearby chapels to the church for Sunday Mass, reciting the Rosary along the way. Non-Catholics were also seen participating in the mini pilgrimages. Parishes organised penitential walks in the parish and some also organised way of the cross and other services in their own parishes to unite themselves to the whole archdiocese spiritually. The pilgrimage in Sancoale ended with faithful offering petitions written on paper, which were burned in front of the cross near the facade of the Old Sancoale Church. Fr Alfred Vaz, parish priest of Se Cathedral, advised the faithful who went out on pilgrimages to share their experiences with those at home, who didn’t get the opportunity. He urged those at home to read the Bible and do chores around the house instead of expecting someone else to do them. The archdiocese had also advised those who were not going outdoors, to have their own pilgrimages on the same day by walking and praying for 30 minutes in their homes or compounds, reading a chapter or two from any of the gospels, volunteering to serve family members in little things, praying for those who are going through a rough period and calling their friends or neighbours who are all alone. Faithful, who didn’t make it to Sancoale, carried lit candles and joined fellow parishioners and neighbours as they walked in small groups from the nearby chapels to the church for Sunday Mass, reciting the Rosary along the way||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sancoales-lenten-walk-goes-from-2-5k-to-just-30-faithful/articleshow/81143391.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Gurgaon||Sushant Lok residents: Builder overcharging for water supply||Gurgaon: Residents of Sushant Lok 2 and 3 have alleged that the developer is flouting government prescribed rates while generating water bills. They claimed that the developer is not installing water meters in the colony and generating water bills on flat rates. They pointed out that as per Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) notification on January 1, 2018, the rate on a plot up to 300 sq m is Rs 450 per month with addition of 20 per cent sewer charge. However, instead of charging Rs 1,620 for quarterly billing cycle, the builder is charging the residents three times more than the notified government rate, they alleged. Pawan Yadav, RWA president of Sushant Lok 2 and 3, said, “For unmetered area, the notification has fixed water tariff applicable depending on the plot size, but the developer is charging arbitrarily. Instead of charging Rs 1,620 — as per the notified government rate, the developer is generating bills of Rs 4,320 —which is almost three times more than the government rate. Similarly, people who have built three floors on a 250-metre plot are being charged individually while they have single-point connection.” The residents also alleged that the developer has threatened to withdraw services if they don’t clear the dues. RK Malhotra, treasurer of the RWA said, “We are ready to pay the bills as per the government rate or charges as per the consumption noted in the mete. ” Meanwhile, Ajay Pandita, vice-president of Ansal Buildwells Ltd, said, “The water charges are nominal as per the government notification. Every financial year a hike of 5 per cent is implemented on water charges, so as we are paying the government, the residents too have to pay us else the services would be withdrawn.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/sushant-lok-residents-builder-overcharging-for-water-supply/articleshow/81143400.cms||Akanksha Gupta
February 22, 2021||Dehradun||Kumbh Mela police pens admin against installation of fences on Ganga banks in Har-ki-Pauri||Haridwar: The Kumbh Mela police has raised objections over the installation of fences on the banks of Ganga in the vicinity of Har-ki-Pauri under the Namami Gange project. The Mela police says that the fencing may lead to crowd management issues during bathing festivals while adding that pilgrims are finding it difficult to get into the Ganga to take a dip due to the structure. In view of these issues, the Kumbh Mela police also wrote a letter to the mela administration but no action has so far been taken.Earlier, safety railings were installed at Nai Sota Ghat, Subhash Ghat, Malviya Ghat, and Kangra Ghat areas under the Namami Gange project.However, it is being alleged that the agency didn't measure the water-level before installing the fences leading to inconvenience for pilgrims. Mela police claimed that the agency did not consult with the police before starting the work and now it has become a challenge to manage the crowd. Kumbh Mela IG Sanjay Gunjayal told TOI, “The newly-made safety railing has become a challenge before the police and the pilgrims. The water level is too low to take a dip. The situation may get worse during the bathing festivals. We have asked the mela administration to take the matter seriously.” Meanwhile, the mela administration has said that the water level will be increased during bathing festivals to address the issue. Harveer Singh, additional Kumbh Mela officer, told TOI, “This work was completed under the Namami Gange project. We acknowledge the error by the agency but we will increase the water level during bathing festivals so that pilgrims can take a dip comfortably.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-mela-police-pens-admin-against-installation-of-fences-on-ganga-banks-in-har-ki-pauri/articleshow/81140871.cms||MS Nawaz
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||Indefinite hunger stir to save Ramala Lake from today||Chandrapur: Members of NGO Eco-Pro Organization will go on indefinite hunger strike from Monday to protest the apathy of administration towards de-pollution, protection and conservation of over 550-year-old Ramala Lake, situated in the heart of city.“The Ramala Lake is dying due to negligence of the administration. All the pleas to save the lake have fallen on the deaf ears of the authorities. Having left with no option, we will launch indefinite hunger strike from Monday,” said Eco-Pro president Bandu Dhotre. The agitation will continue till the administration agrees to take up all measures needed for protection and conservation of the historic lake, he said. Dhotre claimed Eco-Pro has been highlighting the deteriorating condition of the lake for over 12 years. Experts associated with the organization have thoroughly studied the problem and have come up with a detailed plan for conservation of the lake. “We are consistently pushing the administration to take up the measures for the last three years. Many meetings were held and officials carried out spot visits to inspect the problem. However, every year when it comes to drain the lake for the sake of deepening and cleaning, the matter is withheld for lack of funds and commitment from the officials,” Dhotre alleged. He claimed that detailed conservation plan has been given to the administration. The recent awareness campaign taken up by the organization has received tremendous response from the locals, he said. Large crowd is likely to join the agitation as it kicks off on Monday, Dhotre claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/indefinite-hunger-stir-to-save-ramala-lake-from-today/articleshow/81142385.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 22, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Forensic report hints at murder in Koodathil case||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a major development in the Koodathil case, which involves a series of suspicious deaths of seven members of family, a forensic report has suggested that the latest death in the series could be a homicide. Subsequently, the city crime branch wing that is probing the case has altered the section in the FIR from section 174 of CrPC (unnatural death) to section 302 of IPC (murder). The case pertains to the suspicious death of Jayamadhavan Nair, 63, the last heir of Koodathil family of Uma Mandiram House at Kalady on April 2, 2017. After his relatives raised doubts over his death, police launched a probe in 2019. Following this, a team of forensic experts visited the residence and collected evidence. Early this month, the forensic report arrived, following which former city crime branch assistant commissioner M K Zulfiquer initiated steps to alter the main section in the FIR. The crime branch is currently probing two cases, Jayamadhavan’s suspicious death and the alleged property grab by his relatives. Jayamadhavan was brought dead to the hospital by his family’s caretaker and prime suspect Raveendran Nair. Doubts were raised over his death after it was revealed that Raveendran inherited Jayamadhavan properties following the latter’s death. Raveendran said that Jayamadhavan,transferred the properties to his name a year before his death. This also led to suspicions that Raveendran could have murdered Jayamadhavan after securing ownership of the properties through forgery and he might have colluded with other relatives of Jayamadhavan. This also brought the deaths of other family members, who died at various times ranging over two decades prior to Jayamadhavan’s death, under suspicion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/koodathil-case-forensic-report-hints-at-murder/articleshow/81140878.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Bhopal||150+ illegal colonies flagged in Bhopal, only 17 FIRs so far||BHOPAL: Four more FIRs were registered against illegal colony developers by the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday. So far, 17 FIR for construction of illegal colonies have been filed in respective police stations by the BMC. Earlier this week, 96 illegal colonies were identified. The number has since gone up to about 150 after a new report submitted to the administration, according to sources. FIR against the developers were initiated after directive of Bhopal divisional commissioner, Kavindra Kiyawat who is also the BMC administrator. In the recent past, affected residents of such colonies have repeatedly complained about lack of basic amenities in such colonies and developer not adhering to stipulated development rules. According to sources, FIRs are being filed against land owners. Around 24 FIR that have been registered including five under Ratibad police station, two in Govindpura and three in Bilkhiria police station. Apart from this, the process of registering FIRs on five is underway. The action is being registered for violation under Section 292 (c) of the MP Municipal Corporation Act, which has a provision for action against those who develop illegal colonies. After an FIR is lodged, if illegal colony operators deposit the revenue of their colony, then further action has to be taken by placing it under the category of dems diversion. T&CP is also to be written for action. Urban administration experts point out that delay in filing of FIR could have consequences. Deemed conversion under section 59 under the Revenue code, would provide a way out. It would a step towards regularisation and much demanded takeover of such colonies by the BMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/150-illegal-colonies-flagged-in-bhopal-only-17-firs-so-far/articleshow/81142390.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 22, 2021||Kochi||Vehicle theft: Two of a gang held in Kerala||KOCHI: Edathala police, on Sunday, arrested two members of an interstate gang involved in stealing and reselling of vehicles. The arrested persons were identified as Mahin, 36, alias Palungu Mahin and Ijaas Puthoor, 26, both hailing from Muthalamada in Palakkad. Police arrested the accused from Kollamkodu in Palakkad. According to police, the accused had committed two such thefts this month. Mahin has at least 20 cases against him at various police stations for theft. Ijaas has a case against him at Kollamkode police station. Another accused in the case, Ravi Manikyan, a native of Tamil Nadu, was arrested from the state a few days ago, police said. Rural police said a special team was formed by district police chief (Ernakulam Rural) SP K Karthick to look into the incidents of vehicles going missing from Aluva and the investigation by the team led them to the accused. SP Karthick said an investigation is on to find if the accused have committed more such thefts. Sources said the investigation has found that the stolen vehicles get modified in TN before they are put back into circulation. “So far two incidents have been reported in which a truck and an autorickshaw went missing. After taking the TN native in custody we were able to recover both these vehicles. On the other hand, we have information about more vehicles going missing from areas like Nedumbassery. A probe is on to find if the accused have any connection with such incidents,” said an officer. Officers said the accused who were arrested from Palakkad used to supply the stolen vehicles to the TN-based accused. “Not only the looks of the vehicle are changed but also the numberplate,” said an officer. The team led by Aluva DSP T S Sinoj included sub-inspector K Sinod, ASIs P A Abdul Rahman, Abdul Jaleel, SCPOs Abubaker Siddique, P S Shiju, CPOs Shameer, T Jayashankar and K S Muhammed Rafique.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vehicle-theft-2-of-a-gang-held/articleshow/81140882.cms||---
February 22, 2021||India||To reclaim nationalism plank, Cong plans events on 50 years of ’71 war||NEW DELHI: : With public projection of archival film material of the 1971 war and seminar talks about its geopolitical impact, Congress is set to take the memory of creation of Bangladesh to the smallest unit of the national landscape in a bid to use the golden jubilee of the iconic war identified with Indira Gandhi to revive its stock among the people. Sources said the party has readied the blueprint of the yearlong celebration programmes to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the 1971 war, overseen by an AICC committee headed by former defence minister A K Antony and comprising veterans like Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, former speaker Meira Kumar and convenor Pravin Davar. With the idea of ensuring a mass connect over the 1971 war, Congress will hold conventions in every district of the country. The programmes would include seminars, lectures on the creation of Bangladesh and its importance in national security. At the same time the party will hold essay and quiz competitions to familiarise the younger generation with the seminal event. A social media blitzkrieg on the subject would form a major part of the exercise. Interestingly, Congress has decided that in states with higher concentration of ex-servicemen, it will hold conventions even at the block level — Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh. For the party struggling to capture the national imagination after its eviction from power in 2014 and facing political onslaught of the ruling BJP, insiders thought of celebrating the 1971 war as a way of reviving its grassroots connect. The decision is an acknowledgement that BJP’s offensive against Congress, specially on nationalism, has worked and undermined the grand old party’s support among the masses. The pitchforking of 1971 and mascot Indira Gandhi in the grassroots campaign is an attempt to retrieve the nationalism plank. The celebrations, to kickstart after the coming assembly elections, would wind up by September at the district and block level. It is in October that high-profile events in the form of state-level conventions would take place, and will culminate in a national meet in the capital on the Golden jubilee of the victory Day — December 16, 2021. Sources said former defence minister Antony has directed that ex-servicemen should be involved in the programmes in a big way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/to-reclaim-nationalism-plank-cong-plans-events-on-50-years-of-71-war/articleshow/81144021.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
February 22, 2021||Coimbatore||‘I spend half of daily earnings on fuel’||Coimbatore: A single mother, M Savithri, a resident of Andakkapalayam in Sarkarsamakulam block, wakes up early in the morning, prepares breakfast for her three children and in a hurry leaves for areas such as Mettupalayam in the district and Karanampetti and Palladam in neighbouring Tirupur district on her two-wheeler to collect flowers and Tulsi leaves, which she later sells at the Poo Market on Mettupalayam Road in the city. The unprecedented fuel price hike has made her life more troublesome. She travels more than 80km a day and spends Rs400 on fuel a day, out of her meagre daily earnings of Rs800-Rs1,000. “Until a year ago, I used to fill petrol only for Rs200 a day and it was sufficient. But, these days, I shell out double the amount on fuel, as it’s price keeps increasing daily. With the three school-going children at home, I cannot afford to spend a penny lavishly,” she said. While she leaves home early in the morning, she reaches the Poo Market only at noon after collecting the flowers. She stays in the market until selling all the flowers. “To reduce the fuel consumption, I often stop my vehicle once I am near my destination and cover the remaining distance by walk. While travelling by bus is financially more affordable, it is not convenient to me as I have to walk for 5km to reach the nearest bus stand alone. Now that the number of bus trips has come down, I can’t afford to miss a bus too as that would affect the entire day’s schedule. I also have to start my day much earlier and leave my children alone at home before the sunlight arrives. Safety of my children is more important to me than money,” Savithri told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/i-spend-half-of-daily-earnings-on-fuel/articleshow/81142400.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 22, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Forest officers hold nature camp at tribal colony||KOCHI: In a bid to ease the stress caused by the pandemic restrictions among tribe students, the officers of Edamalayar forest range in Ernakulam conducted a nature camp at the Variyam tribal settlement at Kothamangalam under the Malayattoor forest division. The camp, held on Wednesday, focused on making the students aware about forest conservation and also trained them to defend themselves against the Covid-19 pandemic. Nearly 50 high school and upper primary students participated in the one-day camp organized with the support of Adivasi Vana Samrakshana Samithi (AVSS). The initiative was taken at the directive of Edamalayar forest range officer P S Nithin and the camp was conducted at the Variyam community hall under the supervision of Perumuzhy forest station. As part of the camp that was held between 10am and 3.30pm, the forest officers organized various competitions for the students to nourish creativity among them. The forest team also gifted volleyballs, carrom boards, etc. to the youngsters in the settlement to promote sports and games among them. Food and other refreshments were also provided at the camp. “Classes were held by forest officers on various topics and the competitions were themed on the topic ‘Kaadum Veedum’,” said Nithin. Besides giving prizes like watches for those who won first and second places, consolation prizes were given to all participants. The gifts included books, pens, crayons, colour pencil, drawing books, chart papers, etc. Perumuzhy forest station deputy range officer K B Premjith Lal handed over the prizes. Section forestofficers B Shibumon and P Jomon along with beat forest officers K K Siyad, K V Sadique and AVSS president Sasi Meenkulam were present at the camp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/forest-officers-hold-nature-camp-at-tribal-colony/articleshow/81140895.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Kochi||Guv signs self-fin college appointment ordinance||Thiruvananthapuram: Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Sunday signed the Kerala self-financing college appointments ordinance, which aims at ensuring job security and quality of education in the self-financing sector. The ordinance recommends criteria for determining eligibility of teachers. A regulatory committee, including representatives of UGC and government, will determine the eligibility of educators. Those not qualified for a post will be accorded time to meet the prescribed requirements. When the ordinance comes into effect, teachers in self-financing colleges will get holidays on a par with government staff. All employees will also be covered under provident fund and related pension schemes. At present, there are over 1,000 self-financing colleges in the state employing more than 50,000 teaching and non-teaching staff. According to the ordinance, there must be agreement between employee and management regarding designation, tenure or appointment, pay scale including salary and other benefits, increment, grade and promotion, among others, when a person is appointed as a teaching or non-teaching staff at a self-financing college. The minimum and maximum age limit for appointments and retirement age in self-financing colleges will be decided by the regulatory body concerned from time to time. Employees must have educational qualifications stipulated by regulators. Staff who are already working will be given time to secure required qualifications. Public notification and merit will be made mandatory for new appointments. Internal assessment committees and parents-teachers associations (PTAs) will be made compulsory to ensure quality. A college council to resolve complaints raised by staff and a committee to ensure safety of women employees should also be formed. Although managements will be in control of disciplinary action, teaching or non-teaching staff can file an appeal with the university against such action. The university syndicate will take a final decision on the appeal and it will be applicable to both employee and management. A register with details of appointment, qualification, terms and conditions regarding service and payment will be maintained by universities. This will help a university use the service of employees for its academic activities. Universities will be in charge of overseeing the functioning of self-financing colleges along with their academic performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/guv-signs-self-fin-college-appointment-ordinance/articleshow/81140889.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Climate study centre opens in Munnar||IDUKKI: The state’s first high-altitude climate change research station has become operational in Munnar. The building and other facilities were arranged by IIT Madras (IITM). The natural aerosol and bio-aerosol high-altitude laboratory will be managed and run by IITM. Prof Sachin S Gunte, of IITM, and Prof Biju C V, with Munnar engineering college’s civil engineering department, will lead research activities at the new station. “From 2012 onwards IITM has been conducting aerosol and bio-aerosol studies at Munnar engineering college. The success of the study has resulted in the permanent laboratory and research station in Munnar,” Prof Biju told TOI. “IITM was considering many high-altitude stations for the centre. Munnar’s clean air also played a key role in the decision. The station will have more facilities in future,” he said. “Munnar met all the criteria for the research station, and the fact that the hill station is situated around 1,600m above sea level will ensure clean air for research activities,” Prof Gunte said. Prof K P Sudheer, executive vice-president of the state council for science, technology and environment, said an automated weather station coming up adjacent to the laboratory will provide up-to-date weather details. According to officials, there is no proper weather station in Munnar. The Pettimudy landslide, which claimed 70 lives last August, raised questions about the actual amount of rainfall received in the run-up to the tragedy. A weather station will help provide such data, they said. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the research station virtually on Saturday. CM’s scientific adviser M Chandradathan and Devikulam MLA S Rajendran also attended the function. Munnar experienced third cold waves this winter. The first wave was recorded in the last week of December and the second one in the last week of January. The third cold wave hit in the second week of February. “The change in winter in Munnar is a clear indication of the change of the climate calendar,” climatologist Gopakumar Cholayil told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/climate-study-centre-opens-in-munnar/articleshow/81140899.cms||Sandeep Thomas
February 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||CM casts vote during Covid polling hour||Rajkot/Ahmedabad: Chief minister Vijay Rupani cast his vote during the ‘Covid-10 hour’ between 5pm and 6pm on Sunday. The CM tested negative, after nearly a week of Covid-19 treatment, hours before he exercised his franchise. He donned a face shield and a mask; the staff at the polling booth wore PPE kits. Rupani landed in Rajkot in an air ambulance and cast his vote at Anil Vidhya Mandir Gyan Shala booth of ward number 10, according to Covid guidelines. He said the results of the six municipal corporation polls will be “unimaginable” and the Congress will be wiped out in district panchayats. “Development is the only issue in local body elections. People know that the BJP is the only party that can deliver development,” said Rupani after casting his vote. Rupani said he took an RT-PCR test before voting and he is now Covid free. “The Covid recovery rate is 97.5% in Gujarat due to good health facilities at government hospitals. I have personally experienced it,” said Rupani. Earlier, the Congress slammed Rupani for using an air ambulance to fly to Rajkot to cast his vote. The opposition party demanded that expenses incurred for the air travel be recovered from the CM. “A complaint should be filed against the CM for the misuse of state machinery. The CM using a government helicopter to cast his personal vote is not part of his duty,” said Babubhai Patel, chairman of the election coordination committee of the Gujarat Congress. Meanwhile, the State Election Commission officials said that special arrangements were made for Covid patients. However, only three patients registered, including a couple from Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-casts-vote-during-covid-polling-hour/articleshow/81142403.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cantonment residents can soon apply for birth & death certificates online||SECUNDERABAD: The health and sanitation wing of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) will soon accept requests for birth and death certificates online from residents of Secunderabad Cantonment. Currently, testing is in progress and the new system is expected to start in a week, said SCB senior superintendent M Devender. The SCB receives around 10 to 30 requests per day for birth and death certificates. “The requests are forwarded to the higher-ups for verification of credentials. In the present system, it takes at least a week to 10 days to verify and issue the certificates to the applicants. Now, we can speed up the process by utilising technology,” he added. In the newly-launched online process, the applicant has to visit the SCB portal, fill in the details and upload the necessary documents for both birth and death certificates. Applicants can obtain the certificates from Mee Seva centres in the Cantonment after payment in three to four days,” an SCB official said. Meanwhile, the SCB officials are computerising the records pertaining to the certificates, which have been preserved since the last three decades. “It is easy for the staff to track the birth and death certificates online which were issued earlier,” a senior official said. Residents can also register complaints regarding civic issues online at ‘e-Chhawani,’ which was recently launched by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh for all Cantonment boards in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cantt-residents-can-soon-apply-for-birth-death-certs-online/articleshow/81142406.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 22, 2021||Coimbatore||‘Fuel price is eating into our earnings’||COIMBATORE: Steadily increasing fuel prices that too during the Covid-19 pandemic situation has really unsettled the life of D Kanimurugan, a resident of Veerakeralam in the city, who makes a living by distributing chips that they make at home to retail shops across the district. Left with no other option, he is now thinking of revising the price of chips to offset the fuel price hike. “More than a year ago, I used to fill petrol only for Rs200 that too every three days. But today, I am spending Rs200 daily on fuel. As my work involves travelling to places such as Saravanamapatti, Kalapatti and Thudiyalur on a regular basis, it has become an inevitable expense,” Kanimurugan told TOI. His family is spending at least Rs400 a day on fuel alone. While he has been planning to increase the price of chips by at least Rs10 per kilogram, his customers have been reluctant to accept the same. “We can’t afford to sell our products at the same price any longer. We have no other option, but to convince them.” Pointing out that they were already hit by the pandemic, which had seen their business volume dip by 40%, Kanimurugan said their profit margin too had come down as the price of cooking oil and plastic cover had shot up. “The ever-increasing fuel price has added to our woes. Presently, our earnings are not sufficient to meet our household expenses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fuel-price-is-eating-into-our-earnings/articleshow/81142417.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Lack of ramps, wheelchairs at majority of booths in Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: The disabled and elderly voters found it difficult to enter the polling booths as majority of the booths in the city lacked proper infrastructure such as ramps, wheelchairs or assistive devices. According to the Election Commission directives, the polling booths must have an easy access for the elderly and persons with disabilities (PwDs). But the scenario at several of the booths was different. Chetrabhuj Naladia, 78, had been to the Kameshwar School in Sarkhej ward on Sunday morning. The septuagenarian, who recently underwent an operation, said that it was difficult for him to approach the polling booth due to lack of ramp. “I had come all alone to cast my vote, but when I reached the school I needed a helping hand to climb and get down and fellow voters helped me,” he said. Similar was the case of Savita Rathod, 75, a former teacher. She had to get help of the other people to climb the stairs. Rathod, a resident of Prahladnagar, had some problem in her knees. Kiritbhai and his wife, Shilpa Vanand, took almost half an hour to finish the voting process as the polling booth where they went didn’t have a ramp. “My wife has polio and it is difficult for her to walk up the stairs. But she and I both were determined to vote and thus we came all the way. It would be good if the Election Commissioner ensures there is a ramp and a wheelchair across polling booths,” said Vanand, a resident of Anandnagar. Darshita Shah, founder of Darshu Charitable Trust and a disability rights activist, said that she found it difficult to reach her polling booth. “I had to seek others’ help to lift the wheelchair and go from the entrance to the booth. For past few elections, there’s always a word about inclusivity, but simple things as ramps can go a long in improving participation of persons with disabilities in the polling process,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lack-of-ramps-wheelchairs-at-majority-of-booths-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/81142437.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Voters will establish Gujarat as BJP stronghold: Amit Shah||Gandhinagar: Union home minister Amit Shah expressed confidence that the people of the state will establish Gujarat as the stronghold of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He said this after casting his vote at Naranpura sub-zonal office in Ahmedabad on Sunday in the first phase of the local body polls in the state. Polling for municipal corporations in six cities of Gujarat was held on Sunday.“Local body elections have started in Gujarat today,” Shah told reporters, adding, “I am confident that today the people of Gujarat will cast their votes in large numbers and they will establish Gujarat as the stronghold of the BJP.” Accompanied by his family members, Shah cast his vote in Ahmedabad.The local body elections in the state are scheduled to be held in two phases — on February 21 and February 28. On Sunday, polling took place for 575 seats for which 2,276 candidates were in the fray. Polling took place between 7am and 6pm amid stringent Covid-19 guidelines. The six municipal corporations which went to polls included Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Jamnagar.The results for six municipal corporations will be declared on February 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/voters-will-establish-gujarat-as-bjp-stronghold-amit-shah/articleshow/81142410.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Minister visits Rambagh Palace||Hyderabad: Roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashant Reddy-led team on Sunday visited Rambagh Palace, Maharaja Mansingh Palace, Maharani Gayatri Devi fountain and the stone carving workshops in Maanpur, Sikandra and other areas in and around Jaipur. This is the third day of the tour aimed at examining the stone varieties and designs used in construction of various structures in New Delhi, Agra, Jaipur and other cities over several decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minister-visits-rambagh-palace/articleshow/81142422.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||MP: Rohingya getting Aadhaar cards illegally||Hyderabad: Nizamabad BJP MP D Arvind on Sunday alleged that Rohingya refugees are getting Aadhaar cards without biometric data verification and iris scans in Nizamabad district. Addressing a press conference, he said that the Rohinya people have become a threat to national security and many bogus passports are being issued in the district. He sought to know why TRS working president KT Rama Rao is mum about it. “In Myanmar, hundreds of Hindus were killed, but India is the safest country for Muslims. The TRS and police are helping the Rohingya people,” he said. The Nizamabad MP had earlier warned that they will launch agitations on the Rohingya issue if the state government doesn’t intervene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mp-rohingya-getting-aadhaar-cards-illegally/articleshow/81142407.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Now, cops fine maskless citizens||Police have started fining people for not wearing masks in public places, Mumbai police commissioner announced on Sunday night via his Twitter handle. The fine amount is Rs 200. “The challaning began on Saturday itself, and about 1,500 cases were made,” said Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner, law and order. Earlier, only BMC-contracted marshals were empowered to issue challans. “A uniformed policeman will be taken more seriously by citizens. In the next three to four days, we will ensure that all Mumbaikars wear masks,” said Nangre Patil. Of the Rs 200 fine collected, Rs 100 will go towards treatment of cops suffering from Covid. —Nitasha Natu||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-cops-fine-maskless-citizens/articleshow/81142454.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||Covid patients increase rapidly in pvt hospitals||Nagpur: With the resurgence in daily Covid cases, the admissions in private Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) have suddenly shot up. On Saturday, the beds were full at DCHs of two big private hospitals while others too have started receiving a steady flow of mild, moderate, and severe symptomatic patients. As cases had remained low in last two months, many DCHs had scaled down Covid beds as rush of non-Covid patients began to increase. The rising Covid admissions have put private hospitals in a spot, with both type of patients increasing at the same time. The admissions at GMCH, IGGMCH, AIIMS, IGR too have gone up this week. A lot of beds, though, are still vacant in government and civic-run hospitals. As on Sunday, of the over 1,000 admitted patients, 524 were in private hospitals. This clearly indicates those requiring admission belong to financially well off background. The total admissions in the district stood at 822 as on February 14. There are 65 private DCHs in the district. A week ago, most of these private hospital didn’t have a single Covid patients while others had less than 25% occupancy of their total Covid capacity. Dr Harshvardhan Bora, internal medicine and critical care specialist at Kingsway Hospitals, said they are maintaining a wait-list of patients now. “Around two weeks back, we had 30 admissions. This has increased by more than double to 80. Probably, it is the second wave. We had scaled down some beds as other patients increased,” he said. OCHRI director Dr Anup Marar said the doubling of admission rate is worrisome. “In case this trend continues, I fear the situation may go out of control like the first Covid wave in August-September,” he said. Dr Marar, who is also Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) convener, said admissions are increasing in the same pattern at other private DCHs in the district. “Around a fortnight ago, they were demanding to be removed as Covid hospitals because of increasing load of other patients. Many were also forced to utilize vacant beds for regular patients. Now, the increasing load of Covid will make matters worse. The big challenge we all face now is where are we going to shift non-Covid patients,” he said. Dr Marar added that the Covid patients are in genuine need of admission and they too can’t be refused a bed or forced to get home-based care. “Patients are reporting between 7 to 15 days of infection, which is a critical phase,” he said. FACTS & FIGURES Date —Admissions—Pvt Feb 21 —986—566 Feb 20 —725—584 Feb 19 —984—584 Feb 18 —968—568 Feb 17 —953—607 Feb 16 —838 —492 Feb 15 —822—476 (Data as per civil surgeon’s press note. Admissions in some private and govt hospitals not updated)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-patients-increase-rapidly-in-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/81142409.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Bhagiratha provided water to schools, Anganwadis: Errabelli||Hyderabad: Panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao on Sunday said the central government recognised Telangana as one of the few states which has given piped water connection to 100% schools and Anganwadi centres in the state Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched a 100-day programme on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanthi on October 2 last year to provide piped water connections to schools and Anganwadis. In addition to providing potable drinking water supply, facilitating maintenance of cleanliness in the school and personal hygiene, the programme assumed importance especially because of prevailing pandemic situation due to which students needed to wash their hands frequently. Later, the central government had extended the last date for completion of the programme up to March 31 following requests from various state governments. Besides Telangana, other states to achieve the objective are AP, Himachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Goa, and Haryana, minister Dayakar Rao said, quoting a report of the Union jal shakti ministry. The minister gave credit to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and municipal minister KT Rama Rao who monitored the Mission Bhagiratha project since it was launched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bhagiratha-provided-water-to-schools-anganwadis-errabelli/articleshow/81142435.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Matdaan before Kanyadaan: They cast their votes first, then got married||While the voter turnout in cities was rather lukewarm on Sunday, there were those who put voting ahead of other priorities. Some couples got married only after casting their votes, while others dressed in their marriage garments, reached polling booths right after their wedlock. Gopal Barot, a resident of Thaltej area of the city arrived at a polling booth with the entire marriage procession. After he and his family had cast their voters, the `baaraat’ proceeded to Himmatnagar, where he got married. In Ahmedabad’s Asarwa area, Virendra Rathod, dressed in wedding finery, and carrying a sword, arrived in a jeep to cast his vote. The policemen on duty kept the sword with themselves until he had finished voting. A 22-year-old groom of Bhavnagar breached wedding protocols literally to exercise his franchise. “Generally, as per tradition, grooms aren’t allowed to go outside a day before marriage. But this was a voting day and when Kamlesh expressed his desire to vote, we all accompanied him and performed our duty as a citizen,” said Jay, a cousin of groom Kamlesh Parmar (22) who kept his pre-wedding rituals in abeyance on Sunday. Kamlesh, dressed up in wedding finery reached the Bol Talav polling booth of ward number nine along with other baraatis and didn’t let wedding or guests disrupt his date with the poll. Till date, Kamlesh claims he has never missed voting in any election. Though it was one of the most important days of her life, Nidhi Gelani reached the polling booth decked in wedding attire in Puna area of Surat before going to the marriage venue. “I think voting is equally important for every citizen, so I did not want to miss the chance of exercising my franchise,” she said. In Jamnagar, a bride and a groom went to cast their votes as a newly wedded couple soon after completing their marriage rituals on Sunday. The couple cast their votes in ward number 14 in the election of Jamnagar municipal corporation. Aashish and Meeta Joshi told TOI: “Today when people are electing their representatives, we have selected our life partners. We are making our memorable moments even stronger by casting our votes in our wedding attire.” Vadodara’s Shaunak Rana was to get married on Sunday in Ahmedabad. But the 30-year-old ensured that he cast his ballot first in ward number 7 in the old city. "Marriage is an important occasion in life but voting too has its own significance. We vote for a better future and a developed city. So I decided to exercise my voting rights before my marriage," said Rana who works as a marketing head in a private firm in Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/matdaan-before-kanyadaan-they-cast-their-votes-first-then-got-married/articleshow/81142472.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Kochi||Curtains fall on IFFK Kochi, fest moves to Thalassery next||KOCHI: Curtains came down on the Kochi leg of the 25th International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) on Sunday. The IFFK will start in Thalassery, the next venue of the festival, from Tuesday. At the Kochi edition, which started on February 17, as many as 80 films in various categories, including Oscar entries were screened. The festival was conducted adhering to Covid protocols.  Malayalam films ‘Churuli’, ‘Hasyam’, ‘Biriyaani’, ‘Santhoshathinte Onnam Rahasyam’, ‘Vasanthi’ and ‘1956 Central Travancore’ won audience applause. Of the 80 movies screened at the festival, 33 were fully or partially made during Covid crisis. The opening movie at the festival was ‘Quo Vadis, Ida?’, a film portraying the Bosnian genocide. The last movie screened in the Kochi edition was Belgian film ‘Summer of 85’. The films ‘The Man Who Sold His Skin’, ‘Wife of a Spy’, ‘Never Gonna Snow Again’ and ‘The Waste Land’ were well received by the movie buffs. Online open fora and Meet the Director — a discussion platform involving filmmakers — also added to the charm of the festival. Besides the support from various departments and agencies like health department and police, 100-odd volunteers contributed to the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy’s efforts to conduct the festival in a smooth manner. Government officials, headload workers, youngsters and two transgender persons constituted the volunteer group. The volunteers facilitated smooth conduct of antigen tests, open for a, etc.  On the final day, 24 films were screened. The film festival offered a platform for amateur as well as professional artists who had not been getting any opportunity in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Various cultural and art forms, including folk arts were staged at the festival venues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/curtains-fall-on-iffk-kochi-fest-moves-to-thalassery-next/articleshow/81141018.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Former Cong MLA Srisailam joins BJP||Hyderabad: In another jolt to the Congress, District Congress Committee (DCC) president and former MLA Kuna Srisailam Goud on Sunday joined BJP in Delhi in the presence of national president JP Nadda, national vice-president DK Aruna and state party chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar. In a video, he said, “The Congress failed to raise its voice against TRS. BJP is the only option.” Stating that developments in the Congress have hurt him, he said that the Congress top brass could not appoint a new PCC chief after the incumbent president resigned. “There are disputes within the party, which is affecting it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/former-cong-mla-srisailam-joins-bjp/articleshow/81142467.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 22, 2021||Salem||Only lotus, two leaves will bring prosperity to TN, says Rajnath||Salem: Seeking to play the Tamil card, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said the BJP was committed to ensure peace, dignity and equality to Sri Lankan Tamils and underlined the party’s efforts to ‘bring prosperity’ to the people of Tamil Nadu. Addressing the state youth wing members of the BJP at Gajalnaickenpatti in Salem, he said only lotus (BJP) and two leaves (AIADMK) will bring prosperity to Tamil Nadu. “We will create a new Tamil Nadu, just like the New India, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” In his speech, which lasted for about 48 minutes, Rajnath generously spoke about Modi’s ‘personal connect’ with Tamil Nadu, the Union government’s contributions to the growth of the state, rich history of TN and the great Chola Kings, freedom fighters from the state and how the BJP fought for the rights of Sri Lankan Tamils. “Modi was the first prime minister to visit Jaffna in northern Sri Lanka after he assumed office in 2015.” He said the BJP had built 27,000 houses for Tamil brothers and sisters, who were rendered homeless by the civil war. “We have been constantly working for the empowerment of Lankan Tamils. We are committed to ensure Tamils in Sri Lanka live with respect and freedom,” the defence minister said. At the same time, he said the Centre was keen on protecting Tamil fishermen. “1,600 Tamil Nadu fishermen, who were arrested by the Lankan navy, were released because of the Centre’s efforts. Nearly 300 boats were also got back.” Rajnath, who commenced his speech in Tamil with “Sagothara, Sagotharigale…anaivarukkum Vanakkam, and a cry of ‘Vetrivel…veeravel”, apologized for being unable to continue in Tamil, “the amma of all Indian languages”, and went on to speak in Hindi and English. In an apparent rebuttal to Congress scion Rahul Gandhi, who reportedly said the BJP had no respect for Tamil Nadu, Rajnath said that former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had made Dr APJ Abdul Kalam the President of India. “Wasn’t that respect for Tamil Nadu?’’ he asked. He also recalled that when Katchatheevu was ceded to Sri Lanka by the Congress government in 1974, the BJP had condemned the decision. Showering platitudes on culture, tradition and literature of TN, the Union minister said he was proud to be in the land of Sidhars, Alwars, Nayanmars and ‘great saint’ Thiruvalluvar. He said Thirukkural had inspired several decisions taken by the Modi government. Calling late chief minister J Jayalalithaa as ‘Tamil Nadu’s daughter Puratchi Thalaivi Jaya Amma,’ he thanked her for supporting the first government of Vajpayee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/only-lotus-two-leaves-will-bring-prosperity-to-tn-says-rajnath/articleshow/81142440.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Goa||‘Deadline for making public buildings accessible for persons with disabilities expires in 2022’: Avelino de Sa||PANAJI: The Disability Rights Association of Goa (DRAG) has appealed to the director of social welfare, who is also the state commissioner for persons with disabilities, to make public buildings accessible for persons with disabilities. This requirement is mandated under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016. “Section 45 of the act mandates that all existing public buildings be made accessible within five years of notification of the act. As it was notified in Goa in 2017, the five-year deadline expires in 2022,” the association’s president Avelino de Sa stated in his communication. “You are also aware that the state government is giving lakhs of rupees to panchayats and municipalities under the Swayampurna Goem Scheme. As a deadline for making public buildings accessible under the act is fast approaching, we request you to direct all panchayats and municipalities to make their public places accessible for persons with disabilities under the Swayampurna Goem scheme,” he stated. The association has also sought the directorate’s intervention in the issue of not a single post being reserved for persons with disability among the 750 posts recently advertised in government departments by the Goa Human Resources Development Corporation, which advertised the posts on contract basis. “The Goa Human Resources Development Corporation is a special purpose vehicle of the government to provide jobs to Goans in government service and first preference in such jobs is provided to those employed by the corporation. The corporation, by not reserving 4% of their jobs for persons with disability, as mandated under Section 34 of the Rights of Persons with Disability Act 2016, has violated the provisions of the act and denied 30 persons with disability gainful employment in government service through preference in appointments,” de Sa stated. DRAG has requested the social welfare department to direct the corporation to fill up their backlog vacancies for persons with disability and further, reserve four percent of their posts advertised for people in this category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/deadline-for-making-public-bldgs-accessible-for-persons-with-disabilities-expires-in-2022/articleshow/81143445.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||‘Lockdown woes: 80% kids now obese; many faced mental issues’||Nagpur: Child specialists across the country will face major challenges this year while dealing with children as the lockdown has created long-term problems for them, said Dr Ramesh Kumar R, national president-elect of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) for year 2021. “As many as 80% schoolgoing kids in urban areas have gained weight and became obese during 2020. Due to sedentary lifestyle during the pandemic year, online classes, and disturbed food habits, many have gained up to 8kg excess weight. This is going to be a major challenge for paediatricians,” said Dr Kumar, adding that kids have been facing many issues related to mental health also. “Staying indoors for entire year, excessive screen time, exposure to unnecessary information and loneliness resulted in mental issues for urban kids. In rural area, kids missed studies due to non-availability of gadgets and technology and it created inferiority complex in them. This year has increased the urban-rural divide like never before,” he said. Dr Kumar, who was in Nagpur to attend the installation function of Academy of Paediatrics (AOP), Nagpur branch, added that the IAP wants kids to come back to their normal life at the earliest and will release revised guidelines for school reopening in March first week. “Schools play very important role in children’s life. It’s not only about academics or studies, but also important for social, emotional and mental development of kids. We were expecting that schools will be reopened in regular manner by next session. But, fresh surge in Covid-19 cases is halting all our plans,” said Dr Kumar. He accepted that IAP’s national mission to reduce screen time of kids suffered a major setback due to the lockdown. “Schools were online and children got additional access to mobile phone, laptops, and tablets. As they had to stay indoors, many of them used to stick to television. We need to re-work on our mission to reduce screen time this year,” he said. In a function organized on Sunday, veteran paediatrician Dr Vijay Dhote took over as president of Nagpur branch of AOP for the year 2021. Dr Pankaj Agrawal became secretary. Senior medical practitioner Dr Jayant Kulkarni, and national vice-president of IAP West Zone Dr Jayant Upadhye were present. Outgoing president of the AOP, Nagpur, Dr Shubhada Khirwadkar said Nagpur chapter has done commendable job in 2020 despite the lockdown. “We have won 13 awards at the national-level and all three awards at Maharashtra level in various categories this year,” she said. Special invitee on the IAP body Dr Avinash Gawande, patron of the Nagpur chapter Dr Uday Bodhankar, and senior paediatricians from city were present at the installation ceremony. Tough Times Ahead Reopening of schools from next academic session Dealing with different psychological issues faced by kids Reduce addiction to different types screens kids have got Encourage kids for more outdoor activities with Covid-appropriate behaviour Make them follow healthy food habits to reduce obesity||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-woes-80-kids-now-obese-many-faced-mental-issues/articleshow/81142469.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||T must stop AP’s RDS works: Cong||Hyderabad: The state Congress on Sunday demanded that the TRS government immediately take up with the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB), Central Water Commission (CWC) and the apex council the issue of AP taking up works to dig up a canal for diversion of water from Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme (RDS). AICC secretary SA Sampath Kumar said AP has started making markings for digging up a parallel canal on the right side of the RDS. It is an irrigation project located on Tungabhadra river and spread in Jogulamba-Gadwal district of Telangana, Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh and Raichur district of Karnataka. It is an inter-state barrage on the Tungabhadra river to supply water to Karnataka, Telangana and AP. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-must-stop-aps-rds-works-cong/articleshow/81142447.cms||---
February 22, 2021||India||China arrests 3 bloggers for questioning official account of Galwan Valley clash||NEW DELHI: China is reported to have arrested three bloggers for questioning the official Chinese version of the Galwan Valley clash on June 15 last year. According to reports, investigative journalist Qiu Ziming (38) was arrested on Saturday in Nanjing. On Friday, the Chinese military had announced honours for five People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers, including four who died and a commander who was injured in the Galwan Valley clash. Read AlsoGalwan clash a ‘brief moment’ in history: Chinese envoyChina wants India to “reserve differences”, Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong said on Tuesday addressing students, teachers. “China and India, as two ancient civilisations, should respect and learn from each other, treat each other as equals," he said. The envoy called Galwan clash“a brief moment fromQiu questioned the number of dead declared by the Chinese government. Indian military officials at the site of the clash had said around 45 Chinese soldiers had died, a claim reiterated by former Northern Command chief Lt Gen Y K Joshi in numerous interviews last week.  The Chinese blogger was sceptical, suggesting more had died. He also questioned why it took the Chinese state eight months to acknowledge the deaths, when the Indian side had immediately acknowledged its dead. According to reports, another journo was arrested for a similar reason in Beijing on Sunday, though details were not yet known, except that the scribe had “insulted” the PLA soldiers who died in Galwan. A third person was detained for a week in Sichuan after posting content that reportedly insulted PLA soldiers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-arrests-journo-for-questioning-its-toll-in-galwan-clash/articleshow/81144023.cms||---
February 22, 2021||World||China arrests 3 bloggers for questioning official account of Galwan Valley clash||NEW DELHI: China is reported to have arrested three bloggers for questioning the official Chinese version of the Galwan Valley clash on June 15 last year. According to reports, investigative journalist Qiu Ziming (38) was arrested on Saturday in Nanjing. On Friday, the Chinese military had announced honours for five People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers, including four who died and a commander who was injured in the Galwan Valley clash. Read AlsoGalwan clash a ‘brief moment’ in history: Chinese envoyChina wants India to “reserve differences”, Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong said on Tuesday addressing students, teachers. “China and India, as two ancient civilisations, should respect and learn from each other, treat each other as equals," he said. The envoy called Galwan clash“a brief moment fromQiu questioned the number of dead declared by the Chinese government. Indian military officials at the site of the clash had said around 45 Chinese soldiers had died, a claim reiterated by former Northern Command chief Lt Gen Y K Joshi in numerous interviews last week.  The Chinese blogger was sceptical, suggesting more had died. He also questioned why it took the Chinese state eight months to acknowledge the deaths, when the Indian side had immediately acknowledged its dead. According to reports, another journo was arrested for a similar reason in Beijing on Sunday, though details were not yet known, except that the scribe had “insulted” the PLA soldiers who died in Galwan. A third person was detained for a week in Sichuan after posting content that reportedly insulted PLA soldiers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-arrests-journo-for-questioning-its-toll-in-galwan-clash/articleshow/81144024.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Nagpur||5 cities in Amravati & Akola go under lockdown till Mar 1||Nagpur: Alarmed by massive surge in Covid-19 infection cases in Amravati division over last one week, the administration has decided to enforce weeklong lockdown in Amravati and Achalpur cities in Amravati district, from 8pm of Monday to 6am of March 1. Similarly, Akola, Murtijapur and Akot cities in Akola district will also go into complete lockdown from 6am of February 23 to 8am of March 1.While Covid situation is still under control in most districts of Nagpur division, the administration has announced revised restrictions in Nagpur district and is likely to announce more curbs on Monday. Amravati district has reported 7,470 new cases and 43 Covid deaths since February 1. This includes the single-day all-time high of 727 on Saturday. Sunday also saw 709 new cases being detected.Amravati collector Shailesh Naval said there will be no restrictions on JEE entrance and other such exams that are scheduled to be held in the district from February 23 to 28. Naval said concerned authorities should give the information of exam centres and students to respective tehsildars and examinees should carry their I-cards with them to be allowed to commute for the test. Amravati guardian minister Yashomati Thakur held a meeting with divisional commissioner Piyush Singh and district collector Shailesh Naval to review Covid situation. Thakur addressed a press meet following this meeting in which she announced one-week lockdown in Amravati and Achalpur cities and restricted business in other parts of the district.Thakur said a week’s lockdown has become inevitable following alarming increase in the daily detection of Covid patients and deaths. “Both numbers are increasing fast. We need to control the cases and casualties too,” she said. The number of beds in the city will be increased from 1,400 to 1,600 and strict restrictions will be imposed in nine containment zones announced by Amravati Municipal Corporation, she added.Thakur said during the lockdown all shops, barring those dealing in essential commodities, will remain closed along with government and private educational institutions, private coaching classes, training schools. The minister said cinema houses, gyms, swimming pools, parks will also remain shut and entertainment, educational, cultural, religious and other gatherings will not be permitted.Akola collector Jitendra Papalkar also came out with lockdown orders for some parts of the district. Apart from the weeklong lockdown in 5 cities, restrictions will be in place in other parts of the division. Other districts in Amravati division — Washim, Buldhana and Yavatmal — will have restrictions like mid-September Covid-19 peak. Divisional commissioner Piyush Singh issued a circular in this regard on Sunday. The restriction orders will be effective from midnight on February 21 till 8am on March 1.As per orders by Singh for other parts in the division, all types of shops and establishments will be allowed to remain open from 9am to 5pm, all types of restaurants will be allowed only parcel service without actual operation of the hotels, and only 25 persons including bride and groom will be allowed for weddings. Religious places will continue to be open to the public, but gathering has been limited to 10 at a time. Any person violating these orders will be booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, says the order. Lockdown 2.0Weeklong Full Lockdown In 5 Cities:Amravati, Achalpur, Akola, Murtijapur and Akot will be under lockdown from Monday nightAll shops except those dealing in essentials and hotels to remain closedEducational institutions, cinema halls, gyms, parks, marriage venues/lawns will remain shut Cultural, religious and other gatherings not permittedLockdown to continue till 8am of March 1Restricted Movement In Other Parts Of Amravati DivAll types of shops / establishments will be open from 9am to 5pmRestaurants will be allowed only parcel facility 25 persons including bride and groom allowed for wedding50% of total capacity will be allowed for passenger transportReligious places will remain open, gathering limited to 10 persons at a timeSchools, colleges, educational training centres, private tutoring classes, coaching classes will be closed in rural and urban areas of entire Amravati divisionAll types of cinemas, gymnasiums, swimming pools, recreation, parks, theatres will be closedPrivate offices to operate with 15% or 15 employees whichever is higher||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-cities-in-amravati-akola-go-under-lockdown-till-mar-1/articleshow/81142499.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 22, 2021||Bareilly||Death row convict Shabnam’s son visits her in Rampur jail, says ‘Mother told me to focus on my studies’||BAREILLY: The 12-year old son of Shabnam Ali, a death row convict who could become the first woman to be hanged in independent India, visited Rampur district jail to meet his mother on Sunday afternoon. The boy, who was accompanied by his guardian, met his mother for 45 minutes in Rampur jail, where she has been lodged for the past two years. Talking to media persons after the meeting, he said that his mother asked him to focus on studies. He again appealed that her mother be forgiven and not be given capital punishment. “My mother asked me to focus on my studies. I am requesting President uncle again to forgive her,” he said. Earlier, a video had gone viral in which the boy held a placard that said, “President uncle, please forgive my mother Shabnam.” Rampur jail superintendent PD Salonia said, “After the news arrived that preparations had begun to hang Shabnam at Mathura jail, the mother-son duo desperately wanted to meet each other. The boy, who otherwise visits his mother in Rampur jail along with his guardian every three months, came to visit her here on Sunday afternoon. The meeting continued for around 45 minutes following which he left.” Shabnam, now 38, had been convicted of killing seven of her family members — her mother, father, two brothers, sister-in-law, cousin and 10-month-old nephew — after they opposed her relationship with Saleem, also a resident of the Amroha village in UP that she is from. The two of them slit their throats after serving them sedative-spiked milk. Shabnam was pregnant at the time. The boy was born in Moradabad jail in December 2008. When he turned six, the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) in Amroha handed him over to his guardian, a resident of Bulandshahr district. Shabnam and Saleem, meanwhile, were convicted in 2010 and, then, sentenced to death. Shabnam challenged the Amroha sessions court verdict in the Allahabad high court, then the Supreme Court, then sought mercy from the President, and then went back to the SC, which rejected her review petition in January last year. Over the past six years, every three months, the boy is taken to the Amroha CWC and then the Rampur jail, where his mother is incarcerated. “She is, after all, his mother, whatever be her crime,” the guardian said. The last time he met her was in January. While she has not exhausted her legal options, the Mathura jail is preparing to hang her. It’s the only one in the country with gallows for women. The 150-year-old structure has never been used since Independence. Director general of prisons Anand Kumar said, “As and when the date is finalised and the death warrant issued, Shabnam will be taken to Mathura jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/death-row-convict-shabnams-son-visits-her-in-jail-says-mother-told-me-to-focus-on-my-studies/articleshow/81139713.cms||Maria Khan
February 22, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Pushpendra Singh’s ‘Laila Aur Satt Geeth’ is an allegory of Kashmir||KOCHI: Filmmaker Pushpendra Singh hails from a village bordering UP and Rajasthan that bears a poetic moniker — Sai(n)yaa. A name that people would find easy to connect with since it is the favourite loan word for Hindi lyricists who want to evoke the madness of love. An FTII graduate, Singh had been making films for the past six years. His fourth ‘Laila aur satt geeth’ (The shepherdess and seven songs), an adaptation of a story by Rajasthani writer Vijaydan Detha, which premiered at the Berlinale was screened at the IFFK on Sunday. Detha’s story had a feudal setting, a village thakur who eyes a beautiful young bride, her weak-willed husband and a street-smart middleman, engaged by the thakur to woo the woman, who falls for her. It was a story with feminist theme and inner monologues that problematizes the issue of sexual consent. “I wanted to make it more contemporary,” says Singh, who transposed the story to strife-torn Kashmir, weaving in the life of Gurjar-Bakarwals — a nomadic tribe of goat-herds. Since he hailed from the community of Gujjars, he was aware of the plight of the Gurjar-Bakarwals, who share a common ancestry with the Gujjar tribe. In this tale, which takes the form of an allegory, Singh also weaves in a reference of Kashmiri mystic poet Lal Ded, who walked nudes, singing her vakh (verses). Singh’s Laila is a free-spirited woman who wanders in search of absolute freedom. “In Kashmir I found that there is a new kind of feudalism, the security forces who act as feudal lords, then the local police and forest guards. The reports about the cow protection laws brought by the NDA governments and their impact on the community also influenced me,” says Singh. While Laila was played by Punjabi actor Navjot Randhawa, Singh drew most of the actors from the community of Bakarwals. “I find this idea of acting problematic in India because it’s personality oriented. When I started working with marginalized people, I realized that they have gone through so much so that you can see that in their bodies. An actor can never reproduce that,” says Singh, who was trained as an actor. Like casting, the space where the film is set is also crucial for Singh, who spends several days soaking up the character of the space before he decides to set the camera rolling. “I finish the first draft of the script and then spend my time in spaces where I want to shoot. So I look at many spaces and then zeroes in on one location. I find the idea of homocentric films problematic,” says Singh, who considers cinema a spiritual medium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/singhs-laila-aur-satt-geeth-is-an-allegory-of-kashmir/articleshow/81141047.cms||Binu Karunakaran
February 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Ex-MLA’s son detained by cops||AHMEDABAD: Vejalpur police on Sunday afternoon detained a man, son of a former MLA, who was campaigning for his cousin contesting on a Congress ticket. The man was identified as Rajesh Thakor, whose father Madhu Thakor was an MLA from Congress. He had later in 2012 switched his loyalty to the BJP. Rajesh’ cousin Mahesh Thakor was contesting from Vejalpur ward from Congress and Rajesh was campaigning for him. This also sparked a row amongst Congress workers who alleged that police action was improper, and it’s timing was questionable. “Rajesh who is known as Bhuvaji was an influential campaigner for Mahesh and the cops took the action in political pressure,” alleged a party worker. Even Rajesh alleged that he was illegally detained on the day of polling. Inspector L D Odedara of Vejalpur police said that the cops held him under preventive detention as a part of ongoing exercise of nabbing people with criminal records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ex-mlas-son-detained-by-cops/articleshow/81142490.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Salem||3 killed as speeding car ploughs into crowd waiting at bus stop near Harur||Dharmapuri: Three people were killed and two injured after a speeding car ploughed into a crowd of passengers waiting in a bus stop at S Patty village near Harur in Dharmapuri district on Sunday.The accident prompted residents of the village to block the Salem-Vellore state highway for nearly five hours.The deceased were identified as Chinna Paiyan alias Sri Nath, 12, Venmani, 65, and Subbulakshmi, 27, all residents of S Patty.Pushpa, 30, and Thangamani, 39, of the same village, were injured in the accident. The deceased and the injured were waiting at the bus stop to go to Uthangarai in Krishnagiri district.According to police, a speeding car heading to Chennai from Salem ploughed into the crowd waiting at the bus stop. “The trio died on the spot while the rest sustained injuries,” an officer from Harur police station said.While the injured were taken to the government hospital in Dharmapuri treatment, the dead bodies were sent to the same hospital for post-mortem.Though the driver of the car tried to escape from the spot, villagers caught him and handed him over to police.“We are checking his identity as he is under treatment at the Dharmapuri government hospital,” the officer added. Police have registered a case and initiated an inquiry.Meanwhile, hundreds of villagers blocked the Salem-Vellore state highway for five hours demanding the state government to relay the road at the earliest.“The central and state governments are laying a four-lane road on the stretch. But the pace of the work is slow,” K Jayaraman, one of the villagers, said.Boulders and stones placed on the roadside for relaying road distract vehicle drivers, which lead to accidents, he added.Villagers withdrew their protest after the Harur police assured them to take the issue with higher officials.Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs 2 lakh each to the families of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for the injured from CM’s relief fund. “I have directed police to take stern action against the car driver,” Palaniswami said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/3-killed-as-speeding-car-ploughs-into-crowd-waiting-at-bus-stop-near-harur/articleshow/81142474.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Coimbatore||Traffic marshals to end chaos on Tirupur roads||Tirupur: The city police introduced a team of traffic marshals on Saturday to ease traffic congestion. Police commissioner G Karthikeyan launched the initiative at the commissionerate. Two traffic marshals each have been allocated to the Tirupur north and south sub-divisions. “Usually, traffic cops regulate traffic at the junctions. The traffic marshals will be alerted from the police control room about heavy traffic jam. They will rush to the spot and clear traffic,” said Karthikeyan. The marshals will carry first-aid kits. “If an accident is reported in the city, they would rush to the spot and give first aid to the injured people. We plan to provide first-aid training to the four marshals.” The Tirupur city police is planning to recruit more traffic marshals, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/traffic-marshals-to-end-chaos-on-tirupur-roads/articleshow/81142496.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Rajkot||After slow start, Rajkot matches 2015 voting||Rajkot: After a sluggish start, which threatened to drag down the voter turnout in chief minister Vijay Rupani’s hometown, the polling for Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) election gained pace at the fag end of the day.The turnout of around 50.75% was only marginally more than 2015 elections.After voting began at 7am, polling staff in several booths were sitting idle for several hours as people preferred to spend time at home on a lazy Sunday. Till noon, the turnout remained a measly 15% as with booths witnessing voters in single digits with cops and election officials outnumbering them.Senior leaders and workers from both parties had some hard work to do after 2pm to encourage people to come out to vote. Sources said BJP’s ‘page pramukhs’ were asked to reach out to the voters’ in their list and request them to come to the polling booths. In the city fond of its afternoon siesta, people surprisingly came out hours before the voting was come to an end. According to sources, good voting turnout was in ward number 2,7,9 and 10.The large number of marriages scheduled on Sunday also kept voters at bay while many preferred to enjoy their holiday. In 2015, BJP got only 38 seats out of 72 and the party was expecting a much higher turnout to reclaim the power. Sources said that large number of penalties for not wearing masks and overall handling of pandemic weighed heavily on minds of people who did not exercise their franchise.In Jamnagar, which clocked the the highest turnout among the six cities, massive voting was witnessed in the minority community areas. The BJP too had several fielded Muslim candidates after delimitation had resulted in some areas getting significant population of minorities.In Bhavnagar too, Covid fear played heavily on the minds of voters who also expressed resentment at having to cough up mask fines of Rs 1,000. BJP has been in power in both these municipal corporations since 1995.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/after-slow-start-rajkot-matches-2015-voting/articleshow/81141069.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Aurangabad||Weddings in Aurangabad dist court controversy for allowing 200 guests||Aurangabad: The 200-guest limit for wedding functions in Aurangabad district despite a rise in the number of new Covid-19 cases has evoked sharp criticism. While only 50 to 100 guests are allowed at wedding events in many other cities across Maharashtra, the higher capping in Aurangabad has not gone down well.Civic activist Rajendra Datey-Patil said there should be uniformity in the permitted number of guests at weddings at least in major cities.“While a city like Parbhani allows at most 50 guests per wedding, the limit is 100 in Mumbai. In comparison, Aurangabad district has higher capping on the number of guests. This number should be tightened amid the spurt in fresh cases ahead of the marriage season,” he said.When contacted, acting Aurangabad district collector Anant Gavhane on Sunday said that the capping on the number of wedding guests would be reviewed in near future if necessary. “The capping on wedding guests is either 200 or 50%of the capacity of marriage hall, whichever is lesser. We feel it is a practical decision that can be implemented effectively during the current pandemic,” he said. Meanwhile, the civic administration on Sunday carried out a crackdown against a separate marriage ceremony held at Padegaon and Chikalthana for violation of Covid prevention norms. The crackdown helped the civic authorities collect a fine worth Rs 15,000, an official release said. Earlier, the squads formed by the district administration visited around 190 marriage halls in Aurangabad city and sensitised people about Covid prevention norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/weddings-in-aurangabad-dist-court-controversy-for-allowing-200-guests/articleshow/81142477.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Budget for minorities’||Hyderabad: Political leaders, analysts and social activists on Sunday stressed the need for the state government to prepare a “justified budget for the minorities” for the 2021-22 fiscal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/budget-for-minorities/articleshow/81142476.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Cut syllabus of SSC & HSC, say teachers||Mumbai: Against the backdrop of rising number of Covid cases in the city and state, teachers have once again demanded that SSC and HSC syllabus be further trimmed to help students cope as schools might remain shut longer. The state had last year announced a 25% reduction in syllabus for board exams. Last November, schools across the state but for Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai reopened for classes IX to XII, giving teachers and pupils enough time to prepare for board exams. “We were hopeful schools would be allowed to reopen on March 1 but with cases on the rise again, it seems unlikely. Board exam practicals begin before written exams, giving us little time to complete the syllabus,” said a teacher. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cut-syllabus-of-ssc-hsc-say-teachers/articleshow/81142506.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Gurgaon||What’s keeping birds away? Lack of rain, say Gurugram experts||GURUGRAM: With binoculars in their hands and cameras hanging from their necks, a group of birders on Sunday ventured into the wetlands, forests, water bodies and parks across NCR. It was the Big Bird Day, which is an annual event dedicated to birdwatching conducted by the Delhi Bird group. On Sunday, the birders spotted a total of 150 species in Basai, Chandu Bhudera and Sultanpur areas. According to members of the group, the details of all the species spotted will be published in a few days, but they said fewer varieties were seen this year. Pankaj Gupta, a birder from Delhi Bird group, said: “We saw several northern lappings, spotted crakes and water rails. But, bird activity was less this year compared to previous years as we have witnessed fewer rainy days in February. It is hot and most of the water bodies have dried up in the region. These conditions have affected the movement of birds.” However, birders in Delhi-NCR, who participated in the event for the first time this year, were a thrilled lot. The details of the bird sightings were noted during the day so that they could be documented later and used to study bird habitats. Nikhil Devasar from the Delhi Bird group had organised the event. He said there were about 150 teams with five-six members in each.  “They were able to spot some rare birds, such as the Grey-headed fish eagle at Okhla Bird Sanctuary in Noida, Greater white-fronted goose at Mandothi in Jhajjar and Black-necked Grebe in Chandu.” Common Cranes, Jack Spine, Imperial Eagle, Black-necked Grebe, Greater Crested Grebe and Rosy starling were also seen. They were spotted at Sultanpur, Chandu Bhudera and Basai. One of the rare birds spotted on Sunday was the Black-necked Grebe. The bird is listed in Schedule I of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. In 2020, its status was changed from ‘vulnerable’ to ‘near threatened’ on the IUCN Red List. The Big Bird Day is a nation-wide exercise, during which bird watchers travel to forests and rural, semi-urban and urban areas to record bird sightings. The event first organised on February 22, 2004, when 236 species of birds were recorded across the region. In 2020, 253 species were spotted on this day. In 2019, the number was 247. In the previous year, 251 species were spotted in NCR and in 2017, a total of 268 species were seen in the region on Big Bird Day.  In 2016, the total count was 228. The number in 2015 was 239 species. In Delhi, however, the number of bird species seen in most of the biodiversity parks has gone up compared to last year. At Yamuna Biodiversity Park, the bird count increased from 83 in 2020 to 101 this year, while it doubled at Kalindi Biodiversity Park.  Tughlaqabad Biodiversity Park reported a marginal decrease in bird numbers than 2020, while the species count dropped to 46 this year against 54 last year at Aravalli Biodiversity Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/whats-keeping-birds-away-lack-of-rain-say-city-experts/articleshow/81143406.cms||Ipsita Pati
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Teachers take jab, ask others to get inoculated early||NEW DELHI: Chandra Pal Singh, a 33-year-old teacher at a Delhi government school, who was assigned various tasks during the pandemic for over five months, is happy to be an early recipient of the Covid vaccine. “I got vaccinated last week and wasn’t worried about it. If I could work during the pandemic without feeling scared, then I shouldn’t fear vaccination as it will protect me from the virus. Everyone should get inoculated,” said the teacher at Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya, Rajgarh. During the pandemic, Singh worked at the airport, a dispensary and even conducted the sero survey. Teachers from all districts of the city, mostly in the age group of 30-50, were selected for vaccination as part of frontline workers earlier this month. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had called them the real Corona Warriors as they not only worked during the pandemic, but also transitioned to online teaching without much difficulty. Sonu, a teacher at Government Girls Senior Secondary School in Kanti Nagar, said she and a few of her colleagues got the jab and even others should volunteer for it. “It’s good for health, so no one should hesitate or feel scared about it,” added the 35-year-old. During the pandemic, she worked at a ration distribution centre in her school. Virender Singh Madan, a teacher in his late 50s who got vaccinated earlier this week, said he didn’t face any adverse effects. “There is nothing to worry about and all of us should cooperate in the fight against the virus,” added the science teacher at a government school in Madanpur Khadar. Even he had worked at his school’s ration distribution centre during the lockdown. Meanwhile, the education department has issued an order to all district deputy education officers telling everyone to refrain from rumour mongering against the vaccines. “Concern has been expressed about circulation of unfounded and misleading rumours on social and other media creating doubt among people about the safety and efficacy of the vaccines. Anyone found indulging in such activities could face strict penal action,” added the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teachers-take-jab-ask-others-to-get-inoculated-early/articleshow/81141426.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana team in Maharashtra to study vulture population||HYDERABAD: The Telangana forest department sent a 15-member team to Maharashtra on Sunday to study the vulture population in and around the nesting colonies there before some of them migrate to Telangana. Every year, after the cliffs in Maharashtra’s Gadichiroli range are completely occupied by the existing vulture population in the region, the spillover population migrates to Palarapugutta, a cliff in Penchikalpet forest range in Telangana’s Komaram Bheem Asifabad district to build new nests, lay eggs and bring up their young. “This annual phenomenon usually occurs during the winter months. There is a slight delay this year, but we have seen some of them hovering around in the area, conducting a recce of the nesting sites on the cliffs to start building their nests. The villagers have also seen some birds perching on the cliffs and then going back,” said Komaram Bheem Asifabad district forest officer, S Shantaram. “The team from the forest department will come back with a report through which we will be able to get an idea about the number of nesting colonies in Maharashtra and an approximate number of birds that will migrate to Telangana and accordingly make some arrangements to ensure there are adequate food resources like carcass of cattle, etc,” said Shantaram. Officials said that Palarapugutta, where these vultures are found, is only a nesting site and the vultures migrate back to Maharashtra after they lay eggs and raise their young ones here. Further, the state forest officials said that they have submitted proposals for funding to further improve the already existing vulture conservation programme in Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-team-in-maha-to-study-vulture-population/articleshow/81142516.cms||Moulika.KV
February 22, 2021||Coimbatore||Private bank employee kills self in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: A 29-year-old man, who was working as a senior sales officer of a private bank, committed suicide at his rented house at Saravanampatti here on Sunday morning. The deceased was identified as N Sundarraj, a native of Varappalayam in Namakkal district. “His family was searching for a bride for him. But they were not able to find anyone. Sundarraj was depressed for the last few days and took the extreme step on Sunday morning. As he did not open the door till 10am, his neighbours broke open the door to find him dead on the floor. He had tied a rope around his neck and tied the other end to his foot,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/private-bank-employee-kills-self/articleshow/81142515.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Ludhiana||Trade unions hold protest, demand release of farmers, activists||Ludhiana: Several trade unions of the city on Sunday staged a protest against the central government, demanding release of farmers and social activists who had been arrested sometime back by Delhi police. Other demands of the protesters included repeal of farm laws and dismantling of the barriers at the borders of Delhi. The protesters organised a protest march near Bharat Nagar Chowk by holding placards and raising slogans against the central government while demanding reduction in the rates of petrol, diesel and LPG. They also sat on the side of the road for a short while and held placards of their demands to draw public attention. Giving more information, MS Bhatia, a labour union leader, said, “At the invitation of the provincial committee of the anti-fascist front, a conference was held at the bus stop at Bharat Nagar Chowk here on Sunday against the Modi government and later protests were staged from Bharat Nagar Chowk to the statue of the martyrs at Jagraon bridge. Modi's fascist government, which had been pursuing a policy of crushing, oppressing and crushing the farmers sitting on the borders of Delhi for three months, had failed miserably on all fronts. The blind rise in prices and the skyrocketing prices of essential commodities is a symbol of its corporate slavery.” According to DP Maur, secretary of Ludhiana unit of the Communist Party of India, “All of us are standing like a rock with the rightful struggle of the poor farmers of the country and we will never allow the country to be devastated. The voice of the protesters will never be silenced by the government. Sunday’s event is aimed at thwarting the government's policy of suppressing the struggle and is a warning to the central government that we will not sit silent until the farmers get their rights. Kisan Mazdoor Ekta has given a befitting reply and blocked the nefarious attempt of the government to derail the farmers' struggle against the black laws on agriculture.” Chamkaur Singh, another labour union leader, said, “We demand cancellation of the false FIRs against those farmers and we also demand immediate release of the arrested farmers, release of labour leader Naudeep Kaur and release of environmentalist Disha Ravi. Along with this, the police should lift all barricades at the borders of Delhi and restore democratic rights of the farmers by repealing the anti-farmer laws. These black laws are going to have a very bad effect on the consumers and every citizen will have to come out on the streets against the black agriculture laws.” A large number of people from all walks of life attended this protest. Some of the prominent leaders who were part of this protest included Kanwaljit Khanna, Surinder Sharma, prof Jaipal Singh, Raghbir Singh Benipal and Jaswant Singh Zirkh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/trade-unions-hold-protest-demand-release-of-farmers-activists/articleshow/81141045.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Goa||Thunderstorm continues, sunny skies from February 23 onwards: IMD, Panaji||PANAJI: Goa continues to experience unseasonal rain and thunderstorms in the third week of February after it started to rain on February 18. The India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, however, said that the weather is expected to be dry from February 23 onwards. The trough along the west coast has weakened but there are some other systems passing near Goa, one extending from the Lakshadweep area and the other from the Arabian Sea, which are likely to have an effect on Goa thus bringing thunderstorms over the state till February 22. When the unseasonal rain lashed the state last week, some parts of state also experienced hailstorms in addition to the rain. The IMD doesn’t have an observatory in these areas but social media was flooded with video clippings of the same. “If we compare it with the radar observations at the time of the occurrence, it shows that there could’ve been some ice-droplets or hailstones,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. “On that particular day, clouds were reaching a height of 8km-10km and zero degree line of temperature was at 3km-4km height. That was the reason places over which convection was tense, experienced hailstorms,” he said, adding that hailstorm are unlikely to continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/thunderstorm-continues-sunny-skies-from-feb-23-onwards-imd/articleshow/81142529.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Off To A Fine Art: Freedom Of Expression On Lawns Of National Gallery||New Delhi: Komal and Gaurav Bhasin had come to National Gallery of Modern Art with their six-year-old daughter to spend their Sunday looking at works of art. But as soon as they entered the lawns, they were drawn to the scores of people — young and old — sitting on the grass, pencil and paper in hand, trying their luck with sketching. The couple then decided to join them. The Bhasins are now among the many regular visitors to NGMA, which has decided to open its doors to the public on weekends. People can explore their artistic capabilities at the gallery, where they are allowed to enter without tickets on weekends and provided with stationery to work on sketching and clay for ceramic work and pottery, all under the guidance of teachers. Not to forget the opportunity to soak in the beauty of the artwork of Amrita Sher-Gil, Abdur Rahman Chughtai and Raja Ravi Verma, among others.“The Covid-19 pandemic taught us a lot. But it also added to our stress levels. Artists, too, were affected by this. We wanted to help them out, so we decided to open NGMA for them and to the public in general, so that they can come here, sit and sketch or do ceramic work, or simply enjoy the national treasure,” NGMA director-general Adwaita Gadanayak told TOI.The idea is for the people to feel free, “start playing music, discuss art and create a lively atmosphere”. As Gadanayak added: “We want NGMA to become beyond a museum, transforming into a cultural hub where everyone feels at home.”Not just access, NGMA is also keen on providing assistance. Argha Ganguly, assistant curator at NGMA, is tasked with guiding the visitors. Ganguly said people were being provided with pencils, charcoals, a drawing board and other material to let their creative juices flow. “On average, we see 80 to 100 people coming here to spend their weekends,” he added.Dipanshu Kumar, a Class X student from a private school near Janpath, has been a regular for the last month or so. Every weekend, he can be seen sitting on the lawns in front of an art installation, trying to recreate it on his drawing book. “We don't have an art teacher at our school right now. So, I come and learn from the teachers here,” he exulted.The lawns are now home for art students, too, in their bid to hone their skills. TOI caught up with Aman Kaushalya Sharma, a final-year student of Delhi College of Art. Sharma said: “This is an excellent initiative, which gives support to not just Fine Arts students but also the common people to connect with their inner artist.”Sanjeev Thakeria, a graphic designer by profession, travels all the way from Faridabad to learn how to make clay sculptures. “This is my third weekend here. I had never worked with clay before. The atmosphere here is wonderful,” he said. Next to him, young Ibrahim was busy with his own first-ever clay creation. “This is our second Sunday here and we take a bus from our home in Jamia Nagar to come here,” said Nusrat Jahan, his mother.Teachers Priyanka Singh, Heena Rustagi and Triveni are there to guide the novice sculptors. “There are many who do not know pottery, but are inspired by seeing ceramics because clay is an attractive material. We help them connect with it and assist them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/off-to-a-fine-art-freedom-of-expression-on-lawns-of-national-gallery/articleshow/81141424.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 22, 2021||Ludhiana||Virus tightening grip on students has authorities worried||Ludhiana: With as many as 40 students of various schools in the district testing positive for coronavirus last week, the spread of Covid-19 among the students has emerged as a big challenge for the authorities. Although cases of infection among teachers and students have been reported since the reopening of schools last month, the rate of students testing positive has increased of late. Of the 86 students found infected with the virus in various schools of the district, nearly half (40) were tested positive last week only, according a health department data. All the cases of infection among students reported last week came from two schools, including Government Senior Secondary School, Chaunta, from where 37 cases have been reported till now, while seven cases have surfaced in a private school in Samrala. A female teacher and a male peon of the Chauta school also tested positive last week. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said reports of nine students from the Chaunta and Samrala schools came positive on Saturday evening. With this, total 37 students, a teacher and a peon of Government Senior Secondary School, Chaunta have tested positive for the virus till now, while the number of such students from Samrala private school is seven. A health department official said most of the positive students and school staff members are asymptomatic and are in home quarantine. “Although the departments concerned talk of implementing the Covid-19 safety norms, on the ground it is difficult to enforce those,” said the official. Health experts, on the other hand, question the decision to reopen schools during the pandemic. “With cases on the rise again and many of them being students and teachers, one wonders why the schools have been opened when the pandemic is still around. Although most cases are asymptomatic, there is a risk of spread,” said Dr Sunil Katyal, former president of Ludhiana IMA. The parents are also worried about the spread of the disease in schools. “The way cases are increasing and students are testing positive, the government should have simply promoted the students. Not only the students are being put to risk, even their families stand exposed to the virus,” said advocate K G Sharma, the Convener of Punjab Parents Association. BOX 35 teachers contract virus Since mid-January, around 35 teachers of various government schools in Ludhiana district have tested Covid-positive, while one teacher of Government Senior Secondary School, Ghalib Kalan succumbed to the virus infection. BOX Cases in schools (since Jan 15) Name of school — Teachers — Students Govt Senior Secondary School, Ghalib Kalan — 14 (one death) — 27 Govt Senior Secondary School, Gidder Widdi — 5 — 0 Govt Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal — 5 — 15 Govt Senior Secondary School, Chaunta — 2+1 peon — 37 Govt Senior Secondary School, Mundiyan — 2 — 0 Govt Senior Secondary School, Chet Singh Nagar — 1 — 0 Govt Senior Secondary School, Dakha — 1 — 0 Pvt senior secondary school, Samrala — 0 — 7 Pvt senior secondary school, Ludhiana — 1 — 0 Govt High School, Bhundari — 1 — 0 Govt High School, Mandiani — 1 — 0 Govt Primary School, Barota Road — 1 — 0 Govt Senior Secondary School, Pakhowal — 1 — 0 Govt Senior Secondary School, Haibowal Khurd — 1 — 0||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-tightening-grip-on-students-has-authorities-worried/articleshow/81141056.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||Rajeshwar Reddy of TRS richest among MLC aspirants||Hyderabad: Analysis of affidavits of aspirants in the fray for two Member of Legislative Council (MLC) graduates’ constituencies reveal that TRS candidate Palla Rajeshwar Reddy is the richest with Rs 31.5 crore assets. Rajeshwar Reddy is contesting from the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda graduates’ constituency. The family income of Rajeshwar Reddy is Rs 1.52 crore per annum. Rajeshwar Reddy, his wife, and two dependent children own Rs 13 crore movable assets and Rs 18.5 crore immovable assets. His assets include agriculture land in Vattinagulapally, plots in Banjara Hills, Sodheshpally and Mallikudrla in Warangal district, a flat in Amberpet, a residential house at Bagh Amberpet and a residential building at Nandagiri Hills. His dependent children own land in Kalvapally in Jangaon and Himatynagar village in Moinabad. Rajeshwar Reddy, who has a PhD in physics from Osmania University, is the chairman of Telangana Rythu Bandhu Samithi. Congress leader G Chinna Reddy, who filed nomination for Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad graduates’ constituency, has five cases, including unlawful assembly and election code violations, against his name. Chinna Reddy owns Rs 13 lakh worth properties. He has a PhD in agriculture and LLB degree. BJP candidate for Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency Gujjala Premender Reddy owns Rs 3.6 crore worth of movable and immovable assets. He has MA from Osmania University and LLB. He has Rs 86 lakh liabilities (loans). Congress candidate Sabavath Ramulu Naik, an aspirant for Warangal Khammam and Nalgonda graduates’ constituency, owns Rs 1.4 crore worth properties. Independent candidate Professor K Nageshwar, who is contesting for Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad constituency, and his spouse own around Rs 4 crore worth properties. He is a professor in the department of journalism at OU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rajeshwar-reddy-of-trs-richest-among-mlc-aspirants/articleshow/81142513.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad records highest Covid cases in 21 days||AHMEDABAD: After a continuous downward trend for daily Covid-19 positive cases, Ahmedabad city on Sunday recorded a sharp spike with 66 cases. The rise was 47% higher compared to 45 recorded on February 20 and 27% higher compared to the weekly cases average of 52. Ahmedabad district, as of Sunday evening, accounts for 527 out of 1,690 active cases, or 31% of state’s active cases. Recently, the Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) statistics had revealed that the bed occupancy in the city went above 125 after nearly two months. “The city, like three other major cities of Gujarat, has recorded upwards trend in Covid-19 cases in the past few days. There are multiple reasons for it – with increase in the hours during night, several city hotspots have seen the gatherings back. More and more commercial establishments see the workers back from work-from-home scenario and there’s also a lack of etiquette when it comes to using sanitizer, wearing mask or maintaining social distancing,”said a city-based critical care specialist. Ahmedabad city, in the past seven days, has recorded deaths of three positive patients. Experts point out that the city has recorded reduction in mortality after a long time, and the gains should not be lost with carelessness. “Covid-19 is very much active, and we should not let our guards down,” said Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-records-highest-covid-cases-in-21-days/articleshow/81142522.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Switch to electric mode: Delhi transport minister to 4-wheel owners||NEW DELHI: As Delhi government’s ‘Switch Delhi’ campaign to promote electric vehicles entered its third week on Sunday, transport Minister Kailash Gahlot appealed to four-wheel owners in the city to make the switch to e-vehicles. “This week, we will focus on sensitising Delhiites on the benefits of electric four-wheelers over their petrol or diesel counterparts and also on the benefits that are offered under Delhi’s EV policy for those wanting to make this switch,” Gahlot said. Switch Delhi is an eight-week mass awareness campaign by the Aam Aadmi Party government to sensitise Delhiites about the benefits of switching to zero-emission EVs, as well as to make them aware of the incentives and infrastructure being developed under Delhi’s Electric Vehicle policy. “Incentives of up to Rs 3 lakh are provided under Delhi EV policy, which includes Rs 1.5 lakh subsidy, registration, and road tax exemption. This is the highest subsidy in India and makes the total cost of ownership of an electric car in Delhi the same as a diesel car,” Gahlot claimed. “Subsidies provided on electric cars reduces the total cost of ownership of electric cars by up to 30%. An individual can save Rs 1,050 per month by switching to EV from a diesel car,” he added. The transport minister said that to set an example for the capital, Delhi government has taken a lead by starting the transition of its entire fleet to EVs. All leased cars used for the commute of government officers shall be transitioned to electric vehicles within a period of six months, he added. “We are committed to making the city pollution-free. This target can only be achieved with the cooperation and participation of people. I urge all Delhiites who are planning on purchasing a new four-wheeler to buy clean, green electric vehicles,” Gahlot said. One of the major apprehensions regarding switching to EVs is the requirement of a robust support infrastructure. To address this and as a part of building an EV ecosystem in the capital, Delhi government is coming up with 500 charging points at 100 locations soon, apart from the over 70 public charging stations that are already operational in the capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/switch-to-electric-mode-gahlot-to-4-wheel-owners/articleshow/81141384.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Erode||DMK will probe AIADMK’s multi-crore contracts: M K Stalin||TIRUPUR/ERODE: DMK president M K Stalin said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s foreign visits to attract investment and two global investors meet have turned out to be failures and alleged that the claim of attracting several crores of investment by the CM was a blatant lie. Addressing party cadres at Rakkiapalayam near Kangeyam on Sunday, Stalin slammed the state and central governments for their ‘economic policies which had dealt a severe blow’ to the industrial community of TN. He said that in 2012, the late chief minister J Jayalalathaa announced Vision 2023 which promised to create Rs 15 lakh crore infrastructure development, employment generation for two crore people, creation of two health cities and Coimbatore–Madurai, Coimbatore–Salem industrial corridor. “None of this happened in the last nine years,” Stalin said. Three years later Jayalalithaa held global investors meet in 2015 and announced that 98 MoUs were signed and investments of Rs 2.42 lakh crore were attracted. “Till date, no white paper has been issued about this,” he said. EPS for his part held a second GIM where he claimed to have inked 304 MoUs attracting investment to the tune of Rs 3.4 lakh crore, which would generate employment for 10 lakh people. “But nothing has happened yet,” Stalin alleged. “Again, Palaniswami went on a global tour to seek investments, because of which the government claimed to have signed 41 MoUs which could bring Rs 8,835 crore with a job creation for 35,000 people,’’ he said. “During the Covid lockdown, EPS said 101 Mous were signed which would bring Rs 88,727 crore investment enabling jobs for 1.7 lakh people. This had also ended up as a failure,” he said. Now EPS has issued a new industrial policy 2021 and has once again claimed that an investment of Rs 10 lakh crore would be brought in and jobs for 20 lakh people, Stalin noted. “EPS says TN has turned out to be a sanctuary for investors. But the truth is he has turned TN into a haven of corruption,” Stalin said. Later in the day in Erode, Stalin alleged that AIADMK government had hurriedly called for 3,888 works in the last three months, worth several crores. Alleging that these contracts were being implemented in a rush to make money, Stalin said that DMK would order a probe into the contracts awarded by the AIADMK government. “I am warning contractors that all these contracts would be subjected to a thorough probe once DMK comes to power,’’ he said. Hitting out at EPS for alleging that petitions given to Stalin would be dumped in garbage and the public can instead complain to AIADMK government by dialing 1100 sitting at the comfort of their houses, the opposition leader sai d the helpline was defunct. “The 1100 helpline which EPS portrays as a new initiative was announced by Jayalalithaa in 2016. How many complaints were received through 1100 and how many were sorted out?’’ he asked. “If the 1100 grievance redressal system was effective why are so many complaints being raised now?” Stalin asked. Addressing a farmer’s conference in Erode, Stalin said that DMK would not only take efforts to scrap the three new farm laws brought by Centre but would also scrap the ‘anti–farmer legislations’ enforced by the AIADMK government. “The AIADMK’s anti-farmer legislations would be scrapped in the first assembly session itself,’’ he said without elaborating on the legislation he was referring to.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/dmk-will-probe-aiadmks-multi-crore-contracts-stalin/articleshow/81149159.cms||Mayilvaganan
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||CM: Fight against Covid’s like a world war, mask is a shield||Mumbai: CM Uddhav Thackeray took to social media on Sunday to address the public and warn that there could be another strict lockdown coming if people did not keep to Covid norms. “The second wave has not yet come but it has been knocking at our door. It will be clear in the next one or two weeks,” he said. Thackeray urged citizens to be more responsible. “We should implement an ‘I am responsible’ drive for self-discipline,” he said. Noting the spike in Covid-19 in Amravati, he said the number of cases was as high as during the peak of the pandemic. “We have imposed a lockdown in Amravati and other districts from Monday evening,” he said. While it was said that the gram panchayat polls held last month were one of the reasons behind the increase in cases in rural parts, Thackeray appealed to all parties to cooperate in the Covid battle. “Every political party, including mine, wishes to expand. We should expand the party and not Covid. In this battle, we should unite and fight against it, else once again we will have to face a stringent lockdown. This warning is being given by Covid and not by me,” he said. He said that a war was on against Covid and that the virus could be contained so far because of the sacrifice of frontline and healthcare workers. “This is a war against the virus; it’s like a world war. The mask is an effective shield to protect ourselves from the virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-fight-against-covids-like-a-world-war-mask-is-a-shield/articleshow/81142536.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 22, 2021||Coimbatore||Fire stn yet to get aerial ladder platform for rescue operations||Coimbatore: High-rise buildings continue to sprout in the city, which lacks a truck-mounted aerial ladder platform to conduct firefighting and rescue operations. The fire service department is yet to allot such a platform to the Coimbatore south fire station despite growing number of requests.Four people were killed when fire broke out in a commercial building at Lakshmi Mills Junction in 2013. As fire stations in Coimbatore had no ladder to rescue people from the tall building, the district administration sought help from the Indian Air Force (IAF) base at Sulur.“Following the fire accident, the department had promised to bring an aerial ladder platform to Coimbatore,” said an officer. “Coimbatore has the most number of high-rise buildings after Chennai. The Tamil Nadu Housing Board apartment at Kavundampalayam is more than 100 feet tall. If a fire breaks out there, it won’t be easy to rescue residents.” The department had brought an old Simon Snorkel fire engine that had a 106-foot ladder to Coimbatore in 1999. It was used till 2012, when it was condemned, the officer said. “During late chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s rule, the department had bought two truck-mounted aerial ladder platforms that can reach up to 104 metres from Finland. Now, the Greater Chennai Corporation has four such platforms and Trichy city has one.”Director general of police (fire services department) C Sylendrababu told TOI that he would take steps to bring such a platform to Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fire-stn-yet-to-get-aerial-ladder-platform-for-rescue-operations/articleshow/81142538.cms||A Subburaj
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Delhi moves towards full re-opening as Covid cases dip||NEW DELHI: The capital reported 145 new Covid-19 cases and two casualties in the last 24 hours. This was the first time since last Sunday that the city reported more than one death in a day. While 97 patients recuperated from the disease in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases saw a spike to 1,071 — from 1,025 on Saturday. The overall infection tally in the capital stood at 6,37,755, while the toll was at 10,898. This month, however, has recorded three days when there were zero deaths caused by Covid-19 and February has, till now, seen the lowest average death count since April 2020. With the number of Covid-19 cases coming down and the positivity rate remaining around 0.2% consistently, more and more restrictions are likely to be removed and more services reopened. According to sources, Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) is likely to hold a meeting on Monday on further reopening of services or relaxing restrictions keeping in mind the Covid situation in the city. Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) has sent a proposal for consideration in a DDMA meeting to allow travel by commuters in the aisle or standing position in public transport buses in view of the declining Covid-19 cases in the city. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has also requested the centre to relax the Covid-19 safety protocol and allow full seating capacity on the lines of public transport buses in the capital. At present, DMRC can only accommodate around 50 passengers per coach to ensure that every alternate seat in a coach is vacant and standing passengers maintain a distance of at least one metre. As cases have been on the wane, the Delhi high court has announced that from March 15, all its judges will hold physical hearing of cases. Delhi government has also revoked its work from home policy for most employees and all markets and weekly markets are also open now. Schools in Delhi, which closed in March last year, reopened for classes X and XII students from January 18 followed by classes IX and XI from February 5. CBSE has also announced that the board exams will be conducted from May 4, three months later than the usual time. Delhi government, which was earlier contemplating scrapping nursery admissions this year, has also given a go-ahead to the admission process and the application window opened on February 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-moves-towards-full-re-opening-as-cases-dip/articleshow/81141412.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Ludhiana||Chit fund company MD booked for Rs 38 lakh fraud||LUDHIANA: The police have booked the managing director of a chit fund company for allegedly duping hundreds of people on the pretext of investing in a lucky draw scheme. 634 victims have lodged complaints against the accused and alleged that he had duped them of Rs 38 lakh. Following an investigation, the Dehlon police have lodged an FIR against Sukhchain Singh, managing director of Parivar Star Hum Tum Company. One of the complainants, Amrik Singh, stated that the accused had opened an office in Bachittar Nagar near Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College on Malerkotla road and invited people to invest money in the company. The accused made people invest Rs 1,000 per month in the company for one year on the assurance that he would organise a lucky draw every month and the winner would not need to pay the rest of the instalments. The accused also promised that the people who would not win the lucky draw, would get assured gifts. He added that a total of 634 people invested in the company, but the accused did not return their money and later fled after locking the office. In-charge at police post Marado, ASI Ashwani Kumar said that an FIR under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC has been lodged against the accused. Hunt is on to arrest the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/chit-fund-company-md-booked-for-rs-38l-fraud/articleshow/81141071.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Aurangabad||Kolhapur: Operators of 27 venues flout rules, fined||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has slapped 27 wedding hall operators with fines on Sunday for flouting Covid guidelines like not maintaining social distancing. A fine of Rs 30,500 has been collected from the wedding operators. District collector Daulat Desai has issued an order mandating no more than 50 people will be allowed in wedding ceremonies and every person must wear masks and sanitise hands. Nitin Desai, the additional commissioner of KMC said, “Many wedding hall operators had not taken permission to organise weddings. Some did not ensure the attendance of not more than 50 people. Most of the weddings were overcrowded. No strict enforcement of wearing masks and social distancing was not followed. We have imposed a fine of Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000.” Desai said orders have been issued to the staff to visit bars and restaurants, which also have to run with 50% capacity. “We will cancel the license of the establishments if they are found violating the second time. The teams of the fire department have been deployed to maintain social distancing and ask people to use masks. We will be imposing a fine of Rs 200 to Rs 500 on violators,” said Desai. Meanwhile, Desai is going to conduct meetings to review the implementation of the Covid restrictions. The state government has authorised district collectors to impose restrictions as extreme as imposing lockdown. The officials said some more restrictions are likely to be imposed after Monday’s meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/kolhapur-operators-of-27-venues-flout-rules-fined/articleshow/81142531.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Doctor arrested for wife’s suicide in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Ghatlodia police on Sunday arrested a doctor for allegedly driving his wife to suicide.  The husband has been accused of deviant sexual behaviour and the in-laws allegedly mistreated her ever since her marriage in August 2020. A woman identified as Harsha Patel, 39, had committed suicide on February 11. Her suicide note alleged that her husband Dr Hitendra Patel, an orthopaedist, and his parents had pushed her to commit suicide. Inspector Yurvrajsinh Vaghela said that along with Hitendra, his parents Manu Patel, 71, and Subhadra Patel, 67, were also arrested under the charges of abetment to suicide. Harsha had committed suicide by poisoning herself outside her husband’s house at Devkutir Bungalows in Ghatlodia. She had written the reason behind her suicide on her thigh and also left a suicide note at her home. In her suicide note, she accused Hitendra of forcibly having sex with her every day and subjecting her to unnatural sex. “As Hitendra is a doctor, he gave me sedatives every day due to which I would be half-conscious and he would forcibly have sex and unnatural sex with me,” reads the suicide note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctor-arrested-for-wifes-suicide/articleshow/81142533.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Salem||DMK will probe AIADMK’s multi-crore contracts: M K Stalin||TIRUPUR/ERODE: DMK president M K Stalin said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s foreign visits to attract investment and two global investors meet have turned out to be failures and alleged that the claim of attracting several crores of investment by the CM was a blatant lie. Addressing party cadres at Rakkiapalayam near Kangeyam on Sunday, Stalin slammed the state and central governments for their ‘economic policies which had dealt a severe blow’ to the industrial community of TN. He said that in 2012, the late chief minister J Jayalalathaa announced Vision 2023 which promised to create Rs 15 lakh crore infrastructure development, employment generation for two crore people, creation of two health cities and Coimbatore–Madurai, Coimbatore–Salem industrial corridor. “None of this happened in the last nine years,” Stalin said. Three years later Jayalalithaa held global investors meet in 2015 and announced that 98 MoUs were signed and investments of Rs 2.42 lakh crore were attracted. “Till date, no white paper has been issued about this,” he said. EPS for his part held a second GIM where he claimed to have inked 304 MoUs attracting investment to the tune of Rs 3.4 lakh crore, which would generate employment for 10 lakh people. “But nothing has happened yet,” Stalin alleged. “Again, Palaniswami went on a global tour to seek investments, because of which the government claimed to have signed 41 MoUs which could bring Rs 8,835 crore with a job creation for 35,000 people,’’ he said. “During the Covid lockdown, EPS said 101 Mous were signed which would bring Rs 88,727 crore investment enabling jobs for 1.7 lakh people. This had also ended up as a failure,” he said. Now EPS has issued a new industrial policy 2021 and has once again claimed that an investment of Rs 10 lakh crore would be brought in and jobs for 20 lakh people, Stalin noted. “EPS says TN has turned out to be a sanctuary for investors. But the truth is he has turned TN into a haven of corruption,” Stalin said. Later in the day in Erode, Stalin alleged that AIADMK government had hurriedly called for 3,888 works in the last three months, worth several crores. Alleging that these contracts were being implemented in a rush to make money, Stalin said that DMK would order a probe into the contracts awarded by the AIADMK government. “I am warning contractors that all these contracts would be subjected to a thorough probe once DMK comes to power,’’ he said. Hitting out at EPS for alleging that petitions given to Stalin would be dumped in garbage and the public can instead complain to AIADMK government by dialing 1100 sitting at the comfort of their houses, the opposition leader sai d the helpline was defunct. “The 1100 helpline which EPS portrays as a new initiative was announced by Jayalalithaa in 2016. How many complaints were received through 1100 and how many were sorted out?’’ he asked. “If the 1100 grievance redressal system was effective why are so many complaints being raised now?” Stalin asked. Addressing a farmer’s conference in Erode, Stalin said that DMK would not only take efforts to scrap the three new farm laws brought by Centre but would also scrap the ‘anti–farmer legislations’ enforced by the AIADMK government. “The AIADMK’s anti-farmer legislations would be scrapped in the first assembly session itself,’’ he said without elaborating on the legislation he was referring to.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/dmk-will-probe-aiadmks-multi-crore-contracts-stalin/articleshow/81149161.cms||Mayilvaganan
February 22, 2021||Coimbatore||DMK will probe AIADMK’s multi-crore contracts: M K Stalin||TIRUPUR/ERODE: DMK president M K Stalin said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s foreign visits to attract investment and two global investors meet have turned out to be failures and alleged that the claim of attracting several crores of investment by the CM was a blatant lie. Addressing party cadres at Rakkiapalayam near Kangeyam on Sunday, Stalin slammed the state and central governments for their ‘economic policies which had dealt a severe blow’ to the industrial community of TN. He said that in 2012, the late chief minister J Jayalalathaa announced Vision 2023 which promised to create Rs 15 lakh crore infrastructure development, employment generation for two crore people, creation of two health cities and Coimbatore–Madurai, Coimbatore–Salem industrial corridor. “None of this happened in the last nine years,” Stalin said. Three years later Jayalalithaa held global investors meet in 2015 and announced that 98 MoUs were signed and investments of Rs 2.42 lakh crore were attracted. “Till date, no white paper has been issued about this,” he said. EPS for his part held a second GIM where he claimed to have inked 304 MoUs attracting investment to the tune of Rs 3.4 lakh crore, which would generate employment for 10 lakh people. “But nothing has happened yet,” Stalin alleged. “Again, Palaniswami went on a global tour to seek investments, because of which the government claimed to have signed 41 MoUs which could bring Rs 8,835 crore with a job creation for 35,000 people,’’ he said. “During the Covid lockdown, EPS said 101 Mous were signed which would bring Rs 88,727 crore investment enabling jobs for 1.7 lakh people. This had also ended up as a failure,” he said. Now EPS has issued a new industrial policy 2021 and has once again claimed that an investment of Rs 10 lakh crore would be brought in and jobs for 20 lakh people, Stalin noted. “EPS says TN has turned out to be a sanctuary for investors. But the truth is he has turned TN into a haven of corruption,” Stalin said. Later in the day in Erode, Stalin alleged that AIADMK government had hurriedly called for 3,888 works in the last three months, worth several crores. Alleging that these contracts were being implemented in a rush to make money, Stalin said that DMK would order a probe into the contracts awarded by the AIADMK government. “I am warning contractors that all these contracts would be subjected to a thorough probe once DMK comes to power,’’ he said. Hitting out at EPS for alleging that petitions given to Stalin would be dumped in garbage and the public can instead complain to AIADMK government by dialing 1100 sitting at the comfort of their houses, the opposition leader sai d the helpline was defunct. “The 1100 helpline which EPS portrays as a new initiative was announced by Jayalalithaa in 2016. How many complaints were received through 1100 and how many were sorted out?’’ he asked. “If the 1100 grievance redressal system was effective why are so many complaints being raised now?” Stalin asked. Addressing a farmer’s conference in Erode, Stalin said that DMK would not only take efforts to scrap the three new farm laws brought by Centre but would also scrap the ‘anti–farmer legislations’ enforced by the AIADMK government. “The AIADMK’s anti-farmer legislations would be scrapped in the first assembly session itself,’’ he said without elaborating on the legislation he was referring to.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-will-probe-aiadmks-multi-crore-contracts-stalin/articleshow/81142526.cms||Mayilvaganan
February 22, 2021||Bareilly||Minor girl abducted, raped in UP’s Sambhal, one arrested||Bareilly: A 14-year-old girl was allegedly abducted by three men and later, one of them raped her in Rajpura area of UP’s Sambhal district. One of the suspects has been arrested. In a complaint with police, the minor’s family claimed that one Munish Sharma, 22, of their village and two others barged into their house in the intervening night between February 18 and 19, abducted the girl sleeping in the same room as her mother and fled. Later, she was raped. Victim’s family said by the time they woke up, the car disappeared. They searched for her and found her the next morning. She said she was raped at gun-point, they claimed. During the search, the villagers and family caught Sharma at Marchpura village in Amroha. Two of his accomplices managed to flee, they claimed Alok Kumar, additional superintendent of police, said, “The minor girl has accused one Munish Sharma of raping her. Based on the complaint received, an FIR has been registered against three people under IPC section 376 (punishment for rape), 363 (punishment for kidnapping), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and POCSO Act. The girl’s medical examination has been conducted and the report is awaited. Further investigation is underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-girl-abducted-raped-in-ups-sambhal-one-arrested/articleshow/81139727.cms||Maria Khan
February 22, 2021||Bareilly||SSB issues directions to keep close eye on smuggling of petroleum products from Nepal||Pilibhit: Deputy commandant of Sashastra Seema Bal’s 49th battalion Amandeep Singh on Sunday issued directions to the battalion’s all six companies’ commanders deployed on the Indo-Nepal border in Pilibhit and Kheri districts to keep a tight vigil on smuggling of petrol and diesel from across the border into the Indian territory. Both petroleum products are much cheaper in Nepal as compared to India.Singh said the commanders were asked to collect details on the locations of all Nepalese petrol pumps functional in the border area so that a close eye could be kept on the specific border pockets.According to police sources, the prices of petrol and diesel in Nepal are around Rs 71 (INR) and Rs 61 (INR), respectively. Although the exchange rates of both currencies fluctuate almost daily, the difference is usually minor, said the sources.“As there is no gate point between India and Nepal in Pilibhit district, there is no apprehension of smuggling of petroleum products by trucks and buses,” said Singh. “We will closely watch tractor-trolleys and motorcyclists who could bring diesel and petrol in containers from Nepal,” he added.Suvinder Amwavat, deputy commandant of SSB’s 57th battalion which commands the gate point between the two countries at Banwasa in Champawat district of Uttarakhand, said his battalion was alert, but he had not received such instructions from the higher authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ssb-issues-directions-to-keep-close-eye-on-smuggling-of-petroleum-products-from-nepal/articleshow/81139354.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 22, 2021||Delhi||51 industrial units under DPCC lens||New Delhi: Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), which recently submitted a report to National Green Tribunal, said it has served notices to eight industrial units for discharging waste into drains. The report said an additional 43 units situated in industrial areas were closed in the past three months for polluting air and water. During a hearing on industrial pollution in Mayapuri, Bawana, Khyala, Uttam Nagar and other adjoining areas by certain industrial units, the tribunal had directed DPCC to submit an action taken report. The report, which was submitted last week, stated that a team inspected 19 industrial units that were made respondents in the case and found that eight of them flouted norms, eight had valid consent, two were not found at the address and one had duplicate address. Of the eight units that flouted norms, an environmental compensation of Rs 47 lakh each was imposed on six of them, while fine of Rs 2.5 lakh was slapped on one unit, which has submitted the amount. An environmental compensation of Rs 2.7 crore was imposed on an industrial unit in Khyala in September 2019, but as it did not submit the penalty, a recovery notice would be issued from sub-divisional magistrate for the same. “Environmental damage compensation was imposed on the units that were found operating without pollution control devices or valid consent. They were also served closure notice. The power and water supply to these units have been snapped,” said the report.  DPCC also identified 43 other illegal units, which were engaged in washing and dyeing of clothes. Officials said they have been served notice for payment of damages, while BSES and DJB have also disconnected supplies to these units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/51-industrial-units-under-dpcc-lens/articleshow/81160722.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||How Gujarati pronunciation got retroflex ‘boost’||AHMEDABAD: The stark difference between how Gujarati is spoken in different regions is to do with the dialects, colloquial words and expressions, and more importantly, how the phonology (pronunciation) is involved. Thus, the same expression ‘Shu’ (what) can take different forms in Saurashtra, north, central and south Gujarat. But, what if the dominant population can take the same connotations across the seas? A recently-published study titled ‘Cape Town Gujarati and its relation to Gujarati dialectology: a study of retroflex boosting’ by Rajend Mesthrie and Vinu Chavda from the University of Cape Town in South Africa, underlined that they found the same speech patterns which are unique to south Gujarat. The most unique ones are found forthe pronunciation of t, th, dand dh in Gujarati. “The most common words that showed the retroflex boosting -where the sound is formed by the tongue and palate (roof of the mouth) - among the Cape Town population included to(so), te (they), tyare (then), ta (there),hata/ hati (was), sathe (together), nathi (not), tyarthi (since),des (native place), badhu (everything) among others,” said Prof Mesthrie. The study had 32 respondents whose voice samples were taken for analysis. The researchers pointed out that out of total, 17 traced theirroots to Navsari, whereas 12 had their ancestors from Surat. One of the reasons, pointed out the researchers, was the high number of Gujaratis from southern parts of Gujarat that made Cape Town their home. A study carried out in 1990 had found that half the migrants had been from Surat, Rander, Kolvad, Kathor, Bardoli, Vadodara, and Navsari. The other changes in the speech pattern were also seen compared to ‘standard Gujarati’ were in form of doubling or medial consonants -thus, taza (fresh) becomes tajja, parnelo (married man) becomes pannelo,bolya (spoke) becomes boila, and kadhyo (removed) becomes kaidho.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/how-gujarati-pronunciation-got-retroflex-boost/articleshow/81142572.cms||Parth Shastri
February 22, 2021||Delhi||Three Central laws are death warrants to the farmers: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the Centre’s three new laws were death warrants to the farmers. Kejriwal, who had invited farm leaders from western Uttar Pradesh for lunch at Delhi Vidhan Sabha, claimed that with the implementation of these farm laws, the crops would go in the hands of a few industrialists. “The central government should immediately withdraw all three black laws and a legal guarantee of MSP should be granted on all the 23 crops following the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission,” Kejriwal said after emerging from the meeting with the representatives of farm unions. “The Centre should talk to the farmers... if the government does not listen to the farmers, then who will?” Kejriwal said, on February 28, a Kisan Mahapanchayat would take place in Meerut where farmers would join in large numbers. “At that mahapanchayat, the farmers will demand immediate rollback of these three laws brought by the BJP-run central government,” he said. “BJP is continuously saying that these laws will benefit the farmers, but has not yet clarified how they will be beneficial,” he said, adding that if these laws were implemented, farmers would become labourers on their own land. Cabinet minister Kailash Gahlot, who also attended the meeting, said that farmer leaders representing around 40 khap panchayats of western UP had come for the discussion. “We are standing with the farmers and have been providing them help from Day 1, be it the arrangements for water and electricity or Wi-Fi,” he said, adding that the farmers had given a clear message that till the three “black laws” were taken back, the protest would continue. Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said that Aam Aadmi Party would continue to stand with the farmers in their struggle. “The BJP-run central government has put barricades to stop the path of the protesting farmers and also put nails. But, today, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal invited the farmers of western Uttar Pradesh to the Delhi legislative assembly,” said Choudhary Rohit Jakhar, farmer leader and state president of Rashtriya Jat Mahasangh. He said Kejriwal had broken all barriers of caste, religion and sect and welcomed the entire “Chaudharata” of western Uttar Pradesh. “Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has given us respect just the way Lord Shri Krishna gave respect to Sudama. This battle is for the farmers, but it will become a battle for every citizen because farmers provide food to people,” he said, adding that the farmers would reach out to people in villages to raise these demands. “We wanted complete freedom from debt, but the Centre brought these three laws for industrialists. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal invited us and that is why we have come here as we need a political party that listens to us and understands our pain. When the Centre had asked for temporary jails, he didn’t allow jails to be created and that is why farmers trust him,” said Kuldip Tyagi, a farmer leader from Meerut and president of Bharatiya Kisan Andolan. “Kejriwal has helped us and also assured help for the mahapanchayat. We will continue our protests,” said Virendra Singh, a farmer leader from Baghpat. Arvind Balyan, a farmer leader from Muzzafarnagar, said: “The Delhi chief minister told us how he has also come to this position from a movement and understands what it feels to lie on the streets in the cold.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-central-laws-are-death-warrants-to-the-farmers-says-cm-kejriwal/articleshow/81141397.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Edu min cancels Janata Darbar||Following CM Uddhav Thackeray’s ban on political, social and religious gatherings, state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant late on Sunday tweeted that he has cancelled the Janata Darbar scheduled on Monday. Samant was slated to meet and address the grievances of students, parents, teachers, the non-teaching staff at Nehru Science Centre, Worli tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/edu-min-cancels-janata-darbar/articleshow/81142577.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Bareilly||Mother gets son, daughter-in-law booked for forgery||Pilibhit: A 60-year-old widow got her son and daughter-in-law booked on Saturday evening for allegedly obtaining a bank loan to the tune of Rs 15 lakh by forging the papers of her properties to their names. A case was registered following the chief judicial magistrate’s order. The complainant, Chuuni Devi, a resident of Lalpur Shivnagar village under Gajraula police station, who was widowed two years ago, alleged that during her husband’s lifetime, her elder son Morpal (30) and his wife Kajal (25), who had a manufacturing business of salty snacks in Pilibhit city, had deceitfully obtained their thumb impressions on some properties’ documents and mortgaged the property by showing it to their names after the husband's death and obtained Rs 15 lakh loan from a bank on December 18, 2015. “I came to know about the fraud after the bank issued a recovery notice to my name in June 2019 owing to the non-payment of the loan. When I inquired about the matter with my son, he and his wife abused and assaulted me badly. They even threatened to kill me,” she alleged. “I lodged a complaint with the police station concerned and the superintendent of police, but in vain. Then I knocked at the court’s doors seeking justice,” she alleged. Sungarhi police station SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said the accused were booked under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 352 applying criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mother-gets-son-daughter-in-law-booked-for-forgery/articleshow/81139360.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Water meter likely for Ahmedabad entities||AHMEDABAD: After civic body elections’ dust settles, the AMC may be forced to dust off its water meter policy — as mandated by the conditions of a World Bank loan. A few months ahead of the World Bank approving a Rs 3,000 crore loan for sprucing up Ahmedabad’s water distribution and wastewater management networks, a water meter based tariff policy was proposed last year. The AMC water department’s policy predicted revised rates for non-residential properties including schools, colleges, commercial establishments, and government offices. A charge per 1,000 litres of water usage was proposed: Rs 10 for religious institutions, Rs 15 for government and semi-government educational institutions, and Rs 40 for commercial establishments other than private hospitals, schools, or educational institutions. “One of the commitments we have given to the World Bank is to make water usage accountable by metering and charging citizens,” said a senior AMC official. “Right now, we collect a blanket water usage charge, which is part of the property tax bill, which comes to about Rs 183 crore for the entire city.” The official added, “Of this, Rs 153 crore is collected from large institutions, schools, colleges, universities, commercial properties, and government offices.” It is time businesses pay water bill as per usage. In the case of residential properties, the AMC does not plan to charge till a household’s water usage exceeds 22,500 litres in a month. The water tariff policy has been revised four times since 2012 and has been kept in abeyance by the elected standing committee of the AMC. “We are at present legalizing illegal water connections by charging Rs 500 per connection, but we do not have any data on water usage of the city,” the official said. “The World Bank will now require us to meter the water supply. There are little chances of postponing water charges this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tampering-with-water-meters-will-invite-fine/articleshow/81142541.cms||Paul John
February 22, 2021||Kolhapur||Chougule forms separate outfit||Kolhapur: Right-wing outfit — Shri Shiv Pratishthan Hindusthan — which is Sangli-based, but has spread across region officially split on Sunday after it’s expelled executive in-charge Nitin Chougule declared that he is forming a new outfit. Shiv Pratishthan Hindusthan was founded by Sambhaji Bhide, a right-wing activist and alleged to have been involved in Miraj and Koregaon-Bhima riots. Chougule’s supporters had shown displeasure over the decision by the outfit to expel him. On Sunday, in a closed-door meeting with his supporters, Chougule announced his new outfit named ‘Shri Shiv Pratishthan Yuva Hindusthan’. He declared that the outfit will run under the guidance of Chhatrapati Udayanraje Bhosale, Rajya Sabha MP and a descendant of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Addressing his supporters, Chougule said: “Few men surrounding Bhide are responsible for my expulsion from the outfit to which I had devoted 20 years of my life. The few men are notorious and Bhide Guruji has been misled by them. I, therefore, declare setting up of a new outfit. The youths will take forward out ideals. We will continue to work under the guidance of Chhatrapati Udayanraje Bhosale.” The outfit established by Bhide has thousands of supporters mainly youth. They carry out treks to the forts and historical places. Bhide makes speeches (many of which are extreme in tone) to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/chougule-forms-separate-outfit/articleshow/81142578.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Bareilly||Man, son booked for kidnapping their rival after getting him released from jail on bail||Pilibhit: Following the chief judicial magistrate’s order, police late Saturday night booked a man and his son for allegedly kidnapping their rival after getting him released from a jail after obtaining his bail order from a court and killing him and disposing of the body. Complainant Shayra Begum, a resident of Naugwan Pakadia village under Sungarhi police station, stated that her husband Firoz Ali had a rivalry with Shabbir and his son Amir of Bagpat. “The father-son duo made several attempts to kill my husband but did not succeed. However, about four months ago my husband, who had gone out of home for some work, did not return. I search for him, but in vain. Later, I came to know that my husband was sent to jail on September 19 last in a case registered under the Arms Act. When I inquired with the police concerned through my lawyer on January 29, I came to know that Shabbir and Amir had obtained a bail order for my husband just two days after he was lodged in the jail. They kidnapped my husband after he came out of the prison,” she alleged. "The father-son duo had allegedly killed my husband and disposed of his body," alleged Shayra. Shayra further alleged that she had to knock at the court’s door after police failed to act on her complaint. Sungarhi police station SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said the accused were booked under section 364 (kidnapping in order to murder) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-son-booked-for-kidnapping-their-rival-after-getting-him-released-from-jail-on-bail/articleshow/81139367.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 22, 2021||Jaipur||Separate DA case to be filed against ACB officer held in graft case||Jaipur: While investigating the trap case of a deputy superintendent of police rank officer on Sunday, ACB stated that they had got incriminating evidences against him to lodge a separate case of disproportionate assets (DA). Authorities stated that they are working to file a separate DA case against the officer. During December last year, ACB sleuths had arrested one Bhairon Lal Meena who was posted as DySP at Sawai Madhopur with the ACB for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 80,000 from a district transport officer (DTO). "We are working to file a separate case of DA against the accused as we have found many incriminating documents and evidences against him. It was found that he used to accept the bribe money from various sources with a promise that they won’t be implicated in any case of corruption," B L Soni, director general, ACB, told TOI on Sunday. Officers stated that in the investigation so far, ACB has brought to fore the bank accounts used by his family members in which there is a regular deposit of money and also seized some papers of lands and other moveable and immoveable property attained by the tainted officer. "We have enough ground to file a separate case of DA against accused Meena and will soon do so. There are a few more things pending in the investigation," said a senior officer of ACB. In the two-and-a-half-year stint under ACB, the accused officer had got an income of Rs 23 lakh which is an extra income other than his salaried income. "We have also found that he used to circulate the money that he earned as bribe in the market by giving loans on interest," said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/separate-da-case-to-be-filed-against-acb-officer-held-in-graft-case/articleshow/81142582.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Trichy||CM lays stone for river linking project, calls it golden moment||Trichy: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam on Sunday laid the foundation stone for the Cauvery-South Vellar – Vaigai– Gundar river linking project, describing it as a 100-year-old dream of the people of Pudukottai district to prevent excess water from Cauvery river getting wasted in the sea. A visibly emotional CM said at the function organized at Kunnathur in Pudukottai that it was a golden moment in his life and he felt that the very purpose of his birth has been realised. The Rs 14,400 crore project, which will benefit seven districts, envisages diverting excess water in Cauvery from Mayanur dam in Karur district to south Vellar river, to Vaigai and subsequently to Gundar river through 23-metre-wide and six-metre-deep canals. A 262-km-long canal will be laid to benefit 4 lakh acres of agricultural land across the seven districts. There will be provision for road transport on either side. The first phase to lay a 118.45-km-long canal from Kattalai in Mayanur dam till south Vellar river will be carried out at a cost of Rs 6,491 crore. The CM said the project will feed 342 tanks in Karur, Trichy and Pudukottai districts alone benefiting 42,170 acres of agriculture land. Recalling the constructive role played by former chief secretary K Shanmugam in bringing up the project, the CM said, “It was he who gave us hope that the project can be implemented with state funds if funds could not be augmented from World Bank or any other source.” He also thanked PWD secretary K Manivasagam for his support in shaping the project. Palaniswami said it was the AIADMK government that announced Cauvery delta as protected agriculture zone to scrap the hydrocarbon projects brought by DMK. “M K Stalin has made it a practice to criticise AIADMK government in his campaigns, but he never listed out schemes implemented during the DMK period. But we meet people to list out welfare schemes that benefited people,” he said. Thanking the people who gave their land for the project, he said this was the biggest project ever taken up by PWD in the state. Mettur dam was not desilted ever since its inception, but it was not just Mettur but many tanks which were not desilted for a long period were taken up by this government. Around 6,211 tanks were desilted so far at a cost of Rs 1,417 crore, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cm-lays-stone-for-river-linking-project-calls-it-golden-moment/articleshow/81142584.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Trichy||Teach DMK lesson for false promises: EPS||Karur: Accusing DMK leader M K Stalin of giving false promises in view of the assembly election, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Sunday asked the people to teach DMK a lesson in the upcoming election. The CM was campaigning in Kulithalai and Krisharayapuram in Karur district. Ridiculing Stalin for collecting petitions from people during his Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin campaign, the CM said that the former had collected petitions during the 2019 parliamentary elections too. “While he could garner votes by giving attractive promises to the people, he didn’t do anything with the petitions received. He has started collecting petitions again,” said the CM. EPS said DMK is run by a family unlike the AIADMK which is run by its cadre. He said that only one family can acquire positions in that party unlike AIADMK where a party worker from the grassroots level can hold party positions. “Despite many senior leaders being there in that party, only Stalin, Tuticorin MP K Kanimozhi, youth wing secretary Udayanidhi Stalin and Central Chennai MP Dayanidhi Maran are carrying out poll campaign. They won’t allow anyone other than their family members to grow in the party,” said the CM. Listing out the developmental schemes implemented by the government in the district, the CM said the AIADMK government has fulfilled promises while asking voters to bring the party to power for the third consecutive term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/teach-dmk-lesson-for-false-promises-eps/articleshow/81142581.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Meerut||Meerut: Mutilated body of ‘missing’ girl, seven, found in cane field||MEERUT: A mutilated body of a seven-year-old girl, who went "missing" from her house in Singhawali Ahir area of Uttar Pradesh's Baghpat district, was recovered from a sugarcane field on Sunday. The body was found without clothes, hidden under a pile of leaves. Sensing foul play, the little girl's family has pressed murder charges against the neighbours. Police are yet to ascertain the motive behind the murder, though. As the news spread of the brutality on the child's body, there was a palpable tension in the village. Senior police and administrative officials rushed to the area to take stock of the situation and pacify the aggrieved family. According to police, the postmortem report stated shock and haemorrhage due to antemortem injury as the cause of death. The other serious injuries and "mutilation" on the body were attributed to wild animals. Though a case of murder has been registered on the family's complaint, police are still waiting for leads in the case. "According to the postmortem report, there is no injury, blunt or incise. Since a murder case has been registered, we will look into evidence from the crime spot and findings of the autopsy," Abhishek Singh, Baghpat SP, said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mutilated-body-of-missing-girl-7-found-in-cane-field/articleshow/81139745.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Island city power arrears cross Rs 100cr||Mumbai: Pending electricity bill arrears for BEST in the island city has crossed the Rs 100-crore mark for the lockdown months. Several consumers are yet to pay their bills since April 2020, sources said. An official, who did not wish to be named, said BEST has given repeated reminders, besides introducing two new schemes a few months back to waive delayed payment charges and interest on arrears. It also offered three month-instalments to those with high bills between Colaba/Cuffe Parade and Sion/Mahim. Now, BEST plans to issue notices for disconnecting supply if payments are not made on time. A final decision to issue such notices will be taken by management in the next few days, sources said. — Somit Sen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/island-city-power-arrears-cross-rs-100cr/articleshow/81142587.cms||Somit Sen
February 22, 2021||Surat||Surtis celebrated the democratic festival with colour and commitment||Surat: Walking past Covid-19 fears, many voters reached the polling booths early on Sunday to cast their votes in the municipal elections, calling it the most important task for any citizen. Among those who were seen encouraging others to vote included youth, first time voters, senior citizens, disabled and seriously ill patients as well. Many a bride and grooms too were seen coming to cast their ballot before making it to their respective wedding venues. And of course, what is an election if there are no gimmicks? True to this, polling booth in Althan was left astounded when 67-year-old farmer, Hasmukh Patel, arrived on his horse to cast his ballot. His son Divyesh told the media that this was his father’s unique method of encouraging people to vote. A group of young boys and girls from Jain community reached a polling booth in Pal wearing traditional clothes worn specially for worshipping. “Voting is as pious as worshipping and hence we came to vote while going for our prayers,” they claimed in unison. The most eyeball grabbing were of course the brides who whizzed in the poll booths dressed to hilt and as fragrant as spring itself. Though it was one of the most important days of her life, Nidhi Gelani reached the polling booth in the Puna area of Surat dressed in wedding finery while en route the marriage venue. “I think voting is equally important for every citizen and hence, I do not wish to miss the chance,” she said. Battling fourth stage of liver cancer, Ashwin Vala (60) was among those who reached the Adajan polling booth early in the morning. Due to health complications Vala avoids going out but came to exercise his right, accompanied by his family as well. Vala had to take help from his family members while walking and it was visible that it was painful for him to go out but he did let pain snatch away his chance. Celebrating the festival of democracy, residents of Nanpura reached the polling booth in ward 13 with drums and dhol. The residents reached the polling station in a procession while holding their voter cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surtis-celebrated-the-democratic-festival-with-colour-and-commitment/articleshow/81140190.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Trichy||Trichy Corpn launches road works after public criticism||Trichy: After residents of Thiruverumbur, frustrated over Trichy Corporation’s delay in relaying damaged roads, repaired a road through crowdfunding, the local body has finally got its act together. Trichy Corporation on Sunday launched the much-awaited road maintenance work in several parts of the city to repair roads damaged in recent rainfall and those dug up for underground drainage project. The delay in launching the road maintenance work had attracted criticism from the residents as a majority of the city roads were damaged in the rains that lashed the city between November and January. Roads in Singarathope, Mainguard gate, Fort station locality and West Boulevard road falling under Srirangam zone of the civic body were overhauled in the early hours of Sunday. The road work will go on for a few more days. Since a pan-city underground drainage and drinking water pipeline refurbishment project are planned, the civic body said that they have not relaid the roads but taken up only the patchwork. “The UGD and drinking water pipeline revamping work involves digging up the roads again, so laying a new layer of the road is futile,” an official with Trichy Corporation said.Sources said that the civic body has sanctioned Rs 40 lakh towards the reconstruction of roads. Residents welcoming the road project added that Trichy Corporation should ensure that the patched up portions of the damaged roads are levelled properly. “Roads like Thillai Nagar main road where patch up work was done previously have an uneven surface. Two-wheeler riders find it risky to commute as the uneven surface may cause the vehicle to skid,” S Senthilkumar, a resident of Thennur said.The residents of added wards in Ponmalai and Ariyamangalam zones have urged the civic body to give priority to the residential roads in their vicinity as the wards were ignored in road construction work for years due to ongoing UGD work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-launches-road-works-after-public-criticism/articleshow/81142595.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Mumbai||Leopard gets radio collar as SGNP starts study on wild cat behaviour||Mumbai: To better understand the leopard’s behaviour in an urban landscape and its interaction/conflicts with humans, Sanjay Gandhi National Park officials have initiated a project to study the big cat using radio collars.The project involves GPS telemetry where radio collars that communicate via satellite are placed on leopards to monitor their movement. The plan was conceived in 2016, but obtaining state and central permissions, raising funds for radio collars (each costs Rs 5 lakh) and the lockdown delayed the project.On Saturday, park authorities placed the first radio collar on Savitri, a 2.5 or 3-year-old female leopard that has been found to frequent that area between the park, Aarey Colony and Film City. Savitri has been named after legendary social reformer and educationist Savitribai Phule.G Mallikarjuna, director, SGNP said in phase I of the project that will be carried out for six months, the movement of two leopards, Savitri and another male leopard, will be monitored.“Since leopards are very secretive animals, we know little about them. We have selected leopards that live on the periphery of the park and more often come in contact with humans. This study will help the forest department answer questions like their land use pattern, their movement across roads with busy traffic and how they avoid humans. It will help us take steps to protect it,” said Mallikarjuna.The project is being jointly carried out by the state forest department and Wildlife Conservation Society. In all, five leopards will be studied as part of the project that will be carried out in two phases.Vidya Athreya, scientist at Wildlife Conservation Society, said it would help identify spots where the leopards cross the busy Mumbai-Thane Ghodbunder Road. The monitoring involves physically visiting sites where the transmitter shows the leopard had crossed.Ten years ago a radio-collared leopard walked 125 km from Malshej Ghat to SGNP and its entire journey was documented by wildlife researchers. It even inspired a movie named Ajoba||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/leopard-gets-radio-collar-as-sgnp-starts-study-on-wild-cat-behaviour/articleshow/81142594.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Aurangabad||49 colleges under Bamu running without principals||Aurangabad: As many as 49 out of the 119 granted and government–run colleges under the jurisdiction of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) are running without full-time principals. It includes 45 out of 115 granted institutions and four out of five government-run colleges. In a latest communication, Bamu has asked these institutes to fill-up the vacant posts at the earliest. University public relations officer Sanjay Shinde on Sunday said that the state higher and technical education department has cleared the necessary recruitment. “While there is ban on recruitment of posts concerned, the outbreak of Covid-19 had further delayed the necessary appointments. However, as a special case, the government has cleared hurdles in necessary recruitment now,” he said. Educational activist Tukaram Saraf said the vacuum at the top level in the form of principals hamper the growth of institutions. “The acting principals are already serving as faculties and face additional burden of the post of principal. We hope that the necessary posts are get filled in a time-bound manner,” he said. Meanwhile, Bamu has decided to bring uniformity in syllabus taught in its departments and affiliated colleges. The varsity has formed a multi-member panel to implement the reform. Hailed as one of the oldest university in the country, Bamu has over 400 affiliated colleges and 43 departments. Granted colleges are colleges that are aided by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/49-colleges-under-bamu-running-without-principals/articleshow/81142588.cms||---
February 22, 2021||India||Delimitation part of BJP plan to divide communities: Mufti||SRINAGAR: The delimitation of assembly constituencies in Jammu & Kashmir is a part of the BJP’s “larger plan to divide and pit” regions, religions and communities against each other, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti alleged. Taking to Twitter, Mehbooba on Sunday said, “The tearing hurry with which GOI (the Government of India) is railroading delimitation in J&K has raised genuine & serious apprehensions about the motives of this exercise. It’s a part of BJP’s larger plan to divide & pit regions, religions & communities against each other,” she said. The Delimitation Commission for Jammu & Kashmir was constituted by the Centre on March 6 last year. The commission held its first meeting on Thursday to seek suggestion/views on the process of delimitation in respect of the union territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delimitation-part-of-bjp-plan-to-divide-communities-mufti/articleshow/81144039.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Ranchi||Jamshedpur residents irked by delay in water project||JAMSHEDPUR: About 2.5 lakh people living in the outskirts of Jamshedpur are upset over the prolonged delay in the completion of the World Bank-aided Rs 122-crore drinking water project. With summer approaching, the residents apprehend they will not get tap water at their homes even this year. A delegation of the women residents of the beneficiary villages met local MLA Sanjeev Sardar recently and urged him to take up the matter with the state government for early completion of work. “The government has to intervene and make officials pace up work, otherwise the project will not be complete on time,” said Ritu Singh, a resident of Baghbera. Sardar said he will speak to the government and added, “Residents will not have to suffer even if there is a delay. Water will be supplied through mobile tankers daily.” Notably, the Bagbera Gramin Jalapurti Yojna (BGJY) was started along with the Rs 115-Chota Govindpur Jalapurti Yojna (CGJY) in April 2015. The foundations were laid by former chief minister Raghubar Das. Both the projects were scheduled to get operational by November 2017. While the CGJY is complete, BGJY is only about half way through with only 11 of the 24 pillars needed for connecting the pipeline from the source point at Domuhani River to the filter plant in Giddijhopari being complete till now. Construction of the filter plant is also pending and laying of the underground pipeline across the 80km coverage area remains to be completed.While World Bank’s share in the project is 50%, the Centre and state government have 33% and 16% shares, respectively. Meanwhile, beneficiaries have 1% stake in the project. The executive engineer of drinking water and sanitation department Abhay Toppo said, “Issues have been settled and work has commenced. We have issued a notice to the company to get the work done at the earliest,” Toppo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jsr-residents-irked-by-delay-in-water-project/articleshow/81141102.cms||B Sridhar
February 22, 2021||Ranchi||BSL replaces defunct Russian valves, saves water||Bokaro: Engineers and experts of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) successfully saved wastage of water by replacing a dozen 50-year-old Russian valves that were installed when the plant was being built. The replacement was done in the water treatment plant which supplies water to the entire township which has a population of more than five lakh. A year and half ago, in an estimate by the head of the water supply department A K Singh, it was found that 0.8 million gallons of water was being wasted every day due to leakage from the 12 Russian valves. BSL had also calculated an annual loss of Rs 80 lakh due to the leakages. To replace the valves, BSL had invited tenders, but not a single contractor turned up. They found it difficult to get the same valves again. The task was difficult. A BSL officer said, “Valves of the same size and design were not available in the market as it was of Russian make. It was installed in such a position in the plant, that opening and fixing the new ones was a herculean task.” With no option left, Singh sought support from his colleagues in the mechanical and other departments of the plant. However, very few responded. Later, a team was formed comprising AGM, (mechanical) Dinesh Puniya, GM (structural shop) and PPS J N Hansda, AGM (machine shop) G B Sahu, manager (plant design) Neeaj Kumar, manager Mayank Aakash and others. “The team members first assessed the design of the valves and then worked on it. With their hard work and creativity, they manufactured the valves and termed them mushroom valve. Initially, we fixed one valve and when we saw it was working fine, we gradually replaced the remaining 11. The total expenditure in making the valves was about Rs 50,000,” said the BSL officer. The water supply department supplies 16-17 million gallons of water each day to the township after receiving it from the Tenughat Dam through a canal. The water has to pass through several steps, including chemical dosing, chlorination, mixing chamber etc. By the time it reaches the households in the township, it costs Rs 4.50 per thousand litre. BSL chief of communication Manikant Dhan said, “BSL’s water treatment plant serves the best drinking water. A large number of people still do not use RO filters in their homes. They know that the water supplied to their homes is safe for drinking and matches all required TDS and PH levels. There are 15 motors of 400 hp each through which water is supplied to all the 11 sectors and cooperative colony”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bsl-replaces-defunct-russian-valves-saves-water/articleshow/81141035.cms||Divy Khare
February 22, 2021||Ranchi||Ex-Jharia MLA shifted to Dumka jail||Sindri: Former Jharia MLA Sanjiv Singh was shifted to Dumka Central Jail on Sunday amidst tight security on Sunday on the instructions of IG (jail) due to alleged threat to his life at Dhanbad jail. As soon as the news of his shifting reached his supporters, hundreds reached the jail gate and opposed his shifting and alleged political pressure. Dozens of vehicles belonging to his supporters followed the police cavalcade to Dumka Central Jail. Singh is in jail since April 2017 on charges of conspiring to kill his cousin brother and former Dhanbad deputy mayor Neeraj Singh. Earlier, he was shifted to Hotwar jail in Ranchi from where he was sent to Dhanbad on court orders. His lawyer Md Javed has filed a petition before the court to shift him to a higher medical centre for treatment as he was suffering from different ailments and the matter is slated for hearing on Tuesday. District BJP leaders Manas Prasoon and Akhilesh Singh alleged that the Congress MLA from Jharia and wife of Neeraj Singh, Purnima Singh, exerted illegal pressure on the state government for shifting him to Dumka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ex-jharia-mla-shifted-to-dumka-jail/articleshow/81140956.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Vadodara||Corona scare keeps voters away||Vadodara: It was not just the disinterest in the civic body polls that did not pull voters to the polling booth but also the scare of contracting Covid-19 that kept the voters at bay. Although the election commission had made arrangements of giving plastic gloves and masks to voters and also checked voters’ temperature at the entrance, many decided not to take the risk at all. Richa Awasthi, a culinary art student living in Manjalpur, decided to stay at home despite being an enthusiastic first-time voter during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “One of our relatives had contracted virus during voter registration process and so, I decided not to go to the polling centre at all,” she said, adding that she will be travelling to Australia for studies in the coming days and did not want to jeopardize her career plans. A faculty in English at a concept school, Madhumita Ghosh said that had she been vaccinated, she would have gone to cast her vote. “The virus is rising once again in another state and since I have not been vaccinated, I did not go out to vote,” she said. Ghosh suggested that since everything has moved online due to the pandemic, the election commission should have created a mechanism for voting online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/corona-scare-keeps-voters-away/articleshow/81140918.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Ranchi||Woman, son die as adulterated kerosene explodes in H’bag||Hazaribag: A 35-year-old woman and her 11-year-old son from Amnari village in Hazaribag’s Sadar block succumbed to their injuries sustained while lighting up a lantern at their home on February 14 using adulterated kerosene oil bought from the local PDS shop. They both died on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), Ranchi. “Savita Devi died late on Saturday while her son Ayush Kumar passed away on Sunday morning,” Hazaribag DC Aditya Kumar Anand said. They were initially admitted to Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH) and later referred to Rims after their condition worsened. On Saturday evening, another explosion was reported from Chutiyaro village where one Shanti Rana (40) and her two minor children named Payal and Piyush sustained injuries while lighting up a lantern at home. The three were admitted to HMCH late on Saturday, Shanti’s husband Indradev Rana said. Like Sarita, they had bought the adulterated oil from one of the 38 PDS shops which had acquired it from the Hazaribag-based Army Trading Company (ATC). The adulterated oil has triggered explosions in several households across the Sadar block between February 9 and February 16, leaving several people injured, besides killing one housewife from Dumar village and a two-year-old girl. The explosions had prompted a test of the kerosene samples at an Indian Oil Corporation Limited laboratory in Ranchi. The tests revealed that the oil was adulterated and later, an FIR was lodged against ATC. “We have dispatched teams to all the villages located under the block to find out if they are still using the adulterated kerosene. The teams have been directed to collect the oil and render it useless,” Anand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/woman-son-die-as-adulterated-kerosene-explodes-in-hbag/articleshow/81141933.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Ranchi||Hemant Soren at Harvard conference: Tribals were never Hindus, need Sarna code||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday night shared the pain of tribals, who he said are discriminated against in the country, during the online India Conference of Harvard University. He also differentiated the religion the tribals follow from Hinduism and said a separate code in the upcoming Census is the need of the hour. Soren became the first tribal leader from the country to participate in the conference which is into its 18th edition this year. Soren was interacting with a senior fellow from Harvard Kennedy School, Dr Suraj Yengde, who threw a volley of questions related to tribal identity, Centre-state relations and the model of development among other issues. During the discussion, Soren said: “Tribals have been demoralised for centuries. Becoming a chief minister was not easy for me and we have experienced the exploitation of right-wing BJP from close quarters. Our MLAs were disqualified from the House over petty issues by the previous BJP government.” Yengde sought Soren’s view regarding the low representation of tribals at the pre-eminent institutes of higher education in the country. Yengde said that out of 642 faculty members in 13 Indian Institutes of Management, only one person is tribal. Also, out of the 19 departments of IIT Delhi and five departments of IIT Mumbai, not a single tribal was pursuing the doctoral degree. Admitting that the situation was bad, Soren spoke about the state government’s recent initiative to give scholarship to 10 tribal students to study in foreign countries. Soren said that a section of society does not want tribals and Dalits to get educated and prosper in their lives. “If tribals become educated and financially sound, who will be driving the cars and working as housemaids in the houses of these big politicians and corporate honchos,” he quipped. Accusing the Centre of indiscriminately using the UAPA and alleging step motherly-treatment of minorities by BJP, Soren cited the example of Father Stan Swamy who has been incarcerated in Pune Jail. “Swamy is charged with conspiracy in a terror case. He is suffering from various ailments,” Soren said. He also talked about the incidents of mob lynching that occurred in Jharkhand during the erstwhile BJP rule. Responding to a question on whether tribals are Hindus, Soren said: “Tribals were never Hindus. They have a distinct social and religious identity. They are nature worshippers and yet efforts have been made to club them with Hindus. We have, therefore, been demanding a separate code for tribals. Earlier, tribals were counted under the ‘others’ section, but the BJP government has removed that segment. So, we are demanding that there must be a provision for the tribals to identify themselves separately.” Soren said Jharkhand has been the cradle of big-ticket projects like Coal India and HEC, among others, after Independence, yet the locals remain poor, which is why the mahagathbandhan government has decided to shift focus from mining to tourism. “If we can attract tourists, instead of gun fires there would be a cacophony of tourists in our forests,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/soren-at-harvard-conference-tribals-were-never-hindus-need-sarna-code/articleshow/81140892.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
February 22, 2021||Ranchi||31 cases, 36 recoveries, 1 death in Jharkhand||RANCHI: The number of active Covid-19 cases fell to 453 on Sunday as Jharkhand reported 31 fresh infections against 36 recoveries. Meanwhile, the state reported one casualty on Sunday taking the death toll from the virus to 1,085. The fresh infections reported on Sunday came from just four districts, with the maximum 21 cases coming from state capital Ranchi. As per government data, as many as 1,19,596 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,18,058 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 98.71%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.03% against the national average of 0.09%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 2395.43 days against the national figure of 806.35 days. Meanwhile, a total of 2,215 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Sunday, which included 2,080 who were administered the first dose while 135 were administered the second dose. The overall coverage for Sunday among first-dose recipients was 14%, while it was 13% for beneficiaries who took the jab for the second time. The cumulative figures for vaccination as on Sunday stood at 71% for first-dose beneficiaries and 81% for those who took the second dose. A total of 2,85,678 out of 4,04,286 have received their first dose across the state, while 10,891 out of 13,446 beneficiaries have completed their inoculation by taking the second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/31-cases-36-recoveries-1-death-in-jharkhand/articleshow/81141986.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Ranchi||Docs get training on procedure for treating critical Cov patients||Ranchi: Around 90 doctors from various medical disciplines were given training on the Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) procedure as part of their Continuing Medical Education (CME) on Saturday. ECMO, also known as extracorporeal life support (ECLS), is a technique of providing prolonged cardiac and respiratory support to persons whose heart and lungs are unable to provide an adequate amount of gas exchange or perfusion to sustain life, has emerged as a boon for the critically-ill Covid-19 patients. So far, ECMO has helped 70% of such patients and experts who have helped patients across the country said those operating the ECMO machines have to take care of various aspects. Addressing the CME, Dr Aviral Roy, consultant-intensivist at the Medica Supercialty Hospital, Kolkata, said the machine acts as an artificial lung and allows the patient's organ to rest. He said, "When we put a patient on ventilator support, the flow of oxygen increases which stresses the lungs. The patient's lungs are already damaged and ventilator support becomes problematic. However, if the patient is on ECMO, his or her lungs are rested allowing recovery at a faster rate. It is an important advantage in treating such critical patients." Dr Arpan Chakrobarty, a veteran among ECMO consultants and currently heading the ECMO society in India, highlighted the importance of the machine during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. He said, “When I address CMEs a decade ago about the ECMO, I was told that India needs toilets and not these machines. Within a decade, I am being called upon to talk about the machine. Now, everyone understands the importance of this technology.” Dr Chakraborty further said any patient in the age group of 30-50 years need not die because of lack of oxygen supply. “A person whose chances of recovery are determined by various parameters should be put on the machine. But sadly, those who have very grim chances have to be left out as there are very few ECMO centres and a huge number of patients needing the procedure." Head of critical care at Rims, Dr Pradeep Bhattacharya, Medica Hospital, Ranchi, medical superintendent Dr Vijay Mishra discussed brief cases of ECMO procedures done so far in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/docs-get-training-on-procedure-for-treating-critical-cov-patients/articleshow/81141850.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 22, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt to sign deal with textile company to provide jobs to locals||Ranchi: The state government will soon ink a memorandum of understanding with a Kerala-based apparel exporting company to provide them with workforce. The officials of Coimbatore-based KPR Mills and the state labour department are likely to ink the MoU in the upcoming week in presence of state labour minister Satyanand Bhokta. Under the agreement, KPR Mills aims to recruit 12,000 labourers for its expanding production lines, including a new mill in Tirupur in Erode district. Most of its labour requirement will be women. In the first phase, nearly 2,000 women will be hired. Labour department officials said the company has agreed to pay its new workforce from Jharkhand a monthly remuneration of Rs 12,000 and take care of their food and lodging. “The company approached us for manpower for its expansion projects. We have registered them with the state labour exchange,” state labour commissioner A Muthukumar on Sunday. Terming it unique and path breaking, Muthukumar said several companies cutting across various sectors have evinced interest for recruiting workforce from the state. Notably, the incumbent state government led by chief minister Hemant Soren said it was working on a method whereby labourers going out of the state will be documented for future monitoring of their financial conditions and well-being. It had also pledged to provide jobs to most of the returning migrants within Jharkhand. Muthukumar said based on calls made by them to helpline numbers during lockdown, it was estimated that 4.5 lakh migrant workers returned to their homes last year. “Through the Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society (JSLPS), we have been able to map the skills of 20,000 migrant workers. Now, our task would be to find them employers based on their skill sets,” he told TOI. The official also claimed that the department will organise period visits at the production units of the Coimbatore-based company to assess the condition and well-being of the workforce which will be hired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-govt-to-sign-deal-with-textile-company-to-provide-jobs-to-locals/articleshow/81141870.cms||Dhritiman Ray
February 22, 2021||Goa||Tourism dept’s benches at Anjuna hill vandalised||Saligao: Iron benches, which had been recently installed by the tourism department atop the Anjuna-Vagator hillock, have been damaged and uprooted by unknown persons. A complaint has been lodged with the Anjuna police by the office of the local MLA. It may be recalled that Siolim MLA and former minister Vinod Paliencar, in collaboration with the tourism department, had put up the benches only in January, at a cost of about Rs 1 lakh. Th area is a hilly, and is frequented by tourists visiting the area for leisure and for photography. The locals noticed that all the benches had been uprooted and thrown into the nearby bushes. Police are investigating the incident and are referring to CCTV footage, police inspector Suraj Gawas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-depts-benches-at-anjuna-hill-vandalised/articleshow/80915613.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Goa||Goa:Mines department may e-auction 2.6 million tonnes of iron ore next month||PANAJI: The director of the directorate of mines and geology (DMG) Vivek HP on Saturday said that the state government will e-auction over 2.6 million tonnes of iron ore lying at jetties and ports across the state, in March. DMG had earlier sought permission from the state government to conduct the e-auction which will help generate revenue for the state. The move comes even as uncertainty abounds over restarting mining activity in the state. TOI had reported in November last year that of the 3 million tonnes of iron ore that was to be e-auctioned, only 1.1 million was purchased in which 13 mining companies participated. With only 36.9% of the being sold, the revenue was not as per the state’s expectation. The previous e-auction held in May, received a poor response. In 2012, a Supreme Court judgment had declared illegal mining which was carried on after 2007 and the ore lying at jetties and plots was subsequently declared state property. The government had then identified 15 million tonnes of ore of which around 12 million tonnes had already been e-auctioned. On March 15, 2018, mining in Goa came to a halt following a SC order quashing the second renewal of 88 mining leases. In January 2020, the SC permitted the export of royalty-paid iron ore extracted before March 15, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mines-dept-may-e-auction2-6mt-iron-ore-next-month/articleshow/81142639.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Goa||Future generation will be grateful to us for three linear projects, says CM Pramod Sawant||MARGAO: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said that the three Centre-funded infrastructure projects — Tamnar power project, Panaji-Belagavi NH expansion, and railway double tracking — were being done considering the infrastructural requirements for the next 50 years, and for which he said, future generations would remain ever grateful. “Had this (existing) railway line from Castlerock to Vasco not been laid in 1889, Goa would have remained much under-developed. Hundred years later when people will think about it, they will thank (power minister) Nilesh Cabral and Pramod Sawant for the initiatives taken by them for bringing in this development,” Sawant said at a programme organised by the South Western Railway (SWR) at Curchorem to dedicate to the nation three infrastructure projects built as part of the double tracking project — two underpasses, one each at Curchorem and Kamral, and a foot overbridge at Curchorem. Reiterating his stand that the government would go ahead with all the three linear projects, Sawant said that the opposition to the projects was motivated by either political or vested interests without understanding the significance of the projects. Justifying the need for the projects, Sawant said that while the Tamnar power project was needed to take care of the state’s power requirements for the next five years, the Panaji-Belagavi highway expansion would reduce traffic accidents along the Anmod Ghat. “We are concerned about wildlife, but we are more concerned about the many human lives that are lost in accidents on the Anmod Ghat highway. As a chief minister it’s my responsibility to plan for the highway expansion for the next 10 years. We are concerned about our future generations,” Sawant said. Stressing that the double tracking project wasn’t for coal imports, Sawant said that the efforts were under way to utilise the port infrastructure for handling commodities other than coal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/future-gen-will-be-grateful-to-us-for-three-linear-projects-says-cm/articleshow/81142671.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Goa||Will take 500 years for Mollem to recover from this destruction: Congress||PANAJI: Scoffing at chief minister Pramod Sawant’s claim that the three linear projects at Mollem will cater for Goa’s needs for the next 50 years, Congress on Sunday said that the projects will cause extensive damage to Goa’s biodiversity. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that it would take 500 years for the fragile ecosystem in the Western Ghats to recover. Chodankar said that the party would continue to organise protests against the three linear projects , which are cutting through the Mollem national park and the Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary. “It will take 500 years for Goa to recover from the mass destruction of environment, forest and wildlife if BJP’s three linear projects are allowed,” he said. Congress was reacting to Sawant’s statement that vested political interests were behind the protests against the three linear projects. Sawant said that with the BJP at the Centre and in Goa, development projects can be taken up and sped up to address requirements for the next 50 years. Sawant and BJP are working towards their “own fortunes for next 50 years” by extending favours to “crony capitalists” at the behest of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress said. “BJP government at the Centre as well as in Goa have already sold our mother Mhadei to Karnataka. They are now all out to finish the bio-diversity rich Western Ghats,” he said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-will-take-500-yrs-for-mollem-to-recover-from-this-destruction/articleshow/81142722.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Goa||Goa: Roorkee scientists may study Mhadei salinity this week||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said that a team of scientists from the National Institute of Hydrology (NIH), Roorkee, is likely to arrive in Goa on February 26 for the second time to visit the Kalasa Bhandura project site in Kankumbi, Karnataka, to study the salinity of the Mhadei. Speaking to reporters, Sawant said that he is the only chief minister to ask the Union government to test the salinity of the Mhadei, which he said, Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat strongly supported. “Scientists of NIH have informed the state government that they will come to the state on February 26 to conduct the study,” Sawant said. In September 2020, two NIH scientists visited the Kalasa Bhandura project site in Kankumbi to study the salinity of the Mhadei. After the criticism from the opposition that NIH cannot conduct the study during the monsoon, Sawant said that NIH will again visit the site to conduct the salinity test. Scientists in their first site visit report said that they found salinity up to 22km from the mouth of the Mhadei. The Union jal shakti ministry had given the team two months to submit their report. During the NITI Aayog meeting, Sawant had raised the issue and said that the Mhadei water is required to meet the state’s drinking water needs and if diverted would cause damage to flora and fauna too. The state government had written to the jal shakti ministry on March 6, 2010 expressing apprehensions that the diversion of the Mhadei water would lead to increased salinity in the Mhadei and cause ecological devastation. On July 29, 2020, in a letter to Sawant, Shekhavat said that the NIH has been appointed to examine the salinity issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/roorkee-scientists-may-study-mhadei-salinity-this-week/articleshow/81142716.cms||---
February 22, 2021||India||Another Congress MLA resigns on eve of Pondicherry floor test||PUDUCHERRY: : The Congress government in Puducherry faced a major setback on Sunday, a day ahead of a floor test to prove its majority in the assembly, after one more of its MLAs and another of its ally DMK tendered their resignations. The exits, coming within an hour of each other, plunged the Congress government led by chief minister V Narayanasamy into a crisis, bringing down its strength to 12 in the 30-member house. The chief minister’s parliamentary secretary K Lakshminarayanan and DMK MLA K Venkatesan submitted their resignation letters to the speaker of the legislative assembly V P Sivakozhundhu on Sunday afternoon. Lakshminarayanan said he decided to quit as he was not given due recognition in the government and the party. Even before he tendered his resignation, he said the government had lost its majority. Venkatesan said he could not undertake any development work in the last two years in his constituency as the MLA funds were not released. He said he decided to resign to register his protest and added that he has conveyed his decision to the party high command. Meanwhile, a meeting of the MLAs convened by Narayanasamy on Sunday evening to evolve a strategy to save the government ended without arriving at a consensus. “We held discussions to evolve strategies to face the floor test. We heard the views and suggestions of the MLAs. But we have not arrived at a consensus. We will meet again and take a final decision before the House convenes at 10am on Monday,” he said. Earlier in the day, the four AIADMK MLAs were summoned to Chennai by the party high command.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/another-congress-mla-resigns-on-eve-of-pondicherry-floor-test/articleshow/81144044.cms||Bosco Dominique
February 22, 2021||Goa||GFP vows to fight for Goa’s identity||PANAJI: Immediately after chief minister Pramod Sawant announced that the government was firm on its decision to go ahead with the three linear projects, the GFP said that it would continue to fight to protect Mollem forests. GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that it will be his priority to fight for Goa’s identity and culture, which includes its environment and heritage. “GFP’s top priority is to always keep Goa and its people first, and continuously lend support to all issues from Mhadei, Mollem, jobs, economy and identity to ensure Goa is safe, stable, and successful,” he said. He added that the BJP is using “PR tricks” to try and gain an advantage in the coming municipal elections. Sardesai, who was once a minister in the BJP-led government, said that under Sawant, Goa is losing its identity. GFP has been inducting new members into the party as it gears up for the municipal and assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-vows-to-fight-for-goas-identity/articleshow/81142757.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Goa||Bring IIT back to Curchorem: Nilesh Cabral||CURCHOREM: Power minister and Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral on Sunday urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to consider bringing in the proposed IIT campus back to Curchorem, and that the people of the constituency were willing to welcome it. “If people are rejecting IIT elsewhere, I would like to tell the chief minister that we want it here,” Cabral said in the presence of Sawant at a programme organised by the South Western Railway at the Curchorem railway station. Stating that the location of the prestigious institution in Curchorem would enable the town to move forward in terms of development, Cabral said that the existence of the railway station, and the Zuari river flowing by held much potential for tourism development in his constituency. “In the olden times, Curchorem was a major town of Goa, relatively developed as it was owing to the railway line. However, later as other towns developed, Curchorem lagged. With the establishment of an engineering college and later other educational institutions, Ponda became an educational hub; can’t such a thing happen in Curchorem?” Cabral said. The government team will inspect alternative locations for the campus and a decision will be taken soon, Sawant told reporters later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bring-iit-back-to-curchorem-cabral/articleshow/81142758.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Goa||Goa: Amid hostilities, Sawant tells Railways GM A K Singh ‘well done’||MARGAO: The irony could not have been starker. At a time when the South Western Railway (SWR) is battling hostility over its double-tracking project elsewhere in the state, in power minister Nilesh Cabral’s Curchorem constituency, it had every reason to cheer. SWR general manager, A K Singh, due for retirement next month, was felicitated at the hands of chief minister Pramod Sawant for the “wonderful work” done in resolving all land connectivity issues concerning the railways in Goa. Cabral expressed his appreciation for Singh, even stating that he would recommend Union railway minister Piyush Goyal to grant Singh at least a year’s extension in service. Significantly, it was nearly a year ago that Sawant had to intervene to mend matters after Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha wrote to the PM over a controversial remark made by Singh over the double-tracking issue in Cansaulim. At Sunday’s event, attended by senior SWR officials from Hubbali, who descended in Curchorem by a special “inspection train” carrying the general manager and his entourage, Cabral had already stamped his political authority. “Not a single person from my constituency has raised any objection to SWR’s double-tracking project as they believe in the political leadership of this government,” Cabral said. “Ever since I got elected as MLA of Curchorem in 2012, I have been pursuing these projects (of underpasses), but it is only when the NDA came to power, that the proposals went ahead, fully funded by the railways.” Cabral said that it was former CM Manohar Parrikar who told the SWR that if they needed to do double-tracking, people’s issues concerning the railways had to be resolved first. “It took the NDA government to come to power to fully resolve all these issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amid-hostilities-sawant-tells-rlys-gm-well-done/articleshow/81142799.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Goa||Goa: SC to hold virtual hearing of Mhadei water dispute today||KERI: The Supreme Court will conduct a virtual hearing in the Mhadei matter on Monday 22, though Goa government had insisted on a physical hearing in the court. Goa government has filed a contempt petition and Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka have filed Special Leave Petitions (SLP) before the apex court over the Mhadei matter. However, on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the court could not conduct physical hearing for almost a year. “The apex court will hear virtually the Mhadei matter on February 22 regarding the admission of the SLPs filed by Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka and also pertaining to the contempt petition of Goa,” WRD chief engineer Shrikant Patil said. Goa’s SLP seeks directions restraining Karnataka and Maharashtra from carrying out any activity based on the award on Mhadei water sharing given on August 14, 2018, by the Mhadei Water Dispute Tribunal (MWDT). Goa has also pleaded for an order restraining Karnataka from diverting the Kalasa nallah into the Malaprabha basin. The Goa government has sought directions for a joint inspection of the site at Kankumbi, by officials of Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka, with the panel headed either by an assessor from the Mhadei Water Dispute Tribunal or a chief engineer level officer of the Central Water Commission. As per the court order of February 20, 2020, the central government has notified Mhadei Water Dispute Tribunal’s award on February 27, 2020. The tribunal in its award has made it clear that Karnataka has to prepare a revised Detailed Project Report (DPR) and has to obtain all mandatory clearances for undertaking diversion of the 1.72 TMC of water from the Kalasa nallah into the Malaprabha. As per the award, Maharashtra can use 0.56 TMC of water of the Mhadei basin through the Virdi Irrigation Project. However, Goa has filed the contempt petition before the apex court after Karnataka was found diverting the Kalasa nallah into the Malaprabha before the tribunal had given the award.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-to-hold-virtual-hearing-of-mhadei-water-dispute-today/articleshow/81142858.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
February 22, 2021||India||Bullet train will be customised to suit Indian conditions||NEW DELHI: The “lurch”, a sideways rocking movement Indians have learnt to balance while walking or standing in trains, will be a thing of the past in bullet trains even at 320 kmph. The E 5 Series Shinkansen will “compensate” for any roll and will also be modified to meet harsh Indian hot weather conditions and omnipresent dust. Managing director of the National High Speed Rail Corporation Ltd (NHSRCL) Achal Khare explained the lurch control:“When you travel by train and negotiate a curve, you will feel some kind of lurch. They have sensors fitted at the bogie level and the sensors will sense the curve ahead in advance and then will actuate a hydraulically operated cylinder to neutralize the lurch. This is important from a passenger comfort point of view,” he said. He said there is a discussion on with rolling stock manufacturers and consultants to fine tune design. “The environmental conditions in Japan are different. Initially, we thought we will bring the trains lock, stock and barrel since it’s time tested. But when we went into detail, we discovered that the temperature and dust conditions are creating a big difference. In our ambient temperature, we are asking for 55 degree centigrade; they design for 40 degree...15 degrees in air conditioning will make a big difference. The air conditioning equipment will be very heavy and they have very compact design. So, accommodating that increased equipment will be a challenge.” The NHSRCL chief said the other challenge is the dust conditions. So, the equipment in the trains that are exposed will have to be redesigned with air filters. The NHSRCL is hopeful of completing the first 50 km stretch between Billimora and Surat in Gujarat by December 2023 or early 2024. In reply to whether the Ahmedabad-Mumbai Bullet train project can even be partially ready by early 2024, Khare said, “We are trying to do something by December 2023 or in the beginning of 2024. We are trying something that is done, if not commercially, at least for trial purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bullet-train-will-be-customised-to-suit-indian-conditions/articleshow/81144046.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 22, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Post merger with GVMC, fringe panchayats seek infrastructure upgrade||CHEPALUPPADA (BHEEMILI): Five fringe panchayats, comprising tens of villages, from Bheemili were proposed to be merged in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) in 2013. After a long legal battle over inclusion of these villages into Vizag civic body, these panchayats are going for the municipal polls for the first time on March 10. As part of the recent ward organisation process of the GVMC, the fourth ward has been carved out of these five panchayats – namely K Nagarapalem, Kapuluppada, Chepaluppada, Nidigattu and JV Agraharam. Ahead of the high-stakes battle for the Vizag mayor post, TOI visited these villages, located some 40 kilometres from the core city, to get stock of things in the villages. Located close to the seashore, several villages in these five panchayats are fishermen-dominated. Infrastructural adequacies such as lack of underground drainage system, water supply issues, road problems, and poor sanitation were the major complaints of locals. The locals have also complained of lack of employment opportunities for want of industries. Even though gradual urbanisation has snapped up the area under cultivation, several people are still dependent on agricultural activities in these villages. Ch Tatayya, who served as the two-term sarpanch of Chepaluppada village between 1975 and 1985, explained about history of these villages and how things have led to the merger. “It should have done a long ago to reap the benefits of urbanisation process,” said Tatayya. The ex-sarpanch pointed to the drinking water supply issues in the village. Kurmadasu Appalaraju, a fisherman from Dibbadipalem village, said things have not changed much for these villages on the infrastructure front in several years. But he is hopeful that the merger may fast-track development in the area. “Several villages being fishermen-dominated, we request the authorities to construct sheds along the coast for fishing activities. The local youth are also looking for employment opportunities,” said Appalaraju. When TOI visited these villages on Sunday, several toddy tappers were seen making brisk business. They complained of decreasing toddy production due to the declining palm tree cover. K Srinivas Reddy, a resident of Bheemili, said that locating the proposed executive capital in the surroundings of these villages may lead to overnight development. “Unfortunately, the authorities have failed in promoting Bheemili as a prominent tourism destination. We are appealing to the government to make Bheemili as a tourism spot to attract the visitors and create employment opportunities for youngsters in tourism sector,” said Srinivas Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/post-merger-with-gvmc-fringe-panchayats-seek-infra-upgrade/articleshow/81140322.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 22, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 88 new Covid-19 cases, no deaths 2 days in row||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 88 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,89,298. The state has not recorded any deaths for the second consecutive day. Altogether 72 people were discharged from various hospitals across the state on Sunday. There are currently 620 active cases with 8,81,511 cumulative recoveries and 7,167 deaths. Chittoor reported 21 new coronavirus infections on Sunday, followed by Krishna (19) and Visakhapatnam (11). Kurnool, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts have not recorded any new cases. The remaining seven districts registered single-digit case numbers. Andhra Pradesh tested 31,680 Covid-19 samples and detected 88 new cases on Sunday, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.3%. The overall positivity rate stood at 6.5%. India has been witnessing a rise in the active case load over the past few days. The positivity rate in Alappuzha district in Kerala has increased to 10.7%. Apart from Kerala and Maharashtra, there has been a spike in the daily cases in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Jammu & Kashmir. In view of the surge in the daily numbers, the Centre has asked the states to increase the overall testing numbers with a special focus on improving the proportion of RT-PCR tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-reports-88-new-covid-19-cases-no-deaths-2-days-in-row/articleshow/81140359.cms||---
February 22, 2021||India||Ayodhya to get major facelift with distinct features||NEW DELHI: A proposed facelift of Ayodhya alongside construction of the Ram Temple will bring about major landscape and river-front development with a greenfield city spread over 1,200 acres studded with special features and a distinct colour scheme for buildings that will come up as part of the new project. The plans outlined by Delhi-based C P Kukreja Architects along with LEA Associates South Asia and infrastructure major L&T present an integrated infrastructure plan. “City of Ayodhya has deep significance and sentiments attached with it. We intend to transform Ayodhya into a world class city amplifying its historic and religious values while preserving the tranquillity and spirituality aspect,” Dikshu C Kukreja, managing principal of the architecture firm, told TOI. The detailed plan for the city, including the existing one covering 875 sq km and the proposed greenfield city, is to be ready in the next six months but its vision and certain features (see graphic) have been identified. The plan aims at leveraging tourism as an engine of growth in a city that has become congested over the years. Kukreja said the master plan of Ayodhya will have a huge focus on retaining the heritage of the city and the plan will be developed around this concept. “We will see how the city can become the hub of traditional healthcare facilities, Vedic education and other cultural activities,” he added. As per the initial plan, the city will not have regular zoning. The planners refer to case studies of best “experiential” international cities such as Vatican City and Venice, and Indian examples such as Amritsar, Varanasi, Madurai and Tirupati. “There will be a huge focus on heritage assets of the city, which will include retrofitting and redevelopment of the core city area and temple influence zone. There will be special attention to the Shri Ram Mandir area of 108 acres for seamless integration,” the planner said. The plan will also include curating tourism experience for heritage and other areas of interest such as public places and events, river-front development of Saryu river and water sports and three developing Parikrama Margs (5,14,84 kosi) with adequate facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ayodhya-to-get-major-facelift-with-distinct-features/articleshow/81144049.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 22, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Elections end without incident in north Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Polling for the fourth phase of panchayat elections concluded without incident in north Andhra. Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam saw votes being cast since Sunday morning. Counting operations started in the evening. Fourth phase polling took place in six mandals of Visakhapatnam district, ten mandals of Vizianagaram district and nine mandals of Srikakulam district. Voting took place for 274 sarpanch posts and 2,653 ward member posts in Srikakulam district; 103 sarpanch posts and 904 ward member posts in Visakhapatnam district and 238 sarpanch posts and 1,908 ward member posts in Vizianagaram district.  Vizianagaram district collector M Hari Jawaharlal said that the district reported 87.09 per cent polling, the highest in the state, on Sunday. The district collector further said that Vizianagaram polled the highest percentage of votes, 87.09 per cent, in the third phase of panchayat polls as well. Visakhapatnam district registered 86.94 per cent polls in the fourth phase. Srikakulam district registered 83.81 per cent polling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/elections-end-without-incident-in-north-ap/articleshow/81140365.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Nadikudi-Srikalahasti railway project set to pick up pace||GUNTUR: The Nadikudi-Srikalahasti railway project is set to pick up pace following the Centre’s allocation for it in the recent budget. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, as part of the Budget 2021, announced the biggest outlay for the project over the last decade with an allocation of Rs 1,144 crore. Poor allocation of funds was a major reason behind the project being delayed by nearly a decade with only 15% of work completed since its launch in 2009. Authorities have managed to complete only 46 kilometres of the 308-kilometre-long railway line. The Nadikudi-Srikalahasthi project is considered to be the biggest boon to underdeveloped upland areas of Guntur, Prakasam, Nellore and Chittoor districts. The project, when initially granted by the Centre in 2009, was estimated to cost around Rs 2,400 crore. However, authorities are now worried the project cost may escalate by over 100% from the initial estimate and may touch Rs 5,000 crore by the time of completion. According to South Central Railway (SCR) authorities, the track between Piduguralla and Savalyapuram in Guntur district was completed recently. The commissioner of railway safety (CRS) has conducted inspection and given the green signal to operate trains on the 46-kilometre-long stretch. The new stretch will connect the existing railway line between Guntur and Secunderbad with another existing line between Guntur and Bangalore. While it is expected to help move goods traffic between Bangalore and Hyderabad within a shorter distance, the completion of of the line between Nadikudi and Srikalahasti is expected to draw big investors to the region. Sources said the railway board had so far spent Rs 1,400 crore on the project and expects the state to share the equal burden as per the MoU signed while sanctioning of the project. However, the government had recently communicated to the Centre that it was not in a position to take the agreed upon 50% burden due to its financial troubles. The government had requested the Centre to complete the project with its own funds. The state government had promised to complete the land acquisition with its funds and urged the Centre to convince the railway board to complete the project without seeking additional funds from the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nadikudi-srikalahasti-rly-project-set-to-pick-up-pace/articleshow/81140378.cms||Samdani MN
February 22, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Man fined Rs 50,000 for filing false rape case against neighbour||GHAZIABAD: A special court on Saturday imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on a man for filing a false case against his neighbour alleging that the latter had raped his minor sister after spiking her cold drink in September 2019. He had also accused him of forcing his sister into marriage. However, during the hearing, the girl refuted the allegations and said that she was 20-year-old and married the man on her own accord. The court of special judge (Pocso Act) Mahendra Srivastava not only acquitted the accused, Ghanshyam, of all charges but also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the complainant. The judge also ordered that 50% of the fine would be given to Ghanshyam and in case the complainant did not pay the amount, he will have to undergo a jail term of 15 days. Utkarsh Vats, special public prosecutor (Pocso Act) said that the complainant, Ashwani Kumar and Ghanshyam lived in same locality in Khoda. On February 4, 2020, Ashwani, in a complaint to Khoda police, alleged that his 14-year-old sister had told him that in September 2019, Ghanshyam had forced her to marry him. Ashwani further alleged that Ghanshyam had also allegedly made some obscene videos and threatened to kill his sister and other family members. On the basis of the complaint, an FIR was registered against Ghanshyam under sections 328 (Causing hurt by means of poison), 376 (rape), 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and under the Pocso Act. He was arrested and later released on bail. This is the third such judgment passed by the special Pocso court in the past three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/man-fined-rs-50k-for-filing-false-rape-case-against-neighbour/articleshow/81142974.cms||Aditya Dev
February 22, 2021||India||Why registering a ‘living will’ is an arduous task despite SC guidelines||NEW DELHI: : A retired professor of anatomy based in Mumbai in her 70s, Dr Lopa Mehta drafted her “living will”—an advance directive on end of life treatment in 2019. But she is still unable to get it registered despite guidelines that are part of the Supreme Court’s 2018 landmark judgment on passive euthanasia and living will. It turns out that authorities and those keen on registering a living will are both struggling in the absence of standard procedures at the central or state level to implement the SC guidelines. The practical difficulties have triggered a demand from stakeholders for a comprehensive law on end of life care. Declaring the right to die with dignity as a fundamental right, the SC recognised the legality of advance directives (living wills) and the withholding and withdrawing of life-sustaining treatment from terminally ill patients. In a recent report, Vidhi Centre for Policy Research notes that executing the directives before the judicial magistrate first class and a three-tiered process of approvals for actual decision-making are extremely arduous. “As a result, very few people have successfully executed advance directives,” points out senior resident fellow from ‘Vidhi’ Dr Dhvani Mehta. A Chandigarh couple, Dina Nath Jauhar (73) and wife Adarsh Jauhar (66), both professors, made news in December 2019 by making living wills through the district court. Jauhar shares that it was not at all easy to get there. It took him over nine months to get to the stage where the will was registered. To address these concerns, Vidhi and the End of Life Care in India Task Force (‘ELICIT’) have come together to put out a model legal framework on end of life care in India in the form of a bill. They now plan to reach out to central and state governments and parliamentarians to advocate for a law. The framework lays down ways to simplify protocols for end of life decision-making and safeguards like introducing the concept of end of life care committee at large hospitals to audit all decisions. Buoyed by the 2018 SC judgement, when Lopa Mehta approached the concerned metropolitan magistrate’s court the following year in Mumbai to register her will, authorities said they have no specific directions or procedures in place to register the will. “In my living will I have already expressed my view about how I would want to go if at all the circumstances arise where life support is required. I believe in natural death,” shared Dr Mehta, who has also co-authored a book around these issues by the name “Living Dying.” Her case is part of the application for clarification filed by the Indian Society of Critical Care Medicine in the Supreme Court, as an example of the difficulties in implementing the Court’s guidelines. Hearing the matter, in January 2020, the SC directed the Centre to convene a meeting of stakeholders to reach a consensus regarding modifications to its guidelines. Meanwhile, leading hospitals such as AIIMS, New Delhi have framed their own internal policies and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has developed guidelines for health professionals on “Do Not Attempt Resuscitation Orders”. Highlighting that registering a living will is a challenging task, Delhi based Dr Gaurav Thukral who is the executive vice-president and chief operating officer of ‘Healthcare at Home’, which provides professional home-based healthcare services shared his own example. He gave up the idea of getting one made after learning of procedural difficulties involved. In fact, Healthcare at Home had done a survey in 2019 on awareness among Indians about living wills. TOI had reported then that the survey involving as many as 2,400 people from Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chandigarh and Jaipur found that only one of four people knew about the provision. Delhi (36%), followed by Mumbai (31%) had the most awareness about the living will, while Jaipur (18%) followed by Chandigarh (23%) had the least. Of those who were aware, surveys from HCAH found that only 6% had a living will. When they were told about the concept, 87% of them said it was relevant for terminally-ill patients or a long term coma patients or patients on life support. Sharing his experience of the last one year, Thukral shared that the pandemic has made people sit-up and think about the importance of safeguarding their health. “During the peak of the pandemic we saw people worrying a lot about what would happen to their loved ones if they brought home the infection or died of it. They were doing all to save themselves and their families from Covid-19,” he shared. In this backdrop, Thukral feels the focus on end of life care and laying down simplified procedures for advance directives in the form of a living will are even more critical. He told TOI that the fear of not being able to get a hospital bed or a ventilator was also a big concern among people. Their home service teams found that most people sick with Covid-19 wanted to stay at home in isolation rather than go to a hospital. In the backdrop of such experiences during the pandemic, co-author of the Vidhi report Akshat Agarwal pointed that Covid-19 has compelled people to confront their mortality far earlier than they may have been comfortable doing. “The prospect of being in hospitals, isolated from friends and family, further heightened anxieties about decision-making at the end of life. While India seems to have flattened the Covid-19 curve, for now, issues around end-of-life care decision-making are not unique to Covid-19 alone and are confronted by doctors and patients in critical care settings on a daily basis. Lack of legal certainty and fear of prosecution often prevents doctors from making ethically sound decisions,” he said to drive home the need for a legal framework on end of life care. He pointed that this was important to further both patients’ rights and ethical best practices while being alive to the realities and constraints of real-life critical care settings in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/why-registering-a-living-will-is-an-arduous-task-despite-sc-guidelines/articleshow/81144053.cms||Ambika Pandit
February 22, 2021||Gurgaon||Farmers from two Haryana districts destroy standing crop||JIND: Farmers from two villages in Haryana’s Jind district destroyed their standing wheat crop on Sunday morning in protest against the non-acceptance of their demand for the repeal of three agri-marketing laws introduced by the Centre. This happened days after BKU national spokesman Rakesh Tikait’s appeal to farmers during a maha panchayat held recently in Hisar district to be ready to sacrifice their standing crop if their demands are not met by the Union government. However, Tikait issued a fresh appeal to the farmers on his social media account, saying, “I didn’t ask for the crops to be destroyed now.” Local BKU activists also requested farmers against “taking this step extreme right now”. Earlier in the day, farmers of Gulkani and Rajpura villages reached their fields on tractors and ploughed them while several women accompanying them pulled the standing crop with their bare hands. They also raised anti-government slogans in protest against the nonacceptance of their demands. “There is no one in the village to take care of the crop as all male members of my family are at the protest site on the Delhi border. Our farming activities have already taken a hit in this fight against the Union government. So we decided to destroy the standing crop in two-acre land and keep one acre to meet the needs of our family and the livestock,” Amarpati, a resident of Gulkani, said Ram Mehar Singh, another Gulkani resident, told the media: “We have destroyed twoacre wheat crop, out of 10 acres, to show the (PM Narendra) Modi government that farmers can take any step to get the antifarmer laws repealed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farmers-from-two-haryana-districts-destroy-standing-crop/articleshow/81144060.cms||Vijender Kumar
February 22, 2021||Vadodara||Barodians ink fingers despite Covid scare||Vadodara: Voters seemed to overcome their initial apprehension about Covid to turn up for polling for the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) polls in the later half of the day. Tentative polling percentage stood at 44.35% (as of 9pm Sunday) in the city. Polling was unusually slack in the first couple of hours, but gained momentum as the day progressed as well as from the provision of preventive health measures including hand sanitizers and polythene gloves and masks at all the booths boost up voters’ morale. Through the day, a steady trickle of voters was seen in polling booths. It was largely the elderly and health conscious early risers in the morning even as others joined the dance of democracy later in the day. Senior citizen Nagji Patel who voted at the ripe age of 97 years in Bhayli said that he had never missed voting in his life. “I did not want to skip it this time too despite the pandemic scare. I have been taking precautions and was not afraid,” he said. Eyes were set on polling in the ward 16 where former leader of opposition in VMC Chandrakant Shrivastava was contesting as violence had taken place during rallies of Congress and BJP there. However, no untoward incident was reported on Sunday and polling was peaceful. Row was, however, raked up in ward one when members of a religious sect were moving around the constituency urging people to vote. Congress candidate Ami Ravat objected to this. The members of the sect, however, arguing that they were not seeking votes for any particular party. Vadodara MP Ranjan Bhatt was targeted by Congress members when she entered in a booth in a school in the Sama area of the city without any card authorising her to do so. After a ruckus, she had to leave the booth. Party workers mobilised voters after the first couple of hours of voting in the morning. They largely targeted areas where they expected voting in their favour. Many officials involved with the polling brought food from home in wake of the pandemic. They were seen sharing tiffin among themselves while taking a break.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/barodians-ink-fingers-despite-covid-scare/articleshow/81140972.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Rajkot||Supporters’ clashes dent polling process||Rajkot: A clash was reported during municipal corporation election on Sunday between Aam Admi Party and BJP workers in ward number 8 of Laxmin Nagar area of Rajkot. Even as police and senior BJP leaders rushed to the spot, AAP workers alleged that BJP workers ransacked their office and damaged furniture. While the dispute arose from sharing of seating space outside the booth to guide voters, AAP workers also accused the workers from the ruling party of trying to woo voters even on the election day. Deputy commissioner of police, Manoharsinh Jadeja reached the spot and assured AAP workers that the police will register an FIR if they approach the police station concerned. Senior AAP worker, Ajit Lokhil, alleged that AAP worker Darshan Kansagra received injuries in the attack. Cong, BJP workers ransck poll booth Rajkot: Workers of both rival parties BJP and the Congress had allegedly ransacked a booth in Vambe Aawas Yojna behind Rani tower on Sunday. According to sources, attackers snatched wires of the EVM machine which disturbed the voting process. Additional district collector, P B Pandya told TOI, "They disrupted the election process but we had resumed within a few minutes. I have asked the presiding officer to register a formal complaint as per the law."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/supporters-clashes-dent-polling-process/articleshow/81141194.cms||---
February 22, 2021||India||GST, farm reforms at core of ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’: PM Narendra Modi||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi identified initiatives like GST and the farm reforms as key elements of the “sabka saath, sabka vikas” mantra even as a resolution adopted at a meeting of party leaders on Sunday backed the government on the farm laws and handling of the situation on the Line of Actual Control. “The government brought in three farm laws in the interest of farmers to ensure they get the right price for their produce, their income doubles and that they have the freedom to sell their farm produce where they want to,” the resolution said, indicating that the demand for repeal of the laws raised by farm unions, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and west UP, was not likely to be heeded. In fact, it pointed to a rallying around the initiative. In the first major in-person organisational meeting since the lockdown, Modi urged BJP cadres to live up to expectations at a time when the global community was looking at India with a lot of expectations. Modi said “sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas” was the “basic mantra” of the party and its mission was to work for the country and its development. He also said that keeping this mantra in mind, the government had done “positive work” and highlighted the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and reforms in the agriculture sector. The meeting was inaugurated by Modi and it started by paying tributes to those who lost their lives due to coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gst-farm-reforms-at-core-of-sabka-saath-sabka-vikas-pm/articleshow/81144061.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Noida||Noida: Three held for pick-pocketing in metro, buses||NOIDA: Three people of a gang were arrested on Saturday for allegedly stealing mobile phones and purses from people in metro trains and buses across the district. Police have recovered 11 stolen mobile phones and three purses from them. The arrested have been identified as Gul Faraz and Danish, both residents of Delhi, and Kripal, a native of Ghaziabad. Prabhat Dixit, the SHO of Sector 24 police station said, “During questioning, the accused told police that they used to travel in metro trains, buses and auto-rickshaws and steal the valuables from passengers. After stealing the mobile phones, the accused used to destroy their sim card so that they could not be traced by the police. They used to then sell the stolen mobile phones for anywhere between Rs 2, 000 to Rs 5, 000.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/three-held-for-pick-pocketing-in-metro-buses/articleshow/81142193.cms||---
February 22, 2021||India||India to fund defence projects in Maldives||NEW DELHI: India and Maldives signed a $50 million Line of Credit to fund defence projects in the island nation, as foreign minister S Jaishankar wrapped up a two-day visit. Jaishankar met President Ibrahim Solih, his counterpart Abdulla Shahid, defence minister Mariya Didi and head of the Majlis Mohamed Nasheed during his visit, which was also an occasion to review and enhance India’s participation in infrastructure projects in Maldives. India openly reiterated its support for the Maldives foreign minister’s candidature for president of the 76th session of the UN general assembly. A joint press statement issued at the end of the visit said, “An agreement to develop, support and maintain a Maldives National Defence Force Coast Guard harbour at Sifvaru (Uthuru Thilafalhu) was also signed. This agreement was signed pursuant to the request government of Maldives made in April 2013 for support and cooperation of the government of India to assist Maldives for enhancing the capability of the defence forces in exercising jurisdiction and undertaking maritime surveillance of its EEZ and islands.” India will assist in the development of Hanimaadhoo and Addu Gan airports which are being financed under an $800 million Line of Credit with the aim of making Maldives more accessible to tourists. The statement said they “agreed to strengthen coordination in enhancing regional maritime security, including on combatting terrorism, including crossborder terrorism and maintaining peace in the region to ensure freedom of navigation in the Indian Ocean”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maldives-to-get-50m-defence-support/articleshow/81144084.cms||---
February 22, 2021||India||Govt may review order on online science meets||NEW DELHI: The government may reconsider its decision that requires scientific institutions to seek prior approval before organising any international online seminars or conferences. “Since leading science academies on behalf of scientists flagged their concerns over the decision, I believe the matter would certainly be considered after looking at all its pros and cons,” Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, department of science & technology (DST) told TOI on Sunday. Asked whether the decision would be modified, Sharma said, “That I cannot say. What I can say is that the issue will be discussed in the context of inputs provided by the science academies.” Two leading and oldest academies of the country — Indian Academy of Sciences and Indian National Academy of Sciences — have recently written to education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal seeking withdrawal of the order, saying such restrictions could halt all topical scientific discussions. The ministry had earlier said that clearance from the external affairs ministry will be required for holding international conferences, workshops or training on security of state, border, northeast states, UTs of J&K, and Ladakh or any other issues related to India’s internal matters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-may-review-order-on-online-science-meets/articleshow/81144088.cms||---
February 22, 2021||India||Jaishankar in Mauritius amid unrest||NEW DELHI: Foreign minister S Jaishankar landed in Mauritius on Sunday on a two-day visit to advance a trade and investment agreement with the island nation, one of India’s key partners in the Indian Ocean region. He, however, arrived in the middle of civil unrest, with opposition parties and civil society groups calling for the resignation of PM Pravind Jugnauth and his government. Foreign minister of Mauritius Nandcoomar Bodha resigned and has positioned himself as a challenger to Jugnauth. In an exclusive conversation with TOI, Bodha dwelt on the causes of the unrest and the future of India-Mauritius ties. Describing himself as the “last of the Mohicans”, Bodha said he resigned as minister and secretary general of the ruling party Militant Socialist Movement. “I’ve served under Sir Aneerood Jugnauth (present PM’s father) for ages, I have served in government for years, but I think the time has come when we need something else,” he said. “From last August there has been unrest, against corruption and fraud. In Mauritius, it is believed that a small controlling coterie is running the show. There is an outcry for fundamental change,” he said. In his resignation statement, he said, “This new vision will encompass dreams and aspirations of all Mauritians.” Bodha said, “I will be devoting myself to this new vision for a new Mauritius.” He said if six-seven more leaders quit, the Jugnauth government would be in a minority and polls would be inevitable. Asserting that the country can’t run as it is at present, he said, “I’m talking to everyone in the opposition. I am going to present a manifesto with several proposals for coming years. I am confident this will be a national program and I’m trying to crystallise this desire for change,” he said. “Jaishankar’s visit will be important because we’re signing this free trade area agreement. It will open up trade and investment ties between India and Mauritius. Mauritius will be able to export certain goods to India. It will help India access Africa through Mauritius.We’re part of African Union and SADC.” India, he said, is opening up to Africa. “We can be useful.” In terms of security, Bodha said India has a key role. “India can be important — in Indian Ocean maritime security, and in the Indo-Pacific. We’ve an issue of sovereignty and a dispute with the UK and US. I think India can be instrumental in bringing everyone together to find a solution for us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jaishankar-in-mauritius-amid-unrest/articleshow/81144090.cms||Indrani Bagchi
February 22, 2021||India||₹100cr benami assets of J&K bizmen found||NEW DELHI: The income tax department carried out searches on the premises of the promoters of a private multi-specialty hospital in Srinagar and claimed to have unearthed details of property purchases worth Rs 100 crore allegedly using black money. The unaccounted cash was generated from receipts in the hospital where the turnover offered for taxation was not more than Rs 10-12 crore as against net receipts of more than Rs 40-50 crore annually, the tax department said. The promoters were suppressing actual income and investing unaccounted cash in purchase of properties since 2013-14, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/100cr-benami-assets-of-jk-bizmen-found/articleshow/81144092.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Business||Rising NPAs: Court issues notice to ministry, RBI||NEW DELHI: Issuing a notice to the ministry of urban affairs and RBI, a Delhi court has remarked that banks give loan without proper verification of the borrower, leading to a situation that has not only increased load of litigation but also malpractices when it comes to recovering it. Additional district judge Ajay Goel came across five such pending cases that prompted him to suo motu discuss the issue at hand. He called the practices followed by banks and government authorities to be the cause of the prevalent situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rising-npas-court-issues-notice-to-ministry-rbi/articleshow/81144095.cms||Aamir Khan
February 22, 2021||Chennai||Third front under my leadership likely: Kamal Haasan||CHENNAI: MNM chief Kamal Haasan on Sunday said the situation looks conducive for a third front to be formed under his leadership for the assembly polls in Tamil Nadu and it may “happen very soon”. Answering a question on alliance with the DMK, the actor said talks happened “at the lower level”, but the DMK leadership did not reach out to him directly. “I think it would happen (third front). The rain clouds (conducive clouds) are coming together. Koodiya Viraivil Mazhaikkum (It will rain soon),” he told reporters, as if drawing an influence from the drizzles and rains witnessed in different parts of the state over the weekend. Prior to that, he accepted that his party was in talks with DMK, when both sides explored the possibility of an alliance. But, he quickly dismissed it off as something that happened at the lower level. “There were feelers. People were talking. No one reached out to me directly. That is what will count. Messengers do not matter. Their leadership did not talk to me,” Kamal said, while responding to another pointed question on the possibility of his party joining the DMK alliance. Kamal said, he did not discuss politics, when he met his friend and actor Rajinikanth on Saturday. “We enquired about each other’s health, since I was also in hospital for a surgery,” he said. Kamal said he did not ask for his support either, since Rajinikanth had said no to politics. Earlier, addressing his party functionaries at a gathering, to mark the party entering its fourth year, Kamal asked them to work harder to capture power post the ensuing assembly poll. “We have to capture power this time. Have that self-confidence and retain that. Sitting in the opposition is not an option,” he said. Hitting out at the ruling AIADMK and the opposition DMK, he said the parties are indulging in blame game. “Stalin says the AIADMK government is doing what he says. Why did Stalin not ask for the closure of Tasmac outlets? He will not, because then the liquor factories have to be shut,” Kamal said. About the AIADMK, Kamal said MGR had opted for the ‘two leaves’ symbol to hint about the growth of the organisation. “But, it has now come to a level where two people are eating out the people’s money using those two leaves,” Kamal said, referring to Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam. Read also: 2021 polls to be another training for Kamal Haasan’s three-year-old MNM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3rd-front-under-my-leadership-likely-kamal-haasan/articleshow/81144086.cms||D Govardan
February 22, 2021||Business||Get private companies in vaccine drive: Premji to finance minister||BENGALURU/ NEW DELHI: Wipro founder chairman Azim Premji on Sunday said that engaging private players will help accelerate India’s vaccination efforts against Covid-19 and bring down vaccine cost. “If the government were to engage private industry quickly, we can be sure of achieving coverage of 500 million people within 60 days. That’s a practicality. I think it is very important the government considers this as a major supplementation to the effort,” he told finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman at a closed-door post-budget discussion organised by the Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce on Sunday. Read Also'Private companies can rush vaccine to 70%'Godrej &amp; Boyce Manufacturing Company, the flagship of Godrej Group, is betting big on growing its healthcare cold chain portfolio, considering that last-mile connectivity in vaccine cold storage is a key link for a successful immunisation drive against Covid.Recognising the government’s efforts in the vaccination drive, Premji suggested that if there is a possibility of Serum Institute of India (SII) providing the vaccine at about Rs 300 a shot to hospitals and private nursing homes, they can then administer the jab to people at Rs 100 a shot. “So, within Rs 400 a shot, it is possible to do mass vaccination of the population,” he said. Premji joined other industry leaders, including Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra, in making a strong pitch for proactive participation of the private sector to bolster vaccination efforts. India has administered over 1 crore doses of the vaccine as of Saturday. Industry lobby groups, such as CII, too have advocated “full involvement” of the corporate sector in the vaccination drive, apart from allowing private providers in the space. The government has decided to bear the burden of vaccinating large chunks of the population with Sitharaman earmarking Rs 35,000 crore in the budget for the purpose, with the promise to provide more, if required. The allocation is expected to help vaccinate nearly 50 crore Indians, with the government estimating the cost at Rs 700 per individual, including the cost of the vaccine and other costs. Although the private sector is pitching hard, the government believes that it is not the best way to deal with the exercise, arguing that emergency use of the vaccines has to be carefully controlled, while also keeping a close watch on supplies. Government officials have argued that like most countries, India has a defined public health requirement that currently focuses on health and frontline workers after from those who are seen to be more vulnerable – those over 50 years or the younger segment with co-morbidities. Despite the pressure, the government has been unrelenting. During Sunday’s interaction, Sitharaman said the country has doubled its efforts to foster R&D in vaccine development and while the government should play the role of a facilitator, the private sector will be the growth driver of the economy. She said the country has sent a clear message in vaccine development, research, scaling up production depending on demand which is now expanding by the minute. “This shows what India can contribute when the private sector, with support from the government, addresses lifesaving intervention,” Sitharaman added. Watch Get private companies in vaccine drive: Wipro founder Azim Premji||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/get-private-companies-in-vaccine-drive-premji-to-fm/articleshow/81144105.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Goa||‘Time to send BJP home, save Mhadei’: PFG||PANAJI: The Progressive Front of Goa (PFG) has said that the state government has been exposed by chief minister Pramod Sawant’s recent statement that he has sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention in the Mhadei water dispute. When it was being claimed by the chief minister that Goa is strongly defending its case in the Mhadei matter, then why is the PM’s intervention being sought now. It exposes the lies of the government, said PFG’s Mahesh Mahambrey. “Since state elections are around the corner, the BJP is trying to find something to be able to defend itself. It is utter shame that the BJP fooled people over the Mhadei and the mining issues and played with their emotions. It is time for Goans to send them home and protect our dignity and Mother Mhadei, at the upcoming 2022 polls,” Mahambrey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/time-to-send-bjp-home-save-mhadei/articleshow/81142601.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal CM wields mother tongue against ‘polarising’ politics||KOLKATA: What Bangladesh thought five decades back, will Bengal think in 2021? The Trinamool, at least, is banking on such a repeat. Bengal’s party in office for the last decade, now facing a proper fight from the BJP, is increasingly betting on the appeal of the mother tongue to counter what it sees as the BJP’s attempts at polarising the electorate on religious lines. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee spoke at an event commemorating International Mother Language Day in Kolkata on Sunday. The event was apolitical but the signal was unmistakable: consolidate Bengali atmabhiman (pride) and project the BJP as a party increasingly dependent on “outside leadership”. Banerjee accepted the “Ekusher challenge (the challenge of ’21)” saying, “And if they send me to jail for this, like Bangabandhu, I will give the Joy Bangla call from jail. We have never learnt to lose.” “Ekushei challenge hobe (2021 is going to be a challenge). Ekushei amra sob challenge accept kori (We accept all challenges in 21),” the Trinamool chief said, adding, “Ektai ekushe khela hobe (There will be just one match played in 2021). And in this match, I will be the goalkeeper. I want to see who wins and who loses.” Banerjee said her mother tongue, Bangla, had taught her to fight like a tiger. “Don’t try to intimidate us with jail; we have fought against guns and are not afraid of fighting against rats,” she said. Keeping up her attack on “outsiders”, the CM said: “If I love the Bengali language, why will I pronounce Bangla as Bongaal?” She said that the perception about Bengal was bad, and that some leaders always said in Delhi that they wanted “to break the spine” of Bengalis. “Just try to do it,” she challenged. She also said that it was about time that the state was renamed with linguistic considerations. “Why can’t our state be named Bangla? For four years, our proposal to name the state Bangla has been lying with the Centre. If Odisha can be named, Maharashtra can be named, why not Bangla?” Referring to the Centre’s objection to Bangla because it sounds like Bangladesh, the CM said: “Bangladesh is a country; we are just a state. Even if Pakistan has a Punjab province, what will happen to Punjab then?” Saying Bangla had always been deprived and given stepmotherly treatment, she added, “If someone makes it big from Bengal, there is an attempt to pull the person down,” referring to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and Syama Prasad Mukherjee. “Why will this happen? This language gives us strength. We can speak aloud. We can speak with pride. It has taught us to fight like a tiger.” Five decades back on February 21, 1952, several students were martyred and hundreds injured in Dhaka over protests of the imposition of Urdu by West Pakistan. The event had catalysed into a larger fight for linguistic and cultural rights. In 2002, the United Nations formally recognised the day as International Mother Language Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cm-wields-mother-tongue-against-polarising-politics/articleshow/81143494.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Vadodara||Plastic surgery pioneer dies at 86 in Vadodara||Vadodara: Dr Surendra Nath Sharma, who established the department of plastic surgery at Baroda Medical College (BMC) in 1967, has passed away in Vadodara. Dr Sharma was a pioneer in the discipline in the state. “He is credited with the creation of the first super-specialization degree of MCh in Gujarat,” said Dr Sharma’s son, Dr Sandeep Sharma, a plastic surgeon himself. “The degree was recognized by the Medical Council of India in 1985.” Dr Sharma studied surgery at King George’s Medical College, Lucknow, and then specialized in plastic surgery from Government Medical College, Nagpur, and PGIMER, Chandigarh. He breathed his last on February 17; he was 86. “Instead of establishing a lucrative career in private practice in a metro city, my father chose to come to Vadodara to join a government medical college to set up the department of plastic surgery,” said Dr Sandeep Sharma. “He took up the challenge of starting a teaching programme in plastic surgery to train and prepare students in this speciality of the future.” Dr Sharma was also the founder-president of the National Association of Burns. He started a campaign to protect women in relation to burn injuries. The initiative taken up between 1970 and 1975 highlighted unsafe cooking practices. “He went on to become the president of the Association of Plastic Surgeons of India in 1989,” said Dr Sandeep Sharma. “His work earned him recognition at national and international levels.” Dr Sharma is widely recognized for his work in burns surgery, reconstruction in patients with leprosy, treatment of facial injuries, and hand surgery. He set the standards for best practices in antisepsis and asepsis protocols, practised even today. Dr Sandeep Sharma said apart from his surgical and academic achievements, Dr Sharma was also an avid runner. “He participated in the Mumbai Marathon and Delhi Half Marathon till the age of 79 since their inception,” he said. “He also won the Vadodara green marathon in his category.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/plastic-surgery-pioneer-dies-at-86-in-vadodara/articleshow/81141028.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP writes to Shah over Minakhan yatra attack||Kolkata: Bengal BJP on Sunday submitted a complaint to Union home minister Amit Shah alleging police inaction during Saturday’s attack on the ‘parivartan yatra’ at Minakhan in North 24 Parganas. The party has sent a similar complaint to the Election Commission of India. In the letter, BJP alleged that Trinamool Congress supporters hurled bombs and pelted stones at a “peaceful rally” that was being conducted with necessary permission. The letter said police did not take any action to control the mob and the incident was captured by the media. “A lot of vehicles” were damaged and several party workers injured, BJP said, adding that the condition of two persons — Anitro Acharya and Pradip Das — was critical. The Bengal BJP leaders asked Shah to take action against the miscreants. It also requested the EC to deploy “neutral officers” during the polls, keeping such incidents in mind. Trinamool Congress leader Jyotipriyo Mullick said no Trinamool worker was involved in the attack. “The allegation of bomb attack is unfounded and the incident was fabricated. They did it themselves. Later, they ransacked the TMC party office and workers were attacked. We demand faster police investigation into it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-bjp-writes-to-shah-over-minakhan-yatra-attack/articleshow/81142924.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Ranchi||2 more persons from state found dead in Chamoli||Gumla/Bokaro: Bodies of two more persons from Jharkhand who had gone missing in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district in the glacier burst were recovered from the under-construction NTPC hydel power site on Sunday, authorities said. One of the deceased was identified as Jyotish Bakhla, a resident of Lohardaga’s Bethod village, while the other was identified as Amrit Kumar, resident of Jaridih village in Gomia block of Bokaro district. “Bakhla’s corpse was identified by residents of Bethod village camping in Tapovan while Kumar’s identity was known from his I-cards found on the body,” Dhirendra Kumar Mahto, the Lohardaga labour department’s superintendent, told TOI over the phone from Tapovan on Sunday. Mahto is camping in Chamoli with three men from Bethod village to identify the missing workers. Last week, rescue workers had recovered the corpse of one Vicky Mahto, a worker from Bethod village who also went missing soon after the mishap. Manoj Bakhla, Jyotish’s father, said, “We are shocked to learn that he died. We were hoping that he will survive.” He sought financial compensation and a job for his youngest son from the government and the PSU. In Jaridih, a pall of gloom descended after NTPC officials rang up Kumar’s family and broke the news. Kumar got married only 11 months ago. Kumar was one of three men from the village who went missing in Chamoli. His family was hopeful of his return as the other two men – Gurucharan Mahto and Tikendra Mahto — safely came back to their homes on February 15. Kumar’s elder brother Charan Mahto, who returned home after the rescue operations and could not locate his brother till February 14, said, “NTPC officials informed us that my brother’s corpse is being sent in an ambulance. They promised us Rs 20 lakh compensation and a job for one dependant.” Kumar, a civil foreman, had left for Chamoli on October 13 last year. He had spoken to his pregnant wife Vineeta on the morning of the disaster. Vineeta said, “I still believe he will come back one day for me and his child. How can he leave us like this? He had gone to earn money for us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-more-persons-from-state-found-dead-in-chamoli/articleshow/81141574.cms||K A Gupta
February 22, 2021||Vadodara||Debate over pitches surprising: Rohit||Ahmedabad: Rohit Sharma is surprised at the amount of debate over the kind of pitches prepared in India. Speaking during a virtual media interaction on Sunday evening, the 33-year-old India opener said the pitch is the same for both the sides and they have been like this since long in India. “Every team takes home advantage. When we go outside, our opponents also make it difficult for us. We never complain about the pitches when we go outside. That is what it means the home advantage. I do not think there should be so much of discussion about the pitches. Talk about cricket, not about the pitches,'' he said. "If someone wants to remove the home and away advantage, tell the ICC to make rules regarding what the pitch should be. The same kind of pitch should be made in India and outside India as well,”he added. Rohit feels that a pitch similar to the one at Chennai could be prepared or the pink-ball Test at the Sardar Patel Gujarat Stadium beginning on Wednesday. “I don’t think it is going to be any different from the one we played in Chennai and it’s more or less going to be on the same lines,'' said Rohit. The Indian team plans to practice on Monday evening at the Motera Stadium to get acclimatised to the conditions. "Tomorrow we will be practicing under the lights and probably will have a long session so that we get used to the outfield and the lights,'' said Rohit. "We are eagerly waiting for the fans to come to watch the match. It's been a while since an international match has been at this ground,”he said. India played a one day international against Sri Lanka six year ago at this venue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/debate-over-pitches-surprising-rohit/articleshow/81141903.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||Mitra: Shah’s claims on central aid to Bengal false||Kolkata: Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on Sunday came down heavily on Union home minister Amit Shah, accusing the latter of giving false statements about central financial assistance to states. Mitra said Shah had claimed that the Centre had given Rs 3.6 lakh crore to Bengal for development, which was not true. “This is false and politically motivated,” he added. Mitra said from 2014-15 to 2019-20, the Centre had given the state only Rs 1.1 lakh crore. “The Centre gives funds in central schemes and centrally sponsored schemes. This money they give from the corpus is collected from our state only through various forms of direct and indirect taxes. The Centre gives back some portion to the state in the ratio of 70:30 or 60:40,” he added. According to Mitra, over the last six years, Bengal has spent Rs 3 lakh crore for development from its own revenue generation — three times of the central fund. Another Rs 4 lakh crore was spent on salaries and pensions and other statutory expenses. The minister pointed out that the Centre got CGST, excise duty, customs duty, various cess and income tax from states. “From income tax alone, the collection from West Bengal is Rs 50,000 crore and all tax taken together it is much more,” he said. Trinamool spokesperson Derek O’Brien later said the total central tax collected from Bengal in six years would be Rs 5.5 lakh crore. Mitra also felt that the Planning Commission should be brought back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mitra-shahs-claims-on-central-aid-to-bengal-false/articleshow/81142898.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Rajkot||Before marriage, couples wedded to democracy||Rajkot: A 22-year-old groom of Bhavnagar breached wedding protocols literally to exercise his franchise rights as a citizen. “Generally, as per tradition, grooms aren’t allowed to go outside a day before marriage. But this was a voting day and when Kamlesh expressed his desire to vote, we all accompanied him and performed our duty as a citizen,” said Jay, a cousin of groom Kamlesh Parmar (22) who kept his pre-wedding rituals in abeyance on Sunday. Kamlesh, dressed up in wedding finery reached the Bol Talav polling booth of ward number nine along with other baraatis and didn’t let wedding or guests disrupt his date with the poll. Till date, Kamlesh claims he has never missed voting in any election. In Jamnagar, a bride and a groom went to cast their votes as a newly wedded couple soon after completing their marriage rituals on Sunday. The couple cast their votes in ward number 14 in the election of Jamnagar municipal corporation. Aashish and Meeta Joshi told TOI: “Today when people are electing their representatives, we have selected our life partners. We are making our memorable moments even stronger by casting our votes in our wedding attire.” Though it was one of the most important days of her life, Nidhi Gelani reached the polling booth decked in wedding attire in Puna area of Surat before going to the marriage venue. "I think voting is equally important for every citizen, so I did not want to miss the chance of exercising my franchise," she said. Vadodara’s Shaunak Rana was to get married on Sunday in Ahmedabad. But the 30-year-old ensured that he cast his ballot first in ward number 7 in old city. "Marriage is an important occasion in life but voting too has its own significance. We vote for a better future and a developed city. So i decided to exercise my voting rights before my marriage," said Rana who works as a marketing head in a private firm in Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/before-marriage-couples-wedded-to-democracy/articleshow/81141077.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||CBI at Abhishek’s door to quiz wife in ‘illegal coal-mining’ case||Kolkata: A team of CBI officers turned up at Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee’s south Kolkata home on Sunday and issued a summons to his wife, Rujira Banerjee Naroola, for questioning in a case registered by the central agency last November about allegations of illegal coal-mining. Sunday’s CBI visit comes amid a no-holds-barred fight between the Trinamool and the BJP ahead of the state assembly polls and follows last week’s summons from a city court to Union home minister Amit Shah in a 2018 criminal defamation case lodged by Abhishek. Four officers from the central agency’s anti-corruption branch turned up at ‘Shantiniketan’, the Harish Mukherjee Street home of the MP from Diamond Harbour, at 2pm. In the notice under 160 CrPC, CBI additional police superintendent Umesh Kumar, the investigating officer, asked Rujira to be at home at 3pm to “answer certain questions relating to the case”. Since she was not at home, the officers left around 20 minutes later, leaving behind a contact number. “Till late evening, we haven’t received any communication from her,” said an officer, but refused to spell out the next move. The chief minister did not refer to the incident directly but attacked the Centre during an International Mother Language Day programme. “Please do not try to intimidate us with your threats and fear of jail,” she said, adding, “We have tread that path long back. There is no reason for fear. Today I pledge before you, I will never be intimidated by threats as long as I am alive. It is not easy to break our spine.” The team later issued another summons to Rujira’s sister, Menka Gambhir, at her home in Anandapur, directing her to be present for questioning on Monday. A couple of hours after CBI officers reached his doorstep, Abhishek issued a Tweet: “At 2pm today, the CBI served a notice in the name of my wife. We have full faith in the law of the land. However, if they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken. We are not the ones who would ever be cowed down.” A Trinamool source, reacting to the BJP’s “intimidatory tactics”, said such a move was “predictable”. “All of BJP’s allies have left them. So, their only loyal allies are the CBI and the ED. We will fight it out. We are not scared. We believe people will give a fitting reply at the elections.” The case refers to one that the CBI registered on November 27, 2020, regarding illegal coal-mining in Bengal, based on “source information”. The FIR mentioned the names of six persons, including that of prime suspect Anup Maji, and five officials of a nationalized mining company. It also mentioned that several other officials of the coal company, CISF, the Railways and other departments were under suspicion. The first raid was conducted the next day at 45 locations across the state and Jharkhand. Several raids were conducted in the next few months, including at the residence of Vinay Mishra, a Yuva Trinamool Congress leader. Both Mishra and Maji are allegedly absconding, and the CBI has secured a court order to make them appear before it. As the battle of nerves in poll-bound Bengal hots up, BJP on Monday is likely to appeal against the February 19 court summons to the home minister, which had directed him to appear before it at 10 am on that day. A few days before that order, on February 12, the Calcutta High Court, in an interim order, had allowed the CBI to probe the coal scam case anywhere in Bengal without seeking the state’s consent to probe beyond Railway zones. The HC will hear the case again on April 27 to decide whether the CBI can probe cases in Bengal even after the state had withdrawn its “general consent” in 2018. The Centre had told the HC that should the court decide later to entrust the coal scam probe to any other agency, the CBI would transfer all case records to that agency. On February 2, Trinamool-turned-BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari had first levelled allegations against “Madam Naroola”, referring to “Thailand accounts”. Four days later, Abhishek had responded to those allegations in Adhikari’shome turf, Contai, saying BJP was targeting his wife because they are “unable to fight me.... Contrary to what is being said, my wife has a bank account in Kolkata.” CBI sources on Sunday suggested that they wanted to question Rujiraon certain foreign remittances made in some Thailand accounts. “The agency is probing a case,” said Bengal BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya. “If they don’t probe, it is alleged that there is an understanding. If they probe, it is ‘political victimisation’. BJP is a political party and we are fighting politically. We have nothing to comment on these raids.” The party’s national general secretary, Kailash Vijayvargiya, said: “If someone has committed any wrong, the law will take its course. Those who are culprits should be punished. No one should try to politicise the matter.” It is still not clear whether Rujira and Menka will move court. Their legal counsel, Sanjay Basu, was not available for comment. Earlier, the two of them had moved Calcutta High Court against summons issued to them by Customs. After they got a reprieve, Customs had moved a division bench challenging the order. Rujira had returned from Bangkok along with her sister on March 16 and lodged a complaint at the NSCBI Airport police station against Customs officials. Six days later, on March 22, Customs filed a counter-FIR against the sisters and issued summons for them to appear in person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cbi-at-abhisheks-door-to-quiz-wife-in-illegal-coal-mining-case/articleshow/81143467.cms||Rohit Khanna
February 22, 2021||Kolkata||Rajib faces ‘khela hobe’ music on former home turf Domjur||Howrah: Former Trinamool Congress MLA Rajib Banerjee met with opposition at Domjur on Sunday when he went to tour his former constituency. BJP had organised a rally in the morning, but the moment Banerjee reached Narna — a village in Domjur from where the roadshow was to begin — slogans like “Rajib Banerjee go back” and “khela hobe” greeted him. Loudspeakers had been put up all over the place and when Banerjee arrived, slogans like ‘Mir Jafar go back’ started raining from all sides. TMC supporters shouted from all sides as bikers, sporting the BJP flag, started the rally with Banerjee following in a decorated car. “Trinamool er bhangiye neta, noiko sahaj vote e jeta (Trinamool defector, winning polls is not easy),” played on the loudspeakers as Banerjee tried to make his way through the villages of Domjur that were once so familiar to him. “We don’t want a leader who left us in the lurch and has come back again to seek support,” claimed a few locals. The rally progressed through the villages despite the opposition as Banerjee in folded hands tried to make eye contact with householders on both sides of the road. BJP’s pet slogan ‘Jai Shri Ram’ filled the air. “These things don’t bother me. I don’t want to get into controversies. I will keep working for the people. The number of people who followed me at Domjur on Sunday was a clear indication of where I stand in Domjur. Stray slogans don’t matter,” Banerjee said. He insisted that people of Domjur knew what he had done for them as an MLA. The slogans only showed that his opponents were scared that he had come back to tour his familiar ground, Banerjee said. “Are we giving any counter-slogans? That shows our level of confidence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rajib-faces-khela-hobe-music-on-former-home-turf-domjur/articleshow/81142959.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 22, 2021||Ranchi||Prisoners in jail for stealing potatoes released through Jail Adalat||Ranchi: Two persons —Deepak Kumar Rai and Sambhu Gupta — who were arrested in Lalpur area of Ranchi district in August 2020 for stealing one sack of potato, on Sunday were released by the court of Manish Kumar Misra on the basis of the period spent by them in custody during a virtual Jail Adalat organised under the aegis of District Legal Service Authority (DLSA). Like them, six others, all accused of petty crimes, were released through the Jail Adalat. DLSA secretary Abhishek Kumar said, “The prisoners were in jail for small crimes. The maximum term for theft is three years. However, it was considered that a six-month term is enough for an offence like stealing potatoes.” Another person Rohit Kuamr Singh was caught with a stolen mobile phone and was in jail for about a year. This was his first offence. The court of judicial magistrate Vipul Kumar released him on the basis of the period already undergone in custody. The DLSA further said the court of sub-divisional judicial magistrate P N Upadhyay released Shiekh Anwar and railway judicial magistrate Dharmendra Kumar released Aslam Khan and Akhtar Khan. It may be stated here that DLSA has so far released 50 prisoners through virtual Jail Adalats during the pandemic. The DLSA also held a legal awareness camp to inform the inmates about their rights. The DLSA usually informs undertrials about their rights to secure lawyers and bail. It may be stated here that some inmates fail to furnish their bail bonds after securing bail due to ignorance or other reasons. The DLSA has also instructed its para-legal volunteers to visit each ward and provide aid to the prisoners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/prisoners-in-jail-for-stealing-potatoes-released-through-jail-adalat/articleshow/81141630.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Ranchi||Guv opens endangered language centre in Ranchi||Ranchi: Governor Droupadi Murmu on Sunday launched the International Documentation Centre for Endangered Indigenous Languages and Culture at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University on the occasion of International Mother Language day. Speaking on the occasion, Murmu said she was hopeful that the centre, which will run in collaboration with Kiel University Germany, will help in conservation and promotion of languages of the state which are spoken by a large number of people, but have not got due recognition. She said the New Education Policy has also emphasised on mother language, adding the step will help in improved expression of knowledge and innovative ideas among people. Vice-chancellor DSPMU Dr S N Munda said the centre will document various characteristics of endangered languages like stories, idioms and writings. He said several tribal languages of Jharkhand need documentation. He mentioned that the documentation of Asur language, which is spoken in the plateau area of Neterhat, has been completed. Munda said his university will continue to play an important role in similar activities in the future. Director of Tribal Research Institute Ranendra Kumar opined that the long term value of the centre would be felt after research works in the next 10 years. A documentary film on Turi language which has been directed by professor John Michael Peterson of Kiel University was also shown in the function. The Governor provided mementoes to several researchers associated with the centre including Renu Munda, Diksha Singh, Basanti Mahto and Anand Barla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/guv-opens-endangered-language-centre-in-ranchi/articleshow/81141671.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 22, 2021||Hyderabad||21 Chenchu tribal youth step out of the forest to go on a 9000-km Himalayan expedition||Until a week ago, 14-year-old Veeraiah could barely even imagine what the words ‘highway’, ‘traffic jam’, ‘skyscrapers’ or ‘crowds’ meant. Having lived in the remote Palutla village, in the core area of the Srisailem Tiger Reserve nestled deep in the Nallamalla forests all his life, the teenager was a stranger to the ‘strange’ ways of big cities. And yet, here he was in Hyderabad, wide-eyed and wonderstruck, along with 20 other friends from his village, who were equally amazed at the whole big world that opened up to them as they stepped out of their forest for the first time ever. The youngsters — 15 boys and six girls — aged between eight and 18, belonging to the Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG) of Chenchus were in the city to collect the shiny new bicycles, on which they were to embark on an adventure of a lifetime —a five-month-9,000 km-long cycling and running expedition, all the way to the Himalayas, which was flagged off from People’s Plaza. The expedition, which will last for an estimated duration of 150 days, will cover 15 states and 74 districts. Over the course of their trip, they will attend three training programmes at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports, Manali; SEMCOL for trekking, Ladhak and at Goa. An ambitious journey from the heart of nallamala to the Himalayas Hailing from the disadvantaged Chenchu tribal community, these children have had little to no access or exposure to things most of us living in cities would consider basic. “Imagine the life of a person born in a small forest, whose only exposure is to people of his village who have never stepped foot out of the forest. Their only idea of the outside world comes from a teacher who is reading out from a book... That’s like hearing the story of how to ride a bicycle and thinking you know all about balancing on two wheels,” says Vamsidhar Kalidasu, a senior academician and mathematician from Hyderabad, who took it upon himself to mentor these disadvantaged but very talented children and give them some exposure to the world outside. The idea for the expedition came when Vamsidhar, who has been working with the community for three years, realised that the lockdown forced a lot of these students to drop out of school for good. Noticing how they were innately talented in endurance sports like running, he began training them.  “The pandemic forced many of these children to drop out of school for good and there was a risk of them falling into the trap of unproductive habits. To distract the children from the mundane tribal life and bring a positive change, I began to organise boot camps in sports and fitness,” said Vamsidhar, adding, “During this time, I realised that the forest kids have an innate athletic ability for long distance running. Looking at their fitness levels and skills, we decided to plan this expedition. After thorough scrutiny of their behaviour, skill, focus and discipline, we selected 15 boys and six girls for this expedition.” City life is fascinating, we’ve never seen such big buildings beforeWhile their mentor has big future plans for them, including meeting with the President and even training them to be future Olympians, the children are soaking up the now — all the sights and sounds and the hundreds of new faces they are meeting everyday. Chandrakala, the youngest member of the group, shyly tells us, “I have never stepped out of my village, so it feels so good to travel to different cities. Intha pedda buildings eppudu chudaledu nenu (I’ve never seen such big buildings before). I’m excited to explore more such places on this expedition.” Veeraiah, 14, however, doesn’t agree with his younger teammate. “It’s good to travel to a big city like Hyderabad but I prefer life in my village. It’s so busy here and looks like you need a lot of money to survive. in my village, the weather is pleasant and I can go out and eat some fruit to survive,” he says. But his eyes light up with a fire of determination at the mention of the adventure that awaits him. “I love to cycle and run. I can’t wait to test myself in different conditions and terrains,” he adds. Trekking, running for miles nonstop or cycling up a mountain — all can be done without breaking a sweat, says 15-year-old Chevula Anji. But his real desire is something else, she says. “my dream is to meet Tollywood star Allu Arjun. I’m a huge fan. I love him so much that I even try to imitate his style and dance steps. I wish I could meet him after returning from the expedition,” he said, excitedly. Talking about the challenge ahead of him, he says, “We have all trained hard for this expedition. I can cycle all day long and many of us are aiming to be athletes and participate in major sporting events.” “We feel that this expedition will change the dynamics of this disadvantaged community phenomenally. In the process, we can potentially spot the best of India’s sporting talent early on. The expedition is also intended to help the tribal kids transform themselves by breaking traditional barriers, and eventually bring laurels to the country, in both national and international athletic competitions,” says Vamsidhar, confidently. 15 States & UTs: Will be covered on the expedition; 75 Districts: Will be crossed by the group of kids; 9000 KM: Total distance that will be covered; 150 days: Estimated duration of the expedition||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/21-chenchu-tribal-youth-step-out-of-the-forest-to-go-on-a-9000-km-himalayan-expedition/articleshow/81137978.cms||Sravan Vanaparthy
February 22, 2021||Ahmedabad||Virus threat masks voting zest in Gujarat civic polls||AHMEDABAD: The coronavirus pandemic and absence of any touchy issues cast a dark shadow on the elections to the six municipal corporations, with the majority of people preferring to cool their heels at home on a Sunday rather than going to the polling booths. The average turnout in the six cities - Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar was around 43.57% - around five per cent less compared to 2015 Jamnagar clocked the highest turnout of nearly 52.49%, but that too was less compared to 2015 polls. BJP has been ruling all six municipal corporations. Surat was the only corporation among the six that crossed the 2015 turnout, the voting being the highest ever after 2005. Among those who encouraged others to vote were youth and first-time voters, senior citizens, physically challenged and seriously ill as well. A group of young boys and girls from Jain community reached a polling booth in Pal area of the city, wearing traditional clothes of worship. While Ahmedabad registered its lowest turnout since 2010, voting in chief minister Vijay Rupani's hometown Rajkot, with 50.75%, was marginally more than 2015. But Rupani flew to Rajkot from UN Mehta Hospital in Ahmedabad after testing negative for Covid-19 and voted in the special booth for Covid patients. In Ahmedabad, union home minister Amit Shah voted along with his family members in Naranpura. BJP and Congress, the two main contesting political parties, were hoping to witness queues as the day progressed but much to their disappointment, voters came in a trickle at most polling booths across the state. Smooth process overall amid coronaThe voting remained peaceful in all six cities, barring stray skirmishes at few places and technical snags with the EVMs. Commenting on the lower turnout, M V Joshi, secretary, State Election Commission (SEC), said despite pandemic, voting has been satisfactory. "After final validation of data, we hope the turnout will increase compared to 2015.” State election commissioner Sanjay Prasad expressed satisfaction over conduct of polls, stating that no major violence was reported from any of the cities. State BJP president CR Paatil said the voting trend is in favour of the BJP. “We will not fail the people, who have shown faith in the party. I want to thank all voters for their support to the party,” he said. Amit Chavda, state Congress president said, “There has been less voting in areas which are BJP strongholds. The low voting percentage reflects resentment against the BJP among voters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/virus-threat-masks-voting-zest-in-gujarat-civic-polls/articleshow/81144097.cms||---
February 22, 2021||Business||Cairn Energy eyes ‘acceptable solution’||NEW DELHI: Cairn Energy on Sunday said that it was hopeful of finding an acceptable solution to the vexed $1.2-billion tax dispute with the government but will take all necessary steps to protect the interests of its shareholders. “We have had cordial and constructive discussions in Delhi over the last few days with officials from the finance ministry. Notwithstanding and without prejudice to our rights under the international arbitration award, we have discussed a number of proposals with the aim of finding a swift resolution that could be mutually acceptable to the Indian government and the interests of Cairn’s shareholders. Assuming such a resolution can be achieved, we look forward to being able to move on to further opportunities to invest in India which continues to import the majority of the energy sources it consumes,” it said. After the meeting with Cairn CEO Simon Thomson last week, the government had indicated that it would file an appeal against tribunal ruling although the British company is hoping to expeditiously clinch the issue with India following the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/cairn-eyes-acceptable-solution/articleshow/81144126.cms||---
February 22, 2021||World||Texans stuck with $5,000 electric bills after winter storm need help, officials say||Elected officials in Texas said the state should help pay some of the eye-watering electricity bills sent to residents after the devastating and deadly winter storm that caused widespread blackouts. Texas has a highly unusual deregulated energy market that allows consumers to choose between scores of competing electricity providers. Some providers sell electricity at wholesale prices that rise in sync with demand, which skyrocketed as a record-breaking freeze gripped a state unaccustomed to extreme cold, killing at least two dozen people and knocking out power to more than 4 million people at its peak; some 30,000 people were still without power on Sunday, Texas Governor Greg Abbott said. As a result, some Texans who were still able to turn on lights or keep their fridge running found themselves with bills of $5,000 for just a five-day period, according to photos of invoices posted on social media by angry consumers. The Dallas Morning News said one provider offering a wholesale tariff plan had urged its thousands of customers to switch suppliers ahead of the storm to avoid high prices, but many found it would take too long to change their provider. "The bill should go to the state of Texas," Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner said in an interview with CBS News on Sunday. "When they're getting these exorbitant electricity bills and they're having to pay for their homes, repair their homes, they should not have to bear the responsibility." Fort Worth Mayor Betsy Price told CBS both the state and the federal government should be expected to help with the bills. U.S. Senator Ted Cruz, who was forced to cut short a holiday jaunt with his family to the Mexican beach resort of Cancun after public outrage, also distanced himself from the free-market system he had previously praised. "This is WRONG," Cruz wrote on Twitter. "No power company should get a windfall because of a natural disaster, and Texans shouldn't get hammered by ridiculous rate increases for last week's energy debacle. State and local regulators should act swiftly to prevent this injustice." Abbott called an emergency meeting of state lawmakers on Saturday to discuss the problem, saying in a statement that they had a responsibility to ensure Texans "do not get stuck with skyrocketing energy bills." On Sunday, the governor told reporters that the Texas Public Utilities Commission will order electricity companies to pause sending customers electricity bills. The commission is also issuing a temporary moratorium on disconnection for non-payment, Abbott said. Separately, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton has issued civil investigative demands to power companies regarding the outages, their emergency plans and pricing, saying that the companies "grossly mishandled" the weather emergency. U.S. President Joe Biden approved a major disaster declaration for Texas on Saturday that makes federal funding available to people harmed by the storm, including assistance for temporary housing and home repairs and low-cost loans. All power plants were back online this weekend and power had been restored to most homes as the weather returned to normal, but concerns still remained about water supplies, with millions of Texans being advised to boil water before using. Houston officials said the city's water was safe to use without boiling as of Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/texans-stuck-with-5000-electric-bills-after-winter-storm-need-help-officials-say/articleshow/81144160.cms||---
February 22, 2021||World||UK's Johnson to plot path out of lockdown on Monday||LONDON: British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will plot a path out of Covid-19 lockdown on Monday in an effort to gradually reopen the battered $3 trillion economy, aided by one of the fastest vaccine rollouts in the world. With more than 120,000 fatalities, Britain has suffered the world's fifth-highest official death toll from the pandemic and its biggest economic crash in more than 300 years. But a fast start to the vaccine rollout plus a near-two month tough national lockdown means Johnson can now set out a phased easing of the restrictions, prioritising a return to schools and social mixing outdoors. "Our decisions will be made on the latest data at every step, and we will be cautious about this approach so that we do not undo the progress we have achieved so far," he will say, according to his office. Under pressure both from politicians in his own Conservative Party to restart the economy, and from scientific advisers who fear a resurgence of the virus if he unlocks too quickly, Johnson has a difficult course to chart. He has appeared much more cautious in recent months and his health minister Matt Hancock said on Sunday any easing, such as the reopening of schools on March 8, would be followed by a couple of weeks to detect the impact on the wider population. Johnson will set out four tests to be considered before each new relaxation is taken, including the speed and success of the inoculation programme, the state of infection rates and the impact of any new variants of the virus. Britain moved faster than much of the West to secure vaccine supplies and has been inoculating people rapidly since December, a strategy that has driven sterling and stock markets higher on hopes of an economic rebound. Some 17.6 million people, over a quarter of the 67 million population, have now received a first dose, behind only Israel and the United Arab Emirates in vaccines per head of population. The government aims to give a first dose to all adults by the end of July. Hancock also said the country had recently succeeded in driving down cases of the more infectious South African variant. Overall daily coronavirus cases hovered around 11,000 a day last week, compared with a high of over 80,000 in late December. Johnson will set out the roadmap for England on Monday and lawmakers will have the chance to vote on it in parliament. Leaders in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland will also ease restrictions over the coming months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uks-johnson-to-plot-path-out-of-lockdown-on-monday/articleshow/81144194.cms||---
