February 23, 2021||World||Biden orders flags at half mast to mark half million Covid deaths||WASHINGTON: President Joe Biden on Monday will order flags on all US federal buildings to be lowered to half mast in commemoration of the imminent half million mark in the country's death toll from Covid-19, the White House said. Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters the gesture would last five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-orders-flags-at-half-mast-to-mark-half-million-covid-deaths/articleshow/81159251.cms||---
February 23, 2021||India||IED defused in Srinagar||SRINAGAR: The bomb disposal squad defused an improvised explosive device planted near Nowgam railway station in Srinagar early Monday. Later in the day, the local train service — which had been temporarily suspended in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak in March last year — resumed partially between Baramulla and Banihal after an 11-month gap. “The suspected explosive was spotted on Pantha Chowk-Nowgam road stretch by a road-opening party and a police team, following which the bomb disposal squad was called to check the suspicious item, which turned out to be an IED fitted in a tin box,” IGP (Kashmir Range) Vijay Kumar said. “As a precautionary measure, traffic was stopped on the stretch — barely a few hundred metres from Nowgam railway station near a bridge — and the IED defused, following which vehicle movement resumed normally,” the IGP said, adding the explosive may have been planted targeting security forces, especially convoys, at a time when Srinagar is on high alert with intense frisking and nakas of joint teams of police and CRPF in the wake of recent terror strikes in the city that left two cops dead in Barzulla and a dhaba scion injured in Dalgate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ied-defused-in-srinagar/articleshow/81159651.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 23, 2021||India||Mehbooba re-elected as PDP president for three years||SRINAGAR: Former chief minister and PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti was on Monday re-elected as the party president for another three-year term by senior party leaders here. Mehbooba has headed PDP since 2016, after succeeding her father Mufti Muhammad Sayeed, who passed away in January 2016. A PDP spokesman said Mehbooba was unanimously re-elected as party president for a period of three years, adding that her name was proposed by senior party members including Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura and Khurshid Aalam. The three-year term of Mehbooba as party president ended on October 31 last year, but fresh elections were not held due to the Covid–19 pandemic. After the election, Mehbooba took on IGP of Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, saying that he should focus on his duty. She was reacting to a question about the IG’s remark that politicians are inciting people to violence in J&K . Vijay Kumar blamed local politicians, without naming any one, for instigating people by spreading rumours, at a media conference last week. He said police won’t hesitate in preparing a dossier and, if necessary, action would be taken against such politicians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mehbooba-re-elected-as-pdp-president-for-three-years/articleshow/81159697.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 23, 2021||India||Help complete delimitation for early polls: J&K LG||SRINAGAR: Jammu and Kashmir’s lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Monday said that those who are demanding early assembly elections in the Union territory must cooperate with the delimitation commission to complete the exercise at the earliest. He said, instead of criticizing the delimitation process and staying away from the exercise, politicians who want early assembly polls must help to complete the exercise. “Once the delimitation exercise ends in J&K, the Election Commission of India will assess the situation and accordingly announce the poll dates,” he said. Three National Conference MPs, including party president Farooq Abdullah, have desisted from joining the delimitation commission. Besides others, all five MPs of J&K were part of the commission to identified more assembly constituencies. Asked about the growing incidents of militancy in Srinagar, Sinha said that only two incidents have happened in the city where a module that was involved in the attack on a Dhaba owner was busted and three accused arrested. “In the second incident, two policemen were killed, who were unarmed. I condemn such acts. Let me tell you that militancy won’t be allowed to grow at any cost,” he said. On PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti advocating dialogue with Pakistan, he said the ministry of external affairs will take care of such things.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/help-complete-delimitation-for-early-polls-jk-lg/articleshow/81159726.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 23, 2021||World||UK Sikh bodies encourage British Sikhs not to classify ethnically as Indian in UK census||LONDON: Sikh organisations and gurdwaras in Britain are encouraging Sikhs not to classify ethnically as “Indian” in the online census being carried out in March 2021. The census takes place every 10 years in Britain to capture up-to-date accurate details about households so that public services can be planned. The Network of Sikh Organisations (NSO) has, in a tweet, explained how Sikhs should answer the “What is your ethnic group?” question: “We recommend individuals unhappy with the ‘Indian’ option should tick ‘Any other Asian background’ (under ‘Asian or Asian British’) and write in ‘Punjabi’.” Lord Singh of Wimbledon, director, NSO, told TOI: “On ethnicity, our advice to those unwilling to describe themselves as ‘Indian’, because of the absence of closure for the 1984 anti-Sikh genocide is to write ‘Punjabi’ — a more accurate description of ethnicity.” But the Sikh Federation (UK), backed by a dozens of gurdwaras and Sikh organisations, is promoting a different classification — that British Sikhs avoid the “Asian or Asian British” category and instead pick the category “Other ethnic group”, then select “any other ethnic group” within that and write in “Sikh”. The federation, which recently lost a battle in the high court here to get a tick box for Sikhs in the ethnicity section of the census, said this was a battle for the Sikh “quami” identity. Its spokesman said: “In the census 2011 over 83,000 Sikhs protested and refused to use the existing ethnic tick boxes and ticked ‘other’ and wrote ‘Sikh’. Now we plan to double that number and possibly get up to 200,000 Sikhs to tick ‘other’ and write ‘Sikh’ this time to send a strong signal to the UK government.” The problem is that whilst some British Sikhs may now write “Punjabi”, others may write in “Sikh”, and others may tick “Indian”, sparking fears the census will not provide an accurate reflection of the Indian community, nor of the population. This is particularly important since the aim of the census is to shed light on the needs of different groups and communities, and the inequalities people are experiencing. In the 2011 census, whilst 1,413,000 people (2.5% of the population) ticked “Indian” as their ethnicity, 835,000 people (1.5%) “Asian other” in the Asian category. Of those, a large percentage identified as Sikh, according to the ONS. A further 333,000 (0.6%) ticked “any other ethnic group”. “There are other countries in South Asia where they don’t want to identify as their country where they will put Sindh, Punjab, Tamil and all this. I am confident everyone who is ethnically Indian will tick the ‘Indian’ box,” said a spokesperson for British Indians Voice, which is working directly with the Office of National Statistics on the census. “For the ethnicity question we want people to tick Asian, then Indian. This applies to Sikhs, Muslims, Hindus, Jains, Buddhist, Christians and others with roots in India,” the spokesperson said. “If people do not answer correctly then they are not counted and funds not properly allocated for temple, crematorium, chaplains and other relevant necessities. We also want to ensure that the Indian community fill out the separate national identity question as ‘British Indian’ by selecting ‘British’, then ‘other’, then writing in ‘Indian’. We don’t want to be called Asian, British Asian, or South Asian. We want to have our own identity. We do not want to be BAME either. We just want to be British Indian,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-sikh-bodies-encourage-british-sikhs-not-to-classify-ethnically-as-indian-in-uk-census/articleshow/81159742.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 23, 2021||World||4 Pak women aid workers killed in terror attack||ISLAMABAD: Masked gunmen on Monday shot dead at least four women aid workers in Pakistan’s northwestern district of North Waziristan, a volatile region on the border with Afghanistan that was once the headquarters of the Pakistani Taliban and a haven for the Haqqani network. The incident occurred at 9.30am in Ippi village, near the Mir Ali town of North Waziristan. According to police, a group of workers associated with the NGO Sabawoon was coming from Bannu city and its adjoining areas to teach sewing and embroidery to village women when the two motorcycle-borne assailants opened fire on their vehicle. The victims died where they fell while the driver was wounded. "This is a militancy-stricken district, the threat is everywhere," senior police official Shafiullah Gandapur said, adding that the police had cordoned off the area and launched a search-and-strike operation. The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan condemned the killing and urged the state to "book the perpetrators of this heinous crime". "The re-emergence of terror groups in the area is a matter of grave concern. It is the responsibility of the authorities to protect the lives and property of citizens at all costs," it tweeted. HRCP condemns the killing of four women social workers in #NorthWaziristan. The state must bring to book the perpet… https://t.co/Ox3lTZhAmG— Human Rights Commission of Pakistan (@HRCP87) 1613983164000North Waziristan was once the headquarters of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), a conglomerate of outfits formed in 2007 with the sole aim of overthrowing the Pakistani government and establishing a theocratic state in line with their strict interpretation of Islam. Movement of women had been completely restricted when the Pakistani Taliban controlled the region. The group had also banned NGOs. In 2014, following a series of military offensives, the Pakistani army launched a major operation in North Waziristan after evacuating the entire population. The operation pushed the group’s leadership into eastern Afghanistan and dented its operational capacity on Pakistani soil. Since then, violence has dropped significantly, although TTP sporadically mounts attacks on civilians and security forces. In recent months, there has been a surge in terrorist attacks in North Waziristan since internally displaced people started returning home after years of forced exile. At least 58 people, including tribal leaders, security forces personnel and others, have been killed in terrorist attacks in North Waziristan in the last 10 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/4-pak-women-aid-workers-killed-in-terror-attack/articleshow/81159848.cms||---
February 23, 2021||India||NHAI scraps absorption of officers on deputation||NEW DELHI: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will no more absorb the officials who come on deputation from other organizations. This move will put an end to internal rift in the organization and people lobbying to get absorbed permanently, sources said. Complying with the decision of the NHAI Board, which has members from different ministries and Niti Aayog, the NHAI has issued a circular on this. The policy guidelines said, “Now that NHAI has been able to substantially build up its own cadre in the technical cadre, the need for absorption of officers in the authority has been reviewed and in this regard, NHAI Board in its meeting held on December 23, 2020 decided that ‘henceforth there shall be no absorption in NHAI’. In compliance to the decision of the authority and accordingly, the provision pertaining to absorption in the Rule-13 of NHAI (Recruitment, Seniority and Promotion) may be treated as deleted.” Officials said this has brought a greater clarity for all employees. They added the NHAI will continue to hire officials and engineers at higher levels on deputation and they can remain in the position for the prescribed period. “The NHAI has been witness to many instances when people on deputation have tried to get absorbed in the organization. The main intention of the authority was to have a lean organization and bring experts and professionals on deputation from other entities. But that had got lost. The new decision will be good for the organisation,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nhai-scraps-absorption-of-officers-on-deputation/articleshow/81161155.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 23, 2021||India||China backs Brics meet in India, Xi Jinping may attend it||NEW DELHI: : Amid an apparent thaw in ties after 11 months of border strife, China on Monday backed the Brics summit to be hosted by India this year saying it’s willing to work with India and other member states to strengthen cooperation in various fields. President Xi Jinping is expected to visit India in the second half of this year for the summit, if the Covid situation continues to improve in the next few months. China attaches great importance to the Brics cooperation mechanism and has always been committed to deepening the Brics strategic partnership and consolidating the positive momentum of Brics solidarity and cooperation, said the Chinese foreign ministry. “China supports India’s hosting of this year’s Brics conference, and is willing to work with India and other Brics countries to continue to strengthen communication and cooperation in various fields, consolidate the “three-wheel drive” cooperation framework of economics, politics, and humanities,” said spokesperson Wang Wenbin, responding to queries on whether or not the border situation will affect the summit. India earlier assumed the Brics chairmanship for 2021 and is set to hold this year's summit. On February 19, foreign minister S Jaishankar launched India’s Brics 2021 website at the Brics secretariat in Sushma Swaraj Bhawan in New Delhi. China’s backing of the summit follows the troop disengagement in the Pangong area after an agreement reached between the senior commanders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-backs-brics-meet-in-india-xi-may-attend-it/articleshow/81162638.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Education department gets highest 21.94% of total scheme budget||PATNA: In his maiden Budget presented in the state assembly on Monday, deputy CM-cum-finance minister Tarkishore Prasad pitched for a big push on reforms after the disruptions caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The aim is to bring education, health and labour resources activities commensurate with the educated, healthy and forward- looking state, besides creating 20 lakh job and work opportunities for youths and women, Prasad said. His budget speech also pointed to the abrogation of old laws that create obstacles in the way of opening new business, trade and industrial units. “The government will also push for labour reforms in sync with ease of doing business,” he said. Referring to the Good Governance Programme (GGP) announced last year and to be implemented over the five-year period beginning 2020, Prasad said the Covid-19 pandemic threw up new challenges for the state, which has to be met to build new future, he told the media after presenting the Budget. Incidentally, the allotments made for scheme expenditures for education is the highest (21.94% of the total scheme budget) at Rs21,939 crore among all the departments. However, the allotment for the scheme activities in the health department is Rs6,927 crore (6.93% of the total scheme expenditure) and that for the labour resources department is Rs766.17 crore (0.44%). The implantation and the revival of the state’s entrepreneurial activities by giving loans to trained, skilled and educated youths and women is to be done by the industries department, which has been allotted Rs1,190 crore (0.59%). Education department: The government has envisaged 100% literacy and universalization of secondary education in the state in tune with the UN demand made under the sustainable development goal (SDG). In sync with the same, it has given a big push to incentives for girls’ higher education. An unmarried girl will get Rs25,000 on passing the intermediate examinations, while those graduating will get Rs50,000 each. “This will also help in bringing down the state’s fertility rate,” Prasad said. For a quality education, the government has decided to fill the vacant posts of teachers in schools, colleges and universities in a phased manner in 2021-22, besides appointing full-time principals and headmasters in schools, infrastructure development and providing digital counselling to students opting for higher education abroad. Health department: The government has decided to establish mega health institute of international standards on the PMCH campus. It has also decided to establish kidney transplant centres and provide additional 100-bed emergency ward and another chunk of 12-bed ICU. To improve the quality of medical education, University of Health Sciences would be opened, and facilities at IGIMS would also be expanded. Labour resources: The government has already prepared a road map for the modernization of 60 ITIs by making them centres of excellence, so as to give quality training and skill development to students in accordance with market demands, Prasad said. The government has also decided to establish skill development centres with sophisticated machines at the district headquarters. The aim is to create an army of skilled youths and women who also have entrepreneurial skill. Further, those willing to establish small-scale business/trade or other employment/work opportunity would be given a loan worth Rs5 lakh each on easy terms. “It will be handled by the industries department. Women entrepreneurs will not have to pay any interest. Further, the government itself – not the banks – will provide the loans,” Prasad said, adding that over the next four-five years, 20 lakh job and work opportunities will be created in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/education-department-gets-highest-21-94-of-total-scheme-budget/articleshow/81159170.cms||Abhay Singh
February 23, 2021||Patna||Vaishali village tense after youth’s murder||PATNA: The killing of a 21-year-old youth at Nilo Rukunpur village under Tisiauta police station in Vaishali district late Sunday night sparked off tension in the area on Monday. Agitated over the murder of Raja Kumar, a final year student of BA, some local residents blocked the Mahua-Tajpur road with the body near Davaichh Chowk and disrupted vehicular traffic for over eight hours since morning. They also forced the closure of the shops in the local market and demanded immediate arrest of the accused. The matriculation examinees were the worst sufferers as they had to face problems in reaching their examination centres on time. The blockade was removed after the intervention of SP Maneesh, who assured the arrest of the culprits at the earliest. Mahua SDPO Poonam Kesari said two bike-borne persons reached his house and summoned him on the road. When Raja came out, he was shot at. He was rushed to a local hospital where doctors declared him dead. The SDPO said prime facie the incident appeared to be a fallout of love affair with a girl, who used to attend coaching classes with Raja. The girl and Raja’s two other friends were being interrogated, she said. Poonam said Raja’s cellphone was seized from the spot. “His relatives have suspected some people and raids are on to arrest them,” she added. Tisiauta SHO Ravindra Pal said armed police force has been deployed at the village to avert any untoward incident. The girl belongs to a nearby village, he said. RJD leader and former minister Shivchandra Ram assailed the state government for its failure to check crime. “Criminals run amok and target people anytime and anywhere,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vaishali-village-tense-after-youths-murder/articleshow/81158830.cms||Ramashankar
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||RT-PCR tests for Gulf flyers at airport from today||Kolkata: Over 550 passengers arriving on four flights from the Gulf on Tuesday will undergo Covid test at Kolkata airport following the new SOP issued by the health and family welfare ministry to check the spread of the new Covid-19 strains. “All passengers arriving from the Middle East will have to undergo RT-PCR test, both before take off and after landing. Swabs of all incoming flyers from Doha and Dubai will be collected on Tuesday,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee said on Monday. The swab collection is being revived at the airport after exactly two months. The first flight to arrive on Tuesday will be a Qatar flight from Doha at 1.50am. It is expected to carry around 110-120 passengers. An IndiGo flight from Dubai will bring around 150 passengers, followed by the Emirates flight from Dubai at 8am with 150-160 flyers. The SpiceJet flight from Dubai at 9pm is expected to bring 150 passengers. Flyers will be allowed to proceed to their destination after the swab test and the result will be sent online. Those who test positive will be isolated and admitted to a healthcare facility. Private diagnostic centres Suraksh and Dr Lal’s Path Lab will continue to collect the swabs till HLL Lifecare sets up a high-tech laboratory at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rt-pcr-tests-for-gulf-flyers-at-airport-from-today/articleshow/81158988.cms||Subhro Niyogi
February 23, 2021||Patna||Budget lacks industrial, job creation road map: Expert||PATNA: The people of Bihar, especially the trade and industries sectors, had high hopes from the state Budget 2021-22 regarding jobs and creation of employment opportunities, the key poll promises of both the opposition RJD and the BJP-led NDA. CM Nitish Kumar hailed the Budget presented by deputy CM and finance minister Tarkishore Prasad on Monday, saying it will further push the double-digit growth rate maintained since he came to power in 2005. However, the industrialists felt disappointed, saying nothing was promising to weave a success story on the industrial front. The Budget promises a self-reliant state (aatmanirbhar Bihar), but noted makhana exporter Satyajit Singh has "serious" doubts about the “government’s motive and intent” on the industrialization front to generate jobs and employment on a large scale in the state. “The industries department budget is 0.58% of the total outlay. The state government has earmarked Rs200 crore for self-employment generation with a provision of Rs10 lakh for individuals with half the amount as subsidy and the rest as a loan at a 1% interest rate. If the total amount earmarked is exhausted, it will benefit a maximum of 2,000 people. And the government has promised 20 lakh employment opportunities! Only a micro-enterprise with a possible job opportunity for only 5 persons is possible with an amount of Rs10 lakh,” Singh told TOI, adding, it will generate employment for a maximum of 10,000 people. Describing the Budget as “lacking any long-term road map”, Singh said, “The techno-managerial approach will not address the problems of unemployment and industrialization in Bihar. For creating 20 lakh employment, private investment of Rs1 lakh crore is needed in the next five years @ Rs5 lakh per employment creation investment cost.” Quoting the state Economic Survey Report 2020-21, Singh said only Rs1,800 crore has been invested in the 262 private sector units, which created 7,100 jobs in Bihar, in the last five years. “If we compare the budget allocation for industries, not more than 10,000 employment opportunities can be created,” Singh said. The Bihar Industries Association (BIA) president, Ram Lall Khetan, is also disappointed with the Budget. “From the industry's point of view, it’s not a good Budget. The government says it will train people and develop their skills, but where is job creation? It has allocated Rs200 crore for women self-employment. Only a short-term project can be set up with an amount of Rs10 lakh as has been promised to any woman entrepreneur as a loan. Only big industries can meet the NDA poll promise of providing 20 lakh job opportunities in 5 years. It takes years to set up a big industry and the Budget lacks any long-term vision in this regard,” Khetan told TOI. The BIA president also mentioned the Budget allocation of Rs1,190 crore only for the industries department from the scheme (plan) head and Rs95.17 crore for committed (non-plan) expenditure to drive home his point. “The Supreme Court, in June last year, has ordered the state to pay incentives worth Rs1,000 crore due to industrialists from 2011 to 2020 under the state industrial policy 2011. What will remain with the department if Rs1,000 crore out of Rs1,190 crore is paid to us?” Khetan asked. He also said the government should have planned a road map of 20 years for industrialization as Bihar being a consumer state has the potential to deliver in every sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/budget-lacks-industrial-job-creation-road-map-expert/articleshow/81159207.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
February 23, 2021||Business||Indiabulls Housing eyes $200mn via FCCB issue||TNN Mumbai: Indiabulls Housing Finance on Monday said its board has allowed the company to raise up to $200 million (about Rs 1,460 crore) through an offer of foreign currency convertible bonds (FCCBs) at a floor price of just over Rs 227 each. The company was on track to raise about $150 million by Monday evening, sources said. With this, the housing finance company (HFC) would have raised about $500 million in the current fiscal through a combination of debt, equity and stake sale in a foreign arm. The bonds will be for a tenure of five years. Once completed, the Indiabulls Housing Finance FCCB offer will be the first issuance by any non-banking finance company (NBFC) or HFC for foreign funds in 2021. In September 2020, Indiabulls Housing Finance had raised about Rs 2,000 crore and sold stakes in London-based bank Oak North to mobilise about Rs 700 crore. The company enjoys a strong capital adequacy of 30.5% and tier-1 ratio of 23.7%, well ahead of the regulatory requirement, company officials said. The funds raised through the FCCBs will be used for onward lending. According to company officials, lending opportunities in the housing finance industry continues to be strong and with the competitive landscape now benign, the equity capital raised by the company over the past six months will serve as growth capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indiabulls-housing-eyes-200mn-via-fccb-issue/articleshow/81160444.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Patna||Tejashwi seeks govt reply on Matric papers’ leak issue||PATNA: The leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, on Monday raised the leak of three question papers of the ongoing matriculation examinations and sought the state government’s reply on it, maintaining that it was a serious issue and linked with the future of students. Tejashwi raised the issue during the question hour after the House met for the day’s proceedings. However, assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha did not allow it, since the business of the question hour had to be conducted and the House had two government businesses on its agenda – the presentation of state’s Budget and the House discussion on the motion of thanks to the governor’s address to the joint session of the state legislature. The Speaker said the question hour to be conducted consisted of four short-notice and 76 starred questions. He pointed out that for the first time, the government had submitted answers to 73 of the 76 starred questions online and, accordingly, thanked the government and the CM for facilitating it. The Speaker also asked the members to first read the government replies and then raise the supplementary questions to save time. In between, the CPI(ML) members had entered the well of the House seeking government’s reply to the spiralling price rise, problems of farmers and the incidents of hooch tragedy among other issues. Besides, RJD member Sameer Kumar Mahaseth had also moved an adjournment motion, which the Speaker rejected. The CPI(ML) members sat in the well all through the question hour and continued to shout, as a result of which the proceedings pertaining to the question hour could not be conducted. Earlier, the CPI(ML) members and others from the Congress led by Shakeel Ahmad Khan also drew the attention of the media to the non-payment of MSP to the farmers during the paddy procurement. Khan said the farmers had sold maize, paddy, wheat and other items at distress prices to the traders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-seeks-govt-reply-on-matric-papers-leak-issue/articleshow/81159411.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Patna||RCP first non-BJP MP to donate for Ram temple||PATNA: JD(U) national president and Rajya Sabha member RCP Singh on Monday donated Rs1,11,111 for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Singh handed over the cheque in the name of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra to a delegation of senior leaders RSS and BJP leaders at his residence in Patna. With this, RCP turned out to be the first non-BJP MP in Bihar to make donations for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. A delegation of comprising RSS ‘kshetra karyawah’ (Bihar & Jharkhand) Mohan Singh, its ‘sah-kshetra pracharak’ Ram Nawami Prasad, prant pracharak Rana Pratap, BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal and BJP’s state general secretary Devesh Kumar called on the JD(U) president and sought his cooperation in the construction of Ram Mandir. “RCP gave his donation for the Ram Mandir in a very cordial atmosphere,” Mohan told TOI. Mohan, who leads the RSS in Bihar and Jharkhand, said they would soon approach other senior leaders of JD(U), RJD, Congress and all other political parties to seek ‘samarpan nidhi’ for the Ram Mandir. He further revealed that former Union minister Nagmani, who is the son of veteran socialist leader Jagdeo Prasad, also gave a donation for Ram Mandir a few days back. The RSS leader, however, refused to divulge the amount donated by Nagmani. Contacted over phone, Nagmani confirmed having donated a “small amount” to the RSS leaders for the construction of Ram Mandir. Earlier on January 18, Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan had donated Rs2.01 lakh for the Ram temple. Chauhan had handed over a cheque to R N Singh, the national vice-president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and head of the Bihar Rajya Samarpan Nidhi Sangrah Samiti, a committee engaged in collecting funds across the state for the purpose. To a question, Mohan said around 600 teams of the samiti were moving in different parts of Bihar to seek people’s donations for the Ram Mandir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rcp-first-non-bjp-mp-to-donate-for-ram-temple/articleshow/81159160.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||Collection agents steal Rs 55L over 44 yrs||Kolkata: For 44 years, Krishna Prasad Chakraborty and Chittaranjan Chakraborty worked with a public sector bank. Appointed as collection agents, they had remained in the good books of the management and entrusted to collect money from clients and deposit them in their accounts till they left their jobs last November. Now, the bank has realized that both had siphoned more than Rs 55 lakh and managed to stay above suspicion. The bank has lodged an FIR hoping to retrieve the money. Phoolbagan police, which is probing the case, claimed both accused are absconding at present. According to the complaint, Chittaranjan, of Narkeldanga Main Road and Krishna, of Sukanta Nagar had been collecting money from account holders from June 28, 1977 till November 13, 2020. “They were appointed as authorized collection agents of the bank’s Beliaghata branch,” a source said. The FIR — lodged by the chief manager of the bank — said, “Chittaranjan collected Rs 35,17,300 and Krishna collected Rs 20,13,300 from account holders with the promise of depositing the money in the accounts. But they misappropriated the money. A probe is under way,” an officer said. IPC sections pertaining to criminal breach of trust by bankers and criminal conspiracy have been registered, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/collection-agents-steal-rs-55l-over-44-yrs/articleshow/81159597.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||Hawkers take over civic parking space in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Six out of seven slots to park cars along Bertram Street have been occupied by hawkers. On the adjoining Humayun Place, seven out of eight slots have been taken over. Even the streets around New Market have been completely over-run by hawkers. Though the market and the streets around it are located near the civic headquarters, there has been no attempt to rein in the encroachers. On Monday, TOI found that only seven cars could be parked along Bertram Street though the agency appointed to operate the lot said the stretch was supposed to accommodate 50. Even a stretch reserved for KMC cars has not been spared. Opposite the mayor’s office, there is a lot where 15 KMC cars are supposed to be parked at any given time. But hawkers selling shoes have encroached on four-fifths of the area, leaving space for three cars. The situation is no better on Humayun Place where only five out of 40 slots are available for cars with the rest occupied by hawkers. The parking attendant has managed to retain space for two-wheelers and is barely surviving through collections made from them. The attendant on Bertram Street, though, fears he may lose his job soon. “The situation has worsened after unlock. A group of new hawkers invaded the area and devoured whatever little parking space was available. We have brought the matter to the notice of KMC and cops, but action has been scant,” the attendant said. New Market cops acknowledged the problem but said they were constrained by the pandemic and had to display a human face as many had lost their livelihood. An officer claimed drives were held to ensure further encroachment didn’t take place and cited the arrest of one new hawker selling his wares on the road while displaying them on the pavement. In all, the police claim to have booked 18 hawkers in the area in the recent past. Traders of New Market and adjoining markets aren’t impressed by the cop claims and allege the arrests are eyewash. “Just look around and you can see the situation. All parking spaces have been taken over in the past seven to 10 years. We don’t have customers anymore since they are unable to access the market or find parking space,” said Joint Traders’ Forum president Ashok Gupta. Markets in the neighbourhood now depend entirely on Bangladeshi customers from Free School Street, Marquis Street, Sudder Street and adjoining areas who walk down to shop. Unfortunately, with Bangladeshi visitors down to a trickle due to the pandemic and flight restrictions, the 5,000-odd traders who do business in New Market, Sreeram Arcade, Firpo’s market Chowringhee market, Treasure Island and Simpark mall have been driven against the wall and have announced a three-day movement beginning February 24. A KMC car parking department official conceded a large portion of parking lots had been taken over by new hawkers. “We have asked police to keep a regular vigil and remove encroachment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hawkers-take-over-civic-parking-space/articleshow/81158980.cms||Saikat Ray
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Police call BJP leader for questioning in cocaine case||KOLKATA: After BJP Yuva Morcha office-bearer Pamela Goswami — who was arrested by Kolkata Police for allegedly possessing 90 g cocaine in her car — repeatedly claimed that she was a victim of a conspiracy, the detective department has taken over the case. Sleuths have summoned BJP leader Rakesh Singh at 4 pm on Tuesday for interrogation. The development coincided with BJP Yuva Morcha worker, and Goswami’s co-accused in the case, Prabir Kumar Dey pointing fingers at someone “other than police who planted the cocaine in the car and salon”. “The person who planted the drugs in the car is the same one who might have planted the cocaine in the salon,” Dey said. Cops said they are trying to identify the man who Goswami and Dey claimed was in the car at New Alipore right before the arrest. “We are ascertaining if they were given assurances regarding their careers by this mystery man,” said an officer. Sources said cops on Monday studied the CCTV footage seized from the New Town salon. “We now know those who would visit the salon. A list of the employees has been drawn up and they have been asked to join the probe,” an officer said. The cops said prima facie, the narcotic seized from the accused seems to be in crude form. “This is usually found with dealers. We are waiting for the CFSL report,” said an officer. The call logs of Goswami and Dey have also been analyzed, said sources. Goswami’s defense lawyer Sudhodip Roy dismissed the police claims. “The police story will fall flat as they do not have evidence. The cops are yet to tell us why the driver of the hired vehicle from which the seizure was made was not interrogated. How does a person know what is kept inside a hired car?” he asked. He told TOI they had moved a petition at the local court on Monday to allow two advocates to have access to the client. “The petition has been granted and a woman advocate will be meeting her on Tuesday,” said Roy. “Whatever the cops might try, we are confident of ensuring bail for Goswami,” he said. Singh, who spoke with TOI on Sunday about his letter to the commissioner, has said he will lodge a defamation case against Kolkata Police if Goswami drags his name in this case while in police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-call-bjp-leader-for-questioning-in-cocaine-case/articleshow/81159016.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 23, 2021||Patna||Bihar budget a bundle of lies: Opposition||PATNA: Describing the Rs2.18 lakh crore state Budget for 2021-22 fiscal as a bundle of lies, the leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, said the ruling dispensation has befooled the people of the state once again. Tejashwi said the Budget has neither mentioned about setting up industrial and food processing units nor discussed as how to check migration from the state. “The Nitish government has no blueprint of creating 20 lakh job opportunities. It is talking about Saat Nishchay-2 though even the part-1 projects are incomplete in the state. This government is master of fudging figures, like it did in the case of coronavirus measures. The promise of setting up a sports university at Rajgir is another ‘jumla’ as the government rename the stadium complex being constructed there,” Tejashwi said. RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said the Budget has failed to come up to the expectations of the farmers. “Only 2.53% of budgetary allocation is meant for the agriculture sector as compared to 3.01% for the water resources department,” he pointed out. Terming the Budget as nothing but ‘jumlabaji’ (hallow promises), the RJD spokesperson said most of the departments had failed to utilize even half the funds allocated during 2020-21 fiscal and increasing their budgetary allocation is meaningless. Describing the budget as an eyewash, Congress spokesperson Harkhu Jha said only Rs1.43 lakh crore out of the estimated Rs2.11 lakh crore for 2020-21 fiscal could be spent. “Most of the departments failed to utilize the budgetary allocations,” he said. Moreover, there is an estimate of a huge sum to be spent under Saat Nishchay Part II schemes despite the fact that gross anomalies were committed in the implementation of its part I. Most of the DMs have submitted their reports hinting at irregularities in the ambitious project of the CM, he added. “When the work under Saat Nischay Part I is incomplete, what is the purpose of a huge budgetary allocation for its part II,” he asked, saying the farmers have been left to fend for themselves. “It seems that the government has neglected the farm sector due to their ongoing agitation against the farm laws passed by the Centre,” he observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/budget-a-bundle-of-lies-opposition/articleshow/81159065.cms||Ramashankar
February 23, 2021||Trichy||51 cases in south Tamil Nadu, 41 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state on Monday reported 51 fresh Covid-19 cases. Meanwhile, the central region reported 41 fresh cases taking the tally to 76,963. The number of active cases has come down to 332 from 350 in the region. There were no casualties in both the regions on Monday. Kanyakumari recorded 10 fresh cases, the highest in the southern region followed by Madurai (9), Dindigul (8), Sivagangai (6), Tirunelveli (5), Theni (3), Ramanathapuram (3), Tenkasi (3), Virudhunagar (2), and Tuticorin (2). The number of active cases climbed to 367 on Monday from 365 on Sunday. Though Madurai with 60 active cases has the highest number in this region the numbers have gone down steadily in the region over the last few weeks except for mild fluctuations for a day or two. Kanyakumari (59), Dindigul (55) and Sivagangai (53) are the other districts with more than 50 active cases. Theni with 10 active cases recorded the lowest in the region. Virudhunagar (13), Ramanathapuram (15), Tuticorin (21) and Tenkasi (34) are the other districts with less than 50 active cases. With 16 fresh cases, the highest number in the central region, Thanjavur’s tally crossed the 18,000-mark on Monday touching 18,002. It took close to two months for Thanjavur to add 1,000 more cases to its count. It was on December 25, that the district crossed the 17,000-mark. Trichy and Tiruvarur districts reported six cases each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/51-cases-in-south-tn-41-in-central-districts/articleshow/81168757.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Madurai||51 cases in south Tamil Nadu, 41 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state on Monday reported 51 fresh Covid-19 cases. Meanwhile, the central region reported 41 fresh cases taking the tally to 76,963. The number of active cases has come down to 332 from 350 in the region. There were no casualties in both the regions on Monday. Kanyakumari recorded 10 fresh cases, the highest in the southern region followed by Madurai (9), Dindigul (8), Sivagangai (6), Tirunelveli (5), Theni (3), Ramanathapuram (3), Tenkasi (3), Virudhunagar (2), and Tuticorin (2). The number of active cases climbed to 367 on Monday from 365 on Sunday. Though Madurai with 60 active cases has the highest number in this region the numbers have gone down steadily in the region over the last few weeks except for mild fluctuations for a day or two. Kanyakumari (59), Dindigul (55) and Sivagangai (53) are the other districts with more than 50 active cases. Theni with 10 active cases recorded the lowest in the region. Virudhunagar (13), Ramanathapuram (15), Tuticorin (21) and Tenkasi (34) are the other districts with less than 50 active cases. With 16 fresh cases, the highest number in the central region, Thanjavur’s tally crossed the 18,000-mark on Monday touching 18,002. It took close to two months for Thanjavur to add 1,000 more cases to its count. It was on December 25, that the district crossed the 17,000-mark. Trichy and Tiruvarur districts reported six cases each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/51-cases-in-south-tn-41-in-central-districts/articleshow/81160807.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Patna||Bihar budget draws flak for ignoring existing educational institutes||PATNA: The 2021-2022 state budget presented by deputy CM and finance minister Tarkishore Prasad on Monday evoked a mixed response among academics. While some appreciated the new measures of the government for modernizing the existing technical institutions and opening new medical and pharmacy colleges, others regretted that no major initiative to reform the education system had been envisaged. Hailing the budget, Anil Kumar, head of the geology department at Patna Science College, said the decision to set up a digital counselling centre for the students going abroad was praiseworthy as it would help many talented youngsters. “Setting up a mega skill centre in every district will prepare them for suitable jobs in different sectors,” he added. On the other hand, Nawal Kishore Chaudhary, former head of the economics department in Patna University (PU), criticised the budget as it “lacks any initiative for the betterment of the academic scenario in the state”. He pointed out, “While proposals have been made for opening new technical institutions, nothing has been proposed for improving the condition of the existing institutes.” Bihar Public Service Commission’s former member Shiv Jatan Thakur said higher education had received very little attention in the budget as a result of which the quality of teaching and research would be affected. He, however, patted the government for encouraging women by providing them interest-free loans. Shefali Roy, head of the political science department in PU, claimed that the budget was not balanced. “No announcement for opening up of a new centre of excellence in higher education or a research institute of national level has been made,” she added. However, a J D Women’s College student, Asha Rani, welcomed the measures announced by the government. She pointed out, “Providing financial incentives of Rs 25,000 to unmarried girls on passing the Intermediate exams and Rs 50,000 after graduation will go a long way in ensuring women empowerment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/existing-educational-institutes-ignored-say-experts-academics/articleshow/81159057.cms||B K Mishra
February 23, 2021||Patna||SSP: Form ‘mohalla’ committees||BHAGALPUR: Bhagalpur SSP Natasha Gudia has directed all SHOs in the district to form ‘mohalla’ committees in order to bridge the communication gap between police and common people. These local bodies will also ensure better coordination, transparency and dissemination of information. All police stations will have separate ‘mohalla’ committees headed by their respective SHOs. People having social presence, renowned personalities, social activists and policemen will also be part of the committees. Bhagalpur SSP Natasha Gudia told this newspaper that the ‘mohalla’ committees will encourage local residents to exchange their views with police and give feedback so that crimes are solved and prevented easily. “Aimed at achieving successful community engagement by organizing police-public meetings, the ‘mohalla’ committees will help maintain social harmony by checking crimes and ensure better policing,” the SSP said and added that senior citizens and social activists would be encouraged to give their feedback on policing and share grievances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssp-form-mohalla-committees/articleshow/81158966.cms||Kumar Rajesh
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Month-long campaign to register construction workers in Delhi begins||New Delhi: Delhi government on Monday launched a month-long campaign to register construction workers in the capital so that they can avail benefits of various welfare schemes. Delhi has around 10 lakh construction workers out of which 1.3 lakh workers are registered with Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. Around 80,000 workers are in the process of getting registered. The mega registration campaign eyes to register over 8 lakh more workers. “Construction workers are the backbone of nation because they provide strength to nation’s development. They are responsible for building our houses, our cities. Delhi government is committed to ensure their dignity and upliftment,” Sisodia said launching the drive. The deputy CM said, “the idea behind the launch of the mega registration drive is that the construction workers can avail benefits of Delhi government schemes related to education, pension, maternity, marriage and others.” Registration camps will be organised at 45 sites across Delhi, including 29 government schools and 16 construction sites. Mobile units will be deployed to register workers at construction sites itself so that they don’t have to forego their daily wage. Delhi has 262 major labour chowks where workers assemble in search of work. Sisodia said that massive awareness campaign was being launched at all these chowks with hoardings, posters and distribution of handbills to encourage more and more construction workers to register at the camps in their nearby locations. Workers whose registration has lapsed have been asked to renew their membership. An official said that registration camps would operate from February 22 to March 22, Monday to Friday between 9 am and 5 pm. Construction workers can visit the camps for registration, renewals and verification process of registration. Sisodia appealed to the residents of Delhi to assist construction workers and spread awareness about the drive so that maximum workers can avail benefits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/month-long-campaign-to-register-construction-workers-in-delhi-begins/articleshow/81160822.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 23, 2021||Patna||Pandemic-hit farmers, common people feel let down by Budget||PATNA: Farming and allied sectors of the state, apart from the industries and trade bodies, are disappointed by the state budget tabled by deputy CM and finance minister Tarkishore Prasad on Monday. Since this was the first state budget after the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent slowdown of the economy, the pandemic hit farmers expected a more inclusive budget allocation, focusing on agricultural infrastructure. “It’s the same as previous years, no important announcements or allocations for us farmers. Even the Centre has started paying attention to our pleas, but our state government has continued to turn a deaf ear to all our appeals,” said a Rohtas-based farmer, Yashwant Kumar Singh. Experts, too, expressed their dismay with the fiscal budget. “It has provided no direct solutions to people’s grievances. Rewarding students with 50 thousand rupees is encouraging, but the absence of credible teachers and institutes that would help them pass is not addressed,” Patna-based economist and professor of economics at AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies D M Diwakar said. Ram Shankar, secretary of the Patna chapter of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), claimed that although the government announced some measures that focussed on access to education and health, key factors such as inflation, economic downturn, the plight of the sugarcane industry remain neglected. Even citizens feel the budget has failed to meet the concerns of the common people. Neelu Singh, resident of Kankarbagh said, “The price of essential commodities are always on the rise, I struggle to manage my household budget under such pressing circumstances but the government pays no attention to the plea of common people”. Abhimanyu Singh, a bank employee said, “On paper, the budget shows an overall increase in outlay, but these expenditures are not people-oriented. There is no solution for employment, just a weak skill development scheme which we know won’t be effective.” The micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) were hopeful that the government would bring in stronger reforms and a more favourable budget. “We were hoping for some concessions from the government for small businesses, which bore the brunt of Covid pandemic. Just setting up skill development institutes and courses won’t work unless industries for people to work in are set up,” said Bihar Industries Association president Ram Lal Khaitan. Prominent Makhana exporter Satyajit Singh, who is also a member of the national committee formed for the promotion of the food processing sector under the Centre’s Covid financial package, said such a small percentage of the total budget outlay for trade and industries is a disappointment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pandemic-hit-farmers-common-people-feel-let-down-by-budget/articleshow/81159255.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Patna||Illegal sand mining rampant in Gaya||GAYA: The non-settlement of ghats is resulting in illegal mining of sand, which is causing huge loss to the state exchequer. District magistrate Abhishek Singh and SSP Aditya Kumar have asked the mining officer to spend at least 20 days on field inspection to check sand smuggling. The DM has also requested the state geology and mines department for posting a mines inspector in Gaya. The SSP, in a meeting last Saturday, told the mines department officials that the required number of police force would be made available to them for conducting raids. The DM and the SSP also asked the SDOs and the SDPOs to launch a drive to check illegal mining of sand and stone chips. The SSP asked the police officials for special attention in Barachatti, Mufassil, Gurua and Konch blocks of the district. Sources said non-settlement of sand ghats and stone quarries has led to huge loss of revenue to the state exchequer. In the report of Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) ending March 2018, it was mentioned that a committee constituted for spot verification had recommended for settlement of 10 stone blocks, including eight in Bandhua and two in Bodhchak having minimum reserve value of Rs488.23 crore. Despite recommendation and issuance of no-objection certificate (NOC) by the forests department, the officials concerned, instead of proceeding for settlement, sought direction from the mining department in February and August, 2016 respectively. The mining department called for details of stone blocks in February 2017, which was made available in May 2017. Once again NOC was sought from art, culture and youth department for the two maujas of Bodhchak in July 2017 and May 2018 even though it was not in the list of protected monument area. The NOC was accorded in December 2018. Later, NOC was also sought from the tourism department. In December 2018, the mining department fixed the reserve price of two blocks of Bodhchak at Rs105 crore. In January 2019, e-auction was initiated, which was cancelled in February citing indispensable reasons and the reserve money was refunded to the bidders. The delay in settlement of these stone quarries increased the risk of illegal mining, which was evident from the seizure of huge quantity of stone in 3247 raids during 2017-19 where around Rs4.12 crore was realized as penalty, the CAG report added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/illegal-sand-mining-rampant-in-gaya/articleshow/81158984.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Patna||Max temperature in Patna may surge above 30 degrees C this week||PATNA: The weather is getting warmer with the maximum temperature in most parts of the state nearing 30 degrees Celsius. Night temperature is also being recorded above 10 degrees C at most places. Sudhanshu Kumar, an officer at Patna Meteorological Centre, said both day and night temperatures remained higher than the corresponding normal in the last 24 hours. For instance, both maximum and minimum temperatures at Patna was a notch higher than the corresponding normal on Monday. The maximum temperature stood at 28 degrees C, while the minimum temperature was recorded at 13.6 degrees C. Maximum temperature at Forbesganj was recorded at 30.2 degrees C. Deliberating on the higher temperature recordings in Bihar, Sudhanshu said: “Minimal impact of western disturbance and clear skies are leading to unobstructed solar heat right from morning hours.” He said the maximum temperature is expected to rise further over the next two to three days, though no significant change is expected in minimum temperature. India Meteorological Department (IMD) also stated that minimum temperature is expected to surge over east India by 2-3 degrees C after three days. The Patna centre stated that the maximum temperature will surge above 30 degrees C across the state by Thursday. It is expected to surge up to 33 degrees C by this weekend at several places in north-central and south-central parts of the state, including Patna. Minimum temperature, on the other hand, is expected to be in the range of 13-15 degree C at most places and up to 15-17 degrees C in eastern parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/max-temperature-in-patna-may-surge-above-30-degrees-c-this-week/articleshow/81159371.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||Temp may rise gradually over the week||Kolkata: The city remained sunny and moderately cool on Monday while the minimum temperature climbed marginally to 18°C. With a trough — that had led to clouds — moving away, the mercury had plunged five degrees to 16.9°C on Sunday. The weather remained unchanged on Monday, but the mercury is predicted to rise gradually over the week. “We will now see the minimum temperature spiral slowly. With no system in sight, it should remain clear and pleasant. But the temperature is unlikely to drop,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director G K Das. A trough had led to clouds and light rain in some parts of south Bengal on Saturday. “With the clouds going away, the minimum temperature has dropped. It will climb up to 20°C on Tuesday and rise gradually over the next few days,” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/temp-may-rise-gradually-over-the-week/articleshow/81159623.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Patna||Over 46% of frontline workers in Bihar get first Covid vax shot||PATNA: Altogether 46.85% of the registered frontline workers in the state had taken the vaccine against the Covid-19 virus in the first round till Monday. As the first round for frontline workers will get closed in the next one week, focus will shift to the ongoing second dose of vaccination for healthcare workers. As per the data shared by the state health society, 2,824 frontline workers took their first dose on Monday. Altogether 1,27,302 out of the 2,71,681 registered frontline workers have taken their first shots since February 6, which accounts for 46.85% of the total registered beneficiaries. In the same number of days, nearly 80% of the healthcare workers had taken their shots. Health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit on Monday instructed all the civil surgeons and nodal officers to improve the vaccination rate of frontline workers by next Monday. He advised the poor performing districts to hold meetings of the task force and meet their respective district magistrates to sort out the issue. The district-wise data of frontline workers till Monday noon shows six districts below the state average with Patna being at the bottom with only 22.2% of the targeted frontline workers getting vaccinated. Other worst performing districts are Aurangabad (33.7%), Bhojpur (36.4%), Katihar (40.3%), West Champaran (44.2%) and Saran (45.1%). Arwal has achieved the maximum 81.0% of the target frontline workers being vaccinated, followed by Gaya (77.9%), Sheikhpura (74.4%), Sheohar (72.5%) and Madhepura (71.1%). Category-wise break-up shows that 48.7% of the beneficiaries from the panchayati raj institutions have been vaccinated in the state. But Kishanganj, Nawada and Begusarai have less than 10% of the registered beneficiaries vaccinated in this category with Kishanganj at the bottom with only 1.1% of the target. Among the revenue department employees, 61.0% have been vaccinated in Bihar. But Nawada has 15.4% score in more than two weeks. Taking cue from the rise in the Covid cases in some parts of the country, Amrit said vaccination was a powerful tool against the virus, especially for healthcare and frontline workers who have to fight from the front. He said several beneficiaries, who took both first and second doses, have developed antibodies against the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-46-of-frontline-workers-get-first-covid-vax-shot/articleshow/81159499.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 23, 2021||Patna||‘Telemedicine a landmark initiative for rural people’||PATNA: The medical fraternity has welcomed the state Budget which has a provision of Rs300 crore for health sector. “We appreciate the Budget for making available telemedicine facility to people even in the remote areas of the state,” said Indian Medical Association (Bihar) president Dr Amarkant Jha Amar. He said free treatment of the congenital heart disease is a major boost to public health as it would save the life of many children. Former PMCH superintendent Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said the Budget will revolutionize the health scenario in the state. Telemedicine facility is a landmark initiative and the Bihar model would be followed by other states, he added. Dr Nitish Kumar Ranjan, assistant director of the Indira Gandhi Institute of Cardiology (IGIC), Patna, said free treatment of children with congenital heart disease is a big step. “It is a serious concern for poor or middle class folk to get their child diagnosed for heart problem since birth, usually termed as Pink baby or Blue baby, depending on their heart position. It cost at least Rs2 lakh for surgical correction in private sector,” he said. Again, the telemedicine would also help many people to recover from heart attack as expert doctors would suggest medicines for immediate relief and recovery till bringing the patient to the nearest heath facility, said Dr Ranjan. Former principal of Patna Dental College, Dr DK Singh, described the Budget as progressive and people-friendly. It will help rural population getting free consultation from noted doctors through telemedicine, he said. Singh, however, said the government should consider opening new dental colleges with specialized branches. “As per the World Health Organization, there should be one dental surgeon for every 20,000 population. About 89% people in Bihar are having dental problems of various nature, including those leading to oral cancer,” he said. Several other doctors hailed the announcement of pharmacy colleges in five districts and infrastructure development from primary health centre to district hospital level as to provide people the first option to get medical services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/telemedicine-a-landmark-initiative-for-rural-people/articleshow/81159067.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Patna||Rs 842 crore grant to BSEB to pay staff salaries: Bihar education minister||PATNA: State education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said Rs 842 crore would be provided to the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) to give grants to government-aided middle schools and inter colleges to disburse pending salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff. Chaudhary said the money would be disbursed to the board within a month after the state cabinet nod. The information was provided by Choudhary while responding to a call attention motion brought by Congress MLC Madan Mohan Jha in the state legislative council on Monday. Jha highlighted the plight of the teaching and non-teaching staff of such institutions, who are unable to meet health and family expenses due to non-payment of salary. Jha said Rs 630 crore grant was given to government-aided middle schools and inter colleges for up to 2016, of which Rs 500 crore was taken back from BSEB during the Covid-19 pandemic. He even asked the education minister to give their salary to the teaching and non-teaching staff directly instead of a grant, and release the pending money in one go. The education minister assured once the money is sent to the board, it will get disbursed to the institutes concerned. Choudhary further said teachers who have passed the eligibility criteria will not have to face another scrutiny, but the criteria required to get the grant by any institute will be checked, and he requested all the members to give their suggestions. Jha also raised the issue of delay in the monthly honorarium to Panchayati Raj representatives and the department's minister assured the issue will be resolved in the next 15 months. In another question raised by MLC Gulam Gaus regarding traffic congestion near Paswan Chowk in Hajipur, which falls north of Gandhi Setu, road construction minister Nitin Nabin said an eight-lane flyover will be constructed to solve the issue. Nabin said construction of this flyover has been proposed to begin from next month and has been targeted to get complete in 42 months. Before the beginning of the session, Congress MLCs shouted slogans against a hike in fuel and cooking gas price and RJD MLCs raised the issue of BSEB’s matriculation question paper leak outside the House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-842cr-grant-to-bseb-to-pay-staff-salaries-education-minister/articleshow/81159468.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 23, 2021||Patna||‘Use technology for investigating crime in Bihar’||PATNA: Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani on Monday underlined the need for use of more technology for investigating incidents of crime in the state. Speaking at the launch of the Police Week at the Bihar Veterinary College ground, Subhani said it was a matter of satisfaction that more and more scientific evidence was being gathered against the accused, leading to their conviction. He also assured that funds would not be a problem in purchasing more technical devices, if required, for investigating incidents of crime. Delivering his address, DGP S K Singhal said there was an urgent need to hit at the increasing network of cyber criminals in the state. He also dealt at length on ways to resolve the problems faced by the people and added that the police personnel would benefit from the deliberations on different aspects of policing during the weeklong programme. IG (cybercrime), Maharasthra, Brajesh Bahadur Singh pointed out that cyber criminals were posing a stiff challenge to police in the digital age. “The functioning of the police department will be digitized in the next two years,” he said and stressed on the need to improve infrastructure and recruit cops with keen interest in technology. DG (training) Alok Raj, his BMP counterpart R S Bhatti and other senior officials were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/use-technology-for-investigating-crime/articleshow/81158944.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Patna||Plan to develop Gaya Jn as world-class railway station||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has worked out a plan to redevelop Gaya Junction as a world-class station. ECR GM L C Trivedi held a high-level meeting with the vice-chairman of Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) through videoconferencing on Monday to give a final shape and design of the Gaya station. The RLDA, which is a railways’ wing, has been assigned the task to redevelop Gaya station. ECR chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar said the decision was taken keeping in view the historical importance of Gaya across the world. “Railways has finalized a blueprint to provide amenities to passengers on par with airport facilities. Railways will soon float tenders after fulfilling ‘request for qualification’ procedure to begin physical work,” he said. RLDA will take up the work on public-private partnership (PPP) mode in consultation with technical experts and architect planner. “As per the plan and blueprint approved, it will cost estimated Rs173 crore. Railways has made a survey about expected huge rush of passengers at Gaya station in the years to come,” Kumar said. Gaya station area will also be further extended and furnished with world-class amenities, giving a green building look to the premises with proper ventilation and comforts to passengers on par with an airport. There will be separate exit and entry points at the station, so that passengers do not face rush. Railways also intends to install ‘access control gate’ as well as escalator and lift at each platform at Gaya Junction. Food court, world-class washrooms, safe drinking water booths, ATM kiosks, internet and other amenities will be provided there, he said. According to the CPRO, railways has also worked out plan to develop nearby tourist spots. “Railways is also considering the possibility of building either underground or multi-storey parking facility at Gaya station,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/plan-to-develop-gaya-jn-as-world-class-railway-station/articleshow/81158955.cms||Kumod Verma
February 23, 2021||Business||‘Work from anywhere’ at Grant Thornton||Mumbai: Grant Thornton Bharat has joined a growing list of companies to offer its employees the flexibility to ‘work from anywhere’. The company has also introduced an ‘unlimited leaves’ policy. The 4,500-plus strong firm earlier offered 20 days of privilege leave to its employees. Under the new policy, individuals can choose their location of work and visit offices only when necessary. Additionally, the new model gives employees the option to ‘work from home’ forever. The company is also in the process of optimising workspaces across the country, moving towards a model of multiple offices to give easy access to its people, rather than one big office in a city. Grant Thornton Bharat CEO Vishesh Chandiok said, “The pandemic has taught us that working from offices is not the most effective use of our infrastructure. We now offer alternative career paths to individuals who choose to ‘work from home’ permanently. This will allow people to work out of smaller towns and cities and stay close to their families.” On unlimited leaves, Chandiok said, “The earlier maximum is the new minimum (for leaves). We live in a new world where a culture of total trust is the foundation. We trust our people to effectively manage their work.” Last year, a number of companies announced policy changes around flexible working. RPG Enterprises framed a policy to allow its sales people to permanently work remotely. The group empowered office-based staff to work from home 50% of the time. Axis Group, on the other hand, said it will hire skilled talent that can work with the bank remotely and from anywhere. Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas too adopted a permanent ‘dynamic working policy’, which allows teams to work in a combination of onsite (work from office, or WFO), and offsite (work from home or anywhere).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/work-from-anywhere-at-grant-thornton/articleshow/81160255.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Patna||Courier co employee shot, Rs 9 lakh looted||PATNA: Motorbike-borne armed criminals shot dead a 21-year-old employee of a private courier company and looted a little over Rs 9 lakh from him in Supaul district on Monday. The incident took place at 3pm near Raghopur Gaddi village under the Raghopur police station area when the deceased, Ajay Kumar Yadav, was on his way to deposit the money in a nationalized bank on his motorbike. The robbers accosted him near a culvert on Raghopur-Hulas Road and snatched the bag containing the cash. He was shot by the robbers when he made an abortive bid to escape. An autorickshaw driver, who was passing through the road, spotted Ajay lying in a pool of blood and admitted him to the referral hospital at Simrahi where he succumbed to his injuries. The deceased was a native of Gaunaha village under the Triveniganj police station area in Supaul district. SHO Prashant Kumar said the deceased worked for a private courier company and collected cash from different traders in the area. “Raids are being conducted to arrest the culprits,” he added. Later, an FIR was lodged against unidentified criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/courier-co-employee-shot-rs-9-lakh-looted/articleshow/81158884.cms||Ramashankar
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||State nod to Rs 2cr fire safety plan for Bhandara hospital||Mumbai: The public health department led by Rajesh Tope on Monday approved a Rs2-crore fire safety plan for Bhandara district hospital following the January 9 tragedy where 10 infants died after a blaze swept through the neonatal care unit. The public health department had drawn flak for mismanagement at all levels as well as lack of equipment in the hospital to tackle the fire. Following the incident, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had visited the hospital, and ordered a high-level probe into the incident as well as a fire audit. Preliminary probe has been completed and nursing staff has been blamed for the tragedy, following which a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder has been registered against two staff members of the hospital. It was also found that fire prevention measures were grossly inadequate, as a result of which it took a long time to control the fire following a short circuit. A senior bureaucrat said the tragedy served as a wake-up call on the urgent need to equip the hospital with fire-safety measures. “The public health department has sanctioned Rs 2 crore for providing better fire prevention equipment. I am sure, along with the Bhandara hospital, the government will take note of the condition of fire prevention equipment in hospitals across the state,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-nod-to-rs-2cr-fire-safety-plan-for-bhandara-hospital/articleshow/81162187.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Harshavardhan quits Congress, enters MLC race||Hyderabad: Congress is facing a rebel problem in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates MLC constituency with its spokesperson Galreddy Harshavardhan Reddy filing his nomination papers from this seat on Monday. Harshavardhan sent his resignation to the party leadership in the morning and filed his nomination in the afternoon. He was seeking party ticket from the constituency but Congress had fielded senior leader and former minister G Chinna Reddy. Though TPCC working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy tried to pacify Harshavardhan to withdraw his nomination and assured him that the party will give him ticket for the teachers’ MLC constituency election to be held in 2023, Harshavardhan did not relent. Speaking to TOI, Harshavardhan said, “I am confident that teachers, employees and youth will vote me to victory in the March 14 polls,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/harshavardhan-quits-congress-enters-mlc-race/articleshow/81160812.cms||Roushan Ali
February 23, 2021||Business||Sensex tanks 1,145pts on rising yield, crude||Mumbai: Rising bond yields as well as higher prices of crude and copper globally weighed on investor sentiment on Dalal Street on Monday. This resulted in across-the-board selling, which pulled the sensex down 1,145 points, or 2.3%, to 49,744 points — its first close below the 50k mark since Budget on February 1. Increasing Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra and Kerala, and re-imposition of lockdowns in some parts of these states, also unnerved investors, market players said. From its all-time intraday high of 52,517 points on February 16, the sensex has lost nearly 2,800 points, or 5.3%, as foreign funds have turned cautious on India. As a result, investors’ wealth too has dipped by about Rs 3.4 lakh crore, with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 202.3 lakh crore from Rs 205.7 lakh crore a week earlier. On the NSE, the Nifty too closed sharply lower by 306 points at 14,675 points. As a result of strong selling pressure ahead of the expiry of this month’s derivatives contracts on Thursday, volatility in the market also jumped by 14.5% to the highest level in two months. The day’s selling in other markets in Asia impacted India more than domestic factors, market analysts said. “Asian stocks ended mostly lower on Monday amid lingering worries about inflation, high valuations and worries over policy tightening. European markets opened lower as caution over sharply rising bond yields, and concerns over increasing inflation, outweigh increasing optimism over the vaccine rollout programme, and the path to an economic reopening,” HDFC Securities’s Deepak Jasani said in a note. The note mentioned that the yield on the benchmark US 10-year treasury rose to 1.37%, after rising 14.5 basis points (100 basis points = one percentage point) last week. In the commodities market, copper prices rose above $9,000 a ton, Brent crude climbed above $63 a barrel, while in India the 10-year government securities (G-Sec) yield touched a six-month high. RBI data showed that on Monday, the 10-year benchmark G-Sec closed at 6.2%. Last week G-Secs worth about Rs 25,000 crore remained unsold in the auction on Thursday as the RBI was not comfortable since investors demanded higher yield and lower prices. According to analysts, on the higher side the Nifty and the sensex levels of 14,900-15,000 and 50,400-50,600, respectively, would be immediate hurdles. On the lower side, 14,500 and 49,340 are the next levels to watch out for, a report by Kotak Securities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-tanks-1145pts-on-rising-yield-crude/articleshow/81160306.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Patna||Bihar budget: ‘Raising expenditure a promising move’||By: Sudhanshu Kumar PATNA: Bihar budget is the fifth policy document released in less than a month, which not only has key information about the economy but also presents an outline for the future path of development of the state as well as the country. Therefore, the state budget needs to be analysed using the other four documents - the Economic Survey of India, the Union Budget, the Centre's approval of the 15th Finance Commission recommendations and the Economic Survey of Bihar. This year, the budget comes on the back of the Covid-19 pandemic-led economic slowdown and the full recovery of the Indian economy is expected to take at least two years. However, it is heartening to note that the Bihar government has budgeted a higher level of expenditure and receipt for 2021-22. The budget has outlined its expenditure priorities in line with the key poll promises by BJP and JD (U). The guiding philosophy is Atmanirbhar Bihar and Saat Nischay-2. The focus area remains employment generation through skill development augmented by low-cost capital to start small scale business activities with a special focus on women and youth. Health, technical education, rural development and agriculture has seen an increase in the budgeted estimates. The other announcements are related to the demand for the public good that reflects the priority of the government. The numbers presented are budgeted estimates and, therefore, are subject to changes as per the availability of revenue during the year. Contrary to the popular understanding that the economic growth of Bihar is mainly dependent on agriculture, the real picture that emerges from the numbers in the policy documents is different. The role of agriculture has changed in the state economy over the years in terms of generating income. However, a large part of the population remains engaged or dependent on these activities concentrated in rural areas. Approximately 74% of the workforce is dependent on agriculture and allied activities for their livelihood. Its contribution to the state’s GSDP is estimated at 19.5% in 2019-20 whereas the secondary and tertiary sectors’ share is higher at 20.3% and 60.2% respectively. Also, the real growth rate numbers in the primary sector that includes agriculture and allied activities remained much lower at 3.6% than the manufacturing and services sectors. Therefore, it is the services sector that is the major contributor to the high real economic growth of 10.5% during 2019-20. The overall management of the state finances seems sustainable for the given level of expenditure in Bihar. However, the state needs more resources to boost falling capital expenditure. One of the key features of this Union Budget was the huge increase in capital expenditure which was also intended to nudge the states to increase their capital outlay. However, the fiscal space for revenue constrained states such as Bihar is limited and, therefore, it is unlikely to see an increase in the actual numbers for the capital outlay in the absence of a special financial help by the Centre even though the budgeted estimates are higher. The capital receipt of the state as a share of its GSDP increased from 2.8% in 2017-18 to 4.7% in 2019-20, whereas the capital expenditure has declined from 7.2% of GSDP to 3.3% during the same period. If we look at the revenue pattern of Bihar, the state government could generate 27% of its total receipt from its sources in 2019-20 and therefore depended heavily on central transfers. Given that Bihar has limited resources to raise revenue and borrowing is constrained by law and the ability to repay, therefore, there are only two options -- either the Centre increases transfer to the state or more expenditures from central schemes are directed to the state so that overall expenditure increases. The first option is a long pending demand raised as granting special status to the state whereas the second option requires aligning the priorities of the state with the Centre. The other difficult policy option is to find ways to generate more revenue from its sources. Overall, it will be good for the state if the expenditure targets in the budget are achieved. (The writer is an economist at the Centre for Economic Policy and Public Finance, ADRI Patna)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raising-expenditure-a-promising-move/articleshow/81159015.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Patna||Five of a band party die in Katihar road accident||KATIHAR: Five persons were killed and 5 others sustained grievous injuries when an autorickshaw collided head-on with a sand-laden truck on the national highway 31 near Sameli primary health centre at Kurshela in the district in the wee hours of Monday. The autorickshaw carrying 10 members of a band party was coming from Purnia side, while the truck was coming from Khagaria side, said sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) of Katihar Sadar, Amar Kant Jha. Three persons died on the spot and one on way to Katihar sadar hospital where the fifth succumbed to his injuries, the SDPO said. The truck was seized but its driver managed to escape. According to Dr Anupam Alok, medical officer of the community health centre of Sameli block in Katihar district, the deceased were identified as Arjun Mochi (50), Kishore Paswan (45), Dharmendra Kumar Mandal (50), Sushil Kumar Mochi (30) and Chotelal Ram (42). “The deceased belonged to Majdiha village under Kurshela block,” he said and added: “The injured have been identified as Santosh Kumar (25), Mithu Kumar (17), Chintu Kumar (16), Sri Mochi (60) and Siyaram Mandal (32), also from the same village.” The five injured were first referred to Sameli primary health centre, Kurshela, where the doctors referred them to Katihar Sadar hospital, said Afaque Akhter Ansari, DSP-cum-SHO of Pothia police station. “Of the five injured, the condition of one person is critical. The occupants of the autorickshaw had suffered head and leg injuries,” said Ansari. A police constable, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We were informed by the locals during a highway patrol duty at some distance from the accident site. The rescue work began thereafter.” The truck has registration number of Jharkhand (JH-12D, 9380).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/5-of-a-band-party-die-in-katihar-road-accident/articleshow/81158921.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Ramchander: PV legacy may work in Karimnagar, not here||Hyderabad: Sitting MLC and BJP candidate for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates MLC constituency N Ramchander Rao on Monday exuded confidence of winning the seat comfortably and said he was not unduly bothered by his TRS rival, former PM PV Narasimha Rao’s daughter Surabhi Vani Devi. Ramchander said if the TRS were to field KT Rama Rao from the constituency, he would still win the contest. He said if the TRS has respect for Narasimha Rao and his legacy, then it should have made Vani Devi a Rajya Sabha member and not denigrate the former PM by offering her an MLC ticket. In a freewheeling chat with TOI after filing his nomination here on Monday, Ramchander said he hit the turf long ago, did a lot of ground work and enrolled more than two lakh voters out of the total five plus lakh voters. He claimed that he is way ahead of his rivals like professor K Nageshwar supported by the left parties, Vani Devi and TDP’s L Ramana. Does PV’s legacy or Vani Devi as his rival bother him? “PV’s legacy may work in Karimnagar, but not here. Vani Devi’s candidature was announced by the TRS only to split Brahmin votes,” he said and added she is a distant relative to him. Ramchander said they would also go big on digital media campaign this time. “We are preparing the content on my performance as an MLC and also on what was promised by the TRS. We will send messages on WhatsApp to reach about two lakh people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ramchander-pv-legacy-may-work-in-karimnagar-not-here/articleshow/81160874.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||We will expose TRS diversion tactics, says BJP||Hyderabad: BJP said the ruling TRS fielded former PM PV Narasimha Rao’s daughter Vani Devi to divert the people’s attention from the recent lawyer couple murder, reports Sribala Vadlapatla. Though a little surprised by the last-minute announcement of Vani Devi as the TRS candidate, the saffron party said it will campaign big time on her candidature by the TRS as a diversionary tactic. “We will not stop ourselves from saying what we want to say just because she is Narasimha Rao’s daughter,” a senior BJP leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/we-will-expose-trs-diversion-tactics-says-bjp/articleshow/81160839.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||To hide secret Goa trip from kin, woman fudges passport, held||MUMBAI: A 28-year-old woman was arrested on Sunday for allegedly tampering with the arrival date stamped on her passport. The police said that Amber Sayad fudged the stamped record of the day on which she had landed at the city airport last year. She did this to hide from her family a trip to Goa she went on soon after arriving from the Gulf last March, said an officer. Tampering with any record on a passport is a crime. The matter came to light last week — 11 months after she had reached India from Dubai. Sayad, who used to work in Dubai for the last three years, was supposed to fly back for work last week, on February 19. When she arrived at Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport at Sahar, immigration officials grew suspicious on seeing her passport at the departure counter. Sayad was stopped from proceeding ahead and was questioned about the fudged record in the passport. The police said that when immigration officials questioned her about the fudged entry, she initially tried to evade questions. “She later admitted that she had changed the date using a rubber stamp. to keep under wraps her secret trip to Goa with a friend,” said a police officer. Sayad, who has been working in Dubai for the past three years, was to resume work in the Gulf nation. Last year, no sooner had she landed from Dubai at the Sahar airport on March 14 last year, she left for Goa with a friend. “Her mother was not aware that she had come down to India, and certainly not that she had gone to Goa on a holiday,” said an officer. “After a six-day holiday in Goa, Sayad returned to Mumbai on March 20. She fudged the stamp of the arrival date from Dubai and changed it to March 20,” said the officer from Sahar police station. After a day in police custody, the Andheri court on Monday sent Sayad to judicial custody. Her lawyer, Mastan Shaikh, filed her bail plea which is slated to come up for hearing on Thursday. Shaikh said Sayad hails from a poor family and was to join work in Dubai as she is in dire need of money after the lockdown. “The arrest has ruined her future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/to-hide-secret-goa-trip-from-kin-woman-fudges-passport-held/articleshow/81162219.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Sewage treatment plants to supply treated water to 14 SDMC parks||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has launched a project to supply treated water from sewage treatment plants (STP) to 14 parks. SDMC has received around Rs 7 crore from the Union urban development ministry for installing the STP system at parks located next to drains and reviving a pond. The fund forms 80% of the total cost of the project while SDMC will finance the rest. Each of these STPs will have the capacity to recharge 50 kilo litre of water (KLD) per day and help in resolving the problem of short or no supply of water in certain parks. “After disconnecting tubewells at many places following the National Green Tribunal’s order for not withdrawing groundwater, short supply at parks has become an issue. While we are looking for alternative solutions such as connecting some parks with the nearby STPs of Delhi Jal Board through supply lines, it is a time-taking and costly affair. These STPs will at least help in proper irrigation of 14-15 parks of minimum one acre area,” said an SDMC official. The sites include Bhim Basti at Aya Nagar, three places at Dwarka, Green Park and Chhatarpur. The work has started in Dwarka while the project was inaugurated at Aya Nagar on Monday. “Two STPs will be installed because besides irrigation of the 1.5-acre park, these will also be used for revival of a pond located next to the park,” said councillor Ved Pal. The park has been using storm water getting collected in the pond. “Now water will be treated before entering the pond.” The park was redeveloped from barren land in 2018. “Residents have been uncomfortable due to the foul smell emitting due to direct use of drain water,” said Pal. SDMC aims to complete work at all sites by the end of March and will use a biological process for wastewater treatment that consumes less energy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sewage-treatment-plants-to-supply-treated-water-to-14-sdmc-parks/articleshow/81160897.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 23, 2021||Madurai||Delay in execution of road laying work in Sellur hits residents||Madurai: Residents of Sellur in Madurai city have urged the state highways department to speed up the road laying work in Thathaneri Main Road.Residents said that the state highways department took up the work recently after complaints were raised on the bad roads for months together. The work is being carried out for about a km stretch between Thathaneri crematorium and Arapalayam bridge. It has been more than a week since stone chips were spread out to lay a new road, but the work has not progressed much after that.J Narasimman, a CPM functionary from Thathaneri said that officials should lay bitumen as soon as stone chips are spread out. Otherwise, water should be sprayed frequently so that they will set in.“Dust emanating from the unfinished road creates respiratory problems. There is so much dust that we experience as if we are moving through a thick mist. We have sent messages to officials of state highways, but they are yet to act,” he said.K Kaliyamurthi, a resident of Aruldosspuram said, “The stone chips flying from the road after coming under vehicle tyres is threatening the safety of people. A glass door of a shop shattered when a stone chip hit it at a high speed.”.“We thought the difficulties faced due to the bad road will end soon as the road work was taken up around 10 days ago, but it does not look like the work will be completed anytime sooner,” he added.An official from the state highways department said that the work is delayed since they have to work only during the night to avoid any difficulties to commuters. The work will be completed in a time bound manner, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/delay-in-execution-of-road-laying-work-in-sellur-hits-residents/articleshow/81160833.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||4 dupe lakhs of Rs 4cr by misusing PM loan scheme||Mumbai: A man who had contested the Uttar Pradesh assembly election, and lost, is among four people who have been arrested for allegedly duping people by promising loans under ‘Pradhan Mantri Loan Yojana’ — the name that was coined for the fake loan scheme. The kingpin, Sanjeev Kumar Singh (36), and his three accomplices —Ramnivas Kumawat (25), Pranjal Rathod (27) and Vivek Sharma (42) — who are computer engineers allegedly promised loans under the scheme, collected loan processing fees and duped potential borrowers, said police. The processing fee they collected for the past three years ranged from Rs 8,000 to Rs 25,000 depending on the person’s desperation for the loan. They have duped over 2.8 lakh gullible loan-seekers from across the country since 2018. The money they collected could run into at least Rs 4 crore, said the police. While Singh is the mastermind, the engineers created three loan websites and nine mobile loan apps which they advertised on social media by misusing the Pradhan Mantri tag. Singh, said the police, ran the racket from his political party’s office. The accused used Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo. Officials of the he cyber crime police station registered the case after they called up on one of the contact numbers they found on a fake adverstisement posted on social media. The police said that the accused had used the cellphone number of Pune resident Suraj Savle (24), who is preparing for the Civil Services exam. Due to this Savle was flooded with calls for the past two months from people who had lost their money. “The callers abused him for no fault of his,” said an officer. Officials of the cyber crime police got in touch with Savle who had lodged a complaint.  Singh and his accomplices were arrested in a joint operation by Mumbai cyber police and the Uttar Pradesh Cyber Police led by Superintendent of Police Triveni Singh on February 9. They have been sent to custody. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambe supervised the operation while DCP (cyber) Rashmi Karandikar, senior inspector S Sharmila arrested Singh who has political links. Singh created a ruckus when cops went to arrest him. The team came across 25 e-wallet accounts and 25 bank accounts Singh got after forging loan documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-dupe-lakhs-of-rs-4cr-by-misusing-pm-loan-scheme/articleshow/81160861.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 23, 2021||Madurai||‘Hawk Eye’ surveillance vehicle dedicated in Kanyakumari dist||Kanyakumari: A 360 degree ‘Hawk Eye’ surveillance van was launch in Kanyakumari district as part of the district police unit’s efforts to increase surveillance. The vehicle with surveillance mechanism was sponsored by a private company under its corporate social responsibility funds.Superintendent of police V Badrinarayanan said such surveillance vehicles are available in cities with police commissionerate. Kanyakumari is the first district police unit in the Tamil Nadu to get the 360 degree ‘Hawk Eye’ surveillance vehicle. The vehicle has five cameras fixed on a pole connected with a motor to take the camera to an elevated position.“While four of the cameras in the dome are fixed, the fifth can be used for tilt and zoom and can be operated by a monitoring officer using the app to which it is connected. This will be efficient in monitoring instead of giving directions to the person manning the vehicle to turn the camera,” the SP said.He added that 10 officers could monitor live feed from the cameras simultaneously. If needed, even the director general of police can monitor a situation virtually. The surveillance vehicle will be primarily used for maintenance of law and order, during protests and for political events during the elections.The SP said officers could save time and step into action by assessing the situation based on the live video feed instead of reaching the spot and deciding on the further course of action. It will also be used to screen awareness videos at public places. As a crime prevention measure, automatic number plate reading cameras will be installed at strategic places on eight roads connecting Nagercoil town. The district police are also in the process of procuring more than 10 movable cameras that can be installed at remote places and monitored from the headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hawk-eye-surveillance-vehicle-dedicated-in-kanyakumari-dist/articleshow/81160900.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Coimbatore||DMK cadres urge Centre to reduce petrol, diesel prices||COIMBATORE: Members of DMK staged a protest in front of the south tahsildar office in the city on Monday condemning the central government for rising petrol and diesel prices. They demanded the Centre to take immediate steps to reduce the price hike. Singanallur MLA N Karthik said that the fuel price has been increasing almost every day and it is affecting the people across all sectors. “For instance, milkmen who use two-wheelers to deliver milk at door steps will increase the price of their product. Similarly, prices of items sold in bakeries and all other shops will rise. Fuel price hike will have a ripple effect on other prices of other items in the market,” he said. Likewise, the price of a LPG gas cylinder has crossed Rs 900 and at this rate, how would people, especially those below the poverty line, could afford to purchase cylinders, he said, adding that the cylinder prices have been increased at least seven times in the past few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-cadres-urge-centre-to-reduce-petrol-diesel-prices/articleshow/81159449.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Many T Congress leaders to join BJP||Hyderabad: Several Telangana Congess leaders are reportedly planning to join BJP. Sirpurkagaz Nagar Congress incharge P Harish is likely to join BJP on Tuesday. Following the news, Congress on Monday suspended him from he party. Along with him, another city leader Feroz Khan's name is also doing rounds in the list of names to join BJP. Tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-t-congress-leaders-to-join-bjp/articleshow/81160901.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Delhi||AAP and BJP trade charges over temple||NEW DELHI: The war of words between BJP and AAP over a makeshift Hanuman temple at Chandni Chowk continued on Monday with each attacking the other over PWD filing a police complaint in which it termed the structure an “obstacle” in executing a beautification project. Senior AAP member Durgesh Pathak charged BJP with exerting through the LG office to get Public Works Department (PWD) to lodge a police complaint against the structure, an allegation BJP termed “hilarious”. “After getting exposed Arvind Kejriwal government’s PWD has written to Delhi Police against the re-established Mandir. This clearly establishes that AAP right from the beginning did not want to see this Hanuman Mandir in Chandni Chowk,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor. Pathak, however, hit out at BJP alleging that North Delhi Municipal Corporation run by the party first paved the way for demolition of the old Hanuman temple and was now indulging in “dirty” politics over the new one. “BJP through LG office, forced the PWD engineer to file a complaint, and now it’s enacting drama over the whole issue,” Pathak charged. Watch Delhi: AAP, BJP spar over makeshift Hanuman Temple at Chandni Chowk||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-and-bjp-trade-charges-over-temple/articleshow/81160903.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Surat||Highest polling in two decades in Surat||Surat: The city witnessed the highest polling in a civic body election in last two decades. In 2000 the voter turnout for Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) was 34.9% while on Sunday the turnout was 47.14%.“The rise in polling percentage is a good sign but it should be over 90% in ideal situations. In parliamentary polls over 70% of voters exercise their right then why not in civic election,” said Dr Dhaval Patel, district collector, Surat. On Tuesday, counting will start at 9 am at two counting centres Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) and S&SS Ghandy Government Engineering College (SGGEC). Heavy bandobast has been made at the counting centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/highest-polling-in-two-decades-in-surat/articleshow/81158127.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||T TDP state prez candidate for poll||Hyderabad: TTDP on Monday announced party president L Ramana as the MLC candidate for Hyderabad- Rangareddy - Mahbubnagar graduates constituency. The pary coordination committee met on Monday and announced his candidature. However, TTDP has not decided on the candidate for Nalgonda- Khammam- Mahbubnagar constituency. They party will support other candidates. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-tdp-state-prez-candidate-for-poll/articleshow/81160905.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi man held for climbing atop Red Fort dome on Republic Day||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Monday made another arrest in connection with the Red Fort violence that took place during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26. The arrested man, a resident of Delhi’s Swaroop Nagar, had allegedly climbed atop one of the domes of the fort during the violence. The accused, arrested on Saturday, has been identified as 29-year-old Jaspreet Singh alias Sunny from video recordings and CCTV camera footage collected from the Red Fort and nearby areas, said police. Delhi Police claimed that in one of the footage, Jaspreet was seen standing behind Maninder Singh alias Moniz, arrested on January 17. Maninder was seen in video footage waiving two swords on the rampart of the Red Fort during the violence, police said. “The footage shows Jaspreet on the rampart. He climbs atop one of the tombs located on the fort’s rampart. Jaspreet is also seen in an offensive gesture holding a steel tensile at the fort,” said Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal. Two separate cases have been registered in connection with the violence at the Red Fort. While one case was registered under serious charges of rioting, attempt to murder, and criminal conspiracy, based on the police’s complaint; the second case was filed on the basis of a complaint by Archaeological Survey of India. Delhi Police is still trying to nab six key suspects in these two cases, including Punjab’s alleged gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-man-held-for-climbing-atop-red-fort-dome-on-r-day/articleshow/81160918.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Only autos, taxis with rejigged meters can charge new fares||Mumbai: Kaali-peeli taxis and autorickshaws will be able to charge the revised fares only after their electronic meters are recalibrated. “The entire process will take up to three months and by the first week of June, almost every auto and taxi will display revised fares on the meter,” state transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne said. This means, there could be long queues of autos-taxis at RTOs for the stamp and seal on meters, and repairers will also make a ‘quick buck’, sources said. The new auto and taxi fares will be applicable in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan, Vasai-Virar and Panvel. The fare for share autos and taxis will also rise by a rupee (minimum Rs 8 for autos will increase to Rs 9 per passenger), although they are not permitted now as per Covid norms. When asked whether the hike will pinch the common man’s pocket who is still reeling under the lockdown effects, transport minister Anil Parab said the department has tried to extend relief to most sectors like a rebate in road tax for commercial vehicles, but taxi and auto drivers did not get any relief. “Since they are also a part of our workforce we have to extend relief to them too,” he said. Several citizens were not happy with the fare hike. “This is yet another price hike for Mumbaikars after the recent increase in petrol, diesel, CNG, LPG and domestic piped gas rates. Why is the government burdening us with these hikes?” asked Vaishnavi Krishnan, who regularly commutes by auto from her home to Thane station. Mumbai Autorickshawm-en’s Union leader Shashank Rao, while welcoming the hike, said the state should also provide financial assistance to drivers hit hard due to the lockdo-wn. A L Quadros from Mumbai Taximen’s Union said several drivers will get relief as the hike will “increase their earnings”. His union had twice demanded a minimum fare of Rs 25. According to a transport expert, the fare hike could lead to a drop in ridership of autos and taxis in Mumbai if commuters have second thoughts on paying 14-16% more fares. This could also increase ridership in the red buses, he added. At present, the BEST bus is the cheapest mode of transport which offers a ride up to 5 km for Rs 5. “In an AC bus, the same ride would be for Rs 6 as compared to Rs 70 in an auto if revised fare is taken into account,” said Yogesh Khare, who commutes by train, and then takes an auto or bus to work at Andheri. “People would not mind waiting for a bus than pay 16% more to the auto driver for daily travel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/only-autos-taxis-with-rejigged-meters-can-charge-new-fares/articleshow/81160907.cms||Somit Sen
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||Daily Covid-19 cases rise in Kolkata; doctors advise caution||KOLKATA: The number of daily Covid-19 positive cases in Kolkata — that had had dropped to a mere 31 on February 1 — has seen a slight rise over the past few days. Even as the number kept hovering below 60 on most days this month, it shot up to 79 last Thursday and has remained above 60 till Sunday. Health experts said that though the numbers have dwindled and the rise is only marginal, it was time people went back to adopting all Covid-19 preventive measures in order to stop a second wave in the state. Doctors said that the surging number in some places of Maharashtra is a matter of concern and this could happen in any other state or city if people turned complacent. “Urban areas of Bengal, including Kolkata, lagged behind Mumbai by about one to three months when the pandemic had arrived in the country. Now, with the surge in Maharashtra, we need to be more proactive in our containment measures. And citizens have a responsibility of masking up whenever stepping out of home and abiding by all other Covid-19 preventive measures,” said infectious diseases specialist Yogiraj Ray of ID Hospital Beliaghata. Even as the city reported only 48 fresh cases on Monday it corresponded with lesser number of tests. The state has been testing around 20,000 samples a day on an average. But the test number of Monday was only 15,112 samples. “Positivity rate in our lab had gone down to less than 1% even a week ago, even getting zero positive results on certain days. Right now we are seeing a slight rise in this rate. Though not alarming yet if this rising trend goes on it could be a matter of concern,” said microbiologist Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhuri of Peerless Hospital. Health experts felt that the people at large and the administration particularly need to take all measures to prevent a second wave in the state. Health department officials said they are keeping a watchful eye to contain surge in numbers. “There is a rise in numbers in about five states currently apart from the alarming rise in Maharashtra. We are keeping an eye so that we don’t get into a situation for a second wave. Though we still have the number in the lower side people should realise that the virus is very much around and abide by Covid-19 appropriate norms,” said gastroenterologist GK Dhali, who is now the state’s coordinator for management and containment of Covid-19. With the coming of new strains and wedding season where people would be gathering in large number in air-conditioned halls, experts have warned people not to play any lax with Covid preventive behaviour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/daily-covid-cases-rise-in-kol-docs-advise-caution/articleshow/81159478.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 23, 2021||Kanpur||3-day agriculture fair concludes in Banda, thousands of farmers attend the event||Jhansi: The 3-day agriculture fair, organized by Banda University of Agriculture and Technology, concluded on Monday in Banda. Considered as an important farmers event, the fair drew thousands of farmers from the entire Bundelkhand region.  Minister of state for agriculture Kailash Chaudhary, who was the chief guest, said that the old agriculture laws had become redundant and needed an urgent change for the benefit of farmers, especially for small farmers. Both the central and the state governments were working hard to reduce the cost of farming and to ensure that the benefits reached the last person, the focus of the government was to allocate maximum amounts for small farmers, the minister said. He said contract farming is beneficial for farmers but people are spreading rumours against it. “This year 3 crore farmers have got their new KCC while our government has targeted for 10000 new FPOs”, he said. He appreciated the initiative taken by the university in organizing the fair successfully.  Earlier, vice-chancellor of Banda Agriculture University,Prof US Gautam welcomed the guests and gave a brief account of the achievements made by the university in a small span of two-and-a-half years of time. He said the university has adopted hundreds of villages and is imparting latest technologies of farming and with the help of dedicated scientists is promoting organic farming in the region. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday addressed one of the sessions virtually and explained the benefits of the three farm bills. He said these laws would pave the way for doubling the income of farmers as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/3-day-agriculture-fair-concludes-in-banda-thousands-of-farmers-attend-the-event/articleshow/81158953.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ludhiana||Decoding nexus of securing bail on forged documents||Ludhiana: Securing bail on forged documents is another crime that of late has been keeping cops on their toes.Police say it is a nexus being run for almost a decade, which arranges people as surety and witnesses, forges documents and fixes up bail for Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000.  Kuldeep Singh, a retired ASI who was earlier in-charge at court complex police post, has solved many such cases in his career. Kuldeep Singh said, “The nexus has been running in the court complex for over a decade. However, crackdown on these fraudsters began recently. Some people have become professionals in arranging bails on forged documents.” Loopholes in the system are making the task of conmen easy.“The biggest problem is the easy availability of ‘farad’—proof of a property’s ownership. To secure bail of an accused, three people are required. One person has to give copies of ‘farad’, which states that (s)he owns a property, and Aadhaar card. As the first person’s surety, two more people have to submit copies of their Aadhaar cards. When Suvidha Centres were introduced, a facility of online availability of property documents was provided. One needs to know the name, father’s name and residence of a person to get a copy of ‘farad’ from Suvidha Centres after paying fees. After obtaining it, the fraudsters get an Aadhaar card forged with the name of the property owner. And with this, bail is secured,” he added.“There is no fixed or mandatory system to crosscheck the documents or Aadhaar cards. If a judge doubts a person, (s)he orders verification and only after an investigation, the matter comes to light. There is a need for a fixed system that verifies each document, or at least the Aadhaar card on a mandatory basis. The system of providing property documents to any person also needs to be changed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/decoding-nexus-of-securing-bail-on-forged-documents/articleshow/81158132.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||Irrigation, farmers’ welfare get lion’s share of funds in budget||Lucknow: Focusing on the welfare of farmers and boosting agriculture, the government has earmarked Rs 1,800 crore under various schemes like Atma Nirbhar Samanvit Vikas Yojana, CM Krishak Durghatna Yojana, free irrigation and crop loans on concessional interest rate. The government also allocated an additional Rs 3,098 crore for completion of canal linking projects for better irrigation facilities in the state and ensure farmers do not suffer due to the vagaries of nature. In order to accomplish its aim of doubling farmers’ income by 2022, the government is aiming to utilise existing schemes in a better way by filling in infrastructural gaps. This will be done under the Atma Nirbhar Krishak Samanvit Vikas Yojana for which Rs 100 crore has been proposed. The existing insurance scheme for farmers has been extended to earning members of their families and landless farmers working on contract. Under the scheme, financial assistance will be given to the family if a working member dies in an accident. Rs 600 crore has been set aside for this in the budget. Farmers have also been linked with cow protection by setting up cow shelters run by NGOs on government land in all gram panchayats. Besides, 3% of Mandi Parishad’s annual earnings will be set aside for cow protection. In addition to this, Rs 700 crore has been allocated for free water facilities and Rs 400 crore for crop loans to farmers. The government has also decided to set up 15,000 solar pumps in the financial year 2021-2022. The budget provides Rs 3,098 crore for various irrigation projects, including Rs 1,137crore for the Madhya Ganga Nahar project, Rs 976 crore for the Rajghat Nahar project, Rs 610 crore for the Saryu Nahar project, Rs 271 crore for Purvi Ganga Nahar project and Rs 104 crore for the Ken Betwa Link Nahar project. Under fisheries, two lakh fishermen are proposed to be covered under the Machhuwa Durghatna Yojana while Rs 243 crore has been allocated for the PM Matsya Sampada Scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/irrigation-farmers-welfare-get-lions-share-of-funds-in-budget/articleshow/81162051.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||Letter petition seeks HCsupervision in Unnao case||Prayagraj: A letter-petition has been sent to the Chief Justice of the Allahabad high court requesting him to take cognizance in the matter of the murder of two minor dalit girls and the critical condition of the third in mysterious circumstances at the Babuhra village under Asoha police station in Unnao. The HC is yet to take cognizance of the petition. In the letter petition, which has been sent by one Nilim Dutta, who is chairman of Unified People's Movement, it has been stated that it does not inspire any confidence that the Unnao police would do justice in this present case. Dutta was booked by Unnao Police on Sunday for 'spreading misinformation' about the case through his tweets. In this backdrop of the situation, the petitioner has requested the court to take cognizance of the matter and bring under its supervision the investigation of the case and to hand it over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Besides, the petitioner has also requested the court to direct the Uttar Pradesh government to shift the lone minor survivor, who is in critical condition by air-ambulance with a team of specialist doctors to the All Indian Medical Science, New Delhi. Three dalit girls aged 13, 15 and 17 were found unconscious at a field in Unnao's Baburha village on February 17, 2021. The three had gone to the family fields to collect fodder, as per their relatives. Two of them while being taken to hospital while the 17-year-old has been admitted to a Kanpur hospital. Two days later, the Unnao Police arrested two youths for allegedly poisoning them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/letter-petition-seeks-hcsupervision-in-unnao-case/articleshow/81157422.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Madurai||36.1L repatriated during lockdown: MEA min||Madurai: A total of 36,11,373 Indians stranded in other countries have been repatriated during the Covid-19 lockdown, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said in response to unstarred questions raised by Rajya Sabha MP Anbumani Ramadoss. The MP had asked for statistics on the number of Indians repatriated during the global Covid-19 lockdown and measures taken to bring back Indian citizens stranded outside the country. In his reply, the minister stated that during the lockdown, details of distressed and stranded Indian nationals registered with Indian missions abroad were entered in the ministry of external affairs’ ‘Repat’ portal. The government commenced operations under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) on May 7, 2020 to facilitate the return of stranded Indian nationals from abroad in a phased manner, the minister said. Stating that stranded Indian nationals with compelling reasons have since safely returned to India, he added that their missions were in regular touch with Indian nationals for facilitating their return to India on a request basis. According to the minister’s replies, the total number of repatriates include 3,97,106 by land and 3,987 by sea, till January 20, 2021. The highest number of repatriated Indians are from Kerala (9,62,306), followed by Delhi (8,35,093), Maharashtra (3,80,334) and Tamil Nadu (3,44,937). Uttar Pradesh (2,59,537), Telangana (2,22,274) and Karnataka (2,13,917) are the other states with more than one lakh repatriated Indians. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/36-1l-repatriated-during-lockdown-mea-min/articleshow/81160909.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Taloja prison hospital ill-equipped to take care of Varavara Rao, says Bombay HC||MUMBAI: The high court on Monday granted bail to Varavara Rao for six months on health grounds. He had sought bail on grounds of “deteriorating” health. A petition had also been filed by his wife for his release, citing violation of his fundamental rights. The HC directed his discharge from a private hospital in suburban Mumbai depending on his health but said he must reside within the jurisdiction of the special National Investigation Agency court in Mumbai and surrender his passport. “The court needs to strike a balance between the rights of the undertrial and the necessity of bringing the accused to book as early as possible,” said the bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale. The HC found it a “genuine and fit case” to grant Rao bail. Else, it said, “We will be abdicating our constitutional duty and function as a protector of human rights and right to health covered under right to life guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution.” “This court, as a constitutional court, cannot be a mute spectator to the undertrial being sent to prison and then to government hospitals where his health deteriorates further, to be ultimately shifted to the private superspeciality hospitals, upon intervention of courts and such movements of the undertrial continue back and forth only because his bail application has been turned down on merits under Section 43D (5) of the UAPA,” said the bench. Rao’s counsel Anand Grover and his wife’s counsel Indira Jaising had argued at length for his liberty as the trial is yet a long way from starting. The charge is not framed yet in the case. When the trial begins, it may take a long time to complete since the prosecution intends to examine at least 200 witnesses, the HC said. Rao was admitted to Nanavati hospital last November on a court order. But last month, the hospital declared him fit to be discharged. NIA counsel, ASG Anil Singh, sought a stay on the bail order for 3 weeks to enable it to appeal. The HC declined his request. It said, “Since we have ordered the release on health grounds… we do not deem it appropriate to send him to Taloja Central Prison for three weeks which would endanger his life.” The HC said it cannot sit in appeal over the expert opinion of Nanavati certifying Rao fit for discharge and “capable of self-care”. But it said the discharge report must be read along with earlier reports since July 2020 and held “it cannot be concluded he is fit to be sent back to Taloja prison”. The HC found NIA was “not justified” in relying on the state’s statement of shifting Rao to JJ prison ward. It found the hospital at Taloja central prison is “ill equipped and inadequate to take care” of Rao and agreed with his counsel Grover that shifting him to JJ prison ward “would be fraught with risk of inviting hospital acquired infections, particularly when the undertrial has already suffered repeated bouts of drug resistant bacterial infection to his urinary tract and he also tested positive for Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/taloja-prison-hospital-ill-equipped-to-take-care-of-rao-says-hc/articleshow/81160938.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Madurai||New collector for Theni, CoP for Tirunelveli||Theni: H Krishnan Unni assumed office as the Theni district collector on Monday. He comes in place of Pallavi M Baldev who had served in the capacity for almost three years from February 25, 2018 and has now been posted as the additional commissioner for land administration. Prior to his appointment as Theni district collector, On Monday, T S Anbu assumed office as the new police commissioner of Tirunelveli city following the transfer of Deepak M Damor. The 2001 batch IPS officer had earlier served in the city as the police commissioner following his promotion as deputy inspector general of police (DIG) in 2015. Anbu, who is now an IG rank officer has served as the IG (administration) and then as the IG of the idol wing last year. He has also served in various capacities in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Vellore and Thanjavur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-collector-for-theni-cop-for-tirunelveli/articleshow/81160919.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||‘My aunt being made a scapegoat by TRS’||Hyderabad: Senior BJP leader and the grandson of former Prime Minister PV Narsimha Rao, NV Subash said on Monday that his aunt Vani Devi is being made a scapegoat by the TRS party. Subash said that by fielding Vani Devi from the Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar graduates MLC constituency, TRS is doing the same as TDP had done to NTR’s granddaughter Nandamuri Suhasini. “When TDP fielded Suhasini from Kukatpally assembly constituency in 2018, TRS said that she was made a scapegoat. What is the TRS doing now, they are fielding my aunt from a losing constituency,” Subash told TOI. He said chief minister KCR is trying to claim the legacy of PVNR but he failed to fulfill several promises. “Chief minister KCR promised a welfare scheme in the name of PV and also said that a district will be named after him. But nothing of that sort happened and PV’s legacy is being used only for political purposes,” Subash said, adding that BJP’s N Ramchander Rao will win the election. Subash is the eldest son of PV’s eldest daughter, whereas Vani Devi is the second daughter of the former Prime Minster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/my-aunt-being-made-a-scapegoat-by-trs/articleshow/81160915.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 23, 2021||Allahabad||Ganga Samagra selects 36 ghats fordaily aarti, cleanliness, maintenance||Prayagraj: Around 200 volunteers of Ganga Samagra have chosen 36 ghats along the Ganga between Saidpur in Ghazipur and Varanasi districts in the Kashi Prant for their cleanliness and maintenance. These 36 ghats are located in Ghazipur, Chandauli, Mirzapur, Bhadohi, Kaushambi, Prayagraj and Pratapgarh districts. Apart from cleanliness and maintenance of the snan ghats, the volunteers will also start Ganga aarti and plantation, besides promoting organic farming for ‘Aviral’ and ‘Nirmal’ Ganga. Ganga Samagra volunteers are working in 62 districts of five states and have also constituted snan and shamshan committees for maintaining cleanliness on the ghats. Chintamani Singh, a senior office bearer of Ganga Samagra, told TOI, “We will start working on 36 ghats in seven districts. We will work to maintain water quality and to improve the agriculture practices on the land along Ganga. More importantly, Ganga aarti will be performed at all these ghats.” Apart from restoration of lost ponds in villages along the Ganga, a major plantation drive will also be undertaken under which Peepal, Mango, Guler, Banyan, Neem and Pakar saplings will be planted to conserve environment, he added. We will also encourage farmers in these villages to start organic farming, which will them fetch better price in market, said Singh. Teams will also be deployed to maintain the sewage treatment plants (STPs) to ensure untreated sewage and pollutants are not discharged in the river. Ganga Samagra will also organize health camps for people in the villages on frequent intervals. A senior RSS functionary said, “We are promoting organic farming among farmers and have chalked out a plan for their training to check the use of chemical fertilizers.” A majority of farmers use chemical fertilizers in their fields which wash down into the Ganga during rains and pollute the river water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ganga-samagra-selects-36-ghats-fordaily-aarti-cleanliness-maintenance/articleshow/81157410.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||INTACH to protect and promote Ayodhya heritage||Ayodhya: Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) will kick off an awareness campaign to protect and promote Ayodhya’s heritage. An exhibition will also be held on Awadhi handicraft, including sikola, mauni, paan daan, zardozi, masala jaggery and local vinegar. Trust's chairman Major General (retired) L K Gupta inaugurated the Ayodhya chapter of INTACH at the historical Charan Paduka Temple on banks of Ghaghra river and released an e-book — Jyonar — based on traditional Awadhi cuisine. The programme was inaugurated with the lighting of a lamp and welcome song by renowned folk singer Kalpana Burman, INTACH's Uttar Pradesh convenor Jayant Krishna, Ayodhya chapter advisor Ashok Kapoor and Ayodhya Municipal Commissioner and vice-chairman of Ayodhya Development Authority Vishal Singh also participated in the function. Talking to TOI, INTACH's Ayodhya chapter convener Dr Indroneel Banerjee said, “The origin, antiquity and mythological significance of Charan Paduka Temple needs to be heard as the shrine has the footprints of Lord Ram.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/intach-to-protect-and-promote-ayodhya-heritage/articleshow/81154139.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Allahabad||City to witness development work under smart city project||Prayagraj: The Sangam city is all set to witness several developmental works aimed to make the city look more beautiful and to provide amenities for the common man. Being carried out under the Smart City project, authorities have identified nine works will on which an amount of Rs 35 crores would be incurred.Foremost among the developmental works would be revamping the facilities at Madan Mohan Malaviya Stadium and renovation of the pond located at Shaheed Chandrashekhar Azad Park of the city.Prayagraj Smart City Limited has issued a tender of Rs 35 crores for these two works along with seven other works. Following the revamping of the facilities at Madan Mohan Malviya Stadium, an amount of Rs 76.86 lakhs is expected to be spent. This amount would be spent on the repair of the stadium's infrastructure and procurement of several sports equipment.“Madan Mohan Malaviya stadium will become more beautiful and the enhanced sports equipment will also increase the viability of the city’s only multipurpose stadium,” said mission director (technical), smart city project, SK Sinha.Likewise, an amount of Rs 1.34 crores would be incurred on the complete renovation of the pond at Azad Park. In addition to this, an amount of Rs 28.49 lakhs will be incurred on filling water in the pond.The Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) had constructed this large artificial pond near the main entrance of the company garden of the city in 2016. It was part of the modernisation plan of the park for which an amount of Rs 1950.71 lakhs was spent. This huge pond had facilities like boating, colourful fountains and live ducks. Authorities had also installed two boats with self-cleaning mechanism because there were all chances that the stagnant water of the lake would develop algae.For filling up this around 20 feet deep lake, authorities had made provision of four bore wells around the lake. After opening, the lake functioned for around a year after which the stagnant water started developing a thick layer of algae and the lake started to die a slow death.Presently, the entire pond has dried down and the fountain and other mechanical fittings are lying defunct and thus collecting rust. The base of the lake too has developed cracks and the boulders are showing in open. Although, the authorities have managed to maintain the surrounding flora and fauna that was developed along with the lake.However, with the fresh decision, water will always be available in the pond under the new scheme and this pond will be the centre of attraction.The tender floated for the renovation of the stadium and the pond by Smart City Limited, the agency, which would be awarded the work, will have to supervise these two for five years.Similarly, all development works being done under Smart City will have to be completed within the stipulated period. “It would be the responsibility of the executing agency to carry out the maintenance for five years along with the period of completion of all work”, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/city-to-witness-development-work-under-smart-city-project/articleshow/81157406.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Varanasi||INTACH to protect and promote Ayodhya heritage||Ayodhya: Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) will kick off an awareness campaign to protect and promote Ayodhya’s heritage. An exhibition will also be held on Awadhi handicraft, including sikola, mauni, paan daan, zardozi, masala jaggery and local vinegar. Trust's chairman Major General (retired) L K Gupta inaugurated the Ayodhya chapter of INTACH at the historical Charan Paduka Temple on banks of Ghaghra river and released an e-book — Jyonar — based on traditional Awadhi cuisine. The programme was inaugurated with the lighting of a lamp and welcome song by renowned folk singer Kalpana Burman, INTACH's Uttar Pradesh convenor Jayant Krishna, Ayodhya chapter advisor Ashok Kapoor and Ayodhya Municipal Commissioner and vice-chairman of Ayodhya Development Authority Vishal Singh also participated in the function. Talking to TOI, INTACH's Ayodhya chapter convener Dr Indroneel Banerjee said, “The origin, antiquity and mythological significance of Charan Paduka Temple needs to be heard as the shrine has the footprints of Lord Ram.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/intach-to-protect-and-promote-ayodhya-heritage/articleshow/81155226.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
February 23, 2021||Madurai||Minister inaugurates work on new road projects in Madurai||Madurai: Minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju, on Monday, laid the foundation stone for new road works in Madurai at an outlay of Rs 1.2 crore.New roads will be laid in Mahalakshmi Nagar 1st, 2nd and 3rd Streets in Muthupatti at a cost of Rs 59 lakh. Another road work at an estimated cost of Rs 54 lakh will be taken up in 1st ,2nd ,3rd ,4th ,5th and 6th Cross Streets in Thyagi Kanthan Servai Main Street in Madakulam. A paver block road is to be laid at the cost of Rs 11 lakh in North Street in Palanganatham.Madurai Corporation commissioner S Visakan also took part in the foundation stone laying ceremony. Raju also inaugurated two ration shops in Jaihindpuram and another in Durasamy Nagar in Madurai West constituency.The minister said that compared to the agricultural loan waiver announced by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, only a small number of farmers had benefited by the loan waiver announced during the DMK rule. DMK is putting wrong facts in public domain that they waved off more than Rs 7,000 crore in agriculture loans. Only Rs 5,318 crore in loans were waived off by their government including loans obtained for the purchase of farm equipment and vehicles.“I am ready for a debate in the assembly with opposition leader M K Stalin or any other DMK leader to prove the claims of DMK is wrong. I have already proven their numbers wrong in the assembly a few years ago,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/minister-inaugurates-work-on-new-road-projects-in-madurai/articleshow/81160912.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Taloja prison hospital ill-equipped to take care of Varavara Rao, says Bombay HC||MUMBAI: The high court on Monday granted bail to Varavara Rao for six months on health grounds. He had sought bail on grounds of “deteriorating” health. A petition had also been filed by his wife for his release, citing violation of his fundamental rights. The HC directed his discharge from a private hospital in suburban Mumbai depending on his health but said he must reside within the jurisdiction of the special National Investigation Agency court in Mumbai and surrender his passport. “The court needs to strike a balance between the rights of the undertrial and the necessity of bringing the accused to book as early as possible,” said the bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale. The HC found it a “genuine and fit case” to grant Rao bail. Else, it said, “We will be abdicating our constitutional duty and function as a protector of human rights and right to health covered under right to life guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution.” “This court, as a constitutional court, cannot be a mute spectator to the undertrial being sent to prison and then to government hospitals where his health deteriorates further, to be ultimately shifted to the private superspeciality hospitals, upon intervention of courts and such movements of the undertrial continue back and forth only because his bail application has been turned down on merits under Section 43D (5) of the UAPA,” said the bench. Rao’s counsel Anand Grover and his wife’s counsel Indira Jaising had argued at length for his liberty as the trial is yet a long way from starting. The charge is not framed yet in the case. When the trial begins, it may take a long time to complete since the prosecution intends to examine at least 200 witnesses, the HC said. Rao was admitted to Nanavati hospital last November on a court order. But last month, the hospital declared him fit to be discharged. NIA counsel, ASG Anil Singh, sought a stay on the bail order for 3 weeks to enable it to appeal. The HC declined his request. It said, “Since we have ordered the release on health grounds… we do not deem it appropriate to send him to Taloja Central Prison for three weeks which would endanger his life.” The HC said it cannot sit in appeal over the expert opinion of Nanavati certifying Rao fit for discharge and “capable of self-care”. But it said the discharge report must be read along with earlier reports since July 2020 and held “it cannot be concluded he is fit to be sent back to Taloja prison”. The HC found NIA was “not justified” in relying on the state’s statement of shifting Rao to JJ prison ward. It found the hospital at Taloja central prison is “ill equipped and inadequate to take care” of Rao and agreed with his counsel Grover that shifting him to JJ prison ward “would be fraught with risk of inviting hospital acquired infections, particularly when the undertrial has already suffered repeated bouts of drug resistant bacterial infection to his urinary tract and he also tested positive for Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/taloja-prison-hospital-ill-equipped-to-take-care-of-rao-says-hc/articleshow/81163303.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||Army band, fave cartooncut-outs to welcome kids||Lucknow: The school campuses will echo with melodious tunes of the army band, and campus will be decked up like birthday party venue with charts, cut-outs of the favorite cartoon characters of kids like Chota Bheem, Motu Patlu and Spiderman with ‘welcome messages ready at the school gate to celebrate ‘Vidya ka Parv’. All this will be done on March 1, when the city schools will reopen for classes I to V after almost a year. Schools have been holding online classes since March last year due to the coronavirus pandemic. Schools will hold classes for students of Class I to XII on the campus after a year. Classes IX to XII have been running since October last year, while Classes VI to VIII resumed this month. “We have tied up with an army band for playing melodies to welcome back our tiny tots. We will decorate the campus with attractive charts and cutouts of favourite cartoon characters of students so that they feel happy and excited on coming back after a long gap,” said founder-manager of St. Joseph College and president of Unaided Private School Association (UPSA) Anil Agarwal. City Montessori School has decided to go festive on the first day with celebration of ‘Vidya Ka Parva’ with songs and balloons to welcome the little ones. “All our branches will be decorated with colorful balloons to welcome junior students. Teachers will be at the gate for the welcome ceremony followed by the celebration of Vidya ka Parv with songs,” said CMS spokesperson Rishi Khanna. Similar preparations are being made at prominent schools like Spring Dale College, Lucknow Public School, Pioneer Montessori School and others. GD Goenka Public school has decided to make student’s entry to the campus more exciting by making them enter the campus solving kids puzzle games and some fun games with social distancing to make students happy. GD Goenka Public School chairman Sarvesh Goel said, “We are not opening from March 1 but on a later date, but the preparations to welcome junior students have begun. It will be a grand welcome for the little ones with puzzles, balloons, cartoon characters and decoration of the campus.” Box Attendance improving, claim schools The attendance of classes VI to VIII has gradually improved after a week of reopening. “The classroom attendance has now gone up from 55% to 70%. Parents are happy with arrangements and are giving consent for their wards to attend classes,” said UPSA president Anil Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/army-band-fave-cartooncut-outs-to-welcome-kids/articleshow/81143344.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Ludhiana||In LIP protest, donkey carts two-wheelers, LPG cylinders||FUEL PRICE HIKETNNLudhiana: To protest the fuel price hike, the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) members here on Monday took out a protest march with a donkey-driven cart carrying two two-wheelers and LPG cylinders. The protest was led by LIP district president Baldev Singh and spokesperson of LIP, Punjab, and in charge of Gill segment Gagandeep Singh, alias Sunny Kainth. It started from Jagraon Bridge and culminated at Ghanta Ghar Chowk. Protesters raised slogans against the Centre for high fuel and LPG prices and some of them beat tin containers. Kainth said the fuel prices had reached the Rs 100 per litre-mark and PM Narendra Modi should understand that petrol and diesel were not only being used in government vehicles, but also by the common man. He said to hide its mistake, the government was blaming the previous regime, forgetting that it has been in power for the past seven years. Kainth added that BJP minister Smriti Irani, when in Opposition, used to wear potatoes and onions around her neck, carry cylinders, and sit on protests, but where was she now? The LIP leader said the government must reduce taxes on fuel and stop lining its own pockets.One of the protesters said vehicles were loaded on the donkey-driven cart in a symbolic protest to show that it was difficult to drive owing to high prices of fuel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-lip-protest-donkey-carts-two-wheelers-lpg-cylinders/articleshow/81158141.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Madurai||CEO urged to engage pvt school teachers for poll work||Madurai: The Federation of Private School Associations (FePSA) has requested Tamil Nadu chief electoral officer (CEO) and principal secretary to government Satyabrata Sahoo to engage scores of private school teachers for full-fledged election related work, thereby help them get temporary relief from the financial crisis they are going through due to the Covid-19 lockdown.“We have written to the CEO ahead of meeting him in person and put forward our demand. Government officials have started collecting details of teaching staff from private schools who will be available for the booth duty on the day of polling and the previous day. They will be paid on those two days. We have requested the CEO to engage us in all other election-related work too,” federation president M Arumugam said.Aware that this is not in practice till date, he said that they have put forward the request considering the sufferings of the nearly five lakh teaching faculty members in nearly 15,000 private schools in the state. He said around 7,000 schools are associated with the federation and that most of them are small schools where the correspondent is the principal or a teacher in that school.“Schools have remained shut for 11 months. But for students of Classes IX to XII students, other children are still at home. We don’t know when they would be able to be back to school. But for a miniscule share of private schools that managed to collect fees, the rest are going through lot of hardships. Most parents are unable to pay the fees and schools are unable to pay the teachers,” he said.Arumugam added that even those schools that conduct online class – that he estimates to be around 10%– are engaging only a tenth of their teaching staff while the rest are at home. Stating that this has affected the livelihood of the families of those teachers without income, he reiterated their request of engaging them for the election-related work so that they could get a salary for two months.The federation has sent copies of the representation to the chief minister’s special cell and to the chief secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ceo-urged-to-engage-pvt-school-teachers-for-poll-work/articleshow/81160946.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||Missing travel operator found murdered in Dehat||Kanpur: Body of a travel operator, missing for two days, was found floating in Rura canal in Kanpur Dehat district on Monday. Police said he was murdered and the body dumped into the canal. Police said they received a call about a body floating in Rura canal on Monday afternoon. A police team went to the spot and fished out the body from the canal. The police identified the body as that of Amit Yadav, a travel operator and a resident of Bagdadi Bangar Daipurwa locality in Bithoor, who was missing since he had left his house for a booking on Friday afternoon. The Kanpur Dehat police found that a missing case was registered by his family members at Kalyanpur police station in Kanpur in this regard. The van with which he had left for booking was recovered in an abandoned state at the Etawah highway in Kanpur Dehat district on Friday. Amit’s family had approached the police after he had made a call to his wife Rekha on Friday night informing her that the two men, who had hired his van for Rasoolabad, were of criminal background and were possessing firearms. His wife had then suggested that he escape from there and seek police help. Later, when she tried to get in touch with him again on his mobile phone it was switched off. “As per his family members, one Chotu, a taxi driver by profession, had asked him to pick up the two men from the city and go to Rasoolabad in Kanpur Dehat,” said police further. Inspector Kalyanpur Ajay Seth said separate three suspects have been picked up and their questioning is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/missing-travel-operator-found-murdered-in-dehat/articleshow/81158942.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal assigns seven medical officers for Swasthya Sathi cell||KOLKATA: The state health department has assigned seven medical officers to look after the Bengal government’s ambitious Swasthya Sathi cell on behalf of Swasthya Bhawan. The universal health scheme rolled out by the state government has seen a large number of people enrolling for the health coverage where beneficiaries can seek treatment at private hospitals. The government hopes to extend the facility that covers up to Rs 5 lakh per family to approximately 7.5 crore residents of the state. With the government setting up facilities for enrolling people under the scheme at different localities, there has been a massive rise in number of beneficiaries. As a result the health department is expanding its manpower for smooth functioning of the scheme. Sources in the health department said that the seven medical officers had been engaged to look after the state’s Covid Admission Cell during the pandemic. Now with a plunge in number of Covid-19 positive cases, the officers have been given the additional charge of managing the Swasthya Sathi Cell. The team will work under the state nodal officers for the scheme. In addition, the government has already set up various teams like hospital empanelment team, state nodal agency, an IT team and nodal agencies for each district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-assigns-7-med-officers-for-swasthya-sathi-cell/articleshow/81159510.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||AIMIM to contest Karnataka assembly polls||HYDERABAD: All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Monday announced that his party will contest the Karnataka assembly and Gulbarga municipal elections. He will address two public meeting in Gujarat on February 23. The meetings are scheduled in Godhra and Modasa towns. “We have taken another prominent decision in this meeting. We will also contest the assembly elections which are scheduled after two years in Karnataka,” said Owaisi. The party has already decided to field IIyas Seth as its candidate from north Gulbarga for 2023 Karnataka assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aimim-to-contest-ktaka-assembly-polls/articleshow/81160949.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||Metro to chug out in Kanpur, Agra from Nov 30||Lucknow: While presenting the state budget, UP finance minister Suresh Khanna informed the House that Kanpur and Agra Metro will start plying from November 30 this year. The government has allocated Rs 597 crore for Kanpur Metro and Rs 478 crore for Agra Metro in the budget. “The trial run on the priority stretches of Kanpur and Agra Metros will begin by July end and the train services will open for public by November this year,” Khanna said in his budget speech. The government has also allocated Rs 100 crore for Varanasi and Gorakhpur Metro projects. The minister also announced of Rs 1,326 crore for Meerut-Ghaziabad-Delhi RRTS corridor. According to Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC), nine out of 21 stations in the first phase between IIT Kanpur and Naubasta have been marked as priority. These nine stations will be elevated. The 32.5km long Kanpur Metro project has two corridors including 8.5km long stretch between Chandra Shekhar Azad University and Barra. In Agra Metro, the 6km priority corridor from Taj East Gate to Jama Masjid will have six stations including three underground stations — Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, and Jama Masjid. Agra will have two Metro corridors with total length of 29.4km. The total cost of Agra project is Rs 8,380 crore while that of Kanpur is Rs 11,076 crore. UPMRC has prepared the detail project report for Gorakhpur, which will have two corridors between Shyam Nagar to MMM Engineering College and BRD Medical College to Naushad Crossing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/metro-to-chug-out-in-kanpur-agra-from-nov-30/articleshow/81162042.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||Legislators can suggest projects upto Rs3cr||Lucknow: With state elections a year away, the government has made a provision in this year’s budget to allow MLAs and MLCs to recommend projects of upto Rs 3 crore for their areas. In April 2020, the MLA local area development fund had been stopped and the funds of Rs 3 crore each were diverted towards Covid-19 management. While the fund itself has not been restored, MLAs and MLCs will have the option of recommending projects for their areas which the government, on consideration, will implement. A provision of Rs 1,512 crore has been made in the budget for this. Under the MLA LAD, Rs 3 crore was available with the legislator for various kinds of works. Under the new system proposed in the budget, a fund equivalent to the MLA LAD will be available for the legislators to make recommendations. The funds will be released only after the members make recommendations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/legislators-can-suggest-projects-upto-rs3cr/articleshow/81162055.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Varanasi||Infra, tourism, medical educationget big push in Kashi, east UP dists||With Infograph Varanasi: The holy city Varanasi, which is also the parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and its neighbouring districts got substantial budgetary allocations in Uttar Pradesh’s Budget 2021-22 for various projects, including tourism, infrastructure and medical education. Presenting the Budget in the Assembly on Monday, UP finance minister Suresh Khanna proposed a fund of Rs. 100 crores exclusively for the development of tourism facilities and beautification of the places of tourism and pilgrimage in Varanasi. For the promotion of pilgrimage as well as tourism, a sum of Rs. Rs. 30 crores has been allocated for the development of Vindhyachal and Naimisharanya. For the development of modern infrastructure, a fund of Rs. 100 crores has been proposed for the Metro projects in Varanasi, Gorakhpur and other cities, while Rs. 1,107 crores would be spent on the development of Purvanchal Expressway, and Rs 7,200 crore for the development of Ganga Expressway. Besides, a sum of Rs. 300 crores has been allocated for special projects in Purvanchal (eastern UP). While a budgetary allocation of Rs. 1,950 crores has been made for the establishment of new medical colleges in 13 districts, including Chandauli and Sonbhadra in eastern UP, a fund of Rs. 960 crores has been allocated for the ongoing projects of under-construction medical colleges in eight districts, including Mirzapur and Ghazipur. Hailing the Budget, UP minister Neelkanth Tiwari said that it would further give a boost to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s ‘UP Model’ of development in the country. “Since Varanasi is a prominent confluence of tourism, pilgrimage and culture, it is quite obvious to give thrust on its development,” said Tiwari adding that various tourism projects like religious tourism, heritage tourism and ecotourism got budgetary support for development. “In view of the great potential in tourism in Varanasi region, special focus has been given by the government since 2017,” he added. Infographics: Devpt Gets A Push # Rs. 100 crores for development of tourism facilities, beautification in Varanasi # Rs. 30 crores for development of Vindhyachal, Naimisharanya # Rs. 100 crores for development of metro projects in Varanasi, Gorakhpur & other cities. # Rs. 300 crores for special projects in Purvanchal (eastern UP) # Rs. 1,107 crores for development of Purvanchal Expressway # Rs 7,200 crores for development of Ganga Expressway # Rs. 1,950 crores for establishment of new medical colleges in 13 districts, including Chandauli & Sonbhadra # Rs. 960 crores for under-construction medical colleges in eight districts, including Mirzapur & Ghazipur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/infra-tourism-medical-educationget-big-push-in-kashi-east-up-dists/articleshow/81158986.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||Government announces various sops for Bundelkhand region in state budget||Done/ALVI Jhansi: The finance minister while tabling the 5th annual budget in the Vidhan Sabha here on Monday announced a number of budget allocations for the development of various sectors in the Bundelkhand region. The finance minister allocated Rs 1,492 crore for Bundelkhand Expressway which when completed is expected to help in development of the region. Since the government has decided to develop the region as a defence electronic production cluster during the next financial year, therefore it has earmarked Rs 210 crore for development of Bundelkhand and Rs 10 crore as a special package while Rs 20 core has been proposed to develop tourism in the temple town Chitrakoot. A combined budget of Rs 2,000 crore has been announced for Lalitpur medical college and 13 other medical colleges in the state. Similarly, Jhansi is among the ten smart cities to be developed with a budget of Rs 2000 crore while Rs 90 crore for completion of three Sainik Schools in the state including the one in Jhansi.  Reacting to the budget, president, UP Vyapar Mandal, Sanjay Patwari, who is also the national secretary, CAIT said, “The budget is definitely progressive and development oriented which will push the entire Bundelkhand region to new heights as it covers all sectors that need development”. Highlights of budget allocation proposed for Bundelkhand Rs 1492 cr for Bundelkhand Expressway Rs 210 cr for development of Bundelkhand Rs 20cr for tourism development in Chitrakoot Rs 1950 cr for development of 13 medical colleges including Lalitpur medical college Rs 2000 cr allocated for 10 smart cities including Jhansi Rs 10 cr as special Bundelkhand package Bundelkhand to be developed as the hub of defence electronic production cluster Rs 90 cr for completion of three Sainik Schools including one in Jhansi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/government-announces-various-sops-for-bundelkhand-region-in-state-budget/articleshow/81158946.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ludhiana||Panchayat member among three held for illegal mining||Ludhiana: The Meharban police on Sunday arrested a member of Dhanansu panchayat and his two accomplices for illegal mining in the village. The accused were arrested from the spot and a JCB machine used for mining was seized. The accused have been identified as panch Sandeep Singh, Sarabjit Singh of Bhukhri Kalan village and Sukhwinder Singh of Dhanansu village. All of them are farmers. Sub-inspector Gursewak Singh from Meharban police station said when he was patrolling near Kadiana village late on Sunday evening, he received information that illegal mining was going on in Dhanansu on panchayat land. A police team reached the spot and caught the accused red-handed. The accused were presented before a court, which sent them in judicial custody. On the role of sarpanch or other members of the panchayat, the sub-inspector said further probe was being conducted to check involvement of more persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/panchayat-member-among-three-held-for-illegal-mining/articleshow/81158164.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Delhi||In the net within 24 hours: Two held for robbing biker in northwest Delhi||New Delhi: With the arrest of two men, Delhi Police on Monday claimed to have solved a dacoity within 24 hours that took place in northwest Delhi’s Jahangirpuri area. A juvenile accomplice has also been apprehended while two others are absconding. The two arrested accused have been identified as Prateek Bhardwaj alias Sonu (19) and Kunal Singh alias Mattu (23), both residents of Rohini. A pistol, a car used in the crime, and the victim’s ATM card were recovered from them. According to police, the incident took place on Sunday around 4.45 am when five men in a black Santro car targeted a biker on Bhalswa flyover. The men hit the man on the bike with their car as a result of which he fell down. A senior police officer said, as the man fell, the five men abducted him in their car. They robbed the victim of Rs 12,500 cash and also withdrew Rs 10,000 using his ATM card. The men then dropped the victim near Mukarba Chowk and fled the spot. After this, the victim—a home guard with Delhi Transport Corporation— approached the police, the officer said. “Our team led by inspector Varun Dalal used technical surveillance and human intelligence to reconstruct the events. CCTV cameras installed near the spot, ATM where the money was withdrawn and spot where the victim was dropped were analysed and local intelligence was gathered. We were able to zero in on two suspects who were arrested following a raid,” the officer said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-the-net-within-24-hours-two-held-for-robbing-biker-in-northwest-delhi/articleshow/81160969.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Varanasi||Girls raise voice, foil parents’ bid of child marriage||Times News Network Varanasi: A 15-year-old girl of Cholapur area foiled her father’s bid of marrying her with a 35-year-old man of Moradabad. On her complaint, her father was also sent to jail on Sunday. Similarly, a 16-year-old girl also took shelter of Childline against her marriage fixed by her parents. Apart from these two girls, 16 others also showed courage on the same lines against child marriages in past 14 months. Talking to TOI on Monday, the child protection officer Nirupama Singh said, “On Saturday, a 15-year-old girl Priti (changed name) of a village under the limits of Cholapur area called the police to seek help against her father’s attempt to marry her with a 35-year-old native of Moradabad district. Taking a prompt action, the SO Cholapur reached the girl’s place and took her father as well as three other persons, who had arrived from Moradabad, to police station. The police also boosted moral of the girl as she was in a state of fear, she said adding that on Sunday morning Akash Mishra and Vijay Chauhan of district child protection unit lodged an FIR against the girl’s father and later the girl was produced before the child welfare committee with her mother. “When we started Priti’s counselling the girl revealed that three persons from Moradabad were camping in her village. They were offering money and had given assurance of constructing a home for the family that will marry its daughter with the 35-year-old man. Nobody in village took their offer but Priti’s family started negotiations with them. On hearing their conversation Priti called the police,” said Singh. Another 16-year-old girl from a village of Kanudih area called DCPU volunteer Rajkumar alleging that her father had planned to take her to Delhi for her marriage. Taking a prompt action, Rajkumar, along with other volunteers, including of Childline and Chandmari police, reached her place and asked her father to not to leave home on Saturday night. On Sunday morning, the girl was produced before the committee. Singh said that after recording the girl’s statement an affidavit was taken from her parents making it clear that what actions could be initiated against them in case of child marriage. “We have witnessed 18 girls, including these two, who showed courage to raise voice against their parents since January 2020,” said Singh adding that continuous awareness drives being carried out by the women welfare, police departments and police enabled these girls in doing so hence the drive will be intensified to make the girls aware of how they can seek help of Childline by dialing 1098, police helpline 112 and child protection officers number 8840830673.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/girls-raise-voice-foil-parents-bid-of-child-marriage/articleshow/81159003.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Vadodara||Major traffic diversions today for vote counting||Vadodara: If your daily commuting route passes through Fatehgunj flyover bridge, Shastri bridge or Fatehgunj circle, it is advisable that you leave home early on Tuesday. As counting of votes for Vadodara Municipal Corporation’s elections will take place on Tuesday, all roads leading to MS University’s Polytechnic College will be closed for traffic from 5am till the counting is over. Traffic police officials said that alternative routes will be available for commuters so that they are not troubled by the closing of roads. Citizens have also been prohibited from using mobile phones within a radius of 200 metres of the counting centre from Monday midnight until the counting process ends. Staff of all police stations, 160 officials, one company of rapid action force (RAF), border security force (BSF) and state reserve police (SRP) each and 40 videographers will be deployed for security at the counting centre. Nineteen police vans and 19 bikes will tag victory rallies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/major-traffic-diversions-today-for-vote-counting/articleshow/81158174.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ludhiana||Virus claims 3 lives, infects 37||Ludhiana: Three residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 37, including five students and a teacher, tested positive on Monday. As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 68-year-old woman of Jawaddi, who had diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease; a 65-year-old man of Milkowal, who had hypertension, diabetes and hepatitis C; and a 52-year-old diabetic woman of Deep Nagar.The day also saw two patients from outside the district succumbing to the virus at the city hospitals and 10 outsiders testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the district toll has risen to 1,021 and that of outsiders to 499. To date, 6,50,525 persons have been tested.Of the 37 new cases, eight were from flu corner, six contacts of positive patients, eight from OPD, six through tracing process, one healthcare worker, one severe acute respiratory infection case, five students (two from a private school, two from Chaunta village government school and one from a government senior secondary school in Ludhiana) and one teacher from a multipurpose school here.The local health department officials said the district case count was 26,701 and that of outsiders 4,118.So far, 25,259 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.59% of the total cases.There are 418 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-claims-3-lives-infects-37/articleshow/81158136.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||Khanna mixes numbers with poetic observations||Lucknow: Finance minister Suresh Khanna’s budget speech was not just a 46 page compendium of statistical jargon and financial terminology. Tucked in with the data was his love for literature expressed in Urdu couplets and shers, leaving behind a lyrical experience for the audience in the House. In his opening remarks, the minister referred to the year bygone and recalled how people from different walks of life survived the travails of the pandemic. “Yakeen ho toh koi rasta bhi nikalta hai, hawa ko oate lekar bhi chirag jalta hai (One can find one’s way if one believes in it) ” he said, saluting the “out of the box thinking displayed by CM Yogi Adityanath”. Recognising the effort of the Covid-19 warriors to fight back, he said: “Haar ho jaati hai jab maan liya jata hai, jeet tab hoti hai, jab thaan liya jata hai (Those who give up eventually lose, but those who believe in their victory eventually win).” The minister also integrated words of wisdom in the number-laden monologue. Addressing youths before elaborating on the schemes for young residents of the state, he said: “Jo hota hai who hone do, yeh paurush heen kathan hai, ham jo chahenge woah hoga, in shabdon mein jeevan hai (Giving up to circumstance is a deed of the weak; agile are the ones who make their own way).” Another poetic but life changing piece of advice came in reference on labour welfare. Denoting the way UP government handled the great migrant labour crisis during the pandemic season, he said: “Ek pathar ki bhi taqdeer samwar sakti hai, shart yeh hai ki salique se sanwara jaye.” The message here was that right methods can elevate the fate of anyone besides stressing on the fact that there is always a chance to turn an adversity into an opportunity. Listing out the vision for the state, the minister elaborated across different heads. He took to four lines of a visibly self-written Hindi poem to conclude on a positive note. “Pyar ka rasta dhoondhegi ye pavitra sabha, khoob barsegi is zamin par rehmat ki ghata. Mohtarim sadar ho jis bazm mein khud Yogi, charon taraf failegi vikas ki sunehari chhata, “he said, praying for betterment of the state under the leadership of CM Yogi Adityanath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/khanna-mixes-numbers-with-poetic-observations/articleshow/81162148.cms||Shailvee Sharda
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||Rs 658.5cr budget push for Brand Ayodhya||Lucknow: In a mammoth budgetary push for Brand Ayodhya, Rs 658.5 crore was earmarked for different departments, including civil aviation, culture, tourism and urban development for a grand makeover of the temple town. Allocations were in sync with the state’s vision of developing world-class infrastructure in Ayodhya, which stands at the threshold of becoming a global pilgrim destination with the Ram temple coming up. The government, through the civil aviation department, pledged Rs 101 crore for development of an airport — Maryada Purushottam Shriram Airport Ayodhya. The culture department too pledged Rs 300 crore for construction of approach roads to Ramjanmabhoomi. For developing tourist facilities and services in Ayodhya and undertaking beautification work, Rs 100 crore was earmarked by the state tourism department. Funds of Rs 140 crore was set aside for development of the Surajkund project through the housing department. Ayodhya is also listed among 10 cities picked by the state urban development department for Rajya Smart City Yojana for which Rs 175 crore was sanctioned. The temple town will get Rs 17.5 crore under this scheme and the amount will be used to augment local development and beautification. Ayodhya residents have welcomed the budget. “The land of Ram is being readied to redeem its glory in modern times. It’s heartening to know that the government is pooling in funds to make the transition happen,” said Mahant Girishpati Tripathi of Tewari Mandir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-658-5cr-budget-push-for-brand-ayodhya/articleshow/81162134.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh budget seeks to empower farmers, youth and women||The spotlight was on farmers, youth, women, rural development and economically vulnerable sections of the society as Yogi Adityanath government presented its fifth budget, probably last before the next state elections, on Monday. Despite financial constraints due to Covid-induced lockdown and the over state revenue falling short of the target this fiscal, the government tried to give an 'all-is-well' message to the people of the state by tabling a 'paperless' budget of Rs 5.5 lakh crore, which is Rs 38,000 crore more than previous year's size. Immediately after the budget, the CM tweeted: "In the middle of a global pandemic, this budget inspires hope and gives wings to UP's possibilities." Later, addressing a press conference, he said: "It would totally transform the ease of living and ease of doing business." He also congratulated finance minister Suresh Khanna for his 'all-inclusive' budget which saw allocations going up in 17 segments, inclduing education, health, industry and soial welfare. Opposition parties, led by BSP chief Mayawati and SP president Akhilesh Yadav, however slammed it, calling it a 'farewell budget' and a 'document of false promses'. In his over 100-minute speech, Khanna said that the theme of this year's budget was 'Empowerment Through Self-Reliance'. The four previous budgets of the Yogi government were dedicated to industrial development, women empowerment, farmers and the youth. As expected, the government opened its purse string for farmers, dedicating a special plan 'Atma Nirbhar Kirshak Smanvit Yojana' for doubling their income by 2022. Besides, Rs 600 cr was allocated to a special insurance plan for farmers who meet with an accident. Khanna announced that those working in the agriculture farms -- farmers, co-croppers or farm labourers -- would be insured under the Chief Minister insurance scheme. The budget also provides Rs 700 crore for a free water scheme for farmers and Rs 400 crore for crop loans. Farmers would also get a big chunk from Rs 3,100 crore earmarked for pension yojana. In an outreach to labourers, it launched a special scheme of migrants and a new health scheme for unorganised workers, besides allocating Rs 5,500 crore to MNREGS, which emerged as a saviour for lakhs of migrants who came back to UP at the onset of the pandemic. Besides, Rs 15,000 crore was earmarked for Jal Jeevan Mission (rural). In a major push to infrastructure development, Rs 7,689 crore was allocated for the proposed Ganga Expressway between Meerut and Prayagraj. All other under-construction expressways, too, were given decent allocations while the proposed RRTS between Delhi and Meerut got Rs 1,350 crore. Proposed airports and Jewar got Rs 2,000 crore. While there were a slew of announcements for youth, including free tablets for eligible students enrolled under Abhyudaya scheme, the government went all out to impress women with expansion of several existing schemes. The total proposed expenditure on education is Rs 92,107 crore, which is 16.8% of the total budget. The government also allocated Rs 650 crore to the development of Ayodhya. Other religious places like Kashi, Vrindavan, Chitrakoot and Naimisharanya, too, were allocated funds for facelift and development. "With the development of a world class international airport in the name of Lord Ram in Ayodhya, I am confident that the footfall in this pious birthplace of Lord Ram, would be more than any other destination in the world," Yogi said. In view of the ongoing pandemic, the government also allocated Rs 33,423 crore to the health sector, which is more than 6% of the total budget. The proposal includes the setting up of a world class virology lab and research centres on diabetes and kidney ailments. “I don't want patients from the state to go out of Uttar Pradesh for their treatment," the CM reiterated. Allocation for urban development, power and housing sectors were routine. Legislators, however, got their area development fund back, though with a rider. There was no new tax and also no free vaccine, as speculated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-budget-seeks-to-empowerfarmers-youth-and-women/articleshow/81162162.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||UP budget: Pragmatic finance minister avoids populism, walks a tight-rope||LUCKNOW: Finance minister Suresh Khanna’s budget avoided populism, but chose to be pragmatic with a touch of symbolism in the run-up to the assembly polls. While the yawning fiscal deficit triggered by the pandemic haunted the FM, many programmes and projects announced with fanfare lacked concrete financial backing. In a shrewd move, Khanna skirted mention of free Covid vaccination of 24 crore population as this would have scraped state coffers. The FM also left many legislators in a sulk with his tough stand on the much-sought-after vidhayak nidhi (area development fund). Instead of restoring the corpus, he announced a Rs 1,512-crore constituency development fund with a rider that money would be sanctioned only after receipt of proposals. This means lawmakers won’t have direct control over funds as they had with ‘vidhayak nidhi’. And in most existing plans and projects, Khanna did not earmark big funds like in Metro projects. Also, while announcing free ipads for students appearing for state and national competitions, funds allocation and parametres remained blurred. Similarly, there was little clarity on budgetary allocation for the recently launched ‘abhudaya’ scheme. In pursuit of the politically emotive agenda, the FM earmarked Rs 80crore for cow sheds and stray animals, but a not-so-big amount of Rs 15 crore for construction of martyr memorials. Construction of boundary walls around Ram Lila grounds in the state too remained on paper, though announced in the last budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pragmatic-fm-avoids-populism-walks-a-tight-rope/articleshow/81162154.cms||Subhash Mishra
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||To bolster security, Rs 120cr setaside for establishment of UPSSF||Lucknow: The proposed UP Special Security Force (UPSSF) will finally see the light of the day with the allocation of Rs 120 crore in the state budget on Monday. Last year, the state cabinet had given its nod to the formation of five battalions of UPSSF to look after the security of religious places, courts and other vital installations. Additional director general (ADG), police headquarters, BP Jogdand, said: “The allocation will help in raising the battalions and providing basic facilities along with the construction of buildings.” Additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar said UPSSF would reduce extra cost on hiring of agencies for security. “It will also reduce burden on police and PAC,” he added. A senior police official said tasks would be divided among battalions. “A specialized battalion will guard the courts while another would look after religious sites and metro stations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/to-bolster-security-rs-120cr-setaside-for-establishment-of-upssf/articleshow/81162124.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||UP Gaurav Samman forachievers||To recognize the achievements of people who bring laurels to Uttar Pradesh, the state government has instituted UP Gaurav Samman under which each recipient will be presented Rs 11 lakh as token of appreciation. Under the scheme, cleared in the state budget, five people having their roots in UP, living anywhere in the world, will be felicitated. “Anyone who has made UP proud will be felicitated. While the guidelines and rules are being finalised, they will largely be on the lines of Padma awards. UP Gaurav Samman may be seen as the state counterpart of Padma Shri,” said principal secretary, culture, Mukesh Meshram. The budget has also provided for Rs 15 crore for year-round celebrations to mark the Chauri Chaura centenary celebrations. An allocation of Rs 200 crore has been made for development of tourist facilities in various parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-gaurav-samman-forachievers/articleshow/81162129.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||NLU, development work in SangamCity, medical edu get budget boost||Prayagraj: In the state budget presented on Monday, finance minister Suresh Khanna has provided funds for various new and ongoing projects in Prayagraj and neighbouring districts of Pratapgrah and Kaushambi. Among the proposals in the budget for the financial year 2021-2022, the MD Eye hospital in the city would be getting funds for diabetic retinopathy treatment centre. “The centre would benefit diabetic patients who develop complications due to high sugar levels in their blood and even face the threat of losing vision in an advanced stage. We have an operational unit providing treatment for this specific ailment. The funds proposed in the budget would further strengthen the facility and will help patients from Prayagraj as well as neighbouring districts”, said MD eye hospital director and MLN medical college principal Dr S P Singh. The budget also allocates funds for starting teaching in under-construction medical colleges in Pratapgarh, Fatehpur, Mirzapur from July 2021. For this, a budget of Rs 960 crores is proposed. The budget also provides Rs 2,000 crore for development work being carried out in the city under Smart City project. The government also announced that it has decided to set up a National Law University in the city while ₹450 crore have been allocated for buildings of courts in districts. Besides, funds have been proposed for construction of multilevel parking at Allahabad High Court and chambers for lawyers under Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) mode. “The budget has provided Rs 5 crore for providing financial assistance to young lawyers,” said Abhishek Shukla, a young lawyer in the city. The neighbouring district of Kaushambi would also benefit as the budget has provided Rs 1,950 crore for under construction new medical colleges in 13 districts, including one in Kaushambi. The budget would also speed up work for Ganga Expressway, which would pass through the district. A provision of Rs 7,200 crore has been made for land acquisition and Rs 489 crores for construction of the expressway. Besides, Prayagraj division would also get a Sainik School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nlu-development-work-in-sangamcity-medical-edu-get-budget-boost/articleshow/81157417.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||Rs 200 cr for KGMU to setup virology research centre||Lucknow: The King George’s Medical University (KGMU) on Monday got a gigantic push in the direction of studying human pathogens and viruses when the state government allocated Rs 200 crore for setting up an institute of virology and encephalitis diseases at the medical university. Addressing the media after the budget session, Chief Minister Yogi Aditynath said that the institute will be modelled on the lines of National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune. The institute is expected to set up the highest level of biosafety containment facility -- a biosafety level 4 lab for which the budget made provisions of Rs 23 crore in the current year for phase I work. Currently, India has only two such labs functional – NIV, Pune which studies human pathogens, and High Security Animal Disease laboratory, Bhopal for animal pathogens. Such a centre researches on a large number of infectious and deadly viruses such as Nipah, novel coronavirus, Ebola and viral haemorrhagic fever among others. “KGMU had been looking forward to establishing this nuanced territory and with the initial Rs 23 crore for the current fiscal year, we will begin the work in the direction,” said KGMU vice-chancellor (VC) Lt-Gen (retd) Dr Bipin Puri. “The first step requires a high level of consultancy and we have begun looking for such a consultant already. We aspire for the best, but there are not many experts available in this field,” he added. Dr Puri also said that KGMU’s health budget has been spiked by around Rs 35 crores for the current year, which is a welcome step. “The addition has been made in the salary side of the budget and since we are in the process of hiring new faculty members, the enhancement was required for smooth functioning.” ReplyForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-200-cr-for-kgmu-to-setup-virology-research-centre/articleshow/81162158.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Pawar cancels events after spike in cases||Mumbai: NCP president Sharad Pawar on Monday said he had cancelled public engagements in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. Maharashtra reported 6,971 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, raising the state’s infection tally to 21,00,884. The state also reported 35 fatalities on Sunday, taking the toll to 51,788, as per official data. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pawar-cancels-events-after-spike-in-cases/articleshow/81162274.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ludhiana||Pandemic rule violators will be challaned from today||Ludhiana: With Covid-19 cases increasing, the city police will start challaning the pandemic guidelines’ violators from Tuesday.The Ludhiana Police on Monday uploaded a post on its official Facebook page stating, “There has been a surge in the number of daily Covid cases over the last few days at various places, including Ludhiana. It is assessed that the next 15 days are critical for curbing the spread of the virus. There is an urgent need to take immediate steps to enforce Covid appropriate behavior, especially wearing of masks and restricting the size of gatherings in enclosed spaces, like at marriage palaces, hotels and restaurants.”Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal urged residents to ensure strict enforcement of the guidelines. “Police will issue challans and file FIRs against the violators of the state directives,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pandemic-rule-violators-will-be-challaned-from-today/articleshow/81158168.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||At least 7k health workers set to miss vax in 1st round||Kolkata: The mop-up period for the first round of Covid vaccination for healthworkers could conclude on February 25 with around 5%-10% missing out on the shot. This includes 7,000-8,000 private practitioners not attached with hospitals and retired doctors across Bengal apart from nurses who have not yet been registered for the vaccine since their names were not uploaded on the CoWIN software — the sole platform for registration — through a health establishment. These healthworkers will no longer be eligible to receive the vaccine as part of a priority group and must wait for their turn as the rest of the population gets inoculated. Around 75% of healthworkers have received the first dose in Bengal till February 20 which was the cut-off date that was extended by five days to inoculate those left out. “I have been desperately trying to register but there is no provision at all. Since I am not attached to any hospital, I am not eligible which is strange. I am still a practising doctor and there should have been a registration platform for medics like me,” said gynaecologist Sanchita Chatterjee. Many retired government doctors and private practitioners not associated with health establishments have been trying to get registered since vaccination started on January 16. But their efforts have been in vain since Co-Win portal doesn’t allow individuals to register. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) Bengal chapter had circulated a registration form for these healthworkers on social media in December and January which was filled in by 5,000 across Bengal, including around 1,000 in Kolkata. These names were uploaded on the portal and they received the shot but around 7,000 others either missed the form or ignored it. “We had widely publicized the circulation of the form on social media and many responded and got the vaccine. But a larger number of doctors and other healthworkers preferred to wait and watch,” said Anirban Dalui, public health specialist at the state health department. He said these doctors could have got the vaccine if CoWIN allowed registration now. Several government hospital doctors are among those who haven’t yet got the vaccine. “There are seniors in multiple departments waiting for a call,” said Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education & Research (IPGMER) professor Diptendra Sarkar. He added that he and his colleagues have been flooded with calls from retired seniors who are eager to take the shot. Visiting consultants at private hospitals are among those not registered yet. “Some who are not very regular at our hospital have been left out. We have included some of them on our roster,” said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua. All may not be lost for these healthworkers, though, said Dalui. “They may apply to chief medical officer (health) of respective districts and get enlisted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-least-7k-health-workers-set-to-miss-vax-in-1st-round/articleshow/81159539.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||Funds for Metro, expressways, croploans & irrigation in budget hailed||Gorakhpur: The first paperless budget of the Yogi Adityanath government presented by finance minister Suresh Khanna on Monday was hailed by all sections of the society in Gorakhpur, though Opposition leaders termed it an electoral budget. Locals hailed the focus of government on development work in Gorakhpur and Purvanchal and allocation of funds for Metro rail, Gorakhpur Expressway and Gorakhpur Link Expressway. The budget provides Rs 860 crore for Gorakhpur Link expressway, Rs 750 crore for Gorakhpur Expressway and Rs 100 crore for Metro rail projects in Gorakhpur and Varanasi. “Roads are necessary for development and construction of expressways will boost economic growth which will create employment and stop migration. Metro rail is a dream for people of Gorakhpur and funds in budget for it will make it a reality soon,” said Ramvriksha Gautam, a youth. Farmers also praised the budget and provision of Rs 700 crore for free irrigation, Rs 600 crore for farmers’ accident welfare scheme and Rs 400 crore for crop loans. “I am happy the UP government is thinking of farmers. The provisions in the budget will be a great help for small farmers,” said Swarika Singh, a farmer of Belghat area. Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan called it a ‘shaandaar’ (awesome) budget and said it has provisions for farmers, women, poor, youth and development. BJP media in-charge Brijesh Tripathi said the budget will bring positive change in the life of the last man of society and create employment opportunities. BJP zonal vice president Satyendra Sinha said the budget will lead Gorakhpur towards development. The Opposition leaders, however, criticised the budget. SP district president Ram Nagina Sahini said the budget is like ‘Mungeri Lal ke Haseen Sapne’ and is anti-poor. It has nothing for labourers, shopkeepers, weavers and has neglected youth, women, students and fishermen, he added. Congress leader SP Tripathi said the budget has no provisions to lower taxes, electricity charges, and petrol and diesel rates and termed it disappointing. BSP district president Ghanshyam Rahi termed it an electoral budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/funds-for-metro-expressways-croploans-irrigation-in-budget-hailed/articleshow/81159010.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||Spreading wings: Jewar gets Rs 2k cr,Rs 101cr for Ayodhya airport||Lucknow: As the construction of Ram Temple picks up pace, the state government on Monday lent a budgetary push of Rs 101 crore to the proposed airport in Ayodhya which will be named after Lord Ram. The amount is expected to be spent on the expansion of the existing airstrip and other facilities to make the airport fit for landing of AirBus and Boeing 777. The Jewar airport has also received Rs 2,000 crore in the state budget. The airport, which is being projected as an alternative to Delhi’s IGI airport, will have six runways and a host of other civil aviation facilities. The budgetary thrust to Jewar airport comes at a time when the construction of Kushinagar international airport nears completion. A senior official in the civil aviation department said the state would soon have four international airports – Lucknow, Varanasi, Kushinagar and Jewar. The state government seeks to expedite the regional connectivity scheme (RCS) under which Aligarh, Azamgarh, Moradabad, Shravasti, Chitrakoot and Sonebhadra (Myorpur) airstrips have been selected. Officials said the development of airstrips in Aligarh, Azamgarh, Moradabad and Shravasti were nearing completion while the ones at Chitrakoot and Sonbhadra would be completed by 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/spreading-wings-jewar-gets-rs-2k-crrs-101cr-for-ayodhya-airport/articleshow/81162074.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||YS Sharmila taps Rajsekar to take T||Hyderabad: YS Sharmila, who is waiting to take plunge into Telangana politics, has appointed V Rajsekhar as the coordinator of all her programmes . This is the first appointment she made. Rajsekhar from Jubileehills was close to YSR's family. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ys-sharmila-taps-rajsekar-to-take-t/articleshow/81160990.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||Every segment of society has been kept in mind: Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW: The emphasis of his government’s fifth budget, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday, is on overall development and empowerment through self-reliance (atma-nirbharta). The chief minister said that his vision for an all-encompassing welfare programme is reflected in this year’s budget, especially in light of the Covid-19 pandemic and its impact on the economy. The budget, he said, provides new hope and new light to the state. Congratulation the finance department team for the state’s first paperless budget and paperless cabinet meeting, the chief minister said that the budget aimed at ensuring “har ghar jal, har ghar bijli, har gaon sadak aur har gaon digital, har khet pani aur har haath naukri” (water and power in every house, roads in all villages, all rural areas digitalised, water in every field and every person employed). “Even though we were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, we adhered to financial discipline to counter the impact on our revenue and took steps keeping in mind the spirit of social welfare. In 2017-18, the main theme of our budget were farmers, in 2018-19 it was industrial development, 2019-20 it was women and in 2020-21 it was youth and infrastructure. This year we have focussed on overall development,” the CM said, adding that it would expedite the efforts towards an all-inclusive and integrated development of various sections while realising the concept of ease of living and Self-Reliant Uttar Pradesh. He emphasised that every segment of society had been kept in mind while drafting the budget and there were schemes to help every person become self-reliant. Starting with villages, he said, each was getting a gram sachivalaya and common service centres through which the rural population would have access to various certificates through digitalisation. Banking correspondent sakhis would not just provide employment to rural women but also bring banking services to the doorstep of the rural population, he said. Speaking about the state’s industrial development since 2016, the CM commended his government’s efforts at providing a safe environment in the state which had led it to become a preferred investment destination. With reforms in every sector, he said, UP rose from the 12th position in the ease of doing business rankings in 2016-17 to the second position this year. Mentioning the key schemes in this year’s budget, the CM said that the Farmers’ Accident Insurance Scheme had been extended to cover batidars and other earning members of a farmer’s family. Farmers not covered by the PM Insurance scheme would be given cover under the CM Jan Arogya Bima scheme. New schemes had been started to empower women self-help groups and address the problem of malnutrition among children and young girls, Sainik Schools and universities are to be established in districts where there are none, medical colleges on PPP mode in 16 districts which do not have the facility yet, Jal Jeevan Mission has been extended to all districts while connectivity has been focussed on in terms of expressways and airports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/every-segment-of-societyhas-been-kept-in-mind-cm/articleshow/81162176.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ludhiana||City animal lovers offer a healing touch to stray dogs injured in accidents||Ludhiana: Even as the stray dog problem remains a major concern in Ludhiana, a large number of pups of such dogs suffer injuries in road accidents and many of them are also orphaned after their parents die in accidents.However, this is just one side of the story. The other side of the story is about the residents, who take care of such injured pups and stray dogs. Among such humane residents are a doctor, a transporter, a bridal clinic owner and some other professionals, who nurse and feed these animals.Dog lovers say though a large number of stray dogs in the city is a reality, it is also a fact that many of their puppies have to suffer after getting injured in accidents or are left to fend for themselves as their parents die under the wheels of vehicles.“I had returned from England and met Pooja Didi, a dog lover, who had been feeding stray dogs for 15 years and would take care of 45 such canines. Then I met a bridal studio owner, who also wanted to do something for the stray dogs. With our savings, we together made a two-storey building at Tajpur Road where we keep stray dogs and puppies, who have either been injured in accidents or lost their parents,” said Dr Mehak Bansal, an animal lover, who works as a paediatrician at a reputed private hospital in the city.“Until March last year, we had 120-130 such dogs and pups, but after the lockdown, this number increased and currently it’s around 350, as sterilisation had been stopped for some time by the authorities,” she said.Animal lovers say until a few years ago, such accidents would go unnoticed. “About two years ago, we started a group ‘India for animals’ and currently I and my colleague Tania Garg are involved in the rescue of injured stray animals, including dogs, cats, birds etc. When we started this group, we would rescue one or two dogs or pups, but now we get at least two such calls every day. It is because of the rising awareness among the people about injuries to animals, which was less previously,” said another dog lover Sudhir Bisht, who is into the transport business.“After getting a call, we go to the spot and treat the injured pup/ dog there itself if it has minor injuries and request those in the neighbourhood to take care of it. However if it has major injuries, then we take it to Gadvasu (veterinary university). After treatment, we leave it with dog lovers where it gets proper care before it can move out,” he said.Veterinary officer at the municipal corporation Dr Harbans Dhalla agreed that there are stray animals that suffer due to injuries in road accidents. He put the count of stray dogs in Ludhiana between 25,000 and 30,000.BOXCount rose during lockdownAnimal lovers said the number of stray dogs increased in the city as the MC had suspended their sterilisation during the lockdown. Due to their large number, the count of such stray puppies and dogs suffering in accidents has also increased.BOXWhen to release operated dogsAnimal lover Dr Mehak Bansal said the authorities concerned should allow the dogs to move out of sterilisation centre after seven days, so that stitches of operation do not come out, as it could result in pus formation if the wound is not healed properly. She said the sterilised dogs are set free in four to five days, leading to death of some of them, as they develop infection in open wounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-animal-lovers-offer-a-healing-touch-to-stray-dogs-injured-in-accidents/articleshow/81158191.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 23, 2021||Madurai||Sterlite panel begins 25th sitting probe||Tuticorin: The one-member retired high court judge justice Aruna Jagadeesan commission probing the riots and police firing that claimed 14 lives during the 100th day anti-Sterlite protest on May 22, 2018, began its 25th sitting inquiry on Monday. The inquiry will continue till February 26. A total of 33 people have been summoned for examination in this session. Sources in the commission said that most of them are doctors from the Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi medical college hospitals who had treated the injured victims. Staff at the Tuticorin collectorate whose vehicles were burnt by the rioters have also been summoned in this sitting. So far, 918 people have been summoned in the first 24 sittings in which 617 have been examined by the commission. A total of 850 documents have been marked till the last sitting. On the recent repeated demand for government jobs matching the education qualification of the kin of those killed in the police excess and for those who have been badly injured, the source said that the commission has taken it to the notice of the state government thrice so far. The issue was also taken to the notice of Tuticorin district collector K Senthil Raj by the chairman of the commission who assured to take it to the notice of senior officials.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sterlite-panel-begins-25th-sitting-probe/articleshow/81160996.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Schools coach students, parents to ensure fair online final exams||KOLKATA: As the academic year comes to a close and students (non-board years) gear up to write their final examinations, schools are looking to meet the problem of use of unfair means in exams head on. Several schools have identified students who have taken the easy way out to score very high marks and have either written or spoken to their parents after reprimanding the children privately. According to the schools, given that the syllabus has been significantly reduced, not writing the exams honestly and yet getting promoted to the next level is as good as a lost year. Despite facing the challenge of not being able to monitor children as closely as a physical classroom permits, the schools have glossed over the very high scores and gone back to the proctored camera recordings to identify and catch students and later marked them for counselling. “We have written to all such parents where we thought that kids have not been honest with exams,” said Bratati Bhattacharya, spokesperson of Shri Shikshayatan School. Senior educators like Devi Kar, Modern High School director, termed it as a deep-seated malady which the online system has only helped to accentuate. St James School has also sent letters to parents of such students. “Class teachers with the help of subject teachers have identified such students and we have arranged for personal conversations with parents and their kids,” said principal T H Ireland. Schools have detected various modes of misdoings. “We have informed parents of all the children who have not been honest in the past exams,” said Sonali Sen, principal of DPS New Town. “When we find the same mistakes in a large number of answers, there is a delay in submission of scripts, it becomes obvious,” said Indrani Chattopadhyay, vice-principal of DPS Ruby Park. “Sudden exceptional performances are also being probed,” said Janet Gasper Chowdhury, owner of St Augustine’s Day School in Barrackpore and Shyamnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-coach-students-parents-to-ensure-fair-online-final-exams/articleshow/81159592.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 23, 2021||Ludhiana||Covid-19 cumulative positivity rate sees a drop despite increasing cases||Ludhiana: Though there has been an increase in the new cases in Ludhiana in the last month, the cumulative positivity rate in the district is lowest in the ongoing year. The cumulative positivity rate (CPR) is the number of samples that tests positive out of the total number of samples tested for a disease.According to the data from local media bulletins, positivity rate, derived by the total positive cases for Ludhiana district on February 21 was 4. 74%. On January 1, the cumulative positive rate was 5.28% whereas a day before that it was 5.29%. An analysis of state health department data since July 8 last year, suggests that the cumulative positivity rate in Ludhiana on July 8 last year was just 2.84% and it increased to 3.20% till July 15 and then to 4.73% by July 31 last year. The data suggests that the cumulative positivity rate reached 7.17% on August 15 last year, but dropped to 6.82% till August 3, though it increased in between. The cumulative positivity rate derived from state health department data suggests that it decreased further to 5.81%till September 15, then to 5.57% till September 30, then dropping further to 4.99% till October 15 last year. The data suggests that CPR the dropped to 4.57% on Oct 31 and dropped to 4.49% on November 15 last year before increasing to 5.29% by December end last year and then dropped to current value.As the cumulative positivity rate has witnessed a fall amid increase in new cases, health department officials advise caution.District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said drop in CPR in Ludhiana district is because of increased testing. However, he advised caution and added that they are appealing to people to follow norms related to Covid-19, including wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing.Many residents said increase in new cases are a cause for concern. “There was a time when a large majority of people would wear masks, but now you don’t find many people doing wearing masks even in busy markets. The departments concerned do not seem to ensure that people follow norms. This is the reason that Covid-19 cases are rising in the district,” said Narinder Singh, a social activist. Can be added as box:Box 1: CPR in Ludhiana districtDate | percentageFeb 15 | 4.8%Feb 16 | 4.79%Feb 17 | 4.78%Feb 18 | 4.76%Feb 19 | 4.76%Feb 20 | 4.74%Feb 21 | 4.74%Box 2: Counting CovidThe CPR derived from local health department data uses the number of samples of Covid-19 suspects collected in Ludhiana district (including those from other districts/states who give their samples in Ludhiana hospitals) and number of positive cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-cumulative-positivity-rate-sees-a-drop-despite-increasing-cases/articleshow/81158201.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Fear of new strain keeps Delhi under leash||NEW DELHI: With states like Maharashtra and Kerala witnessing a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, Delhi government will implement some new measures and also remain vigilant for at least two weeks before it decides on further relaxations, such as increasing passenger-carrying capacity of public transport. On Monday, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal stressed upon the adoption of cluster-based surveillance, testing and genome sequencing strategy during a meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which he chaired. Cluster-based genome sequence testing and surveillance helps in identifying any mutation of the virus. In the meeting, Baijal reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Delhi and the vaccination drive with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain and transport minister Kailash Gahlot, apart from chief secretary Vijay Dev and other senior officials. Baijal directed that there should be strict enforcement of Covid-compliant behaviour along with maintenance of current levels of RT-PCR testing to contain any possibility of resurgence of the infection. “While appreciating the efforts put in by all stakeholders in effective management of Covid-19, emphasised the need to continue to be vigilant without lowering the guard,” Baijal tweeted. “Also advised the health department to scale up vaccination efforts so as to enhance coverage and to undertake appropriate IEC campaign to sensitise people about Covid-19 vaccination,” another tweet said. While Delhi Transport Corporation had sent a proposal to the DDMA to allow standing passengers in public transport buses, sources said that no relaxation has been provided and buses will continue to operate at full seating capacity with no standing passengers. “Inside Delhi Metro trains, commuters will continue to sit on alternate seats and standing commuters will have to maintain a distance of at least six feet from each other,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fear-of-new-strain-keeps-city-under-leash/articleshow/81161067.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||8 Mantralaya employees test Covid +ve||Mumbai: Mantralaya is once again seeing a rise in Covid-19 cases. On Monday, at least eight of its employees from the revenue department tested positive and 22 did not report to work as they had shown symptoms of the virus. Some of them have been admitted to St. George Hospital. Besides, 20 staffers from other departments have also reportedly started showing symptoms of the virus and did not report to work. In the first phase of the pandemic, the Mantralaya building was a hotspot. With the cases on the rise, the employees union has written to the chief minister and public health minister Rajesh Tope to impose restrictions on visitors’ entry. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/8-mantralaya-employees-test-covid-ve/articleshow/81161049.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||FM earmarks Rs 3,007 crore for minority welfare||Lucknow: The state government has allocated Rs 3,007 crore for the welfare of minority communities in the 2021-22 budget. Major chunk of the funds for minority welfare went to schemes already in place, like student scholarship, Madrassa modernisation and for basic amenities in minority-dominated districts of the state. As compared to the last two budgets, there is only a slight difference in fund allocation this time. In 2020-21, Rs 3,159 crore had been allocated for the minority welfare department, while the figures in 2019-20 were Rs 3,158 crore. The budget this year has earmarked Rs 829 crore under post-matric student scholarship scheme for meritorious students of minority communities. A provision of Rs 588 crore has been made for improvement of education, sanitation, drinking water and basic infrastructure under ‘Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karyakram’ in minority-dominated areas. Finance minister Suresh Khanna has allocated Rs 479 crore for providing educational facilities of modern subjects besides religious education in recognized Madrassas and Maktabs under the Madrassa Modernisation Scheme. The state government has steadily increased the funds for Madrassa Modernisation Scheme from Rs 404 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 459 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 479 crore in 2020-21 and 2021-22 as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fm-earmarks-rs-3007-crore-for-minority-welfare/articleshow/81162191.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Rajkot||In Rajkot, cases double a day after poll||RAJKOT: A day after the voting for the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) was held 39 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. According to the RMC health department, on Sunday only 16 new cases were recorded in the Rajkot city area. Similarly, on February 20 and 21 the number of new cases were 20 and 21 respectively. According to health officials, the positive cases per day had been stable between 20 to 30 during the month of January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/in-rajkot-cases-double-a-day-after-poll/articleshow/81158244.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Police book two dozen airport taxi touts in a week for fleecing flyers||KOLKATA: At least two dozen taxi touts have been arrested from Kolkata airport premises in the past one week and they have been slapped with stringent charges of attempted extortion by the Bidhannagar City Police. The arrests came after TOI had reported on February 15 about the touts fleecing people at the city airport by cashing in on a gradual increase in the number of passengers after a year of Covid-induced lull. Cops in plain-clothes have been deployed outside the airport to nab the offenders. According to the officers of the airport division of Bidhannagar Commissionerate, more than 24 people were held from the airport premises between last Tuesday and Saturday for allegedly coaxing passengers to get out of the terminal and ride in their cabs. “We have started a drive against those, who have been approaching the passengers illegally this way and annoying them. We will continue with the drive for the next few days. We have slapped the offenders with the sections pertaining to attempted extortion and public annoyance,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. To make the airport commute more passenger-friendly, cops have also changed the positioning of the pre-paid taxis that are now queuing up along the pre-paid taxi counter and are more visible when a flyer exits the gates 1A/B or 2A/B. TOI, on multiple visits to the airport over the last one week, has found a number of pre-paid taxis standing beside the solitary pre-paid taxi counter opposite Gate 2A/B with cops in uniform managing queue and guiding passengers to pre-paid taxi kiosks. “Attempts are being made to ensure passengers do not get fleeced by touts,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-book-two-dozen-airport-taxi-touts-in-a-week-for-fleecing-flyers/articleshow/81159627.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Docs worried as patients ignore Covid-safety norms||New Delhi: The reduction in new cases of Covid-19 in Delhi has led to complacency among the public about following preventive measures, for example wearing a mask or maintaining social distance. And this is happening not just in market places or offices, but even in hospitals. According to Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital, many patients and their attendants visiting the outpatient department (OPD) don’t wear masks. “We saw 900 patients in the hospital OPD on Monday. Many people weren’t wearing masks. When asked to do so, their answer was that Covid-19 has ended,” Dr Kumar said. He added that such neglect towards following Covid-appropriate behaviour when the outbreak hasn’t ended yet may prove costly. “We cannot be complacent at all,” he said. The concern about a spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi has grown in the past few days in view of an increase in cases in states like Maharashtra and Kerala, which reported 5,210 and 2,212 new cases respectively on Monday. The national capital recorded 128 new cases and one more death in the last 24 hours, which is much lower. The positivity rate stood at 0.30%. With the latest update in figures, authorities said, while the overall toll rose to 10,901, the number of cases went up to 6,38,028. Monday’s 128 cases came out of the 42,242 tests — including 31,234 RT-PCR tests and 11,008 rapid antigen tests — conducted the previous day. The number of active cases on Monday stood at 1,041, officials said. The number of people under home isolation as on Monday was 471. On Sunday, 145 cases and two deaths were registered. Dr Uma Kumar, professor and head of rheumatology department at AIIMS, said people should continue to wear masks and maintain physical distance in public places. “All hospitals are geared up to be back in action in case there is a rise in cases. Also, we now have experience in dealing with such cases. Scaling up infrastructure is not going to be difficult. But, it is better to strictly follow Covid appropriate behaviour to prevent a crisis situation in the first place,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/docs-worried-as-patients-ignore-covid-safety-norms/articleshow/81161104.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Delhi man held for couriering banned pills||MUMBAI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) seized a consignment containing over 4,000 tramadol tablets during its drive against banned drugs and medicines. A person was arrested from Delhi. Tramadol is a psychotropic drug prescribed as a pain killer. It can be only dispensed under the prescription of a registered medical practitioner. Based on a tip off, the NCB Mumbai team came across a parcel in a courier company at Kurla and seized 4,824 tramadol tablets that had been sent from Delhi. During probe it was revealed that the consigner, identified as Mohammad Anas, was a resident of Delhi. He has been booked under the NDPS Act, 1985.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/delhi-man-held-for-couriering-banned-pills/articleshow/81161090.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||Even PM’s letter wont help unless local leaders pursue schemes: Bhagat||Dehradun: Uttarakhand BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat, in a viral video, is heard saying that even if one gets some scheme approved from the PM in writing, it won’t materialise unless local leaders pursue it on the ground. Bhagat was speaking at the inauguration of gas pipelines in Haldwani on Saturday. This has given the Congress an opportunity to slam the BJP and termed Bhagat's statement "an embarrassment for BJP, as party's state president has derided the role of the PM." Meanwhile, the ruling party claimed that the statement of Bhagat has been misquoted as he initially thanked the PM for all the schemes in the state, and that he later said that people who pursue the schemes to make them happen on the ground are critical too. In a minute-long video, Bhagat can be heard saying, “Hum bahut hi mahatvpoorna yojna ko yaha chalu kar rahe hain. Ab pradhan mantri ji, Dharmendra Pradhan ji, ye ji, wo ji, sabka sehyog to hai hi hai, lekin bhoomika uski hoti hai jo pursue karta hai. (We are launching very important schemes here. The cooperation and support of Prime Minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, etc, etc is, of course, there. But, roles of people who pursue the schemes to make them happen on the ground are critical too)." He added, “Aap pradhan mantri se likha lo, kaam wahi ka wahi rahega jab tak aap pursue nahi karenge. (You may bring a letter from the prime minister, but work will not happen untless you keep on pursuing the matter).” He also praised Jogendar Pal Singh Rautela, mayor of Haldwani, for pursuing the gas pipeline project in the town. Reacting to Bhagat’s statement, Garima Dasauni, Congress spokesperson, said it was clear from Bhagat’s statement that he believes that leaders like Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Dharmendra Pradhan do not mean anything to local leaders. “Bhagat has played with the pride of his own party by saying that PMs intervention means nothing unless local leaders don't pursue the same. Earlier, Bhagat was seen saying to party MLAs that they won't win the election in the name of Modi this time. This is tantamount to making a mockery of his own party and its top leadership,” said Dasauni. Manveer Singh Chauhan, state media incharge of BJP, refuted the claims of Congress that Bhagat has embarrassed the party. “The statement of Bhagat ji was misquoted. He is clearly heard thanking the Prime Minister and other senior ministers. What he was trying to say is that the responsibility of implementation of schemes at the local level lies with party functionaries. In this, his intention is clear that people should be responsible and accountable,” said Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/even-pms-letter-wont-help-unless-local-leaders-pursue-schemes-bhagat/articleshow/81167789.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Record 27k take jab, total past 3L||New Delhi: More than 3 lakh individuals have been vaccinated in Delhi so far with the highest number of individuals turning out to get the Covid shots on Monday. A total of 27,219 healthcare workers and frontline workers got the jab on Monday as compared to 26,110 individuals vaccinated during the last vaccination session. 21,760 individuals got the first dose while 5,459 people got the second dose. The total percentage turnout surged to 88.9% from 85.8% reported during the last vaccination session. The vaccination coverage is increasing because the Delhi government is conducting a mop-up round of vaccination from February 22 to 25 to inoculate all healthcare workers who have been left out of the vaccination process due to any reason. Among the 3,06,113 individuals vaccinated, 1,35,034 are healthcare workers while 1,71,079 are frontline workers. The rush for vaccination is also growing because some of the states in the country are reporting a surge in Covid cases. Only eight minor adverse events were reported on Monday and no adverse events was reported among 5,459 frontline workers who got the second dose. Among the three groups currently being vaccinated—healthcare workers receiving first dose and healthcare workers receiving second dose and frontline workers—the highest number of individuals turning out for vaccination was frontline workers. A total of 16,985 frontline workers got the shots as compared to 16,071 a day before. In the last one week, the coverage of vaccination is growing fast. The number of vaccination centres has been increased significantly to give a push to the coverage. Currently, vaccination is taking place at 306 centres. A total of 3,299 individuals turned out to get the shots in central district, highest among 11 districts, followed by 2,462 in South district and 2,103 in North East district. In North West district, highest 714 healthcare workers got the second dose followed by West district where 694 healthcare workers got the shot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/record-27k-take-jab-total-past-3l/articleshow/81161135.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur-Belagavi Udan flight from Mar 16||Nagpur: Star Air will be operating a flight from Nagpur to Belgaum in Karanataka from March 16. The sector has been opened under the ude ga desh ka aam nagrik (Udan) scheme for regional air connectivity. Star Air won the bid during Phase 3 of UDAN opened by the ministry of civil aviation, said a press release. The airlines will be operating an Embraer 145 which is a 50-seater aircraft. The plane will operate thrice a week on Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday. It will arrive in Nagpur at 04.45pm and depart at 5.10pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-belagavi-udan-flight-from-mar-16/articleshow/81161106.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||Cab strike leaves commuters high and dry; surge pricing adds to woes||Kolkata: A taxi strike by AITUC-affiliated Taxi Operators’ Coordination Committee left commuters stranded at different points of their transit routes on Monday. Commuters also experienced unnatural surge pricing of app-cabs with demand far exceeding the supply. Because of the unnatural rise of fuel price, many car-owners have opted for public transport, particularly app cabs. But for many, the week started with the horror of finding no cab around. Rathin Ghosh, a banker, was shocked to see fare zoom five times to Rs 570, “which normally does not exceed Rs 120.” Even a handful of metered cabs refused to go by meter. The situation was worse in the evening. “Many cabs, which hit the road in the morning, went off the road in the afternoon,” said Sanjib Roy of Bengal Taxi Association . Indranil Banerjee, secretary of Online Cab Operators’ Guild, said: “The issue raised by the Taxi Operators Coordination Committee struck a chord with all transporters as fuel price rise has hit hard everyone.” The Taxi Operators’ Coordination Committee secretary Nawal Kishore Srivasatava said, “We have written to the authorities on fare revision.” A spokesperson of the two major aggregators of app-cabs said: “There is a cap on the surge price. We will be looking into it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cab-strike-leaves-commuters-high-and-dry-surge-pricing-adds-to-woes/articleshow/81159676.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Rear Admiral Atul Anand takes charge||Rear Admiral Atul Anand has assumed the office of flag officer commanding, Maharashtra naval area, on Monday. The formal handing over ceremony was held at INS Kunjali, where Rear Admiral Anand was presented a guard of honour. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rear-admiral-atul-anand-takes-charge/articleshow/81162332.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man steals 5 phones from BPT customs godown, held||MUMBAI: A 25-year-old man was allegedly caught stealing five high-end mobile phones from a container at the customs warehouse at Bombay Port Trust in Sewri on Friday. The theft at the highly guarded warehouse just before the goods were to be examined by the customs has raised serious concern. This is not the first incident. In 2018, the DRI had caught a man stealing 2kg of gold and seized 40kg concealed in the soles of shoes from a container being examined by customs officials and customs house agents. In his complaint with Wadala police, port trust security guard Sunil Devlikar said on Friday, around 6pm, he was on duty near MOD gate no.1 when a Maharashtra State Security Corporation constable caught a man, Aftab Shaikh, moving suspiciously and recovered five phones. When Shaikh was asked how he had entered the restricted area, he said he was a daily wage worker and had come there for some civil work. The MSSC constable informed the police, who arrested Shaikh. “He failed to explain how he knew the container had phones,” said an officer. Police are still verifying whether Shaikh had come to the godown for some civil work. “We have registered a theft case on the complaint of BPT officials,” said Shahaji Shinde, senior inspector of Wadala police. Deputy commissioner of customs (docks) Radhanath Purohit told TOI that he was not aware of the theft, and it falls under the BPT jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-steals-5-phones-from-bpt-customs-godown-held/articleshow/81161149.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: JUTA writes to Vice-Chancellor on extra workload||KOLKATA: Jadavpur University Teachers Association (JUTA) on Monday wrote to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das and sought his intervention to relieve those teachers who have been taking “additional burden” beyond their stipulated duties while conducting the online examinations. The association stated that from the next semester examinations, the teachers will not take any additional responsibilities. The association’s general secretary Partha Pratim Ray pointed out at the hindrance faced by the teachers while uploading marks of the students after evaluation on the JUMS examination module. Four different examination modules were suggested for the faculties of humanities, science, engineering and interdisciplinary studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/juta-writes-to-vc-on-extra-workload/articleshow/81159690.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||BJP cancels Feb 24 jail bharo agitation||Nagpur: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to cancel its statewide jail bharo agitation against inflated power bills, scheduled to be held on February 24, in view of the Covid situation. Party general secretary Chandrashekhar Bawankule has, however, written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asking him to provide relief to common citizens in power bills, else the BJP would take to streets.Bawankule also told the media that many farmers were yet to get relief from the government. “The state government has also not declared any relief package for poor self-employed persons, who have suffered badly during the lockdown,” he said.The BJP leader demanded that the state government announce relief for common citizens in the forthcoming Budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-cancels-feb-24-jail-bharo-agitation/articleshow/81158298.cms||Ashish Roy
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Doctor took 4 vax doses for his kin, vial theft accused tells cops||Nagpur: In a fresh twist to the Akola vaccine theft case, name of a medical officer has now surfaced. The police have started questioning him too. Vaccinator Deepak Sontakke, arrested in the vaccine theft case, had named the doctor as the one who had illegally taken four doses from him for family members. These four doses were separate from the 70 other doses in seven vials, which had gone missing. Though the doctor has denied the allegation, cops are yet to rule out his involvement in the theft. Superintendent of police G Shridhar had alerted civil surgeon regarding the latest development and sought a comprehensive inquiry report from the health department. With Sontakke continuing to deny his involvement in the theft during the two-day police custody, the investigation hit a roadblock on Monday as the accused was sent to judicial custody after a magistrate rejected police request for further remand. Sontakke was placed under arrest by Channi police in Akola district last week after his name was mentioned as suspect by the internal inquiry committee of Chatari rural hospital in connection with the seven missing vials of Covishield vaccine. The fact that the vials were missing had come to fore on February 12. On the morning of February 12, staff nurses had noticed seven vials, out of total 44, missing. This indicated that the vials had gone missing a day ago.  After preliminary inquiries, a missing complaint was registered on February 16 by Chatari rural hospital officials. Subsequently, an offence was registered after complaint of theft was lodged by the hospital authorities naming Sontakke. According to a source, the hospital authorities had named Sontakke as he had stayed back for a couple of hours after his duty ended at 5pm on the day the vials are suspected to have gone missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctor-took-4-vax-doses-for-his-kin-vial-theft-accused-tells-cops/articleshow/81161145.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 23, 2021||Delhi||DoT wing cracks down on illegal signal boosters||New Delhi: The wireless monitoring wing of the department of telecom has brought down over 48 mobile signal boosters in Connaught Place, a senior official said on Monday. The unit is continuing with raids in other parts of Delhi to bring down illegal devices that deteriorate mobile signals around places where they are installed. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dot-wing-cracks-down-on-illegal-signal-boosters/articleshow/81161178.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||State’s second cluster university to foster interdisciplinary learning approach||Nagpur: Maharashtra’s second cluster university, HSNC University in Mumbai, aims to foster interdisciplinary learning approach, as it prepares for the 2021-22 academic session. A ‘cluster university’ is a new concept in India under which a group of existing colleges come together and allow students to pick and choose courses from different streams using the credit-based system. Niranjan Hiranandani, provost of HSNC University, spoke exclusively to TOI about his institute’s plans to make it ‘student-centric’. “HSNC’s initiatives are completely aligned with the vision of National Education Policy (NEP),” said Hiranandani, who also heads one of the country’s biggest real estate brands among other ventures. HSNC University comprises three well-known Mumbai-based institutes. HR College, KC College and Bombay Teachers’ Training College all have a high NAAC accreditation and even individually are brands in themselves. Hiranandani said, “We have the best curriculum which is curated and taught by finest academics. Students here will always have a choice to choose courses from among these colleges and make their learning process a personalized experience.” He added that group projects on which students will work on shall have a diversified presence. “So if a real life civic problem has to be solved then the project will not have students just from the engineering or science stream, but also arts. This will provide a well-rounded perspective and also enhance the learning process,” said Hiranandani. At HSNC, another concept being promoted aggressively is ‘lifelong learning’. “A student can come back later and complete the course and the credits will be available. Even graduated students can continue doing certificate or diploma courses and bank these credits for use later. So just like the NEP’s objectives, we at HSNC want to create the atmosphere for lifelong learning,” said Hiranandani. Unique varsity-level courses like dance, yoga etc will also be introduced. “The courses are being readied and once colleges are allowed to reopen in full flow then many more of these unique courses will be available for students,” said Hiranandani. While Hiranandani group now has diversified business interests, the immediate recall value among people is for their luxurious real estate properties. Hence it’s no surprise that HSNC will be starting India’s first ‘school of real estate’. “We will be offering certificate and post graduate diploma courses in real estate. Here, students will be taught about the existing laws, corporate ethics, finances, marketing etc. They will also get to intern with the country’s biggest real estate brands as part of the curriculum,” said Hiranandani. The state’s first cluster university, Homi Bhabha State University, was set up in June last year. It comprises Institute of Science (ISc), Elphinstone College and Sydenham College of Commerce and Economics, and Secondary Training (ST) College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/states-second-cluster-university-to-foster-interdisciplinary-learning-approach/articleshow/81173505.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 23, 2021||Kochi||Karnataka closes borders with Kerala||KOZHIKODE: Karnataka has shut 13 roads that connect the state to Kasaragod and imposed severe restrictions on four more routes citing the spread of Covid-19 in Kerala as the reason for the move. Similar restrictions were imposed at Bavali checkpost in Wayanad. Negative RT-PCR test results, done 72 hours before the journey, has become mandatory to enter Karnataka from Monday; vehicles were screened at checkposts to ensure that the order was followed. The decision was suspended temporarily during afternoon after people residing in Kerala’s border areas protested. Karnataka officials said they will resume checking from Tuesday. Meanwhile, state government said it will escalate this issue and take it up with Centre. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Karnataka’s action of blocking inter-state roads violates Centre’s directive that inter-state travel should not be blocked. He said that that the Covid-negative certificate matter has been taken up by state police chief Loknath Behera with Praveen Sood, his counterpart in Karnataka. Vijayan said that Kerala will contact Karnataka to resolve the issue. Behera too requested Karnataka not to insist on RT-PCR tests for regular commuters. He contacted Sood and requested him to make an exemption for those who are travelling to Karnataka in connection with essential services. Sood replied that he will take up the matter with Karnataka health minister and do the needful. Behera conveyed that making RT-PCR tests mandatory is causing severe hardship to the public. Earlier in the day revenue minister E Chandrasekharan said the issue will be taken up at government-level. He had said that insistence on RT-PCR tests is a real problem for the public. Local activist Harshad Workaday, who took part in the protests, said Karnataka had publicised the decision on Feb 16 in newspapers. “That was postponed in view of the visit of UP CM Yogi Adityanath. Karnataka officials started blocking vehicles for checking on Monday morning. People blocked vehicle coming from Karnataka and Karnataka officials withdrew temporarily. We will block vehicles from Karnataka if they resume restrictions on Tuesday,” he said. Meanwhile, Congress leader Congress leader Subbaiah Rai filed a petition in Karnataka HC against the imposition of restrictions. “Restrictions violate Centre’s Unlock Notification that says that there should be no restriction on intra-state or inter-state movements. The petition will come up for hearing on Tuesday afternoon,” he said. Check posts at Bavali also witnessed protests for hours with Karnataka authorities insisting on Covid negative certificate for travellers from Kerala on Monday. Karnataka authorities took the stand when checkpost opened at 6am, following which long queues were seen at the checkpost. Travellers from Kerala, who were blocked at the checkpost, began a protest and said they would not allow the entry of vehicles from Karnataka to Kerala. This led to hundreds of travellers getting stranded at the checkpost. Though Karnataka health authorities allowed the entry of vehicles around 12 noon following talks with Mananthavady MLA O R Kelu, they added that from Tuesday, only passengers with Covid-negative certificate will be allowed to enter the state. With Karnataka intensifying checks at Muthanga checkpost, hundreds of passengers from state had to return. Till 11am, Karnataka authorities inspected only passengers in private vehicles but later they also started checking passengers of KSRTC buses. Wayanad district police chief Aravind Sukumar, in a release, said that Karnataka government has informed that from Tuesday onwards, all passengers travelling to Karnataka in buses and private vehicles should produce Covid-negative certificate after RT-PCR tests to be allowed entry through checkposts at Moolahalla, Bavali and Tholpetty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ktaka-closes-borders-with-kerala/articleshow/81158303.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Reserved railway passenger turns out to be thief||Nagpur: A 49-year-old man, identified as Dharmendra Saini, was nabbed by the escorting team of Railway Protection Force (RPF), South East Central Railway (SECR), from Bhagat ki Kothi Bilaspur Superfast Express on Sunday for having allegedly stolen a purse of a fellow passenger. He is learnt to be involved in the theft during the night journey. It’s learnt an RPF escort party had rounded up Saini, travelling in a reserved berth, after spotting him trying to sneak into toilet. During search, a purse with cash Rs2,000 and driving license in the name of one Devendra Vaishnav was found in his possession. It was later found that Vaishnav was travelling in S3 coach with his family. Vaishnav too complained about theft of his purse from the trolley bag. Saini was later handed over to Durg Government Railway Police by RPF team of assistant sub-inspector Mohandas, constables Santosh Bante, Amit Rathi and Vinay Yadav under the supervision of Pankaj Chugh, divisional security commissioner, RPF, SECR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/reserved-railway-passenger-turns-out-to-be-thief/articleshow/81161187.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||NMC seals Naivedhyam hall, fines expo at Chitnavis Centre||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) sealed and declared Naivedhyam Eastoria hall in Kalamna as a prohibited area after eight staffers, including cooks, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The hall will remain sealed till March 10, states a release by the civic body. The action was taken by the team of NMC’s Lakadganj zone led by assistant commissioner Sadhna Patil and zonal medical officer Dr Rashmi Bhesare. Naivedhyam management said one of their employees and six contract workers had tested positive. None of these employees are kitchen staff, it said.Meanwhile, acting on a tip-off, the civic body’s nuisance detection squad (NDS) inspected an exhibition organized by ARG Creations at Chitnavis Centre and found violations of Covid-19 guidelines. A fine of Rs25,000 was slapped on the violator.On Saturday, the NMC’s Laxmi Nagar Zone had declared two flat schemes situated in Jaiprakash Nagar and Laxmi Nagar as prohibited areas after over five persons from each building tested positive.On February 19, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B decided to notify flat schemes as prohibited areas in case of more than five cases and a part of the area, lane, street for cases above 20. People residing in prohibited areas will not be allowed to go outside and no one from other localities will be permitted inside.The decision was taken following a spike in cases since the last two weeks.ACTION AGAINST THOSE WITHOUT MASK* 195 persons fined Rs500 each, Rs97,500 recovered. Laxmi Nagar Zone (27), Dharampeth (27), Hanuman Nagar (22), Dhantoli (5), Nehru Nagar (25), Gandhibag (16), Satranjipura (7), Lakadganj (12), Ashinagar (25) & Mangalwari zone (26)* Cumulative fine Rs1,50,21,500 from 33,325 violators||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-seals-naivedhyam-hall-fines-expo-at-chitnavis-centre/articleshow/81158305.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 23, 2021||Delhi||HC seeks reply on petition for parole extension||New Delhi: Delhi High Court on Monday asked the AAP government, prison authorities and State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) to respond to a plea seeking extension of emergency parole to prisoners above 65 years and prone to Covid-19 infection due to certain ailments or medical condition. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to Delhi government, director general (DG) prisons and DSLSA, seeking their responses by March 26. It was hearing a plea by advocate Amit Sahni, seeking a direction that in the interest of inmates and jail administration, the aged prisoners be directed to surrender after all other prisoners. The plea said social distancing is not feasible in jails as they are already overcrowded. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-seeks-reply-on-petition-for-parole-extension/articleshow/81161210.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Pujari to be produced before court in 2016 restaurant firing case||Mumbai: The Mumbai police on Monday took custody of extradited gangster Ravi Pujari, who is wanted in more than 49 cases in the city, from Bengaluru jail. He will be produced before the special MCOCA court on Tuesday in connection with the 2016 firing at Gajalee restaurant in Vile Parle in which a staffer was seriously injured. Sources said his men wanted to scare the restaurant owner and demand extortion money. The crime branch had arrested seven Pujari gang members and charged them under the stringent MCOCA.Sources said a special team will interrogate Pujari on the cases against him in Mumbai. He will be kept in lockup at the police headquarters at Crawford Market. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pujari-to-be-produced-before-court-in-2016-restaurant-firing-case/articleshow/81161208.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Shopkeepers, hoteliers, upset over partial lockdown||Nagpur: The partial lockdown imposed by guardian minister Nitin Raut has invited sharp reactions from many small and big traders, including shopkeepers, hoteliers and vegetable sellers, as they feel they have already incurred enough losses during the full lockdown last year and can’t bear further loss.They said the restrictions on marriages and restaurants should be eased. “Nothing can be more important than human lives, hence any orders passed by the administration in order to control the pandemic needs to be followed by everyone. But restricting only a chosen few by way of partial lockdown sends a message of discrimination. Restaurants do business only after 9pm and restricting its closure at 9pm is as good as no business,” Nagpur Residential Hotels Association (NRHA) president TS Renu said. He further said, “We had just started to regain our business again. With this fresh partial lockdown, I can’t even imagine how bad our future will be if this pandemic spreads further. So, I request the administration to rethink on closure timings of restaurants and instead of cancelling marriage functions, I will recommended that number of guests should be restricted.”Hotel Centre Point owner Micky Arora supported the move of partial lockdown due to rising cases. “But marriages should not be banned outright. Limited number of people should be allowed as was permitted during the earlier lockdown. People should also take precautions so that cases don’t skyrocket,” he said.Hotel Ramesons owner Manish Gopalani, however, did not protest. “I am not the only one to suffer. I will suffer the same fate as that of others in the business,” he said.Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC) president Ashwin Mehadia said the government should not restrict economic activity. “Shopkeepers have already suffered huge losses last year and they can’t bear anymore losses. The government should close down schools and colleges as they are charging full fees and can go for online classes also. Parks, gardens and religious places should also be closed. If these measures don’t work then the administration should go for the closure of shops and hotels," he said.Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) national president BC Bhartia said the government has to fight on two fronts — health and economy. “In the name of health, the economy should not be put at stake. Majority of people in this country are self-employed. They should not be made to suffer in the name of health. Limit the number of persons in market but don’t close them. The Prime Minister himself has said that health and economy both are important,” he added.Bhartia further said Covid has probably spread because of large social and political gatherings. “Covid centres should not have been closed as this spread the disease,” he said.Raju Waghmare, a vegetable seller at Netaji Market, said closing down weekly vegetable markets is absolutely wrong. “We are poor people and earn a decent amount in weekly markets because people buy in bulk. Poor people have suffered enough during the lockdown last year and they should be spared now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shopkeepers-hoteliers-upset-over-partial-lockdown/articleshow/81158321.cms||Ashish Roy
February 23, 2021||Meerut||Villagers clash with BJP workers in M'nagar during Union min’s visit||Meerut: Several persons were left injured when locals protesting against the visit of Union minister Sanjeev Balyan to Muzaffarnagar’s Soram village clashed with his supporters on Monday afternoon. Balyan was in the village to attend a ceremony when the villagers allegedly started raising slogans against him. A scuffle followed when BJP workers accompanying Balyan confronted the protesters. The minister was escorted to safety by his security personnel. He was unhurt. Balyan has been tasked by the Central government to dispel the “misinformation campaign” of opposition parties against the three farm laws in western Uttar Pradesh. But the prominent Jat leader of the region-- who is also the MP from Muzaffarnagar -- has his task cut out. He is hardly finding any support from khaps and farmer leaders, some of whom even refused to meet him on the issue.Soon after the clash a panchayat was called in Soram village which slammed the “attack on the farmers”. Later a large number of villagers laid siege to nearby Shahpur police station demanding action against the BJP workers. Bittu Singh, a villager, said, “We were attacked by Balyan’s men. Three villagers got deep cuts on their head, face and legs.”RLD’s vice president Jayant Chaudhary also tweeted, “If talks are not in favour of farmers, at least behavior towards them can be good.” Balyan, meanwhile, blamed RLD activists.“While I was attending the function in a house, RLD workers started gathering outside and raised slogans. Several functionaries of the party (BJP) were also there. It was a well thought-out strategy. Jayant Chaudhary tweeted the development just five minutes after the incident. They just wanted a re-run of what happened in Bhainswal village of Shamli a day before. There was not a single farmer in the mob and all were RLD workers.”Interestingly, Balyan also had to face protest in the Shamli village on Sunday where he had gone to meet some khap leaders. Balyan sought to downplay the cold shoulder given to him by the khaps. “Why do you ask me if they are with us or not? I had gone to express my point of view and I did. That’s it. Moreover, I had visited the place to meet the khap leaders and this protest is of the farmers, not khaps,” he said. RLD was quick to trash Balyan’s claim. Party’s spokesperson Abhishek Chaudhary said, “The minister is unable to acknowledge the anger of farmers against the controversial farm laws. And even now BJP leaders are trying to give a political colour to the opposition they are facing in western UP villages. In Bhainswal they blamed SP. And in Soram they are trying to frame RLD. We have nothing to do with it.”Meanwhile, most khaps in the region have maintained a distance from the MP. Suraj Mal, head of Batisa khap, said, “We will talk to the ministers of this government only when they resign from their party and become like us or get rid of these black farm laws against farmers.”Surender Singh, head of the powerful Deshwal khap, said, “We cannot tell the MP not to meet us, but we don’t want to enter into any kind of discourse with him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/villagers-clash-with-bjp-workers-in-mnagar-during-union-mins-visit/articleshow/81158319.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Court adjourns pre-arrest bail hearing of Bhandara nurses||Nagpur: The Bhandara district and sessions judge on Monday adjourned the anticipatory bail hearing of two District General Hospital nurses, who had been booked for the deaths of 10 babies in a fire on January 9, till February 26. Sources at the Bhandara court said the prosecution wanted time to produce relevant documents before the court in support of their arguments to oppose the bail pleas of nurses Smita Ambildukhe and Shubhangi Sathawane. The two nurses were booked under section 304 part II of Indian Penal Code (IPC) after a delay of 40 days since the incident. The prosecution was represented by district government Vinod Bhole. “Police department wanted some time to produce documents. The arguments would follow as soon as the documents are presented,” he said. Apart from Ambildukhe and Sathawane, another nurse, Jyoti Choudhuri (Balsagre), too had approached the court for anticipatory bail last month, but she has not been booked in the case yet. It’s learnt Sathawane and Ambildukhe were not present at the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU), when the fire started at around 1.20am, claiming the lives of 10 babies. Sources also said one of the nurses was engaged in chatting on her phone while another had been engaged on social media during their absence from the NICU and the nursing station. There was a 20-minutes gap between the first spark and when the fire was spotted by staffers when smoke started bellowing out. It was during this time gap that the maximum damage and casualties had taken place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/court-adjourns-pre-arrest-bail-hearing-of-bhandara-nurses/articleshow/81161209.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 23, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: 2,000 sites identified for phase-three vaccine drive||KOCHI: The state health department has identified nearly 2,000 sites for the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, for those aged above 50. Besides health centres, government offices and halls have also been identified as locations where the jabs will be administered. Even in the third phase, walk-ins will not be encouraged and beneficiaries will have to register beforehand. To help people with registration, district administrations plan to rope in Asha and Kudumbashree workers. This will ensure that in the third phase most people get vaccinated at a place closest to their homes. Last week, health minister K K Shailaja had written to the Centre seeking additional allotment of vaccines for the third phase. “We are ready but waiting for orders from the Centre on opening them up for people above 50 and those below 50 with co-morbidities. The number of sites may increase or change depending on the number of people coming forward to get vaccinated,” said Dr Rathan U Kelkar, state mission director of national health mission. Meanwhile, officials have started identifying priority beneficiaries using electoral rolls, as per instructions of the Centre. There are around 45 lakh elderly people and another 20-30 lakh with co-morbidities in the state who will be vaccinated. Meanwhile, experts are demanding that as there is growing evidence that it is better to take the second dose of Covishield after three months instead of 28 days, the government should start vaccinating the general public without any delay as the majority of healthcare workers have received the first dose. “Today the government is able to vaccinate nearly 80 lakh people a month. At this rate it will take 10 years to vaccinate the entire 130 crore population. Even to achieve herd immunity we need to vaccinate 70% of the population,” said Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, treasurer of The World Medical Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/2000-sites-identified-for-phase-three-vaccine-drive/articleshow/81158325.cms||Preetu Nair
February 23, 2021||Chandigarh||Cops ‘thrash’ 16-yr-old driver for jumping checkpost, probe ordered||Baddi: A 16-year-old boy was allegedly thrashed by cops for jumping a police checkpost in Nalagarh, Baddi, while driving a car. The boy’s mother moved a complaint with the SDM Nalagarh and Himachal Pradesh CM office seeking action against the Nalagarh SHO and an ASI. The DSP Nalagarh has been asked to investigate the matter. In her complaint, Renu Sharma, a resident of ward number 4, Nalagarh, claimed that her son had gone to get petrol filled in their car. Afraid of getting caught as he didn’t have a driving licence, he jumped the police checkpost. The cops noted down the registration number of the car and found the address of boy’s house. SHO Nalagarh police station Nirmal Dass and ASI Harjeet Singh reached their shop in Nalagarh. Renu claimed both the SHO and ASI allegedly used abusive language against the boy in front of the entire market and later took him to the police station forcefully. The cops then thrashed him on his legs, butts and back and asked him to run in that condition, she further alleged. After the SDM marked the complaint to Nalagarh DSP Raj Kumar to investigate the matter, the police official met the boy and his mother at their residence. DSP Raj Kumar said, “We have conducted the medical examination of the boy whose report is awaited. We had received a complaint against the boy a few days back in which the matter is under investigation. I have asked both the parties to bring their documents at my office on Tuesday to further probe the allegations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-thrash-16-yr-old-driver-for-jumping-checkpost-probe-ordered/articleshow/81161196.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Citizens hail measures, blame violators for restrictions||Nagpur: Citizens from all walks of life welcomed the district and city administration’s move to impose several restrictions till March 7. They said violations by ‘careless’ people forced authorities to take harsh measures, while some demanded even tougher lockdown measures.“The unlocking was important but some irresponsible people went on to hold large gatherings, functions and marriage ceremonies with scant regard for the law,” advocate Ranjan Deshpande said.He blamed such errant citizens for the situation. “Such violators were not punished, and now all will suffer. If authorities had registered offences under Epidemic Act against some, it would have sent a strong message,” he said, adding that lockdown is unjust and cruelty on law abiding citizens.Educationist Abdul Ahad said the temporary ban on gatherings is a good step. “But complete lockdown as seen in Amravati or on weekends in Nagpur won’t serve any purpose as it would lead to overcrowding on weekdays. Common man must understand his responsibility and follow norms,” he said.Restaurant owner Shilpi Bagdi, who also runs an NGO that helped people in lockdown, said people have started taking Covid lightly. “I feel it has to be a complete lockdown for at least 15 days. Nobody understands the seriousness of the situation. People are greeting and mixing in crowds,” she said.NGO TogetherWeCan’s Anasuya Kale Chhabrani wants closure of parks and gardens too. “Huge crowds, mainly youngsters, are gathering at Maharajbagh and Futala. None of them wears a mask or maintains distance. When people don’t want to cooperate, they have no right to blame the government for economic downturn. Police must be involved in ensuring the restrictions are followed. I have observed even senior citizens are unnecessarily venturing in crowded places,” she said.Wedding planner Neerja Pathania believes total lockdown is not needed, and things will get back to normal. “I won’t blame anyone. It is the tendency of human beings to forget threats. When they feel endangered, they will start taking precautions. I think partial restrictions are enough,” she said.Orthopaedic Dr Sushrut Babhulkar said there have to be more restrictions in the form of closing parks and gardens, or curtailing timings. “Night curfew is another important measure that can be implemented. In addition to the restrictions, we have to create awareness. Last time, NMC officials were seen educating people, and police too should join them. We don’t have time. Before the situation gets out of hand, we must convince people to follow norms. We saw a day when patients requiring ventilators were waiting to get a bed. We don’t want to see that again,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizens-hail-measures-blame-violators-for-restrictions/articleshow/81158346.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 23, 2021||Chandigarh||106 new cases, 93 recover||Chandigarh: Haryana’s vaccination count on Monday reached 2,60,652 as 23,318 health care and frontline workers were given first and second dosage of vaccine. Meanwhile, the state reported 106 new cases, 93 recoveries from Covid-19 during the day. As many as 5,494 health care and frontline workers were administered the first dose, while 17,824 health care workers were given the second dose. Faridabad reported highest vaccination, with 1,191 taking the first dose and 3,465 taking the second dose. Nuh had the lowest count, with 17 persons getting the first dose and 74, second dose. Haryana’s positive rate has gone to 4.85% and the recovery rate is 98.55%. Gurugram reported 23 new cases, Faridabad 14, Ambala 13 and Panchkula 10. The remaining 18 districts reported less than 10, while six — Mahendragarh, Bhiwani, Palwal, Jind, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri — had zero case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/106-new-cases-93-recover/articleshow/81161218.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Meerut||Meerut among first five UP dists to get mParivahan app||Meerut: Meerut is among the first five UP districts to get mParivahan app to check fitness of commercial vehicles. The fitness of vehicles can only be ensured if the vehicles are in a 500 metre radius of the regional transport office. “Meerut is among the first five UP districts to have the mParivahan app. Under this app, the fitness of commercial vehicles can be completed only when they are in a 500 metre radius of the office,” Meerut regional transport officer Vijay Kumar said.This app will ensure that there is no negligence and fraudulent ways are not used in the upkeep of commercial vehicles. “The fitness of vehicles will be conducted only if their picture is clicked within 500 metre radius of the office. This will help in keeping a check on the fraudulent ways used in fitness of commercial vehicles. It will ensure that any official indulging in unlawful activities are taken to task as per the law,” Kumar said.Once the pilot project is completed, it will be replicated in all the 75 districts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-among-first-five-up-dists-to-get-mparivahan-app/articleshow/81158328.cms||Ishita Bhatia
February 23, 2021||Meerut||UP: Honour killing? Youth, 24, killed on his first visit home after eloping & marrying||MEERUT: A 24 years old youth was stabbed to death allegedly by his brother-in-law for eloping and marrying his sister against the wishes of her family in Meerut’s Kithore area on Monday morning. Shravan had returned home for the first time since the marriage, which took place about a year ago. He worked in a private company. Koshendra, the accused, has been arrested after an FIR was registered. Superintendent of police (rural) Keshav Kumar said, “Shravan had married a woman from Kithor’s Ghesupur village over a year ago and had been living away since then. He was stabbed to death on his return to home."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/honour-killing-youth-24-killed-on-his-first-visit-home-after-eloping-marrying/articleshow/81158338.cms||Piyush Rai
February 23, 2021||Meerut||Girl, 17, dies hours after youth attempts to rape her||BIJNOR: Hours after a neighbourhood youth tried to rape a 17-year-old, she died under mysterious circumstances. While the girl’s father claimed that she had taken ill and died on way to hospital, police suspect she hanged herself in the house on Sunday evening. They are awaiting the autopsy report to confirm their suspicion. Dharamveer Singh, Bijnor superintendent of police, said here on Monday that the girl’s father lodged a complaint at Mandawali police station, alleging that a 19-year-old youth who lives with his uncle next door barged into their house and attempted to rape his daughter on the intervening night between Saturday and Sunday. Police registered a case against the accused under IPC sections 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restrain), 376 (punishment for sexual assault) and 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences is punishable with the imprisonment for life or other imprisonments). The accused was arrested on Sunday evening. Both belong to the same community, police said. Later, the girl’s father informed police about her death. Police have set up a probe into the matter. The SP said after investigating the matter thoroughly, police suspect death by hanging. The body has been sent to the district hospital for an autopsy to ascertain the cause of death. Further action will be taken after receiving the post-mortem report, Singh added. Police said they are yet to ascertain if the girl was a minor. She had quit studies four years ago when she was in Class IX. A probe is on. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/girl-17-dies-hours-after-youth-attempts-to-rape-her/articleshow/81158342.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 23, 2021||Meerut||Booed by farmers in west UP, Union minister says 'stir not by khaps'||MEERUT: Union minister Sanjeev Balyan, who faced stiff resistance from farmers during his visit to Bhainswal village in Shamli to meet prominent khap leaders on Sunday, said it was all “politically driven”. Several khaps had even refused to meet him on the issue of the three agriculture laws. Reacting to Sunday’s sloganeering against him, the BJP MP from Muzaffarnagar played it down, saying, “All political parties have representatives in villages. The place I had gone to is very close to a Samajwadi Party leader’s house and if his supporters start sloganeering, that doesn’t mean everyone is sloganeering against me.” Asked if he was able to muster some support from khaps in the region on the farm laws, Balyan said, “Why do you ask me if they are with us or not? I had gone to express my point of view and I did it. That’s it. Moreover, I had visited the place to meet the khap leaders and this protest is of the farmers, not khaps.” Meanwhile, most khaps in the region have maintained distance from the MP. Many of the leaders did not even meet Balyan who was accompanied by several MLAs and UP’s panchayati raj minister Bhupender Chaudhary. Suraj Mal, head of Batisa khap, said, “We will talk to the ministers of this government only when they resign from their party and become like us or get rid of these black farm laws against farmers.” “Whether it’s BJP or any other political party, we want to say that we are with farmers and anyone who talks good of farmers,” said Gathwala khap leader Baba Shyam Singh. Surender Singh, head of the powerful Deshwal khap, said, “We cannot tell the MP not to meet us, but we don’t want to enter into any kind of discourse with him.” The anger among khaps is so palpable that Harkishan Malik, a khap leader,went on to warn the Centre to take back the farm laws or the “farmers will be forced to stop growing crops for public consumption”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/booed-by-farmers-in-west-up-union-minister-says-stir-not-by-khaps/articleshow/81158353.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 23, 2021||Meerut||Spurned, youth pours chemical on 17-year-old girl; held after encounter||Meerut: Angry at a 17-year-old girl for spurning his advances, a youth, 20, allegedly attacked her with a chemical, suspected to be acid, in Hapur district late on Sunday evening. He was arrested later after a brief encounter with police during which he sustained a bullet injury. The minor was at her residence in Simbhavali area in the district when the attacker allegedly entered the house by scaling the boundary wall and he poured the chemical on her. Based on a complaint by the girl’s cousin, an FIR under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder) and 326-A (punishment for acid attack) was registered at Simbhavali police station in the district. Meanwhile, the minor, who sustained serious burn injuries, was rushed to Meerut after primary aid at a Hapur hospital. The main accused was identified as Rahil Khan. Police said the girl and the accused knew each other. The latter was enraged as she had snubbed him and was not taking his calls. Giving details, Sarvesh Mishra, Hapur additional superintendent of police, said, “The accused procured a chemical used at the sugarcane kolhu in the village. In the night, he scaled the wall and poured it on the girl while she was washing dishes.” On Monday, locals held a protest, demanding that the accused, arrested after the encounter, be handed over to them. Senior police officers later pacified the agitators, who called off the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/spurned-youth-pours-chemical-on-17-year-old-girl-held-after-encounter/articleshow/81158324.cms||Piyush Rai
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi sanitation worker dies four days after vaccine jab||NEW DELHI: Ramesh Kumar, a 54-year-old sanitation worker employed with North Delhi Municipal Corporation, passed away on Monday. He had been administered the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine last Thursday. Jai Prakash, the mayor of north corporation, said Kumar was deployed in Shakti Nagar of Keshavpuram zone. “The exact cause of death is still being ascertained. I’m in touch with senior doctors. They informed me that adverse reaction due to vaccines mostly occurs immediately after the dose is administered and that reaction can be treated. The postmortem report will most likely come out tomorrow morning,” he added. “I express my condolences to Kumar’s family and will visit them soon. The municipal corporation will provide all possible help to the family,” said Prakash. A senior corporation official said Kumar was a resident of Wazirpur JJ colony. The vaccine was administered in a dispensary located in Keshavpuram. Dheeraj (29), Kumar’s eldest son, claimed that his father had been feeling discomfort, stomach and chest pain since Thursday. “He was a heart patient, but was still being called on duty. Today, we got a call that he had collapsed on duty. He was declared brought dead at Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital in Ashok Vihar,” he added. The family members have demanded compensation from the government and a job for a dependent. Kumar is survived by his wife and three sons and daughters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sanitation-worker-dies-four-days-after-vax-jab/articleshow/81161241.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Meerut||Budget puts mass, rapid transport projects in UP in high gear||Meerut/Agra: In a significant move to bolster regional connectivity within NCR and beyond, the UP government on Monday allocated Rs 1,326 crore for the country’s first Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) between Delhi and Meerut in the state budget 2021 presented on Monday. Similarly, it also approved Rs 471 crore for the Agra metro rail project. Puneet Vats, chief PRO, NCRTC (National Capital Region Transport Corporation) said, “The budget allocation for Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS Project by the state government will further strengthen the resolve to complete the entire corridor by 2025.” Earlier this month, the Government of India had allocated Rs 4,472 crore to the RRTS project in the Union Budget 2021. In 2020, Rs 900 crore were allocated to NCRTC by the UP government. This year, the budget allocation is almost 1.5 times of what was allocated last year.Earlier in September last year, a loan agreement of USD 500 million was signed with Asian Development Bank (ADB) for funding the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor. The Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS Corridor will have a total of 24 stations. It will be elevated for around 70.5 km and 11.5 km of its stretch will be underground. Civil construction work is in progress on more than 50-km of this 82-km-long corridor. The 17-km long priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai of this corridor is scheduled to commence operations in 2023. The entire corridor will be opened to the public by 2025. The total cost of the project is estimated at Rs 30,270 crore. Welcoming the allocation of Rs 471 crore for Agra metro rail project in the state budget, project director Arvind Rai, said it will help in the completion of the work in a time-bound manner. Last year, Rs 286 crore were allocated by the state government. So far, the state government has released Rs 767 crore for the Agra metro rail project. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 8,379.62 crore. Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) in the first phase will develop a 7-km ‘priority corridor’ comprising three elevated and three underground stations between Taj east gate and Jama Masjid. The Agra Metro project comprises 2 corridors with a total length of 29.4 km and will connect major tourist attractions like Taj Mahal, Agra Fort and Sikandra with railway stations and bus stands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/budget-puts-mass-rapid-transport-projects-in-up-in-high-gear/articleshow/81158350.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Meerut||Class XII student shot dead by unknown assailants in Baghpat||Meerut: A Class XII student in Baghpat was shot dead by assailants early morning on Monday. Police took his body into custody, sent it for post-mortem, and ordered a probe in the incident that took place in Sehwanpur village of Chandinagar.According to initial information, the deceased had gone to drop his cousin in Ghaziabad. It was only after he did not return home, that a search operation was initiated. His body was found with his bike in the village.“A probe has been set up in the matter and FIR has been filed. The body has been sent for post-mortem and interrogation is on. The angle of old enmity is also being explored,” said M S Rawat, circle officer, Khekda, who added that a police team has been formed to find the accused and investigate the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/class-xii-student-shot-dead-by-unknown-assailants-in-baghpat/articleshow/81158349.cms||Ishita Bhatia
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Greens see red as pumps fail to drain out water from pits near lake||Nagpur: It’s been nearly 15 days since the pits dug opposite Telangkhedi Lake are brimming with water. This has been a major cause for concern for city environmentalists who are confident that the lake’s water is seeping through the embankment and has further dropped by another three-to-four feet. On February 9, TOI reported about two-feet drop in the water level of Futala Lake, which as per experts was caused due to water seeping out through the newly-developed cracks in the lake’s wall for which ongoing construction activity is to be blamed. MahaMetro has undertaken a Rs85 crore major renovation work at the lake which majorly includes a musical fountain, a viewing gallery and a multi-storey parking plaza. A pit, dug up at the parking plaza site, is completely filled up with water since over two weeks. “Despite using heavy duty pumps, the labourers could not empty the pit, which has been dug in the command area of the lake. Such high level of groundwater in the command area is not normal,” said president of Parfyavaran Prerna Sharad Paliwal. A command area is the lower side of the water body in which water can be supplied. “It seems that during construction work, the lake’s wall got damaged and water started flowing out from the cracks. While some believe that the loss of water is due to evaporation, it doesn’t seem to be true as the weather conditions are not that extreme. The most surprising thing is that the level of groundwater in the pit is much higher compared to that in a well which is hardly 20 metres away,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of NGO Green Vigil. Activists also pointed out that no impact assessment study or structural audit was carried out before starting the construction work for the project. Moreover, Futala is listed as a Grade-1 heritage structure in the gazette notification issued by the state government on October 18, 2003. The Grade-1 category is the highest level of protection given to the buildings and precincts of national or historic importance. “While the judiciary and authorities have taken efforts to protect other heritage structures in the city, the same is not being done for Futala,” added Paliwal. To avoid further drying up of the lake, Chatterjee suggested that the leakages must be fixed immediately. “The wall needs to be structurally strengthened,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/greens-see-red-as-pumps-fail-to-drain-out-water-from-pits-near-lake/articleshow/81161245.cms||Manka Behl
February 23, 2021||Kochi||Sensationalism affected health staffs’ morale: Kerala HC||KOCHI: Sensationalizing the case in which a junior health inspector was accused of raping a woman who sought Covid-negative certificate at the stage of registration of FIR caused irreparable damage to health workers fighting Covid-19, said the high court. Justice PV Kunhikrishnan made the observation in a judgment after considering state police chief’s report that the woman’s complaint was false, that it was consensual sex, and that action is being taken against her for furnishing false information to police.  The junior health inspector was in jail for 77 days when the high court granted him bail. In the judgment, the court said, “In this case, I have to make an observation about the sensationalizing of a criminal case even at the time of registering First Information Report. The details of this case was there in the front page of print media and there was flash news in visual media. The morale of the health workers in the State was affected... The action of the petitioner… may be morally bad. But in the light of the enquiry report, no criminal offence will attract because the lady is aged 44 years and she says that she had sex with the petitioner and it was with her consent. But the damage caused to the poor health workers in the State who were working day and night against the Covid-19 pandemic is irreparable. I expect that the print and visual media will publish the above enquiry report also in its letter and spirit to give a morale boost to the health workers...” The enquiry was ordered by the high court after the woman filed an affidavit in support of the health inspector’s bail plea saying that the allegation of rape was raised on the pressure exerted by her relatives. The court has now asked the state police chief to entrust the case against the woman to a competent officer. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sensationalism-affected-health-staffs-morale-hc/articleshow/81158352.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||ED’s request for further custody of bizman rejected||Mumbai: The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Monday rejected Enforcement Directorate’s request to extend the custody of businessman Sachin Joshi for investigating some of his foreign companies’ accounts. The court instead sent him to judicial custody. The ED had submitted it had found some undisclosed foreign companies of Joshi, which the agency suspects he used for money laundering, and wanted to confront him about it. However, the court said eight days of custody had already been granted to the investigating agency to trace the money trail. It also observed that the source of money alleged to be proceeds of crime can be traced by way of documents collected and statements recorded. “But I do not think for this purpose further custody of the applicant (ED) is required. Hence, accused Sachin Joshi can be remanded to judicial custody till March 1,” the court said. Joshi was arrested on February 14. Joshi’s lawyers Abad Ponda, Subodh Desai and Subhash Jadhav opposed the plea for his ED custody. The defence said ED had been granted two extensions on his custody and nothing incriminating had been brought forward against him. Seeking an additional 7 days’ custody, ED said it had asked for details on Joshi’s Indian and foreign bank accounts, investments in foreign companies and FDI in his Viiking Group of companies. Contradicting Joshi’s claims that he was paid crores by Omkar Group for his services as brand ambassador for their SRA project, the ED relied on the statement of the group’s employee who looked after all the slum clearance work. The man denied Joshi’s claims and also said there was no such trend in SRA projects of using brand name of any celebrity for clearing or rehabilitating slums.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/eds-request-for-further-custody-of-bizman-rejected/articleshow/81162377.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||Chamoli disaster an indication given by Ganga, says seer of Haridwar’s Matri Sadan before commencing ‘fast unto death to protect river’||Dehradun: Brahmchari Aatmabodhanand, the 28-year-old seer of Haridwar-based Matri Sadan who had earlier fasted for 194 days in what he termed a continuation of the efforts of professor GD Agrawal (Swami Sanand) after the latter died fasting for Ganga to be left alone, reiterated his demands for a clean Ganga on Monday, a day before he is to sit on another fast unto death. Matri Sadan seers have called the Chamoli flash flood a “forewarning”. “It is an example of what we risk when we interfere with nature, an indication given by mother Ganga. It is a premonition of more disasters that may follow if we do not rid the Ganga of profit-making materialistic activities,” Aatmabodhanand told TOI. Swami Sanand or GD Agrawal, a former professor of IIT Kanpur, had four main demands, which Aatmabodhanand had fasted for during his previous fast. These include cancellation of all the under-construction and proposed hydel plants on Ganga and its tributaries like Alaknanda, Bhagirathi and Mandakini, putting a stop to mining, quarrying and stone crushing activities from Raiwala to Raighaati in Haridwar (a 15km stretch) with immediate effect, implementation of the Ganga Act, 2018 as made and agreed upon by Agrawal and formation of Ganga Council, an autonomous body comprising ‘devotees of Ganga’ to oversee matters concerning the river. “Ganga devotees understand the mythological value of this river and they would never try to exploit its crystal-clear water, stones and aquatic species for profits,” Aatmabodhanand said. After beginning his fast on October 24, 2018, Aatmabodhanand had broken it on May 4, 2019 after a written assurance from the central government. “Mining activities on the Raiwala-Raighaati stretch caused irreversible damage. It left ground water level drained, aquatic life completely disturbed and of course pollution of all kinds including air, water and sound,” said Aatmabodhanand. Matri Sadan had sought the closure of hydel projects like Singoli-Bhatwari, Vishnugad-Pipalkoti, Phata-Byung as well as Tapovan-Vishnugad, which was extensively damaged in the flash flood two weeks ago. The ashram’s seers had also demanded implementation of the Ganga Act, 2018 drafted by Agrawal. “There are endless versions of the Ganga Act all over the internet and various government offices. We want Swami Sanand’s Act,” said the founder of Matri Sadan, Shivanand Saraswati. Notably, it was Saraswati who was supposed to sit on fast but Aatmabodhanand took up the onus in view of Saraswati’ age, since he is a septuagenarian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chamoli-disaster-an-indication-given-by-ganga-says-seer-of-haridwars-matri-sadan-before-commencing-fast-unto-death-to-protect-river/articleshow/81158355.cms||Shivani Azad
February 23, 2021||Chandigarh||Hry to open schools for class III to V students||Chandigarh: The Haryana government has decided to resume the classes for primary class students from February 24. Students of classes III to V will have to attend school every day from 10am to 1.30pm. However, only those students, who come with consent of their parents, would be allowed to attend the schools. A formal order in this regard was issued by the directorate of school education Haryana to all the district election officers (DEOs) and district elementary education officers (DEEOs) and other concerned officers. The orders would be applicable on private as well as state run schools of the state. The order further clarified that online classes would also continue and nobody would be forced to attend the schools physically. The schools have also been directed to observe Covid-19 protocol during the opening of these classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-to-open-schools-for-class-iii-to-v-students/articleshow/81161268.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Meerut||Amroha killings: Death row convict Shabnam wants CBI to re-investigate the entire case||BIJNOR: The custodian of a boy, 12, whose mother is lined up for hanging for killing seven members of her family in UP’s Amroha, on Monday said that she wants CBI to re-investigate the entire case. She has also moved a fresh mercy plea before UP’s governor. “I spoke to Shabnam for the first time about the case. She says that she had been framed. She has also appealed to the state and central government to initiate a CBI probe in the case. Shabnam, through her lawyers, has filed a fresh mercy petition before Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel,” the child’s custodian said. The boy and his custodian had met Shabnam in Rampur jail on Sunday afternoon. Their meeting lasted for about 45 minutes. Shabnam and her boyfriend, Salim, had been convicted of killing seven of her family members. Shabnam was pregnant at the time. She gave birth to the boy in Moradabad jail in December 2008.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/amroha-killings-death-row-convict-shabnam-wants-cbi-to-re-investigate-the-entire-case/articleshow/81158354.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||A’bad sees 1.6L more voters but 4% less turnout||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad saw 4 per cent less turnout in civic polls, even though the city had 1.6 lakh more voters exercising their franchisee compared to 2015 elections. In comparison, Surat registered an increase of 7 per cent voters’ turnout with 4.9 lakh more voters compared to previous polls. The officials in election commission said that apart from lack of enthusiasm among voters, the BJP's decision to sideline or deny tickets to seniors also led to low voting. The officials said that several senior leaders who had a strong hold in their areas stayed away on voting day which dampened enthusiasm of the workers. The officials said that Ahmedabad city registered a jump in total number of voters from 38.79 lakh to 46.24 lakh. They added “Of the 1.6 lakh people who cast their votes this time, 81,000 were female voters while only 79,000 were men. Barring Ahmedabad, there is an increase in men voters as compared to women voters. The officials said the overall voting percentage was also more as compared to 2015 in Rajkot (0.3%) and Bhavnagar (2%). However, a drop was noticed in Ahmedabad (4%), Jamnagar (3.37%) and Vadodara (0.9%) corporations. Officials said it is usually expected that voting would pick up in the last two hours, but the city saw a meagre increase of 12% in the last hour. A BJP office-bearer said that the increase was also because candidates called up their supporters and asked them to get voters to the polling booths. BJP office-bearers said that low voting, especially in the western part of the city, has led to a fear of the outcome. They said that after the final figures were declared, Gomtipur had the highest turn out of 51.93% followed by Lambha 51.45%. Of the 48 wards, only 15 had below 40% turn out, while 31 wards had turn out between 40 and 50%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-sees-1-6l-more-voters-but-4-less-turnout/articleshow/81161276.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Eco-Pro begins hunger strike to save Ramala Lake||Chandrapur: Overwhelming response poured in as NGO Eco-Pro Organization began its indefinite hunger strike for the conservation of historic Ramala Lake on Monday. The NGO has blamed district administration, Chandrapur Municipal Corporation (CMC) and Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) for condemning the only water body left in the city to its death. The lake was built by Gond dynasty, which founded Chanda city, as main source of water for the residents here 550 years back. The lake was once spread in sprawling 400 acre, but encroachers ate into its land and the water body has now shrunk to mere 90 acre. Also, over half of the lake is covered with echornia water weed and fishes and flora in it are dying rapidly due to high pollution. Eco-Pro president Bandu Dhotre, who is leading the hunger strike, blamed the CMC and MPCB for the pathetic condition of the lake. “Even as fishes are dying and citizens living around are crying foul over the stench coming from water in their wells and borewells, MPCB never tried to identify the source or warn authorities of hazardous pollution in the lake. Even the latest report of the water sample collected from the lake after fishes died was not sent to the CMC,” he said. Dhotre said though over 300 acre land of the lake has been encroached from three sides, but CMC never took any action. Similarly, the corporation never took any measures to divert the sewage water flowing into the lake through Macchi nullah and drainage from Jalnagar habitation, he alleged. “Hazardous agriculture fertilizers unloaded at railway siding adjacent to the lake washes into Ramala every rainfall. Despite threat to the lives of people living around, CMC and MPCB never took cognisance of it,” Dhotre charged. Letters were dispatched to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, railway minister Piyush Goyal, Union minister of state for culture Prahlad Patel along with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, environment minister Aaditya Thackeray and urban development minister Eknath Shinde detailing them the plight of the historic lake. While local citizens buzzed the agitation place to extend their support, heads of several social and environmental organizations also visited the place and expressed solidarity with the agitation. Photo— Eco-Pro president Bandu Dhotre along with others launched indefinite hunger strike on Monday for conservation of the historic Ramala Lake in Chandrapur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/eco-pro-begins-hunger-strike-to-save-ramala-lake/articleshow/81161292.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 23, 2021||Chandigarh||Murder bid made on Youth Cong functionary’s life 3 months ago to||Bathinda: An unsuccessful attempt was made to kill Faridkot district Youth Congress president Gurlal Singh over three months ago before he was murder on February 18. Gurlal is learnt to had come out of the attacked vehicle and two others with him suffered gunshot wounds in that attempt on the night of November 11, 2020. An associate of gangster Pawan Nehra, Sawan, is alleged to have conspirator that attempt. Police on Monday got Sawan on production warrant from Gurgaon jail to Faridkot. Police did not link that incident with the latest attack, but said they will question Sawan about itthat the police will put that case ahead while making investigations from Sawan in the case of the killing of Gurlal. As per the FIR registered under attempt to murder and arms act charges on November 12, one Rajat Kumar of Faridkot had stated that he along with Gurlal and one Amit Kumar also of Faridkot were returning in Thar Jeep PB 04 AL 8088 from the birthday party of a friend and dropped Gurlal at a spot from where he left for home in his own car. Only some time later an attack was made on them as bullets were rained on their vehicle at around 10PM. Both of them were injured and are getting treatment. The sources said that Sawan had conspired to kill Gurlal but he escaped as he had come out of the vehicle. Faridkot Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Swarandeep Singh when contacted confirmed that “Sawan has been brought on production warrants and was produced in the court of Ilaqa Magistrate. The court has sent him in police remand till February 25. Though he has been brought in the case registered on November 12, 2020 but police will make investigations in the context of present case as well”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/murder-bid-made-on-youth-cong-functionarys-life-3-months-ago-to/articleshow/81161315.cms||Neel Kamal
February 23, 2021||Chandigarh||AAP mulls new strategy in Amritsar after poll rout||Amritsar: The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) Punjab leadership on Monday conducted meetings with all stakeholders of the party in Amritsar to discuss strategy in view of the party’s dismal performance in the recently concluded local body elections in the state. Meetings were convened under the leadership of AAP state president Bhagwant Mann, leader of opposition (LoP) in Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, Punjab incharge Jarnail Singh, and co-incharge Raghav Chadha. “The people of Punjab seek change and see AAP as a credible alternative. To meet the aspirations of people, AAP is making strategies to build an indispensable team for the upcoming assembly elections,” said a release issued by the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-mulls-new-strategy-in-amritsar-after-poll-rout/articleshow/81161283.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Covid curbs in city: Corporators miffed at being ignored||Nagpur: The elected representatives of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) have come down heavily on the state government for unilaterally imposing partial weekend lockdown in the city. They supported the move, but at the same time questioned the government for not taking into confidence corporators, who are in touch with the general population, before taking the decision. “After becoming the mayor when I convened the first review meeting on Covid-19 cases, I not only invited corporators but representatives of Ganesh and Durga utsav mandals also. The motive was to create awareness among citizens to follow the Covid-19 protocols,” mayor Dayashankar Tiwari said.The mayor, while announcing full support to the lockdown move, said, “For creating awareness, we have to reach out at the grass roots-level and better coordination is needed between the government authorities (including ministers) and corporators to contain the spread of the virus.”Ruling party leader and senior BJP corporator Sandip Jadhav said being first citizen of Nagpur city, mayor Dayashankar Tiwari should have been invited by district guardian minister Nitin Raut to the review meeting. “Sadly, he was not invited,” Jadhav told TOI.“In this pandemic time, the BJP is keeping all political differences at bay to put up a collective fight against the disease. The recent restrictions, like on the number of guests in marriages, last rites etc announced by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, were suggested by elected representatives, including the mayor. We first held a meeting of senior corporators and then suggested a slew of measures to the civic chief. Accordingly, he issued the notification,” he said and appealed to all Nagpurians to strictly follow the Covid-19 protocols.Leader of opposition and senior Congress corporator Tanaji Wanve also said corporators should have been taken into confidence while taking such decisions as elected representatives are directly in contact with citizens.Wanve, however, welcomed the decisions. “I have cancelled invitations to many social gatherings including marriage ceremonies. In fact, I have been asking people not to invite more guests to any of their family functions,” he said.Senior corporator Abha Pande too expressed concern over not taking corporators into confidence while declaring fresh restrictions. “Being elected representatives, we always keep in touch with citizens. Taking the help of corporators will actually help the government contain the spike in Covid cases,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-curbs-in-city-corporators-miffed-at-being-ignored/articleshow/81158372.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Will look into demand for SSC, HSC syllabi cut: Edu min Gaikwad||Nagpur: State’s school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said she will “look into” demands for another cut in SSC and HSC syllabi. Many academics feel there will be an increase in failure rate this summer as a majority of the students have not yet started attending physical classes and online classes are not accessible for all. The board had reduced syllabus by 25% last year but with schools not even opening for physical classes at many places, schools feel the results will be negatively impacted. Speaking to TOI, education minister Gaikwad said, “I will definitely study the issue and see what can be done.” The minister added she was aware of the concerns raised by academics and also about the recently announced lockdown measures in various districts of Vidarbha. “Today only I enquired about Gadchiroli district but as of now there’s no lockdown there and schools are functioning. There are other districts where lockdown is in place and we are taking note of the same,” said Gaikwad. Principals say that minimum 50% of the syllabus needs to be slashed. Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA), said government must think about students from marginalized sections of the society. “Over 70% of our students do not have access to online classes. Some don’t have smartphones, some can’t keep recharging it while in some villages in Gadchiroli there’s no mobile network,” he said. “These students need to be taught in a classroom without which they don’t stand a chance,” said Gavhankar. Ashnarayan Tiwari, principal of Adarsh Vidya Mandir (Gandhibagh), has been a vocal proponent of heavy syllabus reduction. “I am very happy to know the minister has taken cognizance of our demands and will at least study it. And I am sure that once she sees the practical issue of students being hard-pressed to cover up the syllabus, there will definitely be a second round of reduction,” he said. Tiwari added the current reduction had also not been done in a proper way. “They kept the chapters intact but have taken out topics. That’s counter-productive because we end up teaching almost the same amount. Chapters should have been reduced. That’s the only way to reduce the academic load,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/will-look-into-demand-for-ssc-hsc-syllabi-cut-edu-min-gaikwad/articleshow/81161329.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Despite Covid, Rs 3.7k crore injected in Telangana life sciences business: KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: Bharat Biotech International Limited CMD Krishna Ella said Hyderabad today accounts for nearly 65% of the global vaccine supply and “it is well equipped to play a key role in battling any health crisis that humanity faces in the future”. He was speaking after receiving the Genome Valley Excellence Award 2021 at the inaugural session of the BioAsia 2021 summit. The summit, organised by the Telangana government, is one of the largest gatherings on life sciences companies and academia in the country. Speaking at the inauguration, Telangana IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao said that despite all the Covid-19 gloom and doom, the state’s life sciences sector attracted investments worth about Rs 3,700 crore in last one year. “This will create employment for about 14,000 people,” he added. Lauding the efforts of Bharat Biotech in developing country’s first indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, KTR said that the work done by other homegrown vaccine players such as Biological E, Indian Immunologicals, among others, has helped the city make a significant contribution in the fight against Covid-19. He pointed out that even pharma players such as Aurobindo Pharma, Dr Reddy’s and Hetero are doing their bit in this fight. While Hetero and Dr Reddy’s are trying to augment the global supply of vaccines by manufacturing and distributing Russian vaccine Sputnik V, Aurobindo is building a vaccine manufacturing facility with a capacity of about 450 million doses, he said. KTR said the state government was working on various initiatives such as Digital Medicine Hub, Institute for Cell and Gene Therapy, Flow Chemistry Hub and a life sciences university, among others to boost the future prospects of the pharma and life sciences sector. Naveen Gullapalli, global head, Novartis Business Services Innovation and Satish Reddy, chairman, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, were among industry leaders present during the inaugural session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-despite-covid-rs-3-7k-cr-injected-in-t-life-sciences-biz/articleshow/81162396.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Thane||Thane: Man gets life term for kidnap and murder of 7-year-old boy||THANE: A 30-year-old man was convicted by the Thane sessions court on charges of kidnapping and killing a seven-year-old son of his lover. He was sentenced to life imprisonment. Additional sessions judge R R Vaishnav also imposed a fine of Rs 7,000 on Santosh Sharma, the accused. Public prosecutor Sanjay Londhe told the court that the boy and the accused resided in the same locality near Gamdevi temple, Mumbra. On November 11, 2016 the boy, who was playing near his house went missing in the afternoon. The Mumbra police found that the accused wanted to get rid of the child to continue his affair with the mother. He kidnapped the child from a neighbour’s house where he was watching TV under the pretext of buying him a snack and took him to an isolated house where he killed and buried him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/man-gets-life-term-for-kidnap-and-murder-of-7-year-old-boy/articleshow/81162404.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
February 23, 2021||Chandigarh||SAD (Democratic) questions silence of Punjab govt over fuel price hike||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) would stage demonstrations against the rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas across Punjab and would submit memorandums to all deputy commissioners on February 24. Party’s chief spokesperson and former deputy speaker Bir Davinder Singh said price hike in petrol, diesel and cooking gas has touched a new high in majority of the states, including Punjab, leading to the resentment among citizens. “On February 24, an 11-member delegation of the party would meet deputy commissioners in all the districts of Punjab and would submit a memorandum against this inflated price hike. The delegation would also urge the central and state governments for the immediate withdrawal of this price hike,” said Bir Davinder. He also expressed surprise over the silence of chief minister Amarinder Singh and opposition parties over the issue. Bir Davinder said in the year 2019-20, the Union government had collected an amount of Rs 3.34 lakh crore through excise duty on petroleum products and at present, the base price of petrol and diesel is around Rs 30 per litre. He said the central government was levying more than Rs 32 as excise duty while the state government was levying value added tax (VAT) of around Rs 20. “It is really unfortunate to see that on the one hand the prices of cooking gas are being constantly increased and on the other subsidy on domestic gas cylinders is being reduced, thereby increasing the suffering of the common man,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-democratic-questions-silence-of-punjab-govt-over-fuel-price-hike/articleshow/81161342.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Four Congmen campaign inside booth, booked||AHMEDABAD: Four Congress workers were booked under the Representation of People's Act for allegedly campaigning inside a polling booth in Chandkheda on Sunday when the polls were going on. Bipin Patel, 49, a lecturer with RC Technical College who was posted as election officer in Chandkheda ward, filed a complaint against Vitthal Makwana, 75, Suresh Kakrecha, 29, Vipul Valmikii, 22, and Sanjay Valmiki,22-- all residents of Chandkheda, in this regard. Patel states in his FIR that the four workers were campaigning inside the 100-m periphery of BS high school by beating drums and exhorting people to vote for Congress. Patel said that assistant sub-zonal officer Jignesh Pancal spotted them violating the model code of conduct and informed Patel about the violation. Patel called up police and filed an FIR against the four men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-congmen-campaign-inside-booth-booked/articleshow/81161356.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||‘Depth of newly-formed lake above Raini village between 6 to 9 meters’||Dehradun: The newly-formed lake above the Rishiganga river near the disaster-hit area in Chamoli district is around 200 meters long, 60-70 meters wide and has a depth of 6 to 9 meters at different levels, officials co-ordinating the survey of the water body have said. The lake, which is situated at a height of 14,000 feet, is expected to hold around 1 lakh cubic meters of water. The water is being discharged from the lake through a 20-feet channel which was increased to 35-feet on Monday, the officials said. Commander Vivek Madhwal, spokesperson of Indian Navy, whose 3-member diving team plunged the lake’s depths on Saturday, said, “The Naval divers undertook the challenging task of winching down from an Indian Air Force (IAF) Advanced Light Helicopter and diving into the lake. The recording of the depth was done using a handheld echo sounder (depth measuring equipment) in the near freezing waters. Throughout the evolution, the IAF pilots maintained accurate positioning in the difficult terrain,” he said, adding that two divers have been stationed in Chamoli to assist the team of scientists and experts that have reached the lake for a survey. Commenting on the dimensions of the lake, DIG State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) Ridhim Agarwal said, “As per our estimation done so far with the help of different agencies involved including scientists, IAF and Indian Navy, the lake’s height is around 200 meters and its width is between 60 to 70 meters. The depth is around 9 meters. The rough calculation shows that the lake may carry water in the range of 50,000 to 1 lakh cubic meters. There is an existing channel from where the water was discharging. We are working on widening the channel and have widened the channel from 20 feet to 35 feet on Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/depth-of-newly-formed-lake-above-raini-village-between-6-to-9-meters/articleshow/81158378.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Experience & protocol will save more lives now: ICU docs||Nagpur: Critical care specialists in city had created a uniform treatment protocol during the September 2020 Covid peak, which not only saved many critically ill patients but also reduced case fatality rate in later phase. As the second wave of Covid-19 is in the offing, the Society of Critical Care Medicine, Nagpur branch, is set to handle the spike with an additional weapon of good experience of the last peak. “Even if the number of infections in the present spike go higher, the protocol for treatment is ready. Past experience will be useful and we will insure very low death rate now,” said Dr Imran Noor Mohammad, secretary of Nagpur Society of Critical Care Medicine. Nagpur branch of this society has won national award of best branch out of the 87 branches across the country for its collective initiatives, especially during the pandemic year to ensure proper treatment in ICUs. “We conducted workshops, seminars, webinars, and connected more than 300 critical care specialist doctors who work in the ICUs. Together we set up guidelines and protocols for treatment as well as to control infection. This eventually worked as most hospitals in Nagpur followed the universal treatment protocol,” said Dr Jayesh Timane, president of the society. Critical care physicians worked in the ICUs during the pandemic. They examined patients online, and even took the initiative to provide oxygen support at home to patients when there was shortage of beds. They were also instrumental in allaying the Covid-19 fear of fellow doctors and staff. Last year, the society had organized an international critical care conference in city. As the city caters to health care needs of entire Vidarbha and surrounding states, these doctors saved many lives during the Covid-19 peak last year. Senior intensive care specialist Dr Nirmal Jaiswal, who heads Covid team at Wockhardt Hospital, said many senior citizens are needing hospitalization during the present surge of Covid-19 cases. “We have more than 12 patients on non-invasive ventilation (NIV) in our hospital. Better recovery is assured if you get admitted early. But, the viral load increases when you wait for long,” he said. Don’t Fear, Treat Yourself Critical care specialists in Nagpur are ready with protocol and guidelines Beds, medicines, oxygen are available in hospitals now, unlike first wave Staff is positively motivated as compared to first wave, assuring better treatment Elderly patients who need hospitalization are more during this phase Don’t waste time, those who report early in hospitals recover early||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/experience-protocol-will-save-more-lives-now-icu-docs/articleshow/81161370.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Lockdown-like restrictions in Buldhana too||Nagpur: After Amravati and Akola, strict lockdown-like restrictions were imposed in Buldhana district on Monday. Buldhana city, Chikahli, Khamgaon, Deulgaon Raja and Malkapur city — all tehsil headquarters in Buldhana district, where a large number of Covid-19 cases have been recorded in the last few days, will go under semi-lockdown. District collector S Ramamurthy imposed restrictions from February 22 (6pm onwards) until March 1 (until 8am). “Parts of Buldhana district have been reporting an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases since the last five-six days. We have intensified testing and tracing. We need strict restrictions to avoid further spread,” said Ramamurthy. Buldhana district has reported 1,681 new cases in the last six days. On Monday, 301 cases were reported after almost 1200 tests, hinting at a high positivity rate. Flour mills, grocery stores, fair price shops, fruits, vegetables and milk vending outlets and pharmacies will be open in the restricted area from 8am to 3pm. Milk vendors and milk distribution centres will be open from 6am to 3pm and from 6pm to 8.30pm. All kinds of non-essential shops and establishments will remain closed. The curfew will be in effect in the restricted area from 8.30pm to 8am the next day. However, industries in this area have been allowed to operate. All types of government offices, banks, except essential services, will continue to accept 15% or 15 persons whichever is higher. All banks will continue to operate regularly. The other districts in Vidarbha have also revised restriction rules and made them stricter. After district collector Jitendra Papaklar’s fresh orders in Akola, only 5 petrol pumps in the city were permitted to remain open from 8am to 3pm during restricted movements. In tehsil areas, only one petrol pump will remain open. Milk delivery will be allowed only for 2 hours in morning and 2 in the evening.Amravati’s district collector Shailesh Naval said the quantum of Covid tests in the district would soon be raised from 1,500 to 5,000. After banning Rapid Antigen tests by private hospitals, all emphasis would be laid on RT-PCR tests, he said. Citizens have been urged to go for this test if they feel the symptoms.Shanmugarajan S., Washim’s district collector, issued orders that all citizens who have travelled outside the district in the last few days, especially in areas where the infection has increased, should get tested for Covid-19. In Bhandara, the Bodalkasa Bird Festival, which was scheduled to be held in Tiroda tehsil of Gondia district, has been cancelled. The festival was to be jointly organized by the directorate of tourism and the district administration on February 27 and 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-like-restrictions-in-buldhana-too/articleshow/81158376.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 23, 2021||Puducherry||No majority, says speaker, Congress govt in Puducherry falls||PUDUCHERRY: The Congress ministry in Puducherry fell on Monday after the speaker, without putting the confidence motion moved by the chief minister to vote, declared it had lost majority in the assembly. V Narayanasamy and his cabinet resigned with the chief minister accusing the BJP-led government at the Centre of plotting to topple the Congress government “elected by the people” by using the lieutenant governor’s secretariat, opposition parties and nominated MLAs. He also faulted the speaker’s actions. After five Congress MLAs and a DMK MLA resigned in the past 30 days, the assembly convened at 10am for a special session. Moving the motion seeking a confidence vote, Narayanasamy said, “The BJP-led Centre had dislodged elected governments in several states.” He said, “They have been trying to topple the elected government in Puducherry.” After the CM’s speech, speaker V P Sivakozhundhu declared that the Congress government had lost its majority in the House. Narayanasamy, his ministers and MLAs then called on Telegana governor Tamilisai Sounderrajan, who is holding additional charge as lieutenant-governor of the Union Territory, and resigned. The BJP and its allies said they had no immediate plans to stake claim to form a government in the Union territory where polls are likely by April end. “In fact, the three nominated MLAs do not have voting rights. The issue was raised by the government whip R K R Anantharaman. But the speaker did not agree. Therefore, we walked out of the house and tendered our resignation. The speaker should have put the motion to vote. But he did not. He himself read the ruling stating that the ruling government lost its majority,” said Narayanasamy after calling on Tamilisai.  “Even if the ruling or opposition parties abstain, it is the duty of the speaker to put the motion to vote and then he can say whether the motion was carried r rejected. The speaker’s ruling is incorrect and invalid,” Narayanasamy said. Dubbing it a murder of democracy, Narayanasamy said, “The three nominated MLAs had been badly defeated in the assembly polls. One gentleman got 165 votes and lost his deposit. Another gentleman got 1,400 votes. He lost the deposit. Using these three people, the BJP government at the Centre, AINRC and AIADMK have succeeded in dislodging the government by using the voting rights that have been given to three nominated MLAs” Stating that this had not happened anywhere in the country, he said, “People of Puducherry will teach the opposition parties a fitting lesson.” Leader of the opposition and AINRC founder-leader N Rangasamy said, “The Congress lost the trust of its own MLAs and people of Puducherry. It could not keep its own MLAs in its fold.” The future course of action would be decided after discussions with the leaders of alliance parties, he said. AIADMK legislature party leader A Anbalagan said the Puducherry unit would consult its party leadership. The BJP Puducherry unit said the party would not try to form a government in the Union territory at this stage. Puducherry BJP state president V Saminathan said the NDA, comprising the BJP and its allies AINRC and AIADMK, would form the government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and with the “blessings” of people after the forthcoming elections. After the recent resignations the strength of the ruling Congress party was reduced to nine in the 30-member assembly. Its ally DMK (two MLAs) and an independent supported the government. On the opposition side, the All India NR Congress has seven seats and AIADMK four. Three BJP functionaries have been nominated as MLAs. Puducherry Pradesh Congress Committee on Monday suspended K Lakshminarayanan from the primary membership of the party for acting against the interest of the party by resigning from the MLA post. The DMK leadership too suspended K Venkatesan, who resigned from MLA post on Sunday, for anti-party activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/no-majority-says-speaker-congress-govt-in-pondy-falls/articleshow/81161348.cms||Bosco Dominique
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Corona curbs: FIRs against 3 Andheri pubs||Mumbai: BMC continued its crackdown over the weekend against eateries, bars and pubs for violating Covid-19 norms by filing FIRs against three bars and pubs in Andheri (West) on Sunday. According to BMC officials, these places were found violating Covid-19 protocols of social distancing, crowd control and use of face masks. Dr Ajit Pampatwar, health officer of the BMC’s K-West ward filed a complaint at the Amboli police station and FIRs were registered against Amethhyyst Lounge Bar, Arbour 28 and Club Illusions. “There was no social distancing, most were not wearing masks and there was more than 50% occupancy,” Dr Pampatwar said in his complaint.  BMC had on Saturday, filed an FIR against 145 Bandra, a restaurant cum bar, for allowing close to 250 people at the outlet. Civic squads also raided and penalised bars and pubs such as Irish House, U Turn Sports Bar and Quarter Pillar Bar in the Bandra-Khar area. The fines ranged from Rs 20,000 to Rs 30,000.—Chaitanya Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/corona-curbs-firs-against-3-andheri-pubs/articleshow/81159768.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Committee set up to suggest changes in school fee rules||Nagpur: Maharashtra school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Monday set up an eight-member committee to look into the raging school fee issue. The committee, comprising education officials from Mumbai, Pune and Solapur, has been tasked with suggesting changes in the current law so that it can be implemented properly at the ground level. An official statement from the minister’s office said though rules about school fee are in place, it has been observed that local education officials find it difficult to follow up. Gaikwad also reiterated that fee regulation committee (FRC) will be set up at both divisional and state level to handle complaints from parents. This provision already exists in the current rules, but the actual committee (FRC) has not been set up. Gaikwad also instructed education officials to crack down on unauthorized schools and take action based on provisions under the Right To Education (RTE) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/committee-set-up-to-suggest-changes-in-school-fee-rules/articleshow/81161387.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Fifth arrest in Ponzi promoter extortion case||Mumbai: City crime branch unit 10 on Sunday made the fifth arrest in connection with the kidnapping and Rs 50-lakh exto-rtion from an alleged Ponzi scheme promoter in November 2019. The accused, Mahendra Upadhaya, was picked up from his village in Uttar Pradesh. “We have already filed a chargesheet in the kidnap-extortion case. Now, we will file a supplementary chargesheet against Upadhaya,” said inspector Vinay Ghorpude. In his complaint with Andheri police, Omprakash Goenka, chairman and director of Citrus Check-Inns and Royal Twinkle Star Club, claimed that Kishore Adhav, Vijay Jadhav, Nilesh Gurav, Ajay Jadhav and Upadhaya had kidnapped him at gunpoint and released him only after he agreed to pay Rs 50 lakh to Adhav. Incidentally, Goenka was arrested in 2018 by the EOW for allegedly defrauding 18 lakh investors, including Adhav, of Rs 4,500 crore. —S Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fifth-arrest-in-ponzi-promoter-extortion-case/articleshow/81161446.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Reports not delivered on mail or phone, citizens keep visiting Covid testing centres||Nagpur: Though Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and district administration are appealing to people, especially those suspected to have been exposed to the novel coronavirus, to curtail their outdoor trips, citizens still have to make multiple rounds to testing centres to get their reports.At some city centres, citizens have to make at least three visits to finally get their reports. Many who turn up to collect their report turn out to be positive, but there is no mechanism to ensure these people immediately return home and follow proper guidelines.Also, in almost all cases, people remain clueless about their status for more than a day. Such asymptomatic persons also pose a risk of infecting others at the centres where they queue up, both at the time of giving swab and collecting the report.The situation is far worse in rural places, as the reports come only two days later. Multi purpose workers (MPWs) deployed in taluka places told TOI there is no way to curb movement of people till they get a result. When the reports come, the MPWs call up positive persons asking them to isolate themselves. “But generally they are not at home when we call,” they said.A 57-year-old Pratap Nagar resident told TOI that a citizen should visit a centre only once for giving the swab. “There is huge risk to all. If others are positive, then I face risk of getting infected. If I am positive, and not aware, I may infect others while on way to the centre,” he said.The man said he had received a link regarding submission of sample and it was supposed to give an update. “But till date there is no update. Ultimately, I had to visit the centre where they gave me a negative certificate,” he said.NMC chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said delivering the report on email or phone poses a different set of problems for the administration. “The Rapid Response Team (RRTs) need to visit homes of positive persons. Generally, people don’t give their proper address at the time of testing. Hence, the RRT visits help verify the address of a positive person and then trace close contacts. Now, we have also started stamping on left hand of patients advised home isolation. So it is important our teams confirm that these persons are at home,” he said.Dr Chilkar added that it was noticed that some people would start investigations like CAT scan without telling anyone that they tested positive if they get their test report on mail. “So there are some disadvantages too about sending reports on mail. Also, ailing people don’t turn up for reports at centres, so it is not a big problem,” he said.However, he admitted that asymptomatic patients keep moving till they get the report or RRT contacts them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/reports-not-delivered-on-mail-or-phone-citizens-keep-visiting-covid-testing-centres/articleshow/81158388.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand HC asks state for detailed report on measures taken to ensure safe Kumbh||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday directed the state government to submit an affidavit detailing the infrastructure and arrangements that have been made to hold Kumbh Mela amid the pandemic. The bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma noted that the SOP on Haridwar Maha Kumbh issued by the Centre on January 22 places a “large number of responsibilities” on the state government. “In the affidavit filed by Shailesh Bagauli, the secretary, department of urban development, government of Uttarakhand, certain facts have been narrated especially with regard to enhancing the healthcare system in general and with regard to increasing the number of bed capacities in the hospitals, both government and private. However, a detailed report needs to be filed with regard to all the responsibilities bestowed by the central government on the state government,” the court said in its order. Chief secretary Om Prakash, secretary, health, Amit Negi and mela officer Deepak Rawat were present at the hearing through video conferencing. The state government informed the court that it will reconsider its decision to cancel the plan of constructing a 1,000-bed hospital in Haridwar with the help of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The chief secretary explained that they had cancelled the plan as Covid cases had started to dip and "medical facilities in Haridwar seemed sufficient to tackle these". “However, considering the rise in Covid cases across the country, the state government will reconsider this decision and take a call after a team from the Centre visits the spot,” said Shiv Bhatt, an advocate appearing for the state. The state further informed the court that if made functional, the hospital will have doctors from neighbouring states as well as the Centre. It said the Centre had assured it that even doctors from defence forces will be provided if needed. The court also directed mela officer Deepak Rawat to submit a report on the status of an unfinished flyover in Haridwar, which is expected to facilitate the movement of pilgrims to the ghats, which are undergoing renovation or repair works. The HC also asked for details of washrooms, changing rooms and toilets to be made available for pilgrims in Haridwar and Rishikesh. The court has given the chief secretary as well as mela officer time till March 3 to file their affidavits and listed the case for further hearing on March 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-asks-state-for-detailed-report-on-measures-taken-to-ensure-safe-kumbh/articleshow/81158426.cms||Prashant Jha
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Extension helps 2,455 healthcare workers take 1st vax dose in Vid||Nagpur: The extension given by the central and state governments for first dose of Covid-19 vaccine of healthcare workers (HCWs) helped 2,455 doctors, nurses and other staff working in government and private hospitals take the jab on Monday in Vidarbha. With rise in positive cases in the region, number of HCWs and frontline workers (FLWs) taking vaccine increased to a new high of 12,827 on Monday. The government had on February 18 announced first dose of HCWs will stop from February 20. On that day, 3,358 HCWs had turned up for inoculation, though numbers were very less in previous days. Highest turnout was witnessed in Nagpur district with 1,696 HCWs taking the first dose in city and 368 in rural. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar told TOI, “Earlier, scheduling of HCWs for first dose was done on daily basis, with messages going out, followed by calls from control room and vaccination centres. This was stopped since Monday, with HCWs visiting vaccination centres as per convenience and taking the jab,” he said. On Monday, 1,057 HCW took the first dose in city and 361 in rural for a total of 1,418 in the district. Thus, achievement of first dose of HCWs increased to 62.25% (29,366 out of total registered 47,175) in the district. Good turnout by HCWs for first dose was also seen in Gondia, Amravati, Buldhana and Yavatmal. As of now, the government has extended first dose for HCWs till February 25. Number of HCWs who have taken first dose increased to 1,19,687 in Vidarbha, which is 66.5% of total registered HCWs. On Monday, 12,827 HCWs and frontline workers (FLWs) took the jab in 11 districts of the region. The number was highest in a single day in the region since roll out of the vaccine on January 16. Sources said 2,455 HCWs took first dose, 5,113 HCWs took second dose and 5,259 FLWs availed the benefit of vaccination programme. The number of vaccinated persons went over 10,000 in a single day for the third time in region on Monday. Earlier, 10,436 turned up for inoculation on February 18, and 10,688 on February 20. On Monday, 16,143 HCWs took second dose in 11 districts of the region. The number of FLWs who took first dose increased to 60,245 in the region on Monday. The government had reportedly set deadline of February 27 for completion of first dose of FLWs. The government had also stopped registration of FLWs excluding CRPF personnel. The government is likely to give extension as was done in the case of HCWs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/extension-helps-2455-healthcare-workers-take-1st-vax-dose-in-vid/articleshow/81178775.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Show cause notice to Uttam Galva over furnace accident that claimed 2 lives||Nagpur: The directorate of industrial safety has issued a show cause notice to the management of Uttam Galva in the blast furnace fire accident case, which left two dead and 36 injured. Uttam Galva’s unit is located at Wardha. This is the first step towards initiating prosecution under the Factories Act against an industrial establishment in an accident case. Once the company submits its reply within the prescribed time, a report would be sent to the head office in Mumbai. Based on the decision by the head office, legal proceedings can be started in the court at Wardha, said a source. The company did not envisage the risks involved in the process, which led to the accident. The workers were also not given appropriate protective gear before being assigned the job, says the initial report submitted after the inspection. The injured workers were engaged in cleaning the blast furnace as part of maintenance activities. During the process, fragments of molten metal deposited at the top of the furnace fell on a layer of coal below. Since the coal was also heated, it generated a flame of over 200 degrees Celsius. The worker cleaning an outlet from the other side sustained injuries due to the heat generated. Sources said that the possibility of the fragments falling was not considered while carrying out the work, though there is no thumb rule in such process. The risks have to be evaluated as and when the process continues. This appears to be a case of wrong judgment of risks that led to the accident, said a source. The workers were given thick clothing as against the much effective fire resistant protective gear, like those worn when the blast furnace is operational. Had the risks been properly evaluated, the workers would have been given the right protective gear, said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/show-cause-notice-to-uttam-galva-over-furnace-accident-that-claimed-2-lives/articleshow/81161415.cms||Shishir Arya
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||All’s quiet on new Covid front, micro containment zones in apartments||Nagpur: A quiet inner lane, along the Regional Police Training School’s (RPTS) rear, leads to one of the apartments declared a restricted area by NMC. Not many in the neighbourhood too know about the development.The building with 24 flats is among the new containment areas after the second wave of spike in Covid infections. The guard slides the gate to show the NMC notice stuck on it.NMC is declaring flat schemes and other housing pockets as micro-containment zones since last week, if five or more Covid cases are reported there. The parking area is deserted, but soon a car drives out. “Ask the secretary,” says the person inside, on being asked if residents are facing any hassles. “The NMC rules calls for residents in such pockets to stay indoors unless they need to go buy essentials or it’s a case of emergency,” said an NMC official of Laxmi Nagar zone, where the apartments are located. Two more pockets were declared restriction zones on Monday. The police will be sent an intimation also, said the officer.As TOI went around two such residential societies, it seemed to be a quiet affair inside. A few residents were seen moving in and out like any other day. The only rule that was strictly followed is that outsiders were not allowed. Those not positive are continuing with their routine, said the residents TOI talked to.“We are not allowing outsiders at all. The newspaper and milk is kept downstairs, later the guard places it at the door steps,” said a senior citizen. He had just come back after a walk. “My car remains parked for days so I needed to run it to keep the battery charged, and had to fill up fuel also. I had come down for that but then I asked my neighbour’s driver to do it, and went for a walk,” he said.The apartment’s secretary, who also came down, said, “It’s my 16th day of infection.” The retired banker added he had to go to Delhi and so got himself tested. “There were no symptoms but I tested positive and have stayed indoors since then,” he said.The others got tested in NMC’s mobile testing van, which is deployed to trace contacts in emerging hotspots, like the pockets in Laxmi Nagar zone. Some others also tested positive in the flat.The second apartment is a couple of kms away at Jaiprakash Nagar. Here an aged security guard greets visitors from a cabin. Two families have tested positive in this housing society. “They have isolated themselves and we have also not contacted them. Some had to be admitted to hospital but they are back. One of them is a senior citizen couple but their son is here to take care of them,” said a resident who came down.Even here a few persons were seen entering the gate, even as the person maintained that most of them stay indoors. “Only those who are working go out, but most of us are retired persons,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/alls-quiet-on-new-covid-front-micro-containment-zones-in-apartments/articleshow/81158441.cms||Shishir Arya
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||‘Indrani’s health not worsened’||Mumbai: The state submitted a health report in Bombay high court on Sheena Bora murder case accused Indrani Mukerjea, which said her medical condition has not shown any signs of worsening.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/indranis-health-not-worsened/articleshow/81158474.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Study how MP keeps markets clean: HC to NMC||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday directed the NMC to study the vegetable markets at a few places in Madhya Pradesh where the authorities had managed to keep them clean through innovative measures. While hearing a suo motu PIL (No 4/2015) where Shashibhushan Wahane was appointed as amicus curiae, the HC further asked NMC to consult Neeri on how to utilize tonnes of garbage that accumulates daily for producing energy. The civic body was also told to take help of any NGOs in maintaining hygienic conditions in the markets, which often remains filthy. Wahane contended Neeri had floated the concept of generating energy from waste to the corporation, but latter did not take any interest in the matter. Focus on Zero Mile’s restoration, maintenance: HC After NMC’s Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) constituted a seven-member task force, the HC directed it to focus on restoration and maintenance work of Zero Milestone. Before adjourning the hearing till Thursday, the HC detached a suo motu PIL in this regard from other cases on playgrounds like Reshimbagh being misused by the authorities for holding political rallies and commercial exhibitions. HC was hearing a suo motu PIL (No 59/2019) regarding neglect of the iconic monument that has led to its steady deterioration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/study-how-mp-keeps-markets-clean-hc-to-nmc/articleshow/81161431.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Pune||Employees of firms can take permission & travel at night||Pune: Joint commissioner of Pune police Ravindra Shisve on Monday said the employees of information technology (IT) firms and other companies would be allowed to travel during the night, provided the companies issued them letters stating that the staffers concerned were required to work in the late hours.Shisve on Monday evening issued the order of night curfew under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It prohibits movement of people without any valid reasons from 11pm to 6am. He said, “Police will take stern action against people moving on the city roads, especially on vehicles, for trivial or without any reasons.”Explaining how the employees of IT firms and other companies in Pune and adjoining areas could commute on the city roads during the night curfew hours, Shisve said, “The companies must issue letters to their employees stating that they are required to work late into the night or have shifts.”According to the police, the employees can show these letters at the different checkpoints to commute to their residence or to the office.At the same time, people arriving in the city late in the night from other places in their private vehicles would be allowed to go home, the police said.The restrictions will be in effect across the district till February 28. They were imposed following a rise in daily Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/employees-of-firms-can-take-permission-travel-at-night/articleshow/81159828.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt to declare over 130 persons missing in Chamoli disaster dead, notification issued||DEHRADUN: Over a fortnight after the devastating flash floods of February 7, the state government has initiated the process of declaring over 130 persons missing after the disaster as ‘presumed dead’ and issued a notification in this regard on Monday. Officials familiar with the matter said usually, people who have gone missing in a disaster are declared dead if they have not been heard of for seven years. But in the case of the Chamoli disaster, it was decided to invoke provisions of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969 which allow persons who are missing to be declared dead before the stipulated seven-year-period. The move, the officials said, has been initiated to speed up the process of giving compensation to the affected families. The state government has announced compensation of Rs 4 lakh for the kin of the deceased while an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh has been announced by the Centre. In the case of the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy, too, those who were missing were declared presumed dead before the seven-year period, sources in the government said. The state government’s notification, that was issued by the state health secretary after a clearance from the Union home ministry, details the appointment of designated officers at the district level for disposing off the applications of issuing death certificates for the missing persons. “For the purpose of issuance of death certificates, the missing persons have been categorised in three categories--first, those who were residents of disaster-hit areas or nearby areas, second, those who were residents of other districts of Uttarakhand but were present in the disaster-hit areas on February 7 and the last category is of those belonging to other states who were present in the flash-flood hit areas on the same day,” the notification says. Sources said that state health secretary Amit Negi has also written to all the district magistrates regarding the process to be followed while issuing the death certificates to the family members and relatives of the persons who have gone missing in the disaster. Till Monday, the search and rescue teams had recovered 68 bodies from the area, while 136 are still reported to be missing. Out of the total recovered bodies, 14 were found from the tunnel at the NTC hydropower project site at Tapovan, while rest were recovered from the other upstream and downstream areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-to-declare-over-130-persons-missing-in-chamoli-disaster-dead-notification-issued/articleshow/81158489.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||‘Despite education, accused had many vices’||Mumbai: Opposing the bail plea of Shree Jogdhankar, 23, accused in the New Year’s Eve murder of Jhanvi Kukreja, 19, who sought relief to take his final exams in Bachelor of Hospitality and Hotel Administration course, the prosecution told the sessions court that despite his education, he had several vices, like consumption of drugs. “Such an educated person would have ideally focussed on his education. Instead, he focussed on killing an innocent person,” the prosecution said. Jogdhankar is accused of assaulting and killing the teenager along with co-accused, Diya Padalkar, 18. He has claimed he was falsely implicated. Both accused also suffered injuries. The prosecution said the accused had made false statements in his bail plea and this demonstrated his criminal attitude. The accused had claimed he was attacked by some persons. The prosecution pointed out this contradicted the statement he had given at Sion Hospital where he allegedly claimed he had fallen on the road and injured himself. The prosecution also alleged the accused had another investigation pending against him and he was found to be involved in brawls. It is also alleged investigation had shown even his peers, who are witnesses in the case, used to avoid him due to his behaviour. The prosecution said his submissions that he came from a good family could not be ground for granting bail. Referring to Jogdhankar’s claims that if such an incident had taken place the building watchman or lift man would have witnessed it, the prosecution said the elevator was not manned by any personnel. It also said at the time the victim was “thrown down”, a witness said he had heard the noise of something falling. It said the accused could be taken for his exams from jail as is usually done, and he should not be granted bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/despite-education-accused-had-many-vices/articleshow/81161508.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||AAP neta opts to go powerless in protest against MSEDCL||Nagpur: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) district organization secretary Pratap Goswami has decided to live without electricity to protest against the ‘tyranny’ of the state government and Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL). As a mark of protest, Goswami had not paid electricity bills for months and he was disconnected by the MSEDCL staffers on Monday. Goswami, a resident of Verma Layout, told TOI, “I have decided not to pay power bills until the state government gives some concession to common man. I will live without electricity until that happens.” The AAP leader said Shiv Sena had promised to reduce power tariff by 30% in its 2019 assembly election manifesto. “Energy minister Nitin Raut also promised to provide 100 units free power to common consumers. However, he could not get the approval of the cabinet,” he added. Goswami further said central government had hiked the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG. “The income of common man has reduced due to lockdown, but the cost of living is going on increasing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aap-neta-opts-to-go-powerless-in-protest-against-msedcl/articleshow/81161467.cms||Ashish Roy
February 23, 2021||Pune||936 people pay penalty for venturing out without masks in Maharashtra||PUNE: Police on Monday slapped a fine of Rs 500 each on 936 people in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits for venruring out without face masks. The action is part of an intensified drive since Sunday against people not following Covid-appropriate behaviour and risking themselves and others to the infection. The Pune police collected Rs3.62 lakh in fine from the 724 people fined in their jurisdiction. The Pimpri Chinchwad police fined 212 people for violating the mask rule. On Sunday, the Pimpri Chinchwad police had taken similar action against 400 people. Pune city joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve said, “We have deployed policemen at all important junctions among others places for taking action against people moving around without a reason after 11pm from Monday.” DCP (Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh said, “We will take strict action against the violators for disobedience under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and intensify patrolling. People reporting for night shift or going late will be allowed, but they have to furnish their identity cards if asked by the police.” Pimpri Chinchwad deputy commissioner of police (crime) Sudhir Hiremath said, “We have set up ‘ nakabandi’ points at 30 spots. Thirteen teams will start functioning from Monday night to check the scenario in restaurants and bars.” Health officials in the Pimpri Chinchwad civic body stated that action had been taken against 695 people for not wearing mask till February 21 and Rs3.47 lakh collected in fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/936-people-pay-penalty-for-venturing-out-without-masks/articleshow/81159834.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Patna||Bihar to send samples to Odisha for variant test||PATNA: Though no new Covid variants have been detected in Bihar so far, the state health department is not letting its guard down and has decided to get samples tested for different strains of the virus. "Every day, 10 samples that have tested positive for Covid-19 through the RT-PCR method would be sent to the Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar to test for the new variants from Monday," said health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit. Amrit further said they were keeping a close tab on the rise in Covid-19 cases in other parts of the country and have instructed officials concerned to be ready with an adequate number of beds in the event of a spike in cases. The decisions were taken at several meetings held on Monday when the day state reported 84 new Covid-19 cases, out of 21,760 samples tested, which indicates a slight rise in positivity rate compared to the previous two Mondays. For instance, on February 15, altogether 44 new cases were registered in the state, out of 30,940 samples tested, and a week before that on February 8, 56 samples tested positive out of 60,469.  AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said, “This slight increase in positivity rate is statistically not significant in such a huge population, but it indicates us to be alert. It is like something is knocking on the door.” He advised people to follow all the Covid-19 norms and not be complacent, citing examples of other states where cases are again rising. As per data shared by the state health society on Monday, with 84 new Covid-19 cases, the tally has reached 2,62,244. In the same period, 59 people recovered, taking total recoveries to 2,60,147 and recovery rate to 99.20%. Officially one death was reported from across the state, and the toll has reached 1,536. AIIMS-Patna reported the death of a 76-year-old Saran district resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-to-send-samples-to-odisha-for-variant-test/articleshow/81159841.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Life threat to Hingna tehsildar, one booked||Nagpur: MIDC police have booked a 44-year-old man for allegedly doling out life threats to Hingna tehsildar after she objected to illegal mining activities on Sunday. Based on a complaint lodged by Jyoti Bhosle (33), a resident of Hingna Town, Dhangarpura, cops have booked accused Shravan Gosawi, a resident of Isasani. According to police sources, cracking the whip on thriving illegal mining activities in the region, Bhosle along with some others was conducting an inspection drive near Pioneer Woods Society on Sunday. At around 1.30pm, Gosawi, driving a truck (MH/31/DS/6037) carrying crushed stones, approached them. When Bhosle got to know that Gosawi was illegally transporting the stones and didn’t even have a valid permit for mining, she sought explanation. Irked over this, Gosawi reportedly picked up a quarrel with the tehsildar. He allegedly hurled abuses at Bhosle and also threatened her with dire consequences. MIDC cops have booked the accused driver under sections 379, 353, 506, 34 of the IPC and started the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/life-threat-to-hingna-tehsildar-one-booked/articleshow/81161503.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Min directs inquiry into fee plaints||Mumbai: Taking note of the numerous complaints related to school fees during the Covid-19 pandemic period, minister for school education Varsha Gaikawad at a review meeting on Monday, directed education officers to conduct an inquiry into the complaints and take appropriate action against schools. The minister also set up a committee to suggest amendments in the state fee regulation act. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/min-directs-inquiry-into-fee-plaints/articleshow/81162439.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 23, 2021||Pune||Cop in ACB net for Rs 50k bribe||Pune: The state anti-corruption bureau (ACB), Pune, on Monday caught a police constable attached to the Wakad police accepting a bribe of Rs50,000. The suspect, Sachin Jadhav (37), had demanded Rs2lakh from the complainant to complete the process of arrest and bail in a domestic violence case and file the chargesheet immediately. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cop-in-acb-net-for-rs-50k-bribe/articleshow/81159839.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||340-km RRR around Hyderabad to be longest bypass in India||NEW DELHI: The road transport and highways ministry on Monday gave ‘in principle’ nod for the 340 km ‘Regional Ring Road’ (RRR) around Hyderabad, which will connect all districts of Telangana with the state capital. The RRR, a four-lane access-controlled highway will cost Rs 16,000 crore. This will be the longest bypass in India. Announcing the decision at Union minister Nitin Gadkari’s home, junior home minister G Kishan Reddy said, “Gadkariji has assured us the road will be built in three years once state acquires land. We are urging state government to take proactive steps to fast-track it for development of Telangana.” In November 2016, the highways ministry had given ‘in principle’ nod for declaring the two parts of RRR - northern and southern — as national highway. Monday’s decision has now paved the way for land acquisition and preparatory work. The RRR is to be taken up in two parts. The northern part of 158 km, connecting Sangareddy, Narasapur, Toopran, Gajwel, Yadadri, Pragnapur, Bhongir and Choutuppal will be taken up at a tentative cost of Rs 7,560 crore. It will be totally funded by the Centre and another Rs 1,961 crore will be spent for land acquisition. The state government has agreed to bear 50% of the land acquisition and pre-construction cost. “We sought Gadkariji’s help to approve the second arm of the RRR (182 km) covering the southern part connecting Choutuppal, Ibrahimpatnam, Kandukur, Amangal, Chevella, Shankarpally and Sangareddy. He has immediately given his consent for the project expected to cost Rs 4,322 crore and Rs 1,748 crore for land acquisition,” Reddy said. Once the RRR is operational, highway traffic heading towards Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Bengaluru, Delhi can get diverted onto this access-controlled road and hence will reduce congestion and pollution in Hyderabad and Cyberabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/340-km-rrr-around-hyd-to-be-longest-bypass-in-india/articleshow/81162417.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||1st-time corporator Bhoyar set to head standing panel||Nagpur: First-time BJP corporator Prakash Bhoyar, a close aide of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, is all set to become the chairman of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s standing committee. Bhoyar was among the seven new corporators who were elected to the standing committee at a special general body meeting held virtually on Monday. The BJP has begun preparations to woo voters for next year’s civic elections. Bhoyar’s nomination seems like an effort to please voters of the Kunbhi community. On February 19, city BJP chief Pravin Datke appointed senior party corporator and former standing committee chairman Avinash Thakre as ruling party leader in the civic body. Thakre, who hails from the Mali community, is a well-known face in the city’s OBC community. Earlier this year, the BJP pleased Brahmin voters by appointing Dayashankar Tiwari as city mayor while making first-time corporator Manisha Dhawde, who hails from the Teli community, deputy mayor. The four coveted posts are likely to work to BJP’s advantage in next year’s elections, said analysts. The standing committee has 16 members. Parties can nominate members in proportion to the number of corporators in the 151-member house. The term of BJP corporators Pradip Pohane, Yasheshri Nadanwar, Vikram Gwalbanshi, Vandana Bhagat and Sanjay Chawre has ended. So is the case with Congress corporators Gargi Chopra and Dinesh Yadav and BSP’s Ibrahim Ahmed. Ruling party leader Thakre submitted a list of BJP corporators for nomination to the committee to mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, who gave his approval. BJP corporators Prakash Bhoyar, Sanjay Balpande, Sushma Chowdhary, Pragati Patil and Bharti Bunde were nominated to the committee. Leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve submitted names of Congress corporators Neha Nikose and Manoj Gawande for nomination to the committee to the mayor, who gave the nod. BSP’s corporator Narendra Walde was also nominated to the committee. The party has also announced the names of eight more BJP corporators, including Sumedha Deshpande, Varsha Thakre, Vanita Dandekar, Swati Akhatkar, Rupali Thakur, Jaishree Rarokar and Vandana Bhure to replace the party’s corporators in the standing panel next month. The new chairman and members of the other 10 sub committees were also nominated at the special meeting. Though BJP replaced chairmen of eight committees, it repeated Mahendra Dhanvijay and Dilip Diwe as chairmen of tax and education panels. Diwe is heading the education panel since he was elected in the last civic elections in 2017. Thakre appointed ruling party leader City BJP president Pravin Datke has appointed senior BJP corporator Avinash Thakre as ruling party leader in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Thakre will replace former deputy mayor Sandip Jadhav. Senior BJP corporator Jadhav claimed that he resigned from the post of ruling party leader to give a chance to other senior corporators. “There are no personal reasons for resigning from the post or any pressure from seniors within the party,” he said and expressed gratitude to the party for giving him three important posts (deputy mayor, standing committee chairman and ruling party leader) since he was first elected as corporator in 2012. Thakre said his focus will be on better coordination between the elected representatives with the civic administration. “My job is more important keeping in mind the civic body elections which are due in early 2022,” said Thakre. THE NEW TEAM Committees—Chairman Education committee—Dilip Dive Tax consultative—Mahendra Dhanvijay Estate—Rajendra Sonkusre Water—Sandip Gavai Legal—Minakshi Telgote Sports—Pramod Tabhane Women & child welfare—Divya Dhurde Fire & electric—Deepak Chowdhary Economic weaker section—Kanta Rarokar Health—Sanjay Mahajan Slum eradication—Harish Dikondwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1st-time-corporator-bhoyar-set-to-head-standing-panel/articleshow/81161536.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||Snow leopard tours in U’khand soon, four treks identified||Dehradun: The forest department of Uttarakhand along with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has identified four treks that will take adventure enthusiasts to the habitats of the elusive snow leopard in the state. These treks are located at over 18,000 feet and are more than 50-kilometre-long. The highest altitude trek is Naga-Neelapani-Mana Pass, a 32 km-long trek at 5,600 metres (18,372 feet)followed by Harsil-Kyarkoti-Lamkhaga-Chitkul, a 54-km-long trek at 5,200 metres (17,060 feet); Jadhang-Janaktal, a 10-km-long trek at 4,200 metres (13,779 feet); and Dhumku-Chorgaad (near Himachal Pradesh border), a 10-km-long trek at 4,000 metres (13,123 feet). Sources said that bookings have not yet commenced although the tours are likely to start from next month in Uttarkashi. The two 10-km-long treks are most likely to open in March and the other two may open by May. DC Arya, the DFO of Uttarkashi, who is spearheading the project, said, “Expert wildlifers and conservationists will be a part of these special tours. We have identified and trained youth from 24 villages of Uttarkashi and they, too, will be engaged in these tours.” Meanwhile, Rajeev Bhartari, head of forest force (HoFF), Uttarakhand forest department, said, “Primarily, our effort aims at securing the entire landscape of snow leopards which is in tandem to an international priority opted by all the 12 range countries of snow leopards, including China, Russia, Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Mongolia and Pakistan, among others.” According to a preliminary estimate conducted by the experts of Wildlife Institute of India, there are over 80 snow leopards in Uttarakhand. A full-fledged exercise to count the big cats in the state is underway. It is worth mentioning that the conservation of snow leopards — which are listed as “vulnerable” in the IUCN’s Red List — is a global priority as their exact count is unknown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/snow-leopard-tours-in-ukhand-soon-four-treks-identified/articleshow/81158508.cms||Shivani Azad
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||No masks: 16k challans issued on three days; Rs 32L collected||Mumbai: Over 16,000 challans were issued to people by Mumbai Police between Saturday and Monday for not wearing masks. Most challans on Monday were issued in Dahisar-Goregaon belt. A sum of Rs 32 lakh was generated in fines in the three-day period. Previously, only marshalls contracted by BMC could issue challans. But Police held a discussion with BMC officials and from Saturday, uniformed police personnel were given power to fine those not wearing masks. Police commissioner Parambir Singh tweeted the announcement on Sunday. The fine for not wearing a mask is Rs200. On Saturday, police issued 1587 challans, which surged to 8,030 on Sunday. The figure dipped to 6,519 on Monday. “Action will go on,” said DCP S Chaitanya, spokesperson for Mumbai Police.Meanwhile, BMC K west ward office, which covers parts of Andheri and Juhu, got 22 persons, who were unable to pay the penalty for not wearing face masks, to do community service. A video went viral on Monday of a clean-up marshal telling a person unable to pay the fine to pick up garbage on Juhu beach. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-masks-16k-challans-issued-on-three-days-rs-32l-collected/articleshow/81159857.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Pune||PMC raps eateries, businesses for violating Covid-19 protocol||PUNE: The civic body on Monday started cracking the whip on those violating Covid-19 safety norms, a day after fresh curbs were imposed on movement at night and on restaurants’ timings. Pune Municipal Corporation’s Ghole Road ward office carried out a drive in parts of Shivajinagar — including Fergusson College Road and Jangli Maharaj Road — on Monday. Officials filed 83 cases against violators and levied Rs54,330 in fines. As a part of the drive, restaurants and business were also inspected, with those found wanting fined between Rs2,000 and Rs5,000. According to sources, action was taken against 28 food joints, four shopping malls, four footwear outlets, three paan stalls and 10 garment stores. “These food joints and business outlets were not following the norms set for Covid-19 mitigation properly. Some did not have sanitisers, while others were seen not following social distancing norms. We are taking the action with aim to prevent further spread of the virus,” Asha Raut, Ghole road ward officer, said. PMC officials said most violators were fined for not wearing a mask. In many cases, even restaurant staffers were found not wearing masks. An employee of a restaurant on FC Road said the outlet was fined Rs2,000 for violating social distancing norms. “There were five people sitting at one table. Other tables had just two customers each. But this group of five did not listen to us when we told them to sit separately. We follow all social distancing and sanitization norms at our eatery, and maintain considerable distance between tables, but sometimes customers do not listen,” the employee said, adding that going forward, they would refuse to allow more than two people to sit at one table. Another restaurateur said their outlet was fined. “PMC fined us as we did not have social distancing floor markers. Otherwise, we follow all sanitization and social distancing protocols,” the restaurateur said. PMC officials visited another restaurant in the Deccan Gymkhana and fined the management Rs5,000 for worn down social distancing markers. “People have been walking over these markers, causing them to fade. We paid the fine and have already pasted new social distancing markings on the floor,” a source from the restaurant said. On Sunday, TOI reported that restaurants and bars in the city expressed apprehensions that the fresh restrictions would adversely impact their business. Several said they had only just begun to get back on their feet and that closing at 11pm would cause a 20-30% dip in business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-raps-eateries-businesses-for-violating-covid-19-protocol/articleshow/81159844.cms||Neha Madaan
February 23, 2021||Pune||Transport body fails to implement no-standing rule in many buses||PUNE: The PMPML failed to enforce the no-standing rule on Monday as buses ran packed with standees. The transport utility’s officials put the blame on commuters, stating that they forcefully entered the already full buses after arguing with conductors. Times ViewAn additional 50 buses are insufficient to ensure there are no standees during a commute. The passenger rush is maddening during the peak morning/evening hours, which results in people ignoring the conductor's pleas and cramming into the buses. The situation is aggravated when buses run late.A senior official of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML)’s traffic department said, “Many passengers had heated arguments with conductors even after the rules were explained to them. They didn’t want to wait for another bus during peak office hours. We shall work to improve the frequency of buses. An additional 50 buses will ply from Tuesday.” Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao had instructed the transport utility not to allow standing passengers, keeping in mind the social distancing norms amid rising Covid-19 cases. Rajendra Jagtap, CMD, PMPML, had said that an additional 50 buses would be operated during peak hours so that commuters did not face any problems. Sanjay Shitole of PMP Pravasi Manch said, “The PMPML had been struggling with frequency issues. Passengers are bound to get angry if buses arrive late.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transport-body-fails-to-implement-no-standing-rule-in-many-buses/articleshow/81159898.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 23, 2021||Pune||Ex-MP among 3 booked on charge of violating Covid norms at wedding event||PUNE: The Hadapsar police on Monday booked former Kolhapur MP and state BJP vice-president Dhananjay Mahadik and two others on the charge of disobedience and violation of Covid-19 safety norms at his son’s wedding reception held on Sunday evening at the Laxmi Lawns in Magarpatta City. The reception was held around the same time when chief minister Uddhav Thackeray addressed the state over the need to follow the Covid-19 norms and avoid stricter measures such as lockdown. Senior inspector Balkrishna Kadam from the Hadapsar police said, “Vivek Magar, owner of Laxmi Lawns, and Nurupal Kedar, manager of the facility, are the other two persons booked in the case.” When contacted, Mahadik told TOI, “Our wedding function started in the evening and the CM made his address around the same time. We had invited 1,000 guests for the reception at the lawns spread across 1 lakh sq ft area and many of the invitees did not turn up at the venue. There was no limit fixed by the state government on inviting a number of guests at the time when we had booked the lawns well in advance.” Mahadik said, “It was not possible for us to cancel the function at a very short notice. This is because we had made the necessary preparations and most of our guests had come from outside Maharashtra. There was no violation of the government guidelines at the function.” Inspector Kadam told TOI, “We launched an inquiry soon after we received reports suggesting that a large number of people attended the reception in violation of the state government guidelines. The recording of witnesses’ statements revealed that most guests were not wearing masks, no social distance was maintained and sanitisers were not used. We then took a call to register an FIR under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Covid-19 Rules and the Disaster Management Act.” M Q Sayed, official spokesperson of Laxmi Lawnssaid, “The police visited the lawns on Monday and we have shared all information with them. We have taken all precautions and followed the standard operating procedure of the government. The Central government notification on January 31 dose not mention the upper limit for organizing a function. The police had granted permission for organizing the function on February 20. The state government had fixed the upper limit to 200 on Sunday.” Sayed said, “We have got all documents signed by Mahadik giving declaration that he will follow the safety norms and we have shared the papers with the police. We have made public announcements to wear face masks and maintain social distance. We also have CCTV footage of guests wearing masks at the time of entering the function. We can’t stop a sudden surge of people. We cannot be held responsible for the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ex-mp-among-3-booked-on-charge-of-violating-ncov-norms-at-wedding-event/articleshow/81159879.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 23, 2021||Chennai||Row after protesting farmers called ‘violent maniacs’ in question paper||Chennai: A question in the English Language and Literature paper of Class X of DAV Boys Senior Secondary School at Gopalapuram has drawn protests from alumni and others for its characterisation of the farmers’ stir. Musician T M Krishna was the first to tweet a photo of the question paper, which called farm law protesters “violent maniacs”. The question read, “It filled the hearts of the citizens with condemnation and abhorrence after the farm law protesters went on a rampage destroying public property and attacking police personnel in broad daylight. Write a letter to the editor of a daily newspaper in your city, condemning such terrible, violent acts of miscreants who fail to realise that the country comes before personal needs and gains. Destroying public property, disgracing the National Flag and attacking police personnel are few of the various illegal offences committed, that can never be justified for any reason whatsoever. Suggest a few measures from your end to thwart such violent maniacs who act under external instigation.” In a letter to the principal and directors of the school, the alumni of the school said, “The school’s motto is ‘Thamasoma jyotirgamaya’. The school must aid a student in this journey from darkness to light by fostering a spirit of enquiry by allowing for the growth of critical thinking and most importantly, inculcating a habit of listening to multiple viewpoints and sources of information to underpin that critical thought.” It also says that “unfortunately, this letter writing exercise turned out to be a highly editorialised polemic against one group of individuals exhorting the student to take on a specific stance, with no actual room for any individual thought.” Congress MP Sashi Tharoor tweeted, “Is this an English language examination paper or do we now have exams on how to write propaganda? DAV Gopalapuram please clarify.” DAV School in its comment posted on its website said, “The specifically highlighted wordings of the question, which was framed by a teacher, do not reflect the views of the institution. However, we do take pride in constantly striving towards making education relevant, contemporary and contextual. We strongly believe in the need to nurture independent thinking amongst children and also abide by the principles and ethos as enshrined in Indian Constitution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/row-after-protesting-farmers-called-violent-maniacs-in-question-paper/articleshow/81159897.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Vandalur zoo to start night safari||CHENNAI: Vandalur zoo is planning to start a night safari on a portion of the reserve forest near the rescue and rehabilitation centre on Vandalur-Kelambakkam Road. A proposal sent to the government has been accepted and the zoo management is all set to scout for funds. A senior wildlife official said when chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami visited the zoo in August 2019, a meeting was held to start the night safari. Last January, the chief minister, in his reply to the governor’s address in the assembly, had announced that infrastructure at the zoo would be upgraded. In September 2020, another meeting was held where it was decided that the safari will be developed as a public private partnership. Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund Management Corporation Limited (TNIFMC) will lay down norms to get funds, the official said. An in-house team will be formed under TNIFMC to oversee the project. Principal chief conservator of forests and head of the forest department S Yuvaraj told TOI that the department had prepared a concept note on the night safari and had sent it to the government. “The government has accepted it and will take steps to establish the new facility,” he said. A senior wildlife official said a night safari was mooted 14 years ago. In 2009, the government had sanctioned Rs 156 crore for a safari zone and another Rs 36 crore for an entertainment zone, which would have included an amphitheatre, recreation centre and an interpretation centre. With the funds released in 2010, work on the night safari began. The zoo authorities laid a circular road, which was designed by the structural engineering division of Anna University’s civil engineering department. They completed construction of enclosures for tigers, elephants, Indian gaur, spotted deer, sloth bear and sambar. However, the project could not take off as the next government shelved it. Another proposal for the night safari was submitted after reducing the cost to Rs 82 crore in August 2011. But it was rejected, a retired zoo official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vandalur-zoo-to-start-night-safari/articleshow/81159859.cms||P Oppili
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Rs 2 crore for Bhandara hospital||NAGPUR: The state public health department on Monday approved Rs 2 crore for a fire prevention plan at the Bhandara district hospital.  As per an official order, this was recommended by the public works department. A senior bureaucrat said, “I am sure, government will also take note of the current status of fire prevention equipment in all hospitals across the state.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs-2cr-for-bhandara-hospital/articleshow/81161591.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Kolhapur||36 associations join hands for Kolhapur city’s development||Kolhapur: A total of 36 outfits from across the city associated with various domains have joined hands to contribute towards the development of Kolhapur. “Shaharbhan Chalwal” meaning city awareness movement was launched on Monday by the representatives of these outfits for working together in the policy making and Kolhapur’s development is one of the several motives of the platform. It will also act as a pressure group to keep a watch on the development works and to make development process inclusive. Ajay Korane, president of architects association and one of the convenors of the platform, said, “We felt the need to start such platform after observing various agencies governing city’s development. The platform will be constructive and never be obstructive. Despite flaws in the systems especially related to the civic administration, we expect the system to address concerns of citizens. We will contribute in the thought process of city’s development.” Korane said soon the members of the working team of the platform will be selected. “We have already started the work and recently invited experts to work on the issue of inundation of Parikh Bridge underpass due to drainage water. They experts were called in to make corrections in the drainage system by trench-less technique,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/36-associations-join-hands-for-kolhapur-citys-development/articleshow/81157527.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Chennai||To speed up work on Tambaram line, S Rly to run fewer locals||Chennai: Suburban commuters on Tambaram-Beach-Chengalpet-Kancheepuram-Arakkonam route may have to start earlier than usual to reach their workplaces on time as railways has cut down on the number of trains on the route for 18 days from February 24 to March 13. The railways will carry out work to lay the third line between Tambaram and Chengalpet during the window. Around 80 trains will be operated daily on the Beach-Tambaram route with a peak-hour frequency of 15 minutes as against 10 minutes. There will be around 30 trains from Chengalpet to Kancheepuram or Thirumalpur. There will be fewer trains during the afternoon and late in the evening, said an official. More than 100 trains are run on the route a day. From Beach, the first train to Chengalpet will be at 3.50am, to Thirumalpur at 5.10am, to Arakkonam at 9.10am. The last train to Tambaram will be at 11.59pm, to Chengalpet at 10.30pm and to Thirumalpur at 7.55pm. The first train from Chengalpet to Arakkonam will start at 8.20am. The first train from Tambaram to Beach will be at 3.55am, from Chengalpet to Beach at 4.20am and from Arakkonam to Beach via Thirumalpur and Kancheepuram at 4.45am. An official said laying of the third line at Tambaram yard which will lead to “restrictions and cross movement”. Most of the work for the line from Tambaram to Chengalpet has been completed and the final stage work to link it to the yard is going to be taken up in the coming days. The deadline to complete the line is next month, the official said. Southern Railway received Rs 60.54 crore for the work in the 2021-22 budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/to-speed-up-work-on-tambaram-line-s-rly-to-run-fewer-locals/articleshow/81159925.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Patna||Rs 2.18 lakh crore Bihar budget offers Covid relief with no new taxes||PATNA: Despite the massive economic disruption caused by the coronavirus pandemic, deputy CM-cum-finance minister Tarkishore Prasad on Monday imposed no new taxes while presenting a Rs 2.18 lakh crore Budget for fiscal 2021-22, a rise of Rs 6,541.21 crore over the Rs 2.11 lakh crore Budget for the current financial year. He also promised to create 20 lakh job and work opportunities over the next five years. “No new taxes have been imposed on the people, who are already burdened by the disruptions caused to the economy,” Prasad told media persons after presenting the budget in the state assembly. Giving details of the budget, he said in the 2021-22 budget, the fiscal deficit has been estimated at Rs 22,510 crore, which, is 2.97% of the gross state domestic product (GSDP) estimate of Rs 7.57 lakh crore for the fiscal, and complies with the limits of 3% under Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. If needed, the government may go for market borrowings to the tune of 5% to meet the shortfall in its tax revenue during 2020-21, and to the tune of 4.5% during 2021-22, as allowed by the Centre with its rider that the state will have to take up for reforms in sectors identified by it. As the booklet on the budget highlights mentions, “At the end of the financial year 2021-22 anticipated public debt is of Rs 2.01 lakh crore, which is 26.61% of the GSDP. At the end of the financial year 2020-21, an anticipated revised public debt is Rs 1.78 lakh crore, which is 27.66% of the GSDP at Rs 6.46 lakh crore.” Prasad said like the previous years since 2008-09, the 2021-22 budget also has a revenue surplus of Rs 9,195.90 crore, which is 1.21% of the GSDP and will be utilized for the creation of assets. Further, on the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government’s five-year Good Governance Programme (GGP) announced for 2020-25, Prasad has allotted Rs 4,671 crore for the 2021-22 fiscal. Prasad reiterated that 20 lakh job opportunities for youth and women will be created during the five-year period that had been promised during the assembly election held last year. The state finance department principal secretary S Siddharth, who accompanied the minister, said the departments concerned, especially the industries department, would frame their schemes in tune with the Seven Nishchay-2 programmes for implementation. The 2021-22 budget is underlined by the fact that the economic outlook during the fiscal will look up and will be largely restored to the pre-Covid-19 situation last year. The government hopes to mop up its tax revenue worth Rs 35,050 crore – that is, Rs 300 crore more than Rs 34,750 crore estimated for the 2020-21 financial year. Similarly, the state’s non-tax revenue is estimated to be Rs 5,505.47 crore during 2021-22, which is Rs 266.19 crore more than Rs 5,239.28 crore estimate for 2020-21. Overall, the state’s total revenue receipt at Rs 1.86 lakh crore also includes the state’s share worth Rs 91,180.60 crore in the central taxes and Rs 54,531.21 crore worth of grants-in-aid from the central government. As to the development and non-development expenditure for 2021-22, development expenditure has been put at Rs 1.52 lakh crore and non-development expenditure at Rs 66,035.46 crore. The government has allotted Rs 1.04 lakh crore as committed expenditure, including Rs 59,499.23 crore to be utilized on the payment of salary, Rs 21,817.15 crore against pension, Rs 14,517.41 crore on interest payment and Rs 9.094.43 crore to be used for the repayment of public debt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs2-18l-crore-state-budget-offers-covid-relief-with-no-new-taxes/articleshow/81159928.cms||Abhay Singh
February 23, 2021||Pune||Police stations to issue NOCs for weddings, private gatherings||PUNE: The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police chiefs on Monday instructed all the police stations under their jurisdictions to process the applications seeking the mandatory no-objection certificate for weddings and private gatherings of not more than 200 people, a day after Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao batted for a single-window system for the process. “A single-window system at the police commissioner’s office might lead to crowding. We want to avoid it under the prevailing circumstances,” joint commissioner of Pune police Ravindra Shisve said. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta told TOI, “The 30 police stations under our jurisdiction will process the no-objection certificate (NOC) pleas as per the state government guidelines related to permitted attendance and maintenance of Covid-19 safety norms. The organizers and hall owners will have to strictly adhere to the guidelines, else action will be taken.” Deputy commissioner of Pimpri Chinchwad police (crime) Sudhir Hiremath said, “We have not yet received any orders for the single-window system pertaining to the NOCs for weddings. At present, we issue NOCs at the police station-level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-stations-to-issue-nocs-for-weddings-pvt-gatherings/articleshow/81159919.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 23, 2021||Pune||Video app’s speaker ends life in Pune||PUNE: Sameer Gaikwad (22), a “star” of an online video application, was found hanging from the ceiling fan at his residence in Wagholi on Sunday night. The Lonikand police suspect it to be a case of death by suicide. No one was at home when the incident occurred. The police did not find a suicide note. Gaikwad was known for his emotional and inspirational talk videos on social networking sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/video-apps-speaker-ends-life/articleshow/81159927.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Bareilly||Tractor drags biker for 2km after accident, video viral||Bareilly: A man died after he was dragged by a tractor-trolley for nearly 2 km on Powayan-Banda state highway in UP’s Shahjahanpur district on Sunday night. Two bikers alerted the tractor driver, but instead of shifting the injured to a hospital, he sped away. Police, later, rescued the man and admitted him to a hospital. However, he died on Monday evening. A video of the incident soon went viral, with netizens condemning the “inhuman act”. The victim was identified as Mukesh Kumar, a resident of Saidapur village of Banda. Mukesh was a marginal farmer and is survived by his wife and two minor children. He left his house on a bike nearly at 7.30 pm and never returned home. His wife Suman told TOI, “He had consumed liquor in the evening and after having dinner, he went out to get more liquor. I tried stopping him but he didn’t listen to us. We were thinking that he had gone to any friend’s house in the village but we never thought that he would go on the highway in such condition.” Mukesh was admitted to hospital by police at midnight. The doctors said that his condition was critical because of internal head injuries and he was provided the best possible treatment available in the district hospital. Banda SHO Manoj Kumar told TOI, “After checking the video, it appears that the man met with an accident and his hand or a part of his shirt got stuck in the tractor trolley and he was dragged along with the trolley. We are trying to find the person who shot the video as he could help us identify the tractor driver who dragged this man negligently. It looks like the biker has made more videos which will act as evidence in this case. We are yet to register a case as no complaint has been lodged by the family but the FIR will be filed soon. We are scanning the CCTV footage of the toll plaza near the spot for getting details of the tractor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tractor-drags-biker-for-2km-after-accident-video-viral/articleshow/81158541.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Custody death: NBW against cops cancelled||MUMBAI: A sessions court on Monday issued Non Bailable Warrants (NBW) against accused cops, including assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze in the Khawaja Yunus custody death case and cancelled it after they appeared before the court. Yunus was arrested as an accused in the 2002 Ghatkopar BEST bus blast case. The cops had initially claimed he escaped while being escorted to Aurangabad for probe in January 2003. Following a CID probe, four officers were booked for his alleged custodial death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/custody-death-nbw-against-cops-cancelled/articleshow/81162474.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Customs dept bust postal smuggling racket||Mumbai: The customs department has unearthed a racket which attempted to smuggle high-end iPhones, accessories, drones and other goods worth Rs 15 crore through foreign and Indian post offices. The rummaging and intelligence divison of the customs seized 1,470 iPhones, 322 Apple watches, 64 drones, 41 Air pods, auto parts among other items . These goods were reportedly cleared at the foreign post office by customs officials at Ballard Pier before forwarded to the local post offices based on the addresses. When one such consignment was stopped at MIDC post office, the delivery addresses turned out to be fictitious. This resulted in the seizure of 43 such consignments from Chakala MIDC post office, Andheri, Videsh Dak Bhavan, Ballard Estate, Mumbai and the air parcel sorting office in Vile Parle (E). Officials are now probing the role of customs officials who cleared goods that attract at least 70% customs duty and also the involvement of post officials. “All the consignments are checked. So it is not possible that the officials didn’t know what was happening,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/customs-dept-bust-postal-smuggling-racket/articleshow/81161638.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Kolhapur||Cong, NCP also demand withdrawal of draft voters’ list||Kolhapur: Mayor, deputy mayor along with corporators from the Congress and NCP have also demanded withdrawal of the draft voters’ list published by the civic administration for the upcoming election. The last day for submitting the suggestions and objections over the draft voters list is Tuesday. The list has around 9,400 more voters than registered during the 2015 civic elections. Earlier, the BJP and Shiv Sena had demanded to withdraw the list citing hundreds of discrepancies.They even have threatened to protest if their demand is not fulfilled as they claim the faulty voters list may affect the outcome of the polls. Mayor Nilofer Ajrekar said, “We have submitted our demand to the civic administration to withdraw the list and extend the deadline for submitting suggestions and objections. The list must be released only after rectifying the mistakes pointed by the leaders of all the parties. Also, the administration must provide a written proof of the rectified mistake to the complainants before publishing of the final list.” So far a whooping 433 objections have been raised against the draft list and the number is likely to grow further by the end of the current deadline. The main objections are related to additions or deletions of hundreds of voters from each of the 81 wards. The aspiring candidates are unable to find voters as per the list. The civic officials, however, claimed that they have referred to the voters list available till the 2019 state assembly election and the new voters registered till January this year have been added in the draft list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cong-ncp-also-demand-withdrawal-of-draft-voters-list/articleshow/81157542.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ludhiana||Lodhi Club elections scheduled for March 7||Ludhiana: The wait is over for the candidates who for almost a month now have been campaigning. Elections of the Lodhi Club are scheduled for March 7. The decision was taken in the annual general meeting held on Sunday evening, which was presided over by the club’s president as well as deputy commissioner (DC) of Ludhiana, Varinder Kumar Sharma. Assistant DC Amarjit Singh Bains and Sundeep Singh, secretary RTA, have been appointed as returning officers while Amit Bamby has been appointed as the observer. Nitin Mahajan, general secretary of the club said, “According to the decision taken by our president the elections are going to be held on March 7.Filing of nomination papers will take place from February 24 to February 26, scrutiny will take place on February 27 and the list of valid nominations will be displayed on the same day on the notice board of the club. The deadline for withdrawal of the nomination papers is February 28 and candidates will be given time from 5.30pm till 8pm to withdraw their nominations and list of final candidates will be displayed thereafter. Besides this, a presentation ceremony will be held at club premises on March 5 in which all the contesting candidates will give presentation to the members about themselves. On March 7, voting will be held at club premises from 9am to 5pm for all the posts barring the ones on which only single valid nomination is received.” According to Nishit Singhania, executive member of Lodhi Club, “Elections are being held for selection of 10 office bearers for the club. The posts include vice-president, general secretary, joint secretary, finance secretary, cultural secretary, bar secretary, mess secretary, sports secretary and two executive members, out of which one post is reserved for women. Members with outstanding arrears are not eligible to contest. Candidates filing nominations are also required to deposit a non-refundable fee of Rs 10,000.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lodhi-club-elections-scheduled-for-march-7/articleshow/81158553.cms||Mohit Behl
February 23, 2021||Chennai||Chennai needs 1,240 schools in 5 years to teach its students||CHENNAI: If at all Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority’s (CMDA) figures are to be taken at face value, then 1,240 schools have to be built in Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA) in the next five years to meet a projection made 13 years ago. In 2008, CMDA had said that CMA needed 4,976 schools in 2026. By that year, said the plan, CMA would be have 35.3 lakh school students in the age group of five to 17. The number of schools at primary, upper primary, secondary and higher secondary levels were estimated as per the projected young population in the metropolis. Today, CMA, spread over 1,189sqkm and comprising the city and parts of Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, has 3,188 schools at all levels, 36% lower than the projection. Educationalists TOI spoke to said infrastructure at government schools must be upgraded to accommodate more students, but private schools said inadequate space in the city and spiralling land cost are driving educational institutions to far-off locations in neighbouring districts for expansion. Around 40% schools in the core city are run by the government, with government aid and Greater Chennai Corporation. The remaining 60% schools are private. K R Nandhakumar, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Nursery Primary Matriculation Higher Secondary & CBSE School Association, said norms for minimum land requirement for new school buildings are not conducive to expansion within CMA. According to a 2010 order from the school education department, matriculation and higher secondary schools within corporation limits should have at least six grounds of land, 10 grounds of land in municipal areas, and one acre and three acres in town panchayat and village panchayat. “While land parcels are not affordable within CMA, plots in the core city are not available to match the specifications. So leading schools are exploring properties outside the metropolis for new branches,” Nandhakumar said. With fewer schools, competition for admission has gone up. Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary, State Platform for Common School System - Tamil Nadu, said the government must step in and upgrade its schools to match Kendriya Vidyalayas. “First, an infrastructure audit must be conducted to ascertain how many number of students could be accommodated in a government school. No government school should be shut or merged,” he said. For instance, Greater Chennai Corporation has 281 schools in the core city that can accommodate 1.5 lakh students, but about 90,000 students are enrolled. Sources said 48 schools have been identified whose infrastructure will be upgraded and teachers trained on the lines of schools in Delhi. “The aim of this Smart City initiative is to equip schools with smart boards and modern facilities. Such measures will attract more students to our schools in the coming years,” said an official from the corporation’s education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-needs-1240-schools-in-5-years-to-teach-its-students/articleshow/81159980.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
February 23, 2021||Bareilly||UP: College student in Shahjahanpur found badly burnt, says she doesn’t remember what happened to her||SHAHJAHANPUR: In a sensational incident, a 21-year-old girl student of Swami Shukdevanand College, of which former BJP Union minister Chinmayanand is the chairman, was allegedly found badly burnt and in a naked condition in Nagaria Mod area near the Delhi-Lucknow national highway in UP’s Shahjahanpur district on Monday evening. According to doctors, the girl has sustained 60% burn injuries and her body above the waist is burnt badly. She is critical and has been referred to the state capital. A resident of Kaant area, the girl — a BA second-year student — had been missing since 11 am on Monday after her father dropped her at the college gate. The girl’s father told TOI, “My daughter had received a call from her friend, and then she asked me to drop her at the college. After dropping her at the college, I kept waiting for her outside for several hours but she didn’t turn up. At 3 pm, I started searching for her on the college campus, but couldn’t find her. Then I searched for her elsewhere, but in vain. Around 7 pm, I received a call from police informing me that my daughter was found half burnt at Nagaria Mode. My daughter is extremely shy and never goes out of home alone. I am afraid that something bad has happened to her.” Speaking to mediapersons, the girl said she did not remember what happened to her when she was on the third floor of the college building. Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand said, “Doctors are trying to save the girl. Her medical examination has been completed and we are investigating the case from all aspects.” Watch UP: College student found badly burnt in Shahjahanpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/college-student-in-shahjahanpur-found-badly-burnt-says-she-doesnt-remember-what-happened-to-her/articleshow/81158548.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||SLP against Pilot, 18 otherMLAs withdrawn from SC||Jaipur: Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, who had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court challenging the high court directive on July 24 last year ordering the maintenance of status quo on the demand to disqualify 19 MLAs of the Sachin Pilot camp for violating the party whip, wrote to the apex court on Monday that he was not interested in pursuing the case further “following subsequent developments”. He has, however, said the court may examine the issue of legality raised by the SLP on merit. Mahesh Joshi had approached the assembly Speaker on July 13 seeking disqualification of 19 Congress MLAs, including Sachin Pilot, who had rebelled against the party. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/slp-against-pilot-18-othermlas-withdrawn-from-sc/articleshow/81161646.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Raj college stops evening classes||Jaipur: Evening classes at Rajasthan College have been suspended till March 1, 2021 due to low attendance. These classes are for self-financing courses (SFS) where the fee is higher than in other courses and usually starts from Rs. 10,000-15,000. Those students who fail to get admission in morning batches (where they pay minimal fees), can get admission in SFS courses. Ever since the college began functioning, evening classes here have been getting one or two students a day, hence administration decided to suspend classes. RU has already closed online classes, despite this attendance is yet to improve. S L Sharma, college principal, said, “Although it is students’ money, they are still not interested in coming to college. In SFS courses we pay Rs 500 per hour to teachers, but without students it is a waste. Hence, we have suspended the classes till March1,” said Sharma. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-college-stops-evening-classes/articleshow/81159975.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Man held for robbing railway commuters||One person has been arrested for carrying out robberies in Express trains running between the Bangalore-Jaipur corridor. The accused has been identified as Govindram Chaudhari, a resident of Rajasthan. The accused used to offer the victims cold-drinks laced with sedatives and then rob them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-held-for-robbing-railway-commuters/articleshow/81162486.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Using high tech gadgets to guard borders: BSF DG||Jaisalmer: BSF DG Rakesh Asthana on Monday said that stress was being laid on using technical resources and gadgets for guarding and strengthening the international borders with Pakistan. The DG was on a 3-day visit to Jaisalmer.During an interaction with the media, Asthana said the process of induction of new gadgets of different kinds was on. Special vigil was being kept at the international border adjoining Jammu and all kinds of untoward activities across the border are being foiled.He said that vigil is being kept through a special team using an anti-tunnel detection system and anti-drone detection system. He said that with the start of summer, the snow will melt and efforts of terrorists to enter into India will start and the BSF is fully alert and ready for it. The DG said that the BSF is fully ready and alert to foil any terrorist activities from Pakistan and has made the weaponry system better and modern. Asthana visits Shahgarh Bulj: BSF DG Rakesh Asthana on Monday inspected Shahgarh Bulj area and boosted the morale of jawans. According to information from BSF official sources, Asthana inaugurated government houses for the families of jawans of 119th battalion. Later, he reached the Indo-Pak border at Tanot where he offered prayers at Tanot Mata temple and visited the many BSF outposts at the front. He took stock of operational activities and also boosted the morale of jawans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/using-high-tech-gadgets-to-guard-borders-bsf-dg/articleshow/81159989.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Mohan Delkar, seven-time MP from Dadra, found dead in Mumbai hotel||MUMBAI: Mohan Delkar, a seven-term MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, was found hanging from a ceiling fan in a Mumbai hotel on Monday afternoon, Mumbai police said. The police also found a multi-page suicide note written in Gujarati by Delkar (58), an independent MP, from his hotel room. They said there are some names mentioned in the note, but refused to divulge details. They will send a report to Parliament about it. An assistant commissioner of police is heading the probe. Delkar is survived by his wife and two children. Police said the family was on its way to Mumbai to claim the body. Delkar had won six consecutive elections from the UT constituency between 1989 and 2009. He won the 1989, 1991 and 1996 elections as a Congress candidate and the 1998 election with BJP. He won the 1999 and 2004 elections as an independent and a BNP candidate. He rejoined Congress and unsuccessfully contested in 2009 and 2014. He, however, won the seat in the 17th Lok Sabha elections as an independent. A senior officer said Delkar had checked into Sea Green South Hotel at Marine Drive on Sunday night. “His driver, who had checked into an adjacent room, first knocked on Delkar’s hotel room on the fifth floor around 11.30am on Monday. Delkar did not open it. After repeatedly knocking on the door, the driver panicked and informed a hotel employee who brought along a master key. They tried opening the door using the master key but failed since the door was double-locked from inside,” said a senior police officer. The driver, along with Delkar’s bodyguard and hotel employee, went to his own room, looked at Delkar’s balcony from his own and found Delkar’s window was slightly ajar. “The driver jumped from his balcony to Delkar’s balcony, a distance of barely five feet, and got into the room through the window where he found Delkar hanging from the fan,” said the officer. The driver immediately opened the main door to let in the hotel employee and Delkar’s bodyguard. This happened around 2pm. The hotel authorities then informed Marine Drive police about it. “Police are at the spot. A suicide note has been found. Investigation is on. The exact cause of death will be known after a post-mortem is conducted,” deputy police commissioner and city police spokesperson Chaitanya S stated in a message. Delkar’s body was sent to J J Hospital for a post-mortem. Marine Drive police, which registered an accidental death case, was busy recording statements of the witnesses till the time of going to press. Investigators said Delkar had used a shawl to hang himself. He had placed a wooden stool on top of his bed, climbed on it and is suspected to have pushed it aside to end his life. “It seems he had brought the shawl to the hotel. We are probing all the possible aspects,” said an officer. A team of experts from Kalina Forensic Science Laboratory was called in too. Police personnel from state CID (on deputation to city police) visited the spot as well. They collected fingerprints and went through the suicide note. “We have to get the old handwritten piece of Delkar to examine the handwriting. A handwriting expert will do the job. We will take help from an official translator to translate the suicide note,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/7-time-mp-from-dadra-found-dead-in-city-hotel/articleshow/81162483.cms||Mateen Hafeez
February 23, 2021||Bareilly||More signboards calling for ‘BJP boycott’ come up in UP villages||BAREILLY: Days after signboards calling for boycott of BJP were put up in Shamli, similar boards came up in Sambhal, stating that the entry of BJP functionaries was restricted in the villages. Police intervened and removed the boards. The police move, however, was condemned by BKU members who said they would now paint walls of their houses and shops with similar messages. “If police can put up iron nails and barbed fences to stop farmers, can’t we put up signboards,” asked BKU members. The development came days after Bharatiya Kisan Union’s national president Naresh Tikait suggested a social boycott of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh while addressing a mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar. The signboards had come up in two villages—Chandawli and Bhadraula—of Sambhal, which were later, allegedly removed by Sambhal police. Speaking with TOI, BKU zonal general secretary, Sambhal, Sanjiv Gandhi said, “On the lines of Shamli, signboards had been put up at the entrance of Chandawli and Bhadraula villages here in Sambhal on Sunday as a part of our ongoing agitation against the farm laws and BJP government. However, it is learnt that police in Sambhal removed the signboards. Since the boards were removed in the absence of villagers and farmers, there is no evidence that these were removed by the police but we are certain that the police removed the signboards.” Gandhi added, “We condemn this action of police as we were not causing any harm to anyone. It was a part of our ongoing protests and if police can put up iron nails and barbed fences to stop us, can’t we put up signboards?” “Not just Sambhal, similar signboards have come up in several villages of neighboring Amroha district, including Sadarpur, Rasoolpur Ganwari, Hasampur, among other villages, disallowing entry of BJP functionaries in these villages. We will soon be having a meeting with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha as to what should be done to take this forward as the boards are being taken off,” Gandhi said. Sambhal police, meanwhile, denied removing any such signboards and claimed that the BKU members themselves had removed them. On Sunday, BJP functionaries, including Asmoli MLA Narendra Singh and zila panchayat members had to leave Timanpur village in Sambhal after farmers raised slogans against the party. A video of the incident had gone viral on social media later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/more-signboards-posters-with-bjp-entry-restricted-written-on-them-come-up-in-sambhal-villages/articleshow/81158561.cms||Maria Khan
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||End old tax disputes with amnesty plan, industry tells govt||Jaipur: With thousands of crores locked up in disputes for years that are payable to both the state government and companies, industry bodies are demanding amnesty schemes to find an early resolution and relief.Sales tax refunds to sellers, disputes involving VAT regime, and non-payment of labour cess are some of the flashpoints of the disputes that need amnesty schemes, they said.Before the GST regime came into force, some portion of the VAT was returned to the seller on the basis of C-Form which was issued to avoid double taxation. Over 50% industries are facing the problem in getting the ‘C’ a scommercial tax departments stopped issuing the form after the GST was introduced.CII-Rajasthan estimates that about Rs 2,000 crore is stuck and the old cases need to be resolved through an amnesty scheme.In the budget speech last year, the chief minister announced amnesty scheme for VAT, entry tax, entertainment tax, but they have not been implemented.Similarly, anybody undertaking construction work with cost of Rs 10 lakh or more needs to deposit 1% as labour cess. The rules came into effect in 2009, but as there was lack of awareness of this act, most of the industries failed to deposit the amount. Even the government did not ask for the cess till 2014.As per the rule, delay in payment attracts a penal interest of 24% annually. Since the amount of interest is too heavy, it is difficult to clear the arrears for many. The industry wants the government to introduce an amnesty scheme to deposit the cess without interest if the due amount is deposited by March 31, 2021.There were other VAT and stamp duty disputes involving huge sums of money. The government needs money urgently given the drying up of tax revenues due to lockdown and slow recovery in economic activities. Industry representatives said that through amnesty schemes, the government will not only garner the much-needed revenue but also enhance ease of doing business in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/end-old-tax-disputes-with-amnesty-plan-industry-tells-govt/articleshow/81159985.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||90% Mumbai University LLB students clear Semester V exam||MUMBAI: More than 90% of final-year students of Mumbai University’s three-year LLB programme have cleared their Semester V exam. The perfect score of 100 remained elusive this time, though, as the university had introduced a descriptive component in the online test. Barring one or two stray cases of students scoring a 100 in one subject, almost no one bagged full marks, as was the case in the final exam conducted last year. “Students would still have scored full marks in the multiple-choice questions, but since the descriptive questions were assessed by the teachers and not by the software, it was easier to control the unrealistic scores students bagged last time,” said the principal of a law college. In the October exam, 96% of students cleared Semester VI. In a programme where the highest scores hover around 65 and 70, at least four students scored 100/100 in all four subjects and over 600 bagged 100 in one, two, or three subjects, in October. In the Semester V exam held now, 92% of the 5,400 students passed. A teacher said they got enough time to set question papers for this semester exam and therefore an attempt was made to set papers with a slightly higher difficulty level. “For the October exam, we got less than 15 days to set more than three question papers. This time, some may have managed to set tricky questions and also may have improved their proctoring methods, making it difficult to indulge in malpractices,” said the teacher. A principal said several students are still getting higher scores, which was not possible in offline exams. “The success rate is still higher for law exams. It is not possible to have a foolproof proctoring method for online exams. Students are smarter with technology. Also, with the university not identifying a common software for conducting exams, their sanctity is lost. There is no uniformity in the conduct of exams. There are no checks and balances. Everyone is conducting them in a way best suited to them,” said the principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/90-mumbai-univ-llb-students-clear-semester-v-exam/articleshow/81165018.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Vijayawada||Streamline data collection from village level, Jagan directs officials||Vijayawada: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday told officials to streamline all data collection in the state. He also told them to work with World Bank, IMF, UNESCO and other international agencies in data collection and analysis for overall development. The chief minister addressed officials of the planning department at his camp office, where he told them to streamline data collected from the village secretariats to state secretariat. He also wanted them to connect data collected at Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) too for overall analysis. Jagan told officials that RBKs were collecting grassroots data, particularly from the farm sector. The variety of crops cultivated in every village and the extent of cultivation, the expected yield and other information is available in the RBKs, he said and wanted the officials to streamline the data with the international market and the other agencies to provide better marketing facility for farmers. The chief minister told the officials to analyse the data, make an assessment of achievement to meet the global standards. The data should also help in improving the administration, service to the people, improving the infrastructure and providing quality life for the people. He said that volunteers were of great help to the administration and wanted officials to select best volunteers across the state at every assembly constituency level and felicitate them on Ugadi giving them “Seva Mitra” and “Seva Rathna” titles. Planning ex-officio secretary Vijayakumar, connect-to Andhra CEO V Koteswaramma, RTGS CEO J Vidyasagar Reddy and other officials were present at the chief minister’s review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/streamline-data-collection-from-village-level-jagan-directs-officials/articleshow/81159224.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||Former Vidhan Sabha Speaker sits on fast, demands construction of Lamgara Tehsil||Almora: Former legislative assembly Speaker and Jageshwar MLA Govind Singh Kunjwal sat on a 24-hour-long hunger strike on Monday morning at Ramlila Maidan in Lamgara block headquarters of Almora district. He said that even after four years of coming to office, the BJP government has not paid any attention to the construction of Lamgara Tehsil and the government college building. It is worth mentioning that the approval was given for the Lamgara Tehsil and the government college during the Harish Rawat-led Congress government. However, the projects could not take off due to the non-availability of land. After BJP came into office, the project was put in the cold storage, said the protesting MLA, who was joined by a large number of Congress functionaries. Meanwhile, Dewan Singh Satwal, block president of the Congress, said that if the demand is not met soon, they will stage another such strike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-vidhan-sabha-speaker-sits-on-fast-demands-construction-of-lamgara-tehsil/articleshow/81158589.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Vijayawada||SEC lauds officials, cops for successful panchayat elections||Vijayawada: The state election commission thanked voters, political parties and officials for the successful completion of panchayat elections in the state. Addressing the media on Monday, state election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar appreciated police, government authorities who completed the process without the need for re-polling at any panchayat. The SEC said that the elections witnessed an overall polling percentage of 81.78% under difficult and challenging circumstances. Ramesh Kumar said the number of unanimous elections during the 2021 panchayat elections were quite reasonable when compared to panchayat polls of 2013. “The elections were held to 13,097 sarpanch (posts) and 2,197 sarpanch had unanimous elections which is equal to 16.77%...Elections were held to 1,31,023 ward members (posts) and 47,459 ward members witnessed unanimous wins, which is equal to 36.22%...,” the SEC said and also appreciated the state panchayat raj department and police for their efforts. “The elections also stand out for being entirely violence-free. Barring a few stray incidents, the elections were peaceful..,” the SEC said. Ramesh Kumar hoped that the same support would continue for municipal elections. Responding to questions on ZPTC and MPTC elections, the SEC said, “The issue is pending with the high court. We will not move forward till the court gives a specific order. The next hearing is pending on Tuesday,” he added. The SEC met governor Biswabushan Harichandan and submitted a report on the panchayat elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-lauds-officials-cops-for-successful-panchayat-elections/articleshow/81159460.cms||Venu Lanka
February 23, 2021||Vijayawada||YSRC eyes repeat of panchayat polls win in municipal elections||Vijayawada: Supporters and cadre of the ruling YSRC are in a jubilant mood with the party’s victory in the gram panchayat elections, which concluded on Sunday evening. Panchayat raj and rural development minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, who helped steer the party’s victory, particularly in his home turf of Chittoor district, met chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy at the latter’s Tadepalli camp office on Monday and dedicated the victory to the chief minister. The chief minister congratulated Ramachandra Reddy for the party’s victory in the elections. Other party leaders gathered at the party state headquarters in Tadepalli to celebrate the victory, even though panchayat elections were not held on party symbols. Victory in Kuppam assembly constituency held by former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu and Hindupur constituency held by actor Nandamuri Balakrishna were celebrated. The chief minister told ministers and leaders to keep the momentum intact for municipal elections and wanted them to register a similar or an even greater victory. Elections to municipal corporations and municipalities in the state are expected to be held on March 10 and the ruling YSRC wants to wrest a majority of the civic bodies, repeating the party’s victory in gram panchayat elections for the municipal polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ysrc-eyes-repeat-of-panchayat-polls-win-in-municipal-elections/articleshow/81159344.cms||Gopi Dara
February 23, 2021||Vijayawada||Naidu blames govt, predicts a better show from TDP in municipal polls||Vijayawada: Former chief minister and TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu accused the ruling YSRC, state police and state  commission of encouraging violence and electoral malpractice in gram panchayat elections. Speaking to reporters on Monday, Naidu said the SEC had turned a blind eye to violence while police supported the ruling party. He said YSRC resorted to violence and violations right from the filing of nominations to counting of votes. He said despite the repression, TDP fared well in the elections and predicted a better performance for TDP in the municipal elections. Naidu also urged the SEC to “open its eyes to irregularities committed by the ruling party” and questioned its silence over statements of some ministers and MLAs who, according to him, threatened voters of consequences if they voted for TDP. — Gopi Dara||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/naidu-blames-govt-predicts-a-better-show-from-tdp-in-municipal-polls/articleshow/81159388.cms||Gopi Dara
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||FIR filed against parents of bride, groom in Chembur||Mumbai: An FIR was lodged against the parents of a bride and a groom as well as the organisers of a wedding in Chembur on Sunday night for violating the state’s standard operating procedure for holding celebrations with 50 people or less. BMC’s M-West Ward officials, who approached the police, said the groom is the son of a former BMC employee from the security department who had died during the Covid-19 lockdown last year. The reason for his death is not known. Civic officials said they acted on a tip-off and reached the venue to find more than 200 participants. Many of the guests were without face masks too. Dr Bhupendra Patil, medical health officer, M-West Ward, said, “Most organisers have been obtaining the civic body’s permission for any celebration. For the concerned celebration, mandatory permission from BMC as well as the police had not been sought. Many were without masks and not maintaining social distance.” Patil said action was taken against the secretary of Chhedanagar Gymkhana where the reception was held. He warned such action will continue against other venues found violating Covid-19 norms. Following the BMC action, guests began to evacuate. That was when civic officials picked up those not wearing masks. A police complaint has been registered at Tilak Nagar police station for violating SOPs under Indian Penal Code sections 188 for disobedience to an order, 269 for an act likely to spread an infection and 34 for common intention, added officials. In M-West Ward itself, around 800 housing societies have been served sealing notices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fir-filed-against-parents-of-bride-groom-in-chembur/articleshow/81158199.cms||Richa Pinto
February 23, 2021||Visakhapatnam||MoUs worth Rs 45k cr to be signed by VPT at Maritime India Summit||Visakhapatnam: Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) chairman K Rama Mohan Rao on Monday said the Union ministry of ports, shipping and waterways will be organising the Maritime India Summit (MIS) 2021 on a virtual platform from March 2 to 4. PM Narendra Modi will inaugurate the summit which aims to position the Indian maritime sector at par with international standards and attract domestic and international investors. The conference will also project investment opportunities in maritime states and Union territories. Speaking to media persons here on Monday, VPT chairman said nearly 20,000 delegates from 42 countries will participate in the summit. A special session for investment opportunities in Andhra Pradesh is scheduled on March 3 and is expected to be attended by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. VPT will be signing around 45 MoUs for an estimated investment of Rs 45,000 crores in port-led industries. VPT and Chennai Port Trust will jointly convene a session on ‘Port-led industrialisation: Building port cities and maritime clusters’ on March 3. Stakeholders in the maritime sector such as policy planners, government agencies, domestic and international investors, sector experts, shipping lines, representatives of ports across the globe and state maritime boards will participate in the summit. Themes such as development of port infrastructure, shipbuilding, recycling and repair, hinterland connectivity, multi-modal logistics, coastal shipping, inland water transport, bulk cargo transportation, port-led industrialisation, green technologies, skill development and maritime financing have been planned for deliberation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mous-worth-rs-45k-cr-to-be-signed-by-vpt-at-maritime-india-summit/articleshow/81159270.cms||Siva G
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Cop killed in Kota road mishap||Kota: A 25-year-old Rajasthan police constable was killed on the spot and two others travelling with him were injured after their car overturned on Kundanpur link road near under Sangod police station on Monday. The car overturned in an attempt to avoid collision with a tractor that allegedly turned sideways without prior indicator, said police.The deceased was identified as Girish Kumar Mehara (25), a resident of Sadari village under Deoli –Manji police station of Kota district. He was posted in Kota police line.The mishap happened when Mehara was going home in his car with 2-3 persons, said SHO at Sangod police station Jairam Jat. Mehara was rushed to MBS Hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead.Mehara’s brother submitted a report against an unidentified tractor driver. He alleged that the tractor driver without using an indicator took a turn to a side due to which the tragedy occurred.The police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem later in the day on Monday. The other two who were injured in the accident are being treated at a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-killed-in-kota-road-mishap/articleshow/81160015.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Aurangabad||7am-11pm ban on private luxury buses in Aurangabad city||AURANGABAD: In an attempt to address the ever-increasing traffic woes as well as number of fatal accidents in the city, the Aurangabad city police have issued a notification banning the entry of private (luxury) buses within the city limits between 7 am and 11 pm. Aurangabad police commissioner Nikhil Gupta said the decision was taken in the larger interest of the citizens. The notification, signed by assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Suresh Wankhede, cited the increasing population as well as the number of vehicles, narrow and bad roads as the key reasons for the decision. As per the instructions, the movement of luxury buses within the city limits has been completely banned for a period of 16 hours. The buses will be allowed for eight hours during the night. For all the buses entering the city limits, the authorities have permitted a maximum speed limit of 40 km/hour. Vehicles coming from the Pune-Ahmednagar and Dhule-Vaijapur sides will have to enter via Nagar Naka, Cantonment bridge, Baba petrol pump, Panchvati and will have to return using the same route. Vehicles coming from the Paithan road area will be allowed till Shahnoormiyan dargah via Mahanubhav Ashram chowk, Beed bypass road and Sangram Nagar flyover. Similarly, vehicles coming from Jalna will also be allowed till Shahnoormiyan dargah via Cambridge chowk, Jhalta Phata, Beed bypass road and Godavari t-point. Ones coming from Jalgaon road will have to opt for Harul t-point, Jalgaon t-point, Chikalthana, Cambridge chowk, Jhalta Phata and Beed bypass to cross the city limits. These private buses have also been banned from making stops along any of these routes except at the spots designated by the authorities. The buses owned by the state, those ferrying workers, students and emergency services have been exempted, while the buses carrying marriage parties, tourists and people for religious, social or picnic purposes will have to obtain time-bound permissions to ply on the city streets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/7am-11pm-ban-on-pvt-luxury-buses-in-aurangabad-city/articleshow/81159994.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Opposition seeks action against Kanaka Durga EO||VIJAYAWADA: The recent inspections by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) at the Kanaka Durga temple have raised a political storm in the city with opposition parties calling for action against temple executive officer (EO) M V Suresh Babu. Jana Sena and TDP have alleged that Suresh Babu secured the post with the support of endowments minister and Vijayawada West MLA Vellampalli Srinivas. The opposition has also objected to various works allotted by temple authorities, alleging corruption in the process. Former MLA and TDP leader Jaleel Khan alleged that the EO is misusing his powers with the support of the endowments minister. “Vijayawada people are closely watching them and will teach them a lesson in the municipal election. The minister should come forward to take an oath before Goddess Kanaka Durga to prove his innocence,” Khan said. Jana Sena spokesperson Pothina Venkata Mahesh who filed a writ petition in the high court challenging the posting of Suresh Babu as temple EO said, “ACB raids exposed the irregularities in the temple. It is clear that the EO has failed in administration. The government should seriously focus on this issue considering the sentiments of devotees.” Countering the opposition, endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas said he is not afraid of the false and baseless allegations made by the TDP. “The ACB has completed its investigation and will soon give its report. Being endowments minister I will take action against the officials if they are proven guilty. TDP and Jana Sena are trying to gain in municipal election using this incident but the people are wise enough to understand their crooked politics,” Vellampalli Srinivas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/oppn-seeks-action-against-kanaka-durga-eo/articleshow/81159474.cms||Venu Lanka
February 23, 2021||Amaravati||Polavaram 1st major project in India to get hydraulic cylinders||AMARAVATI: The Polavaram project has become the first major irrigation project in the country to get advanced hydraulic cylinders for its radial gates. The hydraulic cylinders will help in the speedy and precise operation of gates during heavy floods. The contractor firm Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (Meil) imported the powerful hydraulic cylinders from Germany and started erecting the cylinders on Monday. “We installed the first hydraulic cylinder on Monday and are planning to complete the erection of cylinders in the next few days,” said Meil GM Satish Angara. Two hydraulic cylinders will be fixed to each radial gate for handling emergencies. Each cylinder with has a length of 17.308 metres and weighs around 20 tonnes. “Polavaram is the first project where the radial gates are being operated with the support of hydraulic cylinders,” said project chief engineer Sudhakar Babu, adding that the cylinders will allow the gates to be lifted by half-a-metre in a minute. Meil is also setting up 24 power packs to operate the gates, Babu said. The two gates can be simultaneously operated with one power pack, the chief engineer said. Meil has set up an exclusive power pack control room at the project site. Work on fixing the cylinders started after Meil finished setting up the girders on Sunday. The project works have picked up momentum with the contractor firm working round-the-clock to meet the deadline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/polavaram-1st-major-project-in-india-to-get-hydraulic-cylinders/articleshow/81159483.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Vijayawada||14 nominations received for two MLC seats||Vijayawada: With only a day left for filing nomination for the two MLC seats under teachers’ constituency, officials received 14 nominations till Monday. While four nominations were received in Kakinada for the East Godavari and West Godavari MLC constituency, 10 nominations were received at Guntur for the Guntur-Krishna constituency. Vacancies for the seats will open up as a result of retirement of Ramu Surya Rao from Godavari districts and A S Ramakrishna from Guntur-Krishna districts on March 29. The PDF is fielding its candidates this time too and its nominee for Godavari, Shaik Sabjee, filed his nomination at Kakinada on Monday. Sabjee is a first-timer from the teachers’ community trying his luck. Another nominee, Boddu Nageswara Rao, will file his nomination papers with the Guntur collector and returning officer on Tuesday. Nageswara Rao was elected to legislative council in 2013 from Guntur-Krishna graduates’ constituency. This time, he is testing his luck from the teachers’ constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/14-nominations-received-for-two-mlc-seats/articleshow/81159423.cms||Gopi Dara
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Jilani bldg collapse victims’ kin get Rs 5L||Five months after Jilani building collapse in which 38 people were killed, Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde handed over a compenation amount of Rs 5 lakh to the family members of the deceased. The injured got Rs 50,000. Shinde assured that a cluster scheme will be implemented in Bhiwandi soon. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jilani-bldg-collapse-victims-kin-get-rs-5l/articleshow/81162490.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||24-year-old physio hangs self||Ahmedabad: A 24-year-old woman from the Kubernagar area of city on Sunday morning was found dead from a hotel room in the Vastrapur area of city. Police officers inquiring into the case said that she had committed suicide by hanging herself with a ceiling fan as she was not happy with her parents choosing a man as her groom whom she did not like.The deceased was identified as Kajal Sachdev, a resident of Shivsagar Bungalows in Kubernagar. According to Vastrapur police, Sachdev had checked in in room number 207 on the second floor of the the hotel off Gurukul Road at around 3pm on Saturday. “As she did not respond on Sunday, a hotel staffer informed the assistant manager about the guest’s suspicious behavious,” said a police officer.“An assistant manager of the hotel called a technician to open the door. The technician opened the room door with a master key and found Sachdev hanging,” added the police officer. The hotel staff called an ambulance and police for the further medico-legal procedure. “Paramedics of the 108 ambulance service declared her dead and police filed a complaint of accidental death and began an investigation after sending her body for a postmortem,” said the police officer.The officer said that Sachdev was a physiotherapist who did not join any institute and working individually. “She used to attend people in person to get rid them of their physical pain. However, she could not express her mental agony to anyone else,” said a police officer of Vastrapur. He said that they have questioned a few friends and family members about the reason behind her suicide. “They told us that she was aggrieved with her arranged marriage. She did not want to marry that man. This could be the reason behind her suicide,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/24-year-old-physio-hangs-self/articleshow/81160075.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Man learns ‘cloning fingerprints’ online, ‘hacks’ 500 bank accounts||BAREILLY: “It takes just Rs 5 to clone a fingerprint,” says Gaurav, 26, who learnt cloning fingerprints using glue-gun and adhesive online, and allegedly hacked nearly 500 bank accounts of the beneficiaries of various government schemes such as PM Kisan Samman Yojana, old age pension, etc, in nexus with bank mitras. Six people, including Gaurav — a graduate who runs a photocopy shop in Kaant area — were arrested, while two are still at large, said Shahjahanpur police, who seized nearly 500 cloned fingerprints of beneficiaries along with their Aadhaar cards and bank passbooks. “We are trying to gather more information about such gangs active in the state by sharing the information with headquarters,” said IG Rajesh Pandey while announcing a cash reward of Rs 25,000 for the police team at a press conference on Monday. Shahjahanpur police unearthed the racket being run from Jalalabad area of the district after getting repeated complaints from several beneficiaries that they had not received money from the government into their bank accounts. SSP S Anand had handed over the case to the crime branch, which found that though the money was credited into the beneficiaries’ accounts, it was later withdrawn through Jan Suvidha Kendras being run by bank mitras. Police said further investigation brought to fore the names of Shivram, Sunil Tripathi, Dev Vratt, Sandeep Singh, Shehrun, Rajveer and Hukum Singh — all bank mitras. After gathering information, four accused — Shivram, Sunil Tripathi, Dev Vratt and Sandeep Singh — were arrested with cloned fingerprints and several counterfeit stamps, while Gaurav was arrested later. During interrogation, it was found that Gaurav used to clone fingerprints for the bank mitras using glue-gun and adhesive that would cost him less than Rs 5 per cloning, said police, who suspect that Gaurav is involved with other gangs in the district as well. The IG told TOI, “They used cloned fingerprints to spoof biometrics to carry out financial transactions by hacking bank accounts. Most of the victims are illiterate. The technique used for cloning fingerprints is available online and it is often misused. We will see if such contents can be removed.” “We are, meanwhile, trying to gather information about other gangs using similar modus operandi active in the state. It’s a serious matter as biometrics is used for services like public distribution system, Aadhaar card, etc,” said the IG, adding that he had directed all SSPs under his jurisdiction to take the complaints of bank account frauds seriously and find out where the money was transferred. Rohit Kumar, sub-inspector, crime branch, said, "The accused were booked under sections 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 ( using as genuine a forged 1[document or electronic record) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code at Jalalabad police station."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-26-learns-cloning-fingerprints-online-hacks-nearly-500-accounts-with-bank-mitrass-help/articleshow/81158623.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Ex-mayor Anant Tare passes away||Thane: Shiv Sena leader and former mayor and MLC, Anant Tare (67), passed away following prolonged illness at a private hospital here on Monday evening. Tare was admitted two months back and had recovered, but before he could be discharged, he suffered a brain stroke. “He was not showing signs of improvement and finally passed away around 5pm on Monday. He will be cremated on Tuesday but we have requested followers to follow Covid protocol and not rush to the crematorium,” a family member said. A banker, he had joined Sena inspired by Balasaheb Thackeray. He was Thane mayor thrice and represented the party in the legislative council in the previous decade. From the Mahadeo Koli community he worked for their betterment. “Tare’s demise has left a huge void in the party in the city,” said party colleague and cabinet minister Eknath Shinde. He shared an excellent rapport with leaders from across the party, said a former colleague. NCP MLA and cabinet minister Jitendra Awhad and BJP MLC Niranjan Davkhare also paid rich tributes. Manoj Badgeri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-mayor-anant-tare-passes-away/articleshow/81161777.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to introduce ‘smart class’ facility for madrassas||DEHRADUN: The Prime Minister's 15-Point Programme Implementation Committee (Uttarakhand), which works for the welfare of the minority communities, has sent a proposal to the Union ministry of minority affairs to set up ‘smart classes’ in the board-registered madrassas of the state. If approved, madrassa classrooms can have gadgets like LED screens and speakers fitted in classrooms to ensure better education. The committee will initially develop the smart class facility in Roorkee-based Rehmaniya Madrassa. “Compared to those in private schools, children in madrassas shouldn't lag behind in their studies. It is important that madrassas also get technologically advanced and move with the times. We have sent a proposal in this regard to the Centre amounting Rs 27 crore,” said Shadab Shams, deputy chairman of the PM's 15-Point Program Implementation Committee (Uttarakhand). The official added, “In this particular project, we aim to build smart classes in the madrassas registered with the State Madrassa Education Board. Once smart classes are developed in madrassas, lessons will be taught visually with in-built internet to students of up to Class XII.” Shams further said, “It is an initiative to bring madrassas and its students in the mainstream. Apart from this, we have fully implemented NCERT academic syllabus in 420 registered madrassas across the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-introduce-smart-class-facility-for-madrassas/articleshow/81158684.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 23, 2021||Goa||At 29, Goa’s lowest cases since June||PANAJI: The state reported 29 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest seen since June last year. Positivity rate stood at 2.8% as 1,053 samples were tested, among the lowest daily samples tested this month. No deaths were reported. Active cases also dropped to 464, the lowest seen in eight months, and stayed below the 500 mark for the fourth consecutive day. Twenty three required hospitalisation and 17 opted for home isolation. Ponda overtook Margao with 40 active cases, the highest reported among health centres. Health centres at Margao, Porvorim, Chimbel and Panaji have 35, 34, 30, 26 active cases, respectively. Several health centres have active cases in single digits but none have consistently reported nil cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-29-goas-lowest-cases-since-june/articleshow/81161765.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Nashik||Centre picks Pimpri Chinchwad for Cycle for Change Challenge||NASHIK: Four cities from Maharashtra, including Nashik city, have been selected for the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs’ Cycle for Change Challenge. In July last year, 41 cities had participated in the challenge. Of these cities, 25 have been selected in the first phase of the challenge. Along with Nashik city, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Aurangabad and Nagpur cities have also been selected for the first phase of the challenge. Prakash Thavil, CEO, Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL), told TOI that the participant cities in the first phase to focus on working on quick interventions to promote cycling and develop a scale-up strategy. “Accordingly, we proposed a13-km pop-up cycle track from Ashok Stambh to Papaya Nursery in Satpur. We had conducted online meetings with some industrial associations, who had suggested connecting the pop-up cycle track up to Ambad industrial estate of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) so that it will help industrial workers to use cycles while going to work places,” he said. He added that their objective was to develop cycling culture in Nashik city and make it the cycle capital of the country. Officials said that eleven cities from these 25 will be selected for the second phase of the cycles for change challenge. These 11 cities will get funds of Rs 1 crore each to improve infrastructure and promote cycling. As per the survey by the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP), the utilization of cycles in the country has increased by 65% during lockdown. Hence, the centre had decided to implement this project to encourage cycling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/four-maha-cities-among-25-picked-for-centres-cycle-for-change-challenge/articleshow/81160068.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Deepfake clips: ‘Sextortionists’ target celebs||Mumbai: The cyber crime police have arrested three men from Haryana and Rajasthan for blackmailing and extorting lakhs from Bollywood celebrities, businessmen and bureaucrats by using their images in deepfake sexual videos, reports V Narayan. The accused would gather details from their public social media accounts and contact them using pre-recorded videos of females asking standard questions and engaging them in conversation. The accused would then use these frozen frames of the males and superimpose them on porn clips, police said. “The final product was such that it was made to appear like the celebrity were a part of the pornographic video,” said a police officer. “Most people are not aware that their Facebook, Instagram, Telegram accounts can be locked so that only their friends can view and access them. The accused took advantage of such accounts which could be accessed by all and would procure their contact details,” said a police officer.  The police had received two complaints from businessmen who were being blackmailed. The cyber crime team tracked down the accused by using technical intelligence. “It turns out that many of these VIPs had been trapped after their faces were morphed to create the objectionable multimedia clips which were used to extort money,” said the officer.  They would initially start extorting Rs 5,000 and it could eventually end up in lakhs.  Joint Commissioner of Police (crime) Milind Bharambe said the racket had created fake profiles on Facebook, Google, WhatsApp and Telegram using women’s names – like Pooja Sharma and Neha Sharma, for instance with photographs whacked from the Internet -- to call up the VIPs and get them into a conversation.  The accused had created 171 fake Facebook accounts, five Telegram channels and used 58 bank accounts to which the targets were made to transfer money. “They would threaten the VIPs to share the objectionable clips with their family members and on social media,” said deputy commissioner of police (cyber crime) Rashmi Karandikar.  The three accused persons have been sent to custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/deepfake-clips-sextortionists-target-celebs/articleshow/81162493.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 23, 2021||Business||Janakalyan Financial bags equity infusion from Sun Tech City||Kolkata: City-based NBFC-MFI Janakalyan Financial Services received support from Sun Tech City through equity infusion. It has picked up 12% stake with an undisclosed amount. “The much-needed equity capital raised will be used to expand our operations in new geography and will help much-needed financial access to women micro entrepreneurs for their livelihood. Capital will be used for investment in business processes, technology and human capital to improve productivity. Invest in technology solutions, including analytics and cloud-based process design to help to contain operating costs and credit quality. Investing in people for technology and distribution across different verticals also will help Janakalyan grow,” said its MD & CEO Alok Biswas. Janakalyan has been supported by SIDBI Venture Capital with equity an support in 2019 and this is second round of investment other than promoters — Biswas and S K Mitra. Biswas added, “It is a moment of great pride for Janakalyan, especially at this critical juncture when debt capital also not flowing much in mid size MFIs, since pandemic. We are extremely grateful for the strong belief shown by Saroj Patnaik and Sun Tech City in our organisation through this equity participation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/janakalyan-financial-bags-equity-infusion-from-sun-tech-city/articleshow/81160095.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Student latest victim of ‘fatka’ gang||Mumbai: A 20-year-old student was robbed in another ‘fatka’ theft on harbour line on Saturday. This is the fourth incident on harbour line in the a week. Sahil Pawar from Wadala was standing on the footboard of a down Panvel local. Around 7.10pm, before the train was to enter Sewri station, he took his phone out of his trouser pocket. Suddenly, he felt a sharp, stinging pain on his arm where a man on a pole had struck him. The offender was in a black T-shirt but as it was dark Pawar could not get a good look at him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/student-latest-victim-of-fatka-gang/articleshow/81162497.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||CBI books Hyderabad company for Rs 104 crore bank loan fraud||HYDERABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation booked Hyderabad-based Kadevi Industries Limited and its promoters for Rs 104 crore bank loan fraud. The accused obtained loans by producing fake and forged documents and diverted the funds. CBI named chairman of Kadevi Industries MBS Purushottam, managing director Surya Prabhakar, director Sailaja and unidentified public servants in the FIR after a complaint was lodged by SBI deputy general manager Debasish Bhattacharjee. CBI alleged in the FIR, “During the period between 2013-16, the accused conspired among themselves and with public servants and took loans from the State Bank of Hyderabad using false and fabricated financial statements. The accused diverted then for personal gains, submitted stocks and book debt statements to the bank to conceal their irregularities. They also falsified their books of accounts and caused wrongful loss to the bank to the tune of Rs 104 crore.” The accused were booked under IPC sections of criminal conspiracy, cheating, using forge documents as genuine and falsification of accounts. The account became a non-performing asset in 2015. The fraud was detected in the forensic audit in 2017 and it was declared as a fraud account in April 2020. It is alleged that the company defrauded the consortium of banks to the tune of Rs 156 crore by devolvement of letters of credit opened on multiple firms. Kadevi Industries was into producing steel structures, antenna systems, telescopic masts, counterpoise earth systems, diesel generators, etc.  In another case, the CBI booked Warangal bankers for Rs 3.1 crore fraud for diverting self-help group funds. The accused P Ravi Shankar while working as an assistant manager in SBI Thorrur, entered into a criminal conspiracy with private parties and transferred the funds from the accounts maintained by SHGs and kisan credit card scheme accounts by way of unauthorised debits and credited to third party accounts and accounts of family members. The accused caused a wrongful loss of Rs 3.1 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-books-city-company-for-rs-104cr-bank-loan-fraud/articleshow/81160093.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||No breakthrough in city petrol pump loot case||Jaipur: A day after four armed assailants robbed a petrol pump at New Sanganer Road area, the police on Monday said they have some clues about the culprits and are working on them. The police believe the robbers were amateurs. During early hours on Sunday four robbers on two two-wheelers had robbed an employee of a petrol pump at gunpoint and decamped with a bag containing Rs 23,000. “The investigation suggests that they were amateurs as they spared the main office of the petrol pump. Had they been professionals they would have robbed the whole office as usually petrol pumps on Sundays have cash ranging from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 6 lakh,” said a senior police officer of Mansarovar police station. Police have detained a few persons and are questioning them. “We have some good CCTV camera footage of the area. Hopefully, the case will be solved soon,” said Harendra Mahawar, deputy commissioner of police (South).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-breakthrough-in-city-petrol-pump-loot-case/articleshow/81160098.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Jaisalmer desert fest to begin tomorrow||Jaisalmer: The annual desert festival to be held here from February 24 to 27 promises to have new attractions. On the first day of the fair, singer Kailash Kher is scheduled to perform at Poonam stadium. There are also plans to light the entire Gadisar Lake with 21,000 earthen lamps. District collector Ashish Modi new attractions have been added to the festival. “The festival will start at 6am on February 24 after an aarti at Lakshminath temple in Sonar Fort. At 6.30 pm heritage walk will take place which will start from the temple and will reach Gadisar Lake passing through main markets. Participants of heritage walk will take part in turban and local attire,” Modi said. Deepadan Utsav will take place from 7-7.30 pm at Gadisar Lake in which 21,000 earthen lamps will be floated in the lake. At 8pm, Kailash Kher will perform at the Poonam stadium and at 10pm, local theatre artists will perform folk drama Rammat, which will continue till the wee hours. On the second day, a grand procession will take place at 9.30am from first gate of Sonar Fort which will reach the stadium. The procession will include decorated camels and various bands. Folk artistes will perform cultural programmes at various places en route. Various competitions will be held on this day including turban tying, Moomal-Mahendra, moustache competition, Miss Moomal, Mister Desert etc. Modi said night bazaar will be organized on all the four days in Gadisar area, which will remain open till 1am. On February 24, Army band performance will take place from 7 to 7.30pm. From 7.30pm to 10pm, Suryaveer will perform rock music. On February 26, camel decoration show, army band performance, Shaan-e-Marudhara, tug of war, camel polo match, Panihari race for women, camel tattoo show by BSF and kabbadi will be organized at Dedansar ground. Camel safari and camel beautification show will take place from 7-7.30 pm at Khuhadi sand dunes. On the fourth and final day, Surya Namaskar programme will take place at Khabha Fort at 6.30am, horse race at Lanela ke Ran from 12.30pm to 2pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-desert-fest-to-begin-tomorrow/articleshow/81160094.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Barmer crude oil production, royalty to state govt in steady decline since 2013-14||Jaipur: Crude oil production from the prolific Barmer fields has been falling after touching a high of 65.61 million barrels in 2013-14. Along with the falling production, the royalty paid to the state government has also been declining from a high of Rs 59.53.11 crore in 2013-14 to Rs 1422.46 crore till January in the current financial year. The decline is primarily due to the natural reservoir decline. Cairn Oil and Gas, the operator of the field, has applied Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) polymer flood project which has helped it in maintaining the production. The company shut down its Mangala Processing Terminal (MPT) in February 2020 for production enhancement, reliability improvement and asset integrity enhancements. But sources in the petroleum department said that development of satellite fields and new blocks awarded to the company under OpenAcreage Licencing Policy will be the key to achieving the higher production targets the company has set.“The company has extracted more oil using advanced technology than the global standards. But as it keeping extracting, the reservoir will decline naturally. That’s why drilling and development of newwells are important to maintain the higher productions levels,” said the official in the petroleum department.A company official said that the government is aware of the situation and it realizes the importance of expediting approvals for land acquisition, developing new infrastructure like approach roads and other requirements for new wells.“There is a need for a single window clearance for all the approvals. The department concerned has already held meetings for expediting the approvals which is in their interest. If the production increases, the royalty revenue of the government will also go up,” said the company official.In its 2019-20 annual report, Cairn said that in Rajasthan, 132 wells have been drilled, of these 39 wells have been brought online as partof the growth projects during the year.It is implementing an innovative technology - full tensor gravity gradiometry airborne survey to prioritize area of hydrocarbon prospectivity to reduce cycle time from exploration to production. “The seismic acquisition programmehas commenced in Assam, Kutch and mobilisation of the crew is underway in Rajasthan, Cambay and offshore blocks,” it said in the report.Mangala, Bhagyam and Aishwariya (MBA) are the three largest finds in Rajasthan. The Mangala field, considered to be the largest onshore hydrocarbon find in India in last two decades, was discovered in January 2004.This was followed by the discovery of Aishwariya and Bhagyam fields. Studies suggest that the block has further potential for growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barmer-crude-oil-production-royalty-to-state-govt-in-steady-decline-since-2013-14/articleshow/81160107.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Flora, fauna project in desert region||Jaipur: A Green Agriculture Project will be launched to conserve biodiversity and forest landscapes in the Desert National Park area located in Barmer and Jaisalmer districts. The work plan for the initial three months of the project was approved in the meeting of the state project steering committee under the chairmanship of chief secretary Niranjan Arya. A seven-year project funded under the Global Environment Facility (GEF) of the Food and Agriculture Organization will cost around Rs 30 crore. Chief secretary Arya said that under this project, there is a need to promote other basic vegetation including Lassirus scindicus in the Desert National Park area. Emphasizing that the project should be result-oriented, before the start of work, during the progress of the work and in the end, the cultivated vegetation should be videographed by drone. He instructed to destroy the luxuriant acacia which is becoming a barrier to the growth of the original vegetation here. He directed for necessary infrastructure development, human resource recruitment and grass seed management for the project in the next three months. He directed to seek technical support of Central Arid Zone Research Institute (CAZRI) and Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya Jodhpur in the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/flora-fauna-project-in-desert-region/articleshow/81160096.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Bareilly||28-year-old man killed by tiger in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A 28-year-old villager, identified as Kamaluddin of village Rajpur Simra under Madhotanda police station, was killed by a tiger on Sunday evening in Bailha beat of Sampurna Nagar forest range under North Kheri forest division, which falls under Hajara police station. His body has been sent for autopsy. This was the second human mauled to death by a tiger in Pilibhit within a month. Earlier, agricultural daily wager Qasim (50) was killed in village Hajara under the same police station while he was harvesting sugarcane. Aggrieved over the repeated incidents, local farmers demanded that the forest department immediately remove the tiger from the area and warned of an agitation if timely action was not ensured. Although the area where the incident took place officially falls under the circle of the forest department, with no physical forest existing there since the last four decades, the land has been under possession of displaced and migrant farming families. A dispute over land title here is yet to be resolved by the state government. The deceased was a daily wager and was mowing grass to use as roof thatching at the bank of river Sharda in village Motia Ghat of trans-Sharda region under Puranpur tehsil circle. The tiger attack was confirmed by range officer RPS Rautela, after tracing pug marks on the spot. Divisional forest officer Anil Patel said the tiger had killed a calf on Sunday morning near the spot where Kamaluddin’s body was found. He guessed the big cat became furious and felt threatened at the presence of the deceased near its killed prey. He added Kamaluddin’s case would be referred for compensation to the UP government, out of its disaster response fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/28-year-old-man-killed-by-tiger-in-pilibhit/articleshow/81158714.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Special team visits DNP to review GIB breeding||Jaisalmer: A special joint team of ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MOEFCC) and the Wildlife Institute of India visited Desert National Park and other areas in Jaisalmer on Monday. The team is on a three-day visit to review the Great Indian Bustard Conservation Breeding Programme. The team will re-identify new habitat for GIB and inspect the possibilities of putting electricity wires underground that pass from the GIB breeding areas.The committee on Tuesday will hold a meeting. The team led by MOEFCC DIG Rakesh Jaganya includes WII scientist Dr. Yaduvendra Jhala, Dr Suthirtho Dutta, Dr Qamar Qureshi, and representatives of ministry of new and renewable Energy (MNRE) and many others.A WII official said that they can see good results of activities carried out under the GIB conservation programme by the Union, state governments and WII. However, many times GIBs are electrocuted due to high-voltage electricity wires that pass through the area. Former chairman of WII, Dr MK Ranjeet Singh had filed a petition in the Supreme Court so that the electricity wires could be laid underground. His petition also mentioned putting up of bird diverters in GIB habitat areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/special-team-visits-dnp-to-review-gib-breeding/articleshow/81160103.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||First good news in 2 years: Daughter||Hyderabad: With the Bombay HC granting bail to 82-year-old poet-writer Varavara Rao, his family members swung into action to complete legal formalities. He is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Mumbai as an undertrial prisoner. “The court granting bail to my father is the first positive news we got in the past two-and-half- years. We had knocked the doors of several courts, citing the ill-health of my father. Finally, we got relief, but the bail was granted for six months,’’ P Pavana, daughter of Varavara, told TOI. “He felt relieved and discussed future course of legal action to be taken,’’ Pavana said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/first-good-news-in-2-years-daughter/articleshow/81160105.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Business||Coal India, CRIS ink deal on data ops||Kolkata: For faster and customised automated access to data through Freight Operations Information System (FOIS) of Indian Railways, Coal India on Monday signed an MoU with the Centre for Railway Information Systems (CRIS), a wing under the Ministry of Railways. The new data-sharing offers CIL a bouquet of benefits that will help it in rationalising the entire coal supply matrix through rail mode. It provides precise details of loading, weighment and unloading details along with turnaround time of rakes. Primarily, it is a handshake of freight operation information between the networks of CIL and CRIS regarding CIL’s rail movement of coal. It also includes other logistics details. According to CIL, the information helps minimise the instances of under-loading and overloading of rakes and untangles the knots benefitting CIL, Railways and the consumers. Importantly, the resultant relevant information eases the way for faster billing and bill monitoring process replacing the manual entry of railway receipts with instantaneous online transfer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/coal-india-cris-ink-deal-on-data-ops/articleshow/81160108.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Spl court issues NBW against Digvijaya in defamation case||Hyderabad: A special sessions court for hearing cases against legislators on Monday issued a non-bailable warrant against senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh after he failed to appear in a criminal defamation filed by an AIMIM leader. Judge Ch VRR Varaprasad on Monday took cognizance of the Congress leader's absence and dismissed his petition filed under CRPC section 317 and issued an NBW and posted the matter for further hearing to March 8. In 2017, AIMIM leader S A Hussain Anwar had filed a petition against the Congress leader saying that through his statement, he had defamed AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, saying the Hyderabad MP’s party was contesting elections in other states for the sake of financial benefits. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spl-court-issues-nbw-against-digvijaya-in-defamation-case/articleshow/81160100.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Shipping firm staffer kidnapped; rescued by cops, 5 held||Alwar: Within hours of a 44-year-old employee of a shipping company of Mumbai being kidnapped from Jaipur airport and held near a place in Alwar, police rescued him and arrested five persons. The kidnappers demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh from his family and invited the businessman by posing as spice traders and promised him good quality black pepper at nominal rates. Police said Vikas Gupta got a call to go to Jaipur, from where they would receive him and take him to their warehouse. “They picked him up from Jaipur airport on Sunday evening and took him to a jungle near Kesroli village under MIA police station area,” Tejaswini Gautam, SP of Alwar, told TOI. “We arrested Shaikam, Rashid Khan, Rajendra Meena, Waseem Khan, and Sahun Langra,” Tejaswini said. She said Liyaqat and Shahrukh are on the run. We recovered a gold chain, an iPhone, two ATM cards, a wristwatch and other valuables from the kidnappers. The kingpin is Waseem Khan, from Mathura in UP,” Gautam said,. When the relatives got the ransom call they contacted Mumbai Police. “Police gave us some numbers which were moving towards Alwar so we intimated Alwar police,” a senior officer of Jaipur police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shipping-firm-staffer-kidnapped-rescued-by-cops-5-held/articleshow/81161854.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: ‘Not advising Tiffa scan for pregnant women with miscarriages a fault’||HYDERABAD: Making it clear that not prescribing a Tiffa scan while treating a pregnant woman with a previous history of consecutive miscarriages falls under a clear deficiency in service, the Telangana state consumer disputes redressal commission found fault with Padma Priya Hospital at Kukatpalli for the negligent way in which it dealt with a pregnant patient and held the hospital responsible for the birth of a crippled child to the woman. The bench of Justice M S K Jaiswal, president, and Geetha Ramanathan, lady member, while upholding the order of the district consumer forum, directed the hospital to deposit Rs 10 lakh to enable the mother to look after the welfare of the child with the interest earned from the deposit. The bench said that an interest of 9 per cent per year should be paid to the mother for the last five years. Targeted imaging for fetal anomalies (TIFFA) scan helps the doctors to identify any major deformities with which the child is likely to be born and any responsible doctor or hospital treating pregnant women would normally prescribe this test if the woman has any previous history of continuous miscarriages. In the current case, despite the woman having such history, the hospital and its doctors did not bother to suggest that test. It was only at the last minute, the problem was diagnosed by doctors of other hospitals with the help of the Tiffa scan. The hospital argued before the state commission that it did prescribe such a test and charged the woman and her husband with negligence in getting it done. But the commission did not believe it as the hospital did not furnish any evidence for such claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/not-advising-tiffa-scan-for-preg-women-with-miscarriages-a-fault/articleshow/81160139.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Business||Kolkata inks Kukrahati LNG Terminal deal||Kolkata: The Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port (SMP), Kolkata, signed an MoU with the Hirnandani Group of Companies on Monday for a jetty-based LNG Terminal along the River Hooghly at Kukrahati in East Midnapore. The storage and re-gasification terminal will have a capacity of 5 MMTPA. SMP is considering this development as a part of the 2nd Maritime India Summit (MIS) that is going to be held virtually from March 2-4. Being organised by the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways, the Summit will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “As a part of MIS-2021, the MoU was signed between Vinit Kumar, chairman, SMP, Kolkata and Darshan Hirnandani, CEO, Bengal Concession, a subsidiary of Hirnandani Group of Companies. The total project cost is about Rs 3,900 crore with an economic value of about Rs 6,000 crore. It is expected to provide about 250 direct jobs and another 750 indirect ones,” a senior SMP official said. While environmental clearance had already been obtained for the project, SMP has granted the NOC with mutually agreed terms and conditions. The project is coming up on about 38 acres of land acquired from the Haldia Development Authority (HDA). However the waterfront area comes under the jurisdiction of SMP, Kolkata. Apart from onshore LNG storage and re-gasification terminal the project also comprises a 125 km long pipeline from Kukrahati to Itinda in Bangladesh and a 225-km-long one from Kanaichatta to Shrirampur. Also 20 LCNG stations will be commissioned in West Bengal under this project, aiding in the availability of clean fuel to people. Once commissioned, in July 2024, LNG can be used as bunker fuel for ships and barges in the Hooghly River. It will also cater to the requirements of West Bengal and nearby states. “While the land belongs to the company, SMP will be providing marine services and maintain the channel. We are also working on a smaller LNG project at Haldia. Hopefully, coal and other fossil fuel will be replaced by LNG, even in the industrial belt around Haldia in the future,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kolkata-inks-kukrahati-lng-terminal-deal/articleshow/81160159.cms||Jayanta Gupta
February 23, 2021||Nashik||Traffic cops take action against illegal parking on smart road||Nashik: The city traffic branch has intensified its action against erring motorists in view of the rising menace of illegal parking on the smart road opposite the district collectorateSeetaram Gaikwad, assistant commissioner of the city traffic branch said he has instructed officials and personnel to intensify the action against the concerned motorists. Most of the times, motorists leave their vehicles parked on the footpath and on the road and go about their usual work in the city or inside the district collectorate or the district court. This is causing traffic congestion throughout the day on the newly developed smart road opposite the collectorate.Due to the illegal parking, neither the pedestrians are able to walk freely on the footpath nor is there sufficient space on the road for motorists. Even the city buses plying on the road are not able to halt at the bus stands due to the parked vehicles along the roadside.Nitin Gaware, a banker who works in the Gangapur Road area, said, “The menace of illegal parking will be solved only after the towing vehicles are deployed by the city police. The hassle of going all the way to the city traffic branch to get back the towed away vehicle after paying the fine will deter motorists from parking illegally.” Gaikwad said the concerned motorists were getting e-challans and would have to pay the fine for the offence sooner or later.Meanwhile, deputy commisioner of police Pournima Chaugule said the process of appointing a contractor for towing vehicles was underway. “Once the towing vans are deployed on the streets, the problem of illegal parkiing will be solved,” she said. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/traffic-cops-take-action-against-illegal-parking-on-smart-road/articleshow/81160106.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||GTU students develop battery kit for motorbikes||Ahmedabad: Calling it a significant breakthrough in usage of non-conventional source of energy, Gujarat Technological University (GTU) on Monday said that two of its students have developed a new battery-operated kit to run motorbikes at a much cheaper cost. The new technology is developed by Arpit Chauhan and Kartik Atreya, the university announced on Monday. The development comes at a time when prices of petrol and diesel have hit record highs in the country. Sources in GTU said that the new kit would use six batteries of lead acid and lithium to run the motorbikes at only 25 paise for travelling up to 80km. GTU vice-chancellor Navin Sheth in a statement said that this electric bike kit has been developed by the students who are startups enrolled with their university’s graduate school of management studies. He said that research efforts are on to develop such electric kits to be fitted in autorickshaws, tractors and ultimately cars. In the petrol-run bikes, the emission of carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxide is 500g per km. As a result, this electric motorbike will be a blessing in disguise in this time when one litre of petrol costs around Rs 100. It will also reduce noise pollution by 10 to 12 decibels, the varsity said in its media statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-students-develop-battery-kit-for-motorbikes/articleshow/81160168.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Upload all dept updates on info portal by Feb 28: CS||Jaipur: Chief secretary Niranjan Arya has directed all departments to upload their information on the Public Information Portal by February 28. This will provide relief to those seeking information under the Right to Information Act. Also, the latest information about the public welfare schemes of the state will be easily available to the people, he said. The chief secretary held a review meeting of the Public Information Portal through video-conferencing with the principal secretary, secretary and other officials of all departments at the Secretariat on Monday. He said that under the Right to Information Act, Rajasthan leads in putting all information of the departments online. Under the Public Information Portal, all the information related to the schemes of all the departments is being made available on the portal in the prescribed format, so that transparency is maintained. He added that all the information including the number of people who benefitted from schemes or those left out should also be there. Apart from this, the names and mobile numbers of all police stations of the state, all police officers and beat constables should also be uploaded on the portal. Arya instructed department officers to update information on the Public Information Portal by February 28and send their progress report. He said that a letter will be sent to the central through chief minister and the chief secretary for data collection of schemes operated at central level. After that they too will be uploaded on the Public Information Portal. Principal secretary of information technology and communication department, Ajitabh Sharma said the work of integrating information on the portal is going on continuously. So far, information on 114 schemes of 65 departments has been uploaded on the portal. About 2 lakh people have downloaded its mobile app and more than 24.5 million people have visited it. He said that two new modules are also being added to the portal. From this, it will be known that out of the total number of potential beneficiaries of the scheme. Besides, the person will be able to upload general information related to himself on the portal to know which schemes of the state government he is eligible for.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/upload-all-dept-updates-on-info-portal-by-feb-28-cs/articleshow/81160124.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||SI caught taking Rs 25k bribe||Hyderabad: A sub inspector of SR Nagar was caught red-handed when he demanded and accepted Rs 25,000 bribe from the complainant.  The accused is, B Bhaskar Rao. Based on the complaint of Md Khasim, owner of a van seized in PDS wheat smuggling case, cops trapped SI when he took Rs 25,000 bribe from Khasim at police station. “Bhaskar took bribe to not involve Khasim in a criminal case and also to influence civil supplies department officials to release his seized van,” said an ACB official. SI has been arrested. He will be produced before court for judicial remand. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/si-caught-taking-rs-25k-bribe/articleshow/81160115.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||RAS officer Meena withdraws bail plea||Jaipur: Suspended RAS officer Pinky Meena withdrew her regular bail application from the high court on Monday. Justice Indrajeet Singh, allowed the accused to withdraw the application. Now, after the chargesheet is filed in the case, the bail application will be filed on behalf of the accused. During the hearing, Pinky said her case is different from Pushkar Mittal, another RAS officer in the ACB net for corruption. She said she was not caught red-handed. ACB has not recovered any money from her nor she made any demand. State government counsel while objecting to grant her bail had said during the last hearing that the court granted interim bail for her marriage. The government counsel said the ACB has a transcript of the conversation of the accused in which she is talking to the employee of the complainant company. Therefore, the bail application of the accused officer should be rejected. After hearing the government's plea, the court asked the counsel for the accused whether he wants the court to decide on merit on the bail application or would like to withdraw it. Seeing the strict approach of the court, Pinky Meena's counsel withdrew the bail application. ACB arrested Pinky Meena, the then SDM of Bandikui, on January 13 for demanding a bribe of Rs 10 lakh from a representative of Delhi-Mumbai Expressway construction company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ras-officer-meena-withdraws-bail-plea/articleshow/81160143.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||26 oxen rescued from truck in Bundi||Kota: Acting on a tip-off, Bundi rural police rescued at least 26 oxen tightly packed in a truck on the Kota-Lalsot mega highway under Deikheda police station on Monday. The police have arrested a Madhya Pradesh based man. Two of the 28 oxen in the truck were found dead and the carcasses were disposed of after postmortem, while the other 26 oxen were sent to a local gaushala after medical examination. Acting on the information of bovines being illegally transported in a truck to Madhya Pradesh for slaughter, a police team spotted a suspicious UP number plate-bearing, covered truck coming from Lakheri–Indergarh route on Kota–Lalsot mega highway under Deikheda police station on Monday , SHO at Deikheda police station said. The police booked the truck’s driver Awash Khan (42), a resident of Nimach in MP and arrested him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/26-oxen-rescued-from-truck-in-bundi/articleshow/81160136.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||32 new cases of Covid-19 in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: With 32 new cases of Covid-19 reported in Uttarakhand on Monday, the coronavirus tally reached 96,719. Two patients died of the infection, one of them a Dubai returnee. With 72 recoveries in last 24 hours, the recovery count reached 93,230. Currently, there are 411 active cases in the state. The health department tested 5,867 samples on Monday, of which 32 tested positive.“Fourteen cases were reported from Dehradun, followed by seven in Haridwar, four in Udham Singh Nagar, three in Pauri, two in Tehri and one each in Nainital and Champawat,” said Abhishek Tripathi from Covid Control room. So far, 1,689 coronavirus patients have died in the state. The recovery rate stands at 96.39 per cent. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/32-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/81158760.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 23, 2021||Rajkot||Get Somnath temple prasad at home now||Rajkot: Shree Somnath Trust, which manages the famed Somnath temple in Veraval, has signed an agreement with the department of posts for home delivery of ‘prasad (pious offering)’ to the devotees.This service was launched at a function organized at temple on Monday. Devotees can register for prasad at their nearest post office by paying Rs 251 plus money order charges. Saurashtra-Kutch post master general, Rakesh Kumar, said, “The postal department has biggest network in the country having nearly 1.50 lakh post offices. The devotees can get this service from any of the post office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/get-somnath-temple-prasad-at-home-now/articleshow/81157664.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Warangal CP to supervise lawyer couple’s murder probe||HYDERABAD: In view of the various allegations of inaction against Ramagundam police in the backdrop of the murder of lawyers Vamana Rao and his wife PV Nagamani, a decision was taken by the top brass of Telangana police that the investigation into the case will now be directly supervised by deputy inspector general of police-cum-Warangal commissioner of police Pramod Kumar and not by Ramagundam police commissioner V Satyanarayana, who faced criticism from several advocates and opposition parties. Recently, an audio clip of Nagamani expressing her helplessness in getting police security for Sriramaswamy and Gopalaswamy temple in Gunjapadugu village despite bringing the issue to the notice of all policemen, including the police commissioner, to Ramagundam DCP Ravinder, had gone viral. She said that Kunta Srinivas, the prime accused in the murder case, and others, allegedly took over the temple committee illegally. When contacted, senior officials of Telangana police confirmed the new development, saying that Pramod Kumar has been assigned the task of closely monitoring the investigation. Further, policemen of Ramagiri and Manthani police stations were told to not investigate the case. The decision was taken by the Office of Director General of Police in the backdrop of the high court order directing the top brass of Telangana police to investigate the case properly. “The decision was taken as some people felt that a few local people can influence the local police. So cops at local police stations were barred from investigating the case,” sources in Telangana police told TOI. However, the sources said that if needed, Ramagundam commissioner Satyanarayana will assist in the probe and will be kept in the loop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/warangal-cp-to-supervise-lawyer-couples-murder-probe/articleshow/81160190.cms||Srinath Vudali
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Include student representatives in fee panel’||Hyderabad: Demanding that the varsity should include the representatives of the students union in the committee constituted to look into semester fee relaxation, students of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) on Monday staged a protest in front of the office of dean, students’ welfare. They also demanded that the development fee should be brought under the purview of the committee and freeze semester registration until the committee submits its report. “Development fee was missing from the agenda of the committee. We demand the varsity to stop semester registrations until the committee submits its report and not impose any late fee on students,” said Gopi Swamy, general secretary, students union (2019-20). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/include-student-representatives-in-fee-panel/articleshow/81160150.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Alwar cops rescue kidnapped shipping company employee||Alwar: Police rescued a kidnapped employee of a Mumbai-based shipping company within a few hours after he was whisked away by some people from the Jaipur airport. Five persons have been arrested. The victim, identified as Vikas Gupta (44), was taken to a house near Kesroli village under MIA police station area of Alwar. The kidnappers had posed as traders dealing in spices and had invited Gupta to help him buy good quality black pepper at a nominal rate.According to the police, Gupta received a call from some people who introduced themselves as traders dealing in various Indian spices. “They asked him to come to Jaipur from where they would then take him to their warehouse. The kidnappers picked him from Jaipur airport on Sunday evening and took him to a jungle near Kesroli village,” said Tejaswini Gautam, superintendent of police, Alwar, while talking to TOI.As soon as Gupta’s relatives got a ransom call of Rs 10 lakh they intimated the Mumbai police. “Mumbai police had given us some numbers which were found to be moving towards Alwar. We intimated the Alwar police,” said a senior officer of Jaipur police.The Alwar SP said stated that a special team of Alwar police comprising armed policemen cordoned off the area near Kesroli village. “We have arrested five persons who were identified as Shaikam (24), Rashid Khan (35), Rajendra Meena (30), Waseem Khan (19) and Sahun Langra (35),” Tejaswini added.She stated that two more kidnappers identified as Liyaqat and Shahrukh are on the run. “We have also recovered a gold chain, a mobile phone, two ATM cards, a wrist watch and other valuables from the kidnappers. It is found that the kingpin of the gang is Waseem Khan, a resident of Mathura,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/alwar-cops-rescue-kidnapped-shipping-company-employee/articleshow/81160171.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Man gets 20yr jail for raping minor||Udaipur: A special POCSO (Special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) court in Rajsamand sentenced a man to 20 years in prison and imposed a fine of Rs 35,000 for the rape of a minor.The convict, Koop Singh alias Surendra, son of Kheem Singh Rawat and resident of Nedi under Bhim police station, was arrested for the crime in 2019 and was convicted on Monday. He was out on bail and arrested again and jailed after the judgment. A case was registered at the Deogarh Police Station in Rajsamand by the minor's father under the POCSO Act and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Her father said in the complaint that his daughter had gone out of the house for some work in the morning of November 21, 2018 and didn't return home. He filed a missing complaint on December 1 and said the girl took away Rs 20,000 and a silver bowl weighing around half kilogram with her. After two months, police found the minor and the accused from Ahmedabad and brought them to Rajsamand. The special public prosecutor, Rahul Sanadhya, said the girl was a minor and was 16 years and 4 months old when the accused kidnapped her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-gets-20yr-jail-for-raping-minor/articleshow/81160140.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||30% occupancy of Covid ICU beds, BMC to restart quarantine centres||MUMBAI: Thirty per cent of the 1,559 intensive care unit (ICU) beds meant for Covid-19 patients are currently occupied, said BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. Although it claims beds are available, the civic body on Monday decided to re-activate its quarantine and isolation centres, which were shut down in a phased manner starting October when cases had begun to drop. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal held a video conference with officials on Monday, where he directed them to reactivate quarantine and isolation centres, including marriage halls, community halls, sports centres and even reconvert smaller nursing homes for Covid care where necessary, depending on the growth rate over the next few days. The commissioner also reiterated that private laboratories shouldn’t directly share reports with individuals, but send it to BMC first. Kakani said the number of patients admitted to ICUs has marginally risen in the past eight days. “In December/January, the number of cases was down as also admissions to the ICU.” He has, however, ruled out increasing the number of ICU beds. “The 1,559 ICU beds are spread across public and private hospitals. At present 568 are occupied and 991 beds are vacant. Of those who have tested positive for Covid-19, 82% are asymptomatic, while 18% are symptomatic and around 2-3% of these symptomatic patients may require ICU beds,” he said. Kakani said it was not advisable to divert beds for Covid-19 patients as it could hamper treatment of other patients. There are around 70,518 beds in quarantine facilities at BMC-run centres. Of this, around 13,136 are currently active beds, 9,757 beds are buffer beds and the remaining beds were deactivated. “There are 11,205 beds in dedicated Covid hospitals and centres of which 7,915 beds are vacant. Also, 972 ICU beds out of 1,528 are vacant,” said a senior civic official. Deans of civic-run and state-run hospitals have been asked to ensure availability of medical accessories, medicines, etc. “Hospitals have been directed to check for functioning ventilators, para monitors, oxygen supply lines and to ensure fire-fighting systems and security are working,” said Kakani. BMC jumbo centres will continue to remain operational till March 31 and a review will be held mid-March on keeping them operational thereafter, he added.  “Representatives of private hospitals have also been asked to ensure that 80% of the total beds are reserved for Covid-19 patients and that they follow the rates fixed by the state government,” the official said. The 80:20 scheme is planned till the end of February, although an extension could be considered in the wake of rising cases, an official said. On Monday, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya demanded the BMC add more ICU beds for Covid patients. He said all the ICU beds meant for Covid patients at Fortis Hospital, Mulund, are occupied. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state taskforce said there does not seem to be a surge in severe cases. Watch Covid-19: BMC to restart quarantine centres in Mumbai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/30-occupancy-of-covid-icu-beds-bmc-to-restart-quarantine-centres/articleshow/81160175.cms||Clara Lewis
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||JDA will tighten noose on realtors for not developing colonies on approved plots||Jaipur: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has decided to tighten its noose on private developers who did not develop facilities after getting colonies approved from the civic body. The JDA will issue notices to such defaulters. The developers will have to create facilities including parks, road, sewerage and others within 15 days after receiving the notice. An official said, “The developers who failed to adhere to the norms will face action. From every approved scheme 12.5 per cent land is mortgaged by the developers. The JDA will sell that land and carry out developments in these colonies. Since 2015, the civic body has prepared a list of 511 defaulted colonies.” Though action will be taken against private developers, JDA itself is often criticised for not carrying out development in its own colonies. The civic body has developed 112 colonies after 2005 in various zones, but majority of them wear a deserted look in absence of infrastructure. “The JDA has begun work in its previously developed colonies including Central Spine and Nilay Kunj. Infrastructure will soon be developed in more colonies,” said an official. JDA is all set to take away ownership from land owners who have illegally developed colonies on agriculture land. So far, a list of 31 such colonies has been prepared. Following the directions of Jaipur Development commissioner (JDC) Gaurav Goyal, the zone commissioners have written a letter to tehsildars and sub-division officers. An official said, “To discourage such practices in future, proceedings for cancelling ownership have been implemented under Section 175 of Rajasthan Tenancy Act against land holders.” To protect residents from getting duped, JDA has also directed the enforcement wing to again conduct zone-wise physical survey of illegal colonies. The civic body has also issued an appeal to the public and buyers to thoroughly verify the ownership documents of the land before purchasing any plot. With a spurt in population and increase in demand for land, the illegal construction and development of colonies in the city is on the rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-will-tighten-noose-on-realtors-for-not-developing-colonies-on-approved-plots/articleshow/81160178.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Mayor & deputy take charge, corporators stay away from event||Hyderabad: Mayor, G Vijaya Laxmi, and deputy mayor, Mothe Srilatha Reddy, formally took charge on Monday after performing puja at the GHMC head office. The first citizen of the city performed puja with priests and later participated in prayers with a pastor and a Muslim religious scholar before she signed the papers to take charge. Before assuming office, she visited the Telangana Martyrs Memorial at Gun Park and paid tributes to the martyrs. She was accompanied by her father, TRS Rajya Sabha MP, K Keshava Rao. Though former mayor Bonthu Rammohan met Laxmi on Monday, other corporators who were in the reckoning for the mayor’s chair were conspicuous by their absence. Rammohan’s wife Bonthu Sridevi (Cherlapally corporator), Manne Kavitha Reddy (Venkateshwara Nagar corporator), P Vijaya Reddy (Khairatabad corporator) and Adarsh Sindhu Reddy (Bharati Nagar corporator) were among those who skipped the programme. GHMC commissioner, D S Lokesh Kumar, along with senior officials met the mayor. She will have to wait at least till March third week to start executing developmental works due to the model code, in place because of the graduates MLC elections. The elections for the GHMC standing committee members will be held after March third week as the counting is scheduled on March 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mayor-deputy-take-charge-corporators-stay-away-from-event/articleshow/81160173.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 23, 2021||Nashik||Traffic cops take action against illegal parking on smart road||NASHIK: The city traffic branch has intensified its action against erring motorists in view of the rising menace of illegal parking on the smart road opposite the district collectorate Seetaram Gaikwad, assistant commissioner of the city traffic branch said he has instructed officials and personnel to intensify the action against the concerned motorists. Most of the times, motorists leave their vehicles parked on the footpath and on the road and go about their usual work in the city or inside the district collectorate or the district court. This is causing traffic congestion throughout the day on the newly developed smart road opposite the collectorate. Due to the illegal parking, neither the pedestrians are able to walk freely on the footpath nor is there sufficient space on the road for motorists. Even the city buses plying on the road are not able to halt at the bus stands due to the parked vehicles along the roadside. Nitin Gaware, a banker who works in the Gangapur Road area, said, “The menace of illegal parking will be solved only after the towing vehicles are deployed by the city police. The hassle of going all the way to the city traffic branch to get back the towed away vehicle after paying the fine will deter motorists from parking illegally.” Gaikwad said the concerned motorists were getting e-challans and would have to pay the fine for the offence sooner or later. Meanwhile, deputy commisioner of police Pournima Chaugule said the process of appointing a contractor for towing vehicles was underway. “Once the towing vans are deployed on the streets, the problem of illegal parkiing will be solved,” she said. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/traffic-cops-take-action-against-illegal-parking-on-smart-road/articleshow/81160197.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||‘Univ must pull back its masters exam deadline’||Mumbai: Colleges want Mumbai University to withdraw the March 10 deadline set to hold exams of all masters programmes. Due to the pandemic, many colleges unable to hold online lectures for five hours a day, making it impossible to hold exams in 2 weeks. The varsity began admission counselling process for aided colleges on December 30, and students joined classes in January, in some cases as late as January 27, said a teacher of an aided centre. There is no coordination among varsity officials, the exam department is only concerned about holding exams without understanding ground reality, said the teacher, adding that the circular must be withdrawn. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/univ-must-pull-back-its-masters-exam-deadline/articleshow/81161901.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Pune cases rise but death rate down||Pune district’s weekly case fatality rate (CFR) is down despite the surge in cases, data has shown. The February 13-19 week recorded the lowest CFR of 0.7% since January 23-29, when it was 1.2%, reports Neha Madaan. This parameter helps assess the severity of a disease by determining total number of deaths among reported cases within a specific period. “Though the number of cases is large, most are mild to moderate patients who can be managed with home quarantine,” said Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services (Pune region).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pune-cases-rise-but-death-rate-down/articleshow/81160239.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Chennai||BJP will be taught a lesson: DMK-Congress||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Monday said the DMK-Congress combine will go to the people's court and highlight the hurdles created by the BJP to prevent a democratically elected government from functioning in Puducherry. While there had been sustained demands for shifting lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi, the Centre remained unmoved. Now, closer to the assembly elections, the BJP has indulged in its brand of politics and enticed members to switch sides, thereby leading to the fall of the government, said the DMK. “The moment the Centre brought in Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, I warned about the likely developments through a statement. If the Centre now attempts to govern Puducherry through the backdoor, we will approach the court. The Congress and the DMK combine will now take up this issue to the people’s court,” Stalin said. AICC secretary in-charge of Puducherry, Sanjay Dutt, lashed out at the BJP for bringing down the Congress government. "For five years they prevented welfare measures from being undertaken by the democratically elected government, through the LG. They then used the central agencies to coerce people and bring down the government. People will teach a lesson to the BJP," he tweeted. In a statement, TNCC president K S Alagiri said, “In the last elections, all the candidates put up by the BJP had lost their deposits. In the forthcoming assembly elections too, the people of Puducherry will teach the BJP a fitting lesson,” Alagiri said. MDMK general secretary Vaiko termed the developments in Puducherry “murder of democracy”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjp-will-be-taught-a-lesson-dmk-cong/articleshow/81160181.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Cyber crooks spoof IAS officer’s Facebook account||AHMEDABAD: Cyber crooks on Monday spoofed Gujarat cadre IAS officer Virant Pandey’s Facebook account and sent friend request to persons known to him. Pandey is presently on central deputation as director of the inter-state council secretariat, in the Union home ministry. Pandey is the third victim in the last 20 days after Vadodara police commissioner Shamsher Singh, Rajkot range IG Sandip Singh and Gujarat assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi, whose cyber presences were compromised by creating fake Facebook pages. On February 14, cyber crooks had hacked into IPS officer CID crime chief T S Bisht’s Twitter account. When TOI contacted Pandey, he said, “Around 10.30pm some of my friends called to inform me that someone was sending them friend requests from an alternative Facebook page, impersonating me. I immediately complained to Delhi Police and the National Cyber Co-Coordination Centre. The account was blocked immediately.” Interestingly, cyber crooks have been targeting social media accounts of senior IAS and IPS officers and even politicians which have been dormant for some time. They then create fake accounts and send friend requests to get gullible people to click on malicious links. Bisht’s Twitter account for instance was hacked and a TOI investigation found out that someone had retweeted from Bisht’s account promoting a website. A message posted on Bisht’s Twitter page read, “I have something special for my fans. All info below (copy URL and paste).” In the case of Shamsher Singh, Sandip Singh and Trivedi, the cyber crooks had created fake Facebook accounts and had been sending request to trap unwitting people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cyber-crooks-spoof-ias-officers-fb-account/articleshow/81160242.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand minority commission mulling to increase honorarium amount of its members||Dehradun: Taking a cue from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, the Uttarakhand minority commission is mulling to increase the honorarium amount of its members. The commission will soon send a proposal to the Uttarakhand government demanding that the honorarium amount of its members be raised from Rs 6,000 to Rs 25,000. The members claim that an increase in the honorarium amount is necessary to increase awareness regarding the schemes and other welfare projects for the minority among the public. The development comes after members of the commission, in a recently-held meeting, agreed that an increase in the honorarium amount is necessary to cover the expenses incurred in delivery and promotion of the schemes. The commission expects the proposal to get passed in the cabinet. Meanwhile, several members of the commission have been asked to conduct tours of their respective districts in order to assess the condition of the minority communities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-minority-commission-mulling-to-increase-honorarium-amount-of-its-members/articleshow/81158805.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||SCB permits film shooting in Cantt||Secunderabad: The Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) has for the first time allowed shooting of a film in the area. Tollywood producer Vishwa Nallam is shooting portions of his film in the Cantonment. “This is the first film shooting in Secunderabad Cantonment. There are many locations and British-era buildings in this area, which can be used for shooting. Movie makers can obtain necessary permission from SCB officials,” said senior SCB official, A Parusuram. There are several heritage constructions here. The SCB main office and the cellular jail that resembles the cellular jail also known as Kalapani jail, of Andamans are located in Trimulgherry. Even the official residence of former PM of United Kingdom, Winston Churchill is in Cantonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-permits-film-shooting-in-cantt/articleshow/81160209.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||E-auction of liquor stores in Raj will begin from March 3||Jaipur: The excise department on Tuesday night revised the dates for conducting e-auctions for allotting Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and country-made liquor stores in the state. Earlier, the auction was scheduled to be held between February 23 and 27. Now, it the e-auction will begin on March 3. The bidding, which was scheduled to hold on February 24 and 25, will now be organised on March 4 and 5. Similarly, instead of auction on February 26 and 27, it will now be held on March 9 and 10. According to the new policy, composite liquor stores (where IMFL and country liquor will be sold) will be allotted to the highest bidder. A senior official said, “Till 8 pm on Monday, the department received 23,118 applications from across the state. Earlier on Tuesday, 1,669 shops including 81 from Jaipur were proposed to put for bid. However, the dates were revised,” Total 6629 participants registered themselves for Tuesday .There are a total of 7,665 liquor stores in the state. In Jaipur, 404 shops will be allotted. The department has received 1150 application to participate in the bid. Total 72 applicants have deposited application fee, for the same, till Monday. In the new policy, one person will not be allotted more than five shops in state and not more than two shops in a district. To participate in bidding for a shop having a reserve price of Rs 50 lakh, an applicant has to deposit Rs 40,000 application fee along with Rs 50,000 security money. Similarly, for shops having a reserve price more than Rs 50 lakh and up to Rs 2 crore, the application fee will be Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh security money. Applicants will have to pay Rs 60,000 application fee along with Rs 2 lakh security money to bid for a shop having a reserve price more than Rs 2 crore. The application fee will be non-refundable, the department said. After amending the policy, the state government is expecting to earn Rs 13,000 revenue in financial year 2021-2022. A senior official said, “The bidders who want to participate in March 3 e-auctions will be allowed to register till 11.59 pm on March 2.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/e-auction-of-liquor-stores-in-raj-will-begin-from-march-3/articleshow/81160246.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Bittu Srinivas arrested||Hyderabad: Bittu Srinivas was arrested by Ramagundam police on Monday after four days of interrogation by the police for his alleged involvement in the murder of the lawyer couple Vaman Rao and Nagamani. Inspector general of police (North Zone) Y Nagi Reddy said that Bittu was arrested for assisting the assailants Kunta Srinivas and Chiranjeevi in the procurement of sickles and making arrangements for other logistics. Officials said that Bittu also bore a personal grudge against Vaman Rao since the victim had in the past allegedly defamed a trust run by Bittu Srinivas. Vaman Rao had also moved petitions at local government offices against Bittu, which affected him financially. Kunta Srinivas and Bittu have been close friends for the last six years. While consuming liquor, they used to share their personal problems and discuss how Vaman Rao was allegedly targeting them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bittu-srinivas-arrested/articleshow/81160247.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Auto, cab base fares hiked by Rs 3 in Mumbai Metropolitan Region||MUMBAI: From March 1, you will have to pay at least Rs 3 more for a ride in taxi or autorickshaw in MMR. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Transport Authority on Monday approved the minimum fare hike for autorickshaws to Rs 21 from Rs 18, and for kaali-peeli taxis to Rs 25 from Rs 22 now. Justifying the hike, transport minister Anil Parab said it has been done after five years as against the 2017 Khatua committee’s recommendation of a 50-paise hike every year. In Mumbai, 2.3 lakh autos and 20,000 kaali-peeli taxis ferry over a million commuters daily. The fares will be applicable in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan, Vasai-Virar and Panvel. The fare for share autos and taxis will also rise by a rupee (minimum Rs 8 for autos will increase to Rs 9 per passenger), although they are not permitted now as per Covid norms. When asked whether the hike will pinch the common man’s pocket who is still reeling under the effects of the Covid-induced lockdown, Parab said the transport department has tried to extend relief to most sectors like a rebate in road tax for commercial vehicles, but taxi and auto drivers did not get any relief. “Since they are also a part of our workforce we have to extend relief to them as well,” he said. State transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne said the electronic meters will have to be recalibrated, and it will be done in phases. “Only vehicles with recalibrated meters can charge the new fare. The entire process will take up to three months and by the first week of June, almost every auto and taxi will display revised fares on the meter,” he added. This means, there could be long queues of autos-taxis at RTOs for the stamp and seal on meters, and repairers will also make a ‘quick buck’ this season, sources said. Several citizens were not happy with the fare hike. “This is yet another price hike for Mumbaikars after the recent increase in petrol, diesel, CNG, LPG and domestic piped gas rates. Why is the government burdening us with these hikes?” asked Vaishnavi Krishnan, who regularly commutes by auto from her home to Thane station. Mumbai Autorickshawmen’s Union leader Shashank Rao, while welcoming the hike, said the government should also provide financial assistance to drivers hit hard due to the lockdown. A L Quadros from Mumbai Taximen’s Union said several drivers will get relief as the hike will “increase their earnings”. His union had twice demanded a minimum fare of Rs 25. According to a transport expert, the fare hike could lead to a drop in ridership of autos and taxis in Mumbai if commuters have second thoughts on paying 14-16% more fares. This could also increase ridership in the red buses, he added. At present, the BEST bus is the cheapest mode of transport which offers a ride up to 5 km for just Rs 5. “In an AC bus, the same ride would be for Rs 6 as compared to Rs 70 in an auto if revised fare is taken into account,” said Yogesh Khare, who commutes by train, and then takes an auto or bus daily to work at Andheri. “People would not mind waiting for a bus than pay 16% more to auto driver for daily travel,” he said. “Citizens need affordable public transport and it is not advisable to hike fares at this time when everyone has gone through the worst financial crisis during the pandemic,” said activist Gaurang Vora. Navbharatiya Shiv Vahtuk Sanghatana (BJP) union leader Maqbool Mujawar agreed that there could be slight drop in ridership initially, but pointed out that many people were dependent on autos for ‘faster dispersal’ from station areas and drops passengers on their doorstep unlike BEST buses. Meanwhile, the MMRTA was also considering freezing permits for both autos and taxis so that there is a cap on the number of vehicles on the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/auto-cab-base-fares-hiked-by-rs-3-in-mmr/articleshow/81162511.cms||Somit Sen
February 23, 2021||Goa||Polls to CCP, 11 municipal councils on March 20: SEC Goa||PANAJI: The state election commission has said that elections to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) and 11 municipal councils will take place on March 20. Over 2.5 lakh voters will help political parties gauge the ground situation ahead of next year’s assembly polls. The last local election, to the zilla panchayat, showed that rural Goa overwhelmingly supports BJP. It’s now the turn of urban voters to make their choices known — while the March 20 elections won’t be contested on party lines, political bigwigs will field their panels. The biggest of these is Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate, who recently announced his panel, which includes his son Rohit. He has vowed to win all 30 seats for BJP, which he joined in 2019. TOI was first to report that the elections would be held on March 20. The day will also see the byelection to ward IX of Sakhali municipal council, 22 wards of different village panchayats, and another byelection to the Navelim ZP seat. In total, around 3.5 lakh electors — almost 25% of the state’s population — will vote. This will be in addition to CCP and all municipalites except Sakhali and Ponda. Meanwhile, state election commissioner Chokha Ram Garg told reporters that counting will be held on March 22. Filing of nominations will begin on February 25. “The model code of conduct has come into force with immediate effect only in those areas where elections are scheduled,” he said, adding that sensitive booths would be finalised by returning officers along with police. While voting will be held from 8am to 5pm, the last one hour (4pm to 5pm) will be for Covid-positive patients to vote. Garg said that standard operating procedures will be followed due to the pandemic. Chief minister Pramod Sawant told TOI that BJP-supported panels would form councils in all municipalities. “I am confident that BJP-backed panels will win the municipal polls,” he said. Congress, meanwhile, has decided to forge alliances with non-BJP parties like GFP, MGP and others. “Wherever possible, we will have alliances to defeat the ruling dispensation,” said leader of opposition Digambar Kamat. Last week, GFP president Vijai Sardesai announced that his party would field panels in Pernem, Mapusa and Margao, and that he is in touch with the leader of opposition who has agreed to an informal tie-up for the civil polls. Observers say that BJP, after its ZP success, will work hard to carry on the momentum, while the polls will also be a test for other parties that want to make their presence felt in electoral politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/polls-to-ccp-11-municipal-councils-on-march-20-sec/articleshow/81161885.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: ‘TPAs are only facilitators, can’t reject mediclaims’||VADODARA: Did a third-party administrator (TPA) reject your insurance claim or deduct money from your claim amount under some or the other clause? Well, you may now hold the TPA responsible for going beyond its role and taking arbitrary action by rejecting your claim. Recently, in at least half-a-dozen cases, the consumer court ruled in favour of the insured person just because the TPA had rejected their claim, citing the regulations of Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Third Party Administrators - Health Services) Regulations, 2016 The Vadodara district consumer disputes redressal forum (additional) referred to regulation 3(2) of the rules which stated that ‘TPA shall not reject or repudiate any of the claims directly’ and ‘shall not directly make payments in respect of the claims.’ In at least six instances, the court has stated that the TPA has no authority to reject the claims yet they went against the regulations and acted. “According to us, the rejection of claims by TPA is illegal and against the provisions of the regulations, so their stand is inadmissible,” the court has stated in the judgements. “The TPA’s role is to conduct an internal investigation of a claim and propose its findings whether to pay the amount and if it is to be paid then how much amount is to be paid to the insurance company. The final decision must be from the insurance company on the claims,” said Akhil Dave, a practicing consumer lawyer. He added that whatever the court has pointed out is correct. “Even if TPA is rejecting the claim or deducting the amount it has to communicate on the letterhead of the insurance company which is not happening,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/tpas-are-only-facilitators-cant-reject-mediclaims/articleshow/81157677.cms||Jay Pachchigar
February 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat chief secretary Anil Mukim gets rare second extension||GANDHINAGAR: In a decision which is unprecedented in the state, Gujarat chief secretary (CS) Anil Mukim has been granted a second extension of six months. The decision comes days before his first six-month extension concludes by the end of this month. “I am thankful to both the central and state governments for providing me the opportunity and responsibility to further serve the state. It will further give me time to focus on implementing priority schemes and policies of the state and central government,’’ Mukim told TOI. Mukim was appointed as chief secretary in November 2019 while serving as secretary in the government of India. With his superannuation scheduled for August 2020, it was expected that he will be given a six-month extension to ensure a reasonable tenure as the chief secretary. However, he earned a rare second extension as chief secretary owing to his contribution in controlling spread of the Covid-19 pandemic and providing objective and positive leadership to the state bureaucracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chief-secy-anil-mukim-gets-rare-second-extension/articleshow/81160244.cms||Kapil Dave
February 23, 2021||Agra||Youth Congress workers protest against the fuel price hike, organize Budhi-Shudhi Yagya||AGRA: A group of Indian Youth Congress (IYC) activists staged a demonstration at Deewani crossing on Monday against the rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas. They demanded the government to roll back the hike. Protestors claimed that they will launch an indefinite strike if the government fails to reduce taxes on fuel. Youth congress leader Deepak Sharma said, “The increased prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders makes it clear that the Modi government is not concerned about the problems of the common people.” “Ever since the pandemic hit us, businesses were badly affected, people lost their jobs and suffered salary cut. Price rise is making it difficult for the people to make ends meet. Petrol and diesel prices are increasing continuously despite the low price of crude oil in the international market,” he said. District president of Youth Congress Hemant Chahar said, “We organized a ‘Bhudhi Shudhi Yagya’ to mark our protest against the increasing fuel prices. We pray that the government withdraws the hike.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/youth-congress-workers-protest-against-the-fuel-price-hike-organize-budhi-shudhi-yagya/articleshow/81158812.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Now, access birth, death certificates on GHMC portal||Secunderabad: Now, with just a click you can access your birth and death certificates on the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) portal. Reason, digitization of data pertaining to birth and death certificates in five GHMC circles under Secunderabad zone. Around 25 outsourcing persons are busy in feeding the data digitising it. Recently, the civic body decided to hand over the responsibility of issuing the birth and death certificates through ‘Mee Seva’ centres across the city, instead of obtaining them at Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s citizen service centres. “We are uploading the data of birth and death certificates to those claimed and unclaimed in the five Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation circles including, Secunderabad, Begumpet, Musheerabad, Amberpet and Malkajgiri under Secunderabad zone dating from 2018 and 2019. The current year’s data has been already uploaded,” a senior Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation-Secunderabad zone official told TOI. The data ranges from around 50,000 birth and death certificates of three years, added the official. The process of uploading the data will be completed on Wednesday and all residents will have access, replied the official. Recently, the civic body decided to hand over the responsibility of issuing birth and death certificates through ‘Mee Seva’ centres across the city||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-access-birth-death-certificates-on-ghmc-portal/articleshow/81160223.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||35-year-old daily wager dies after wall collapses on him||Rudrapur: A 35-year-old daily wager died after a wall collapsed on him at a construction site in Pantnagar industrial area in Udham Singh Nagar district on Monday afternoon. He was rushed to the hospital but was pronounced dead by the doctors. The deceased was identified as Guddu Kumar, a native of Banjariya village of Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. According to Surendra Singh, in-charge of the industrial area police outpost, Kumar had moved to Transit Camp in 2019 seeking employment in the industrial area and lived in a rented accommodation in the area. “He could not find a permanent job and started working as a daily wage worker. On Monday, he was hired by a pharmaceutical company located in Pantnagar for removing debris at the under construction site in the company premises. While working, a wall collapsed upon him and he suffered grievous injuries. He succumbed to his injuries before reaching hospital,” said Singh. “The body has been sent for postmortem. We are investigating the death. So far, no case has been lodged in this regard,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/35-year-old-daily-wager-dies-after-wall-collapses-on-him/articleshow/81158807.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Man who killed Delhi teen for refusing marriage nabbed||NEW DELHI: Three days after a 17-year-old girl, Neetu, was bludgeoned to death by a man after she turned down his marriage proposal, the accused, Laik Khan, was arrested from Hardoi district in Uttar Pradesh. Khan was known to the family and had threatened to kill the girl if she did not marry him. Last Friday, he reached her house and sent out her cousin, Kaushal, to get chicken for dinner. He then murdered her with a hammer. When Kaushal returned, he saw Khan locking the house and running away with the hammer in his hand. Neetu was hit at least a dozen times on her head and face and died on the spot. Laik KhanDCP (Rohini) PK Mishra said, “Four teams were camping at his house in his native place Hardoi. On Monday, they spotted him and took him into custody. The team will reach Delhi by midnight. The murder weapon is yet to be recovered.” An investigating officer said Khan fled on a motorcycle and later tried to take shelter at a relative’s house, who did not allow him. He stayed for a day in the open and tried to conceal his identity. “Someone told him to flee to Nepal, which is why he reached his village. However, his house was locked as his parents were away,” added the officer. During interrogation, Khan told police that he came to know about Neetu’s wedding being planned with someone else. This enraged him, so he killed her. This claim is yet to be verified. Kaushal said, “I had gone to my sister’s house around 5pm on Friday. Laik had come there to talk to her. For the past 2-3 months, he had been pressuring her to marry him, but she ignored his proposals and told him that she considered him just a friend. “Around 6pm, he handed over Rs 200 and asked me to bring chicken and veggies as he would eat dinner there. When I returned around 7.45pm, I saw Laik locking the door and hurriedly leaving with a hammer. I shouted out to him, but he just left,” added Kaushal. The girl’s cousin then called Neetu and heard her phone ringing inside. By then, Rani, the girl’s mother, also reached there. They broke open the door with the help of a hammer borrowed from a neighbour and saw Neetu lying in a pool of blood with injuries on her face and head. “We rushed her to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital in a neighbour’s car, but doctors declared her dead on arrival. Khan used to come home and even stay there. He used to do this as she had turned down his marriage proposal. Neetu had told her mother about this on Friday too,” said Kaushal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-who-killed-teen-for-refusing-marriage-nabbed/articleshow/81160384.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Accused Kunta Srinivas’ supporters stage protest||Hyderabad: Supporters of former TRS party mandal president Kunta Srinivas, who has been arrested in connection with the double murder of an advocate couple, have come out in support of Srinivas. Having maintained a studied silence since the crime was committed on February 17, supporters of Srinivas came out in the open raising slogans in his support on Sunday night. In Gunjapadugu village in Manthani mandal of Peddapalli district, the group expressed support for their leader by shouting ‘Kunta Srinivas Zindabad’. The group also raised slogans against victim Gattu Vaman Rao, who was hacked to death.  Srinivas was among the four people who were arrested in the crime. The TRS has since suspended Srinivas from the party. Police arrested Srinivas and two others, Shivandula Chiranjeevi and Akkapaka Kumar, on February 18. Another person, Bittu Srinivas, was also held. Those who came out in support of Srinivas mainly belonged to the same caste as Srinivas’ in his village Gunjapadugu. Some of the protestors alleged that advocate Vaman Rao had prevented developmental work from being undertaken in the village. “Officials were also hesitant of entering the village as Vaman Rao would warn them that he would approach the court to get the works stopped,” they alleged. They said that because of this reason, there was no development of the school, temple and panchayat.  “We request the police and the authorities to not harass innocent people of our village while investigating the murders of the advocate couple,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/accused-kunta-srinivas-supporters-stage-protest/articleshow/81160233.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||58-year-old man shot dead in US Nagar||Rudrapur: A 58-year-old man was shot dead near his house in Ajitpur village of Pulbhatta town in Udham Singh Nagar district late on Sunday night. He was found outside his house lying in a pool of blood when his son reached out to see him on Monday morning. Subsequently, senior police officers went to the spot along with forensic experts to collect evidence. The victim has been identified as Gangaram Rathore, a tractor-trolley driver. The body was later sent for postmortem examination. SHO of the Pulbhatta police station, Vinod Joshi, said that there was a bullet mark on his neck.  “Prima facie, it seems that he was shot at midnight. We have come to know that he had an enmity with another villager whose tractor-trolley was seized by the police on his complaint. However, we are investigating the case from several angles, including family matters,” said SHO Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/58-year-old-man-shot-dead-in-us-nagar/articleshow/81158815.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Ex-mandal parishad prez killed||Hyderabad: A former mandal parishad president was killed by few persons following an argument in Vikarabad district on Monday. Vikarabad police said that P Veerappa was killed by few persons at Peddemul following an argument with P Venkatesh and few others. On Monday morning, Veerappa and his brother met Venkatesh and his associates to settle a pending dispute on the issue of procuring sand. During the heated argument, Veerappa was attacked with stones on his head and was brutally murdered. He was declared dead when shifted to a nearby hospital. Police have registered a case under section 302 (murder) of the IPC. Venkatesh and few others were taken into custody. tnN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-mandal-parishad-prez-killed/articleshow/81160245.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Bad roads: Govt not fixing responsibilities||Jaipur: The state government is slow in fixing responsibilities of contractors and government officials for poor condition of roads that often lead to accidents. The Motor Vehicle (amendment) Act, 2019, states that a competent authority/body should be held responsible for accidents/incidents due to structural failure and delay in maintenance of roads. The city authorities are yet to fix responsibility for the incident in which a road caved-in taking a moving auto-rickshaw down with it near the Chomu House Circle a fortnight ago. The January 23 incident had hogged national limelight, but accountability has been fixed on none. No casualty was reported since it happened at the night with very less traffic. VS Sunda, director engineer-II of JDA, confirmed they had not filed a case related to the incident. “The sanitation line 20 feet below the road leaked leading to the collapse of the road,” said Sunda. The city has 74 blind spots that remain uncorrected for the last two years. The blind spots had been identified by the transport department, but no accountability has been fixed on why these spots appeared in the first place and why they have not been corrected yet. The non-compliance of the provision is contributing to more accident prone areas, say experts. Transport commissioner Ravi Jain was not available for comments on the issue. “The amendment made in the Act is revolutionary. For decades, commuter behaviour has been considered the main source of accidents, but now the engineering fault has been added as supplementary and sometimes the main reason behind the accidents. Its implementation is very important to reduce the accidents in the state,” said Neha Khullar, consultant, road safety cell, transport department. The Act said while investigating any accidental case, the engineering faculty also to be taken into account. The factors which fall under the engineering fault are road design and speed management system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bad-roads-govt-not-fixing-responsibilities/articleshow/81160252.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana cops head to Bengal to nab passport scamsters||HYDERABAD: Telangana police teams will go to West Bengal to nab absconding accused, Sameer, who is the main agent acting between Bangladeshi clients and Bodhan-based recruitment agent, Parimal Bain. Apart from Sameer, police have also launched a manhunt to nab two others, including a ticketing agent from Mumbai and a visa provider based in Iraq. According to police, Parimal got clients from Shahnaj Pail alias Sabuj of Fataipur village in Nadia district of West Bengal. Police arrested Shahnaj and he confessed to have provided flight tickets for the people referred to him by Sameer to travel abroad after they obtain Indian passports through Parimal. “Shahnaj arranged flight tickets through his Mumbai-based associate Sadham Hussain and visas for the clients were arranged by Sameer through Manoj, a West Bengal native in Iraq,” said an investigator from RGI Airport police station. Police have now launched a manhunt to nab Sameer, Sadham Hussain and Manoj. On interrogation, Parimal , 31, said that he is a native of Goalgram village in Magura district of Bangladesh. The other three Bangladeshis —Nitai Das alias Sanjib Dutta, a native of Durgapur village in Comilla district, Mohammed Rana Mia alias Sandip Mondal and Mohammed Hasibur Rehman alias Ramu Das, both natives of Nagosha village in Bangladesh. Police will write to MEA about the accused to verify their claims through Bangladesh embassy. Parimal, who used to collect Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 from each client, used to share part of his earnings with police personnel, who clear the verification process and MeeSeva employee, Mateen Ahmed Mirza, for changing the client’s Aadhaar address to Bodhan based on rental agreements arranged by Parimal. “Special teams are working to identify other accused,” Cyberabad CP VC Sajjanar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cops-head-to-bengal-to-nab-passport-scamsters/articleshow/81160248.cms||Mahesh Buddi
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||Home minister Amit Shah gives in-principle approval for Glacier and Water Resources Centre in U’khand||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat met Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Monday and gave him an update on the ongoing relief and rescue operations in Chamoli district following the February 7 natural disaster, which has left 204 people either dead or missing. During the meeting, the CM requested the home minister for establishing a Glacier and Water Resources Research Centre in the state and asked for a helicopter to monitor the disaster-prone areas in remote areas in far flung belts of the state and the international borders. Shah gave in-principle approval for the requests made by the chief minister, a communique from the CM’s office said. In the meeting, Shah said that the cCentral agencies, state government and local administration acted with proper co-ordination in the rescue and relief operations in Chamoli district. Besides, the Army, ITBP, NDRF, and SDRF not only carried out search and rescue operations but also provided relief in the disaster-hit villages, he added. To encourage and promote tourism and other economic activities, CM Rawat asked the home minister to lift the regulations relating to inner line permit in Niti Valley (Chamoli) and in Nelong Valley (Uttarkashi). The CM said that the move will also help in better management of border areas.  In view of disaster management and border management, he also sought approval to establish an India Reserve Battalion at Gairsain. CM said that a special team, equipped with anti-drone technology, must be deployed in the upcoming Kumbh. Further, in an effort to make the state police more effective and modern, the CM said that there is a need to provide an additional Rs 20 crore-to-Rs 25 crore in the budget for state police modernisation scheme. CM Rawat also requested Shah to exempt the amount of Rs 36.46 crore that is chargeable for the deployment of security forces in the state from time to time. On the lines of North East states and Special Category states, CM Rawat asked for a 90:10 share ratio between the Centre and Uttarakhand for projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/home-minister-amit-shah-gives-in-principle-approval-for-glacier-and-water-resources-centre-in-ukhand/articleshow/81158819.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Petrol bunks yield prisons dept Rs 550 cr||Hyderabad: The turnover of the prisons department is Rs 600 crore per year, of which Rs 550 crore is from sale of petrol from the outlets it runs in different districts in Telangana. Director General of Prisons, Rajiv Trivedi, who inaugurated the 25th ‘My Nation’ fuel outlet of the prisons department in Jangaon, said the aim of the prisons department was to rehabilitate released prisoners. “When they are released after completing their term in jail, people hesitate to employ them. In that scenario, a prisoner who has been released may be pushed into crime again to earn his living. This is what we want to prevent,” Rajiv Trivedi said. Of the total turnover of the prisons department, Rs 50 crore comes from sales of other products that are manufactured in the jails. Last year, at the Central Prison in Cherlapalli, huge quantities of handwash, hand sanitisers, masks and other protective equipment were also manufactured and sold. “The prisons department has a social responsibility to also see that released prisoners do not go back to a life of crime. It is to ensure that employment opportunities are created for them at the petrol bunks that the department has opened,” the director general of prisons said. Rajiv Trivedi added that the Jangaon district administration had allocated land by the side of a highway for the prisons department to open a petrol bunk. He also urged collectors of other districts to respond to the request of the department to provide land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/petrol-bunks-yield-prisons-dept-rs-550-cr/articleshow/81160253.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 23, 2021||Agra||Criminal wanted for cop’s murder held after encounter||Agra: In a joint operation, STF and Agra police arrested a wanted criminal who had allegedly run over and killed a 24-year-old police constable, Sonu Chaudhary, after he tried to stop a tractor-trolley laden with illegally-mined river sand near UP-Rajasthan border in November last year. The accused, Gabbar, was carrying a cash reward of Rs 50,000 and was arrested after being injured in an encounter with police. Till now, 11 people have been arrested in the constable murder case. One is still absconding. Talking with TOI, SP (Agra west) Satyajeet Gupta, said that acting on a tip-off about the movement of the suspect, police started checking vehicles near Navab Basai police station. When the policemen tried to stop two bike-borne men, they tried to flee but their motorcycle slipped. The duo fired on the police in a bid to escape but one of them, Gabbar, got injured in the retaliatory firing by the police and was arrested. However, his associate, Ravi Singh, managed to escape. Gupta added that Ravi will soon be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/criminal-wanted-for-cops-murder-held-after-encounter/articleshow/81158818.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Trichy||Man beaten to death by girlfriend’s brother in Tamil Nadu||TRICHY: A 23-year-old man was beaten to death by the elder brother of his girlfriend in Pudukottai district on Monday. The deceased has been identified as M Nallaiah from Balan Nagar near Sethuraman Viduthi. He was working at a bakery in Coimbatore and came home on leave. According to police, he was in love with a girl from Balan Nagar over the last five years. Nallaiah went to her girlfriend’s place on Sunday evening. Meanwhile, her elder brother Prabu, 25, who came home was shocked to see Nallaiah talking with his sister there. Prabhu had earlier warned Nallaiah to keep away from his sister. He lost his cool and picked up a quarrel with Nallaiah. A fight ensued, and Nallaiah sustained multiple injuries and became unconscious. Prabhu called Nallaiah’s mother Kamatchi and asked her to take him home. Kamatchi took Nallaiah to a hospital in an ambulance but he was declared brought dead by doctors. Based on a complaint from Kamatchi, the Thirukokarnam police arrested Prabhu. An investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-beaten-to-death-by-girlfriends-brother/articleshow/81160250.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||President Ram Nath Kovind to be chief guest at CUG convocation today||President Ram Nath Kovind will be the chief guest at the third convocation of Gandhinagar-based Central University of Gujarat (CUG) on Tuesday evening. The event will be held at Mahatma Mandir. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal will also attend the convocation where 244 degrees including 73 PhDs will be awarded. GNLU holds workshop on digital literacy GNLU’s Centre for Women and Child Rights organized a workshop on Digital Literacy and Online Safety. Janice Varghese, a speaker at the event, said that application permissions are often overlooked by users. “One must also understand concepts of digital footprints, cybercrime and ways of redress,” she said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/president-to-be-chief-guest-at-cug-convocation-today/articleshow/81160274.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||12k villages in Uttarakhand to be connected under BharatNet Project 2.0||DEHRADUN: The central government approved the BharatNet Phase II project in Uttarakhand on Monday. Under the ambitious project, as many as 12,000 villages of the Himalayan state would be connected with the internet. On Monday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat met Union information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in New Delhi. During the meeting, both the leaders agreed to strengthen the digital connectivity on the Char Dham route. Besides, the Union minister gave his consent for coming up with a detailed project to strengthen the internet connectivity in the border areas. Notably, Uttarakhand shares a 350-km-long border with China and around a 275-km-long border with Nepal. The CM also urged the Union minister to implement the ‘India Enterprise Architecture’ project in Uttarakhand on priority. Referring to the difficult geographical and critical strategic situation of Uttarakhand and its vulnerability to disasters, Rawat said that the implementation of Bharatnet Project within the set time frame was very important. In order to avoid unnecessary delays in the project, administrative and financial approval should be given at the earliest, he added. The CM said that Uttarakhand should also be included in the ‘India Enterprise Architecture’ project so that the functioning of departments like agriculture, health, education can be digitised statewide. Later in the day, Rawat met Union minister of civil aviation and urban development Hardeep Singh Puri. On the request of the CM, the Union minister said that under the Udan scheme, Dehradun-Pithoragarh-Hindon route and Sahastradhara-Chinyalisaur-Gauchar route be re-tendered for regularisation of air services. Puri also approved the inclusion of all big and small cities of Uttarakhand in the Jal Jeevan Mission. The Union minister said that expert services will be provided from the Airports Authority of India to make Pantnagar greenfield airport an international standard facility. A survey of the Nainisaini airstrip in Pithoragarh district would also be conducted by the Airports Authority of India. Rawat further requested for the change of route in Kumaon and Garhwal divisions under the Udan scheme, which the Union Minister agreed to. In addition, Puri also gave his approval on the state aircraft B-200 being given on dry lease to an NSOP service provider. For works proposed under Swachh Bharat Mission 2.0, the CM requested to approve 90% funding from the Centre for Uttarakhand. Rawat said that out of the 15 Ganga cities of Uttarakhand, only Haridwar is currently covered under the AMRUT scheme. CM Rawat said that under the Swachh Bharat Mission, 35% viability gap funding is allowed for solid waste management. In view of the difficult conditions and limited resources of Uttarakhand, 90% financial aid from the Centre should be considered, he said. Also, proposals for legacy wastes for cities with less than one lakh population should be approved, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/12k-villages-in-ukhand-to-be-connected-under-bharatnet-project-2-0/articleshow/81158824.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 23, 2021||Trichy||MLA launches rising sun campaign in Karur||Trichy: Karur district in-charge of DMK V Senthil Balaji on Monday started Illamthorum Udayasuriyan (rising sun in every home) campaign for the assembly election. Kick-starting his poll campaign from Karur assembly segment in Karur district, he said the campaign will be extended to rest of the three-assembly segments in the coming days. Balaji said that he himself will make door-to-door visits in all the 1,032 polling booths in four constituencies in the district and explain the shameful rule of AIADMK. Asked if he would shift to Karur constituency from Aravakurichi from where he is the sitting MLA, he said he will contest election from the constituency the party leader asks him to contest. He also said that when chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had expressed confidence of winning all the four-assembly segments with a margin of 50,000 votes during his campaign in the district on Sunday, most of the crowd had left the venue by then. “Mass gathering for public rally of DMK is a reflection of support for our campaigns. Winning all the four constituencies with a margin of 50,000 votes was something I had said six months back. CM is now making this announcement with empty chairs,” Balaji said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mla-launches-rising-sun-campaign-in-karur/articleshow/81160254.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Rajkot||Six eunuchs booked for assault on transgender artist||Rajkot: The police on Monday registered an FIR against six eunuchs and one autorickshaw driver for alleged kidnapping and thrashing of transgender artist Payal Rathwa in Rajkot. Last week a group of eunuchs had allegedly abducted Rathwa along with his friend and stripped them in public. They had also thrashed them, besides recording their act on a mobile phone. Rathwa, who was traumatised because of the incident, did not come out of her house for three days, before finally approaching the police for help. In her complaint, Rathwa has also stated that the accused made the video of the incident viral on the social media. Those booked by police include Kapil, the auto-rickshaw driver and members of eunuch community — Bhavikade, Nikitade, Gopide, Anjlide, Pinalde and Mirade allies Fatakdi. They were booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 365 (kidnapping), 452 (house trespass), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentionally insult). The Malaviya Nagar police also booked the seven accused under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the IT Act. On Monday, a group of eunuchs who had created ruckus at Malaviya Nagar police station on Saturday while the cops were recording Rathwa’s statement, again approached the police station. They were accompanied by senior members of their community. They also recorded a video inside the police station where the members are heard appealing to people not to show ‘sympathy’ towards Rathwa. They alleged that Rathwa was trying to get undue publicity through social media and she was a fake eunuch. They also submitted an application requesting the police to withdraw the FIR against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-eunuchs-booked-for-assault-on-transgender-artist/articleshow/81157706.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Trichy||BDU to conduct exams for students with arrear papers||Trichy: Bharathidasan University (BDU) has announced the dates for supplementary exams. While the state government’s decision granting all pass to the students with arrears is in review by the high court, the university has asked 58,000 students to make use of the opportunity to improve their scores.BDU has announced the examination for students of affiliated colleges and asked to register for the same by paying Rs 50. However, they will not be asked to pay any other fee as the students had registered themselves in 2020 for the examination scheduled in April 2020. The examination was cancelled due to pandemic. Subsequently, students were declared all pass in their arrear papers by the state government. “The decision of the state government was challenged in the high court and the case is pending. The university has decided to not wait for the verdict and provide early relief to the students,” said S Srinivasaragavan, controller of examination, BDU. “Students who were declared pass in their arrear exams were given minimum pass marks. Supplementary examination is an opportunity for the students to improve their scores which will eventually help increase their overall percentage. Secondly, students will get marks after appearing for the examination. Many students have applied for jobs overseas. There may be a question in the future if the arrear papers are cleared without appearing for the examination,” he said. On the protest from a section of students for collecting arrear exam fee, the CoE said, “We are just asking students to register themselves by paying Rs 50. There is no other fee as the opportunity is given to only those students who had registered for the exams by paying the fee in early 2020.” It is mandatory for the students to register for the exams again and Tuesday is the last date. The examination for UG students will start on Wednesday and PG students will appear from March 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-to-conduct-exams-for-students-with-arrear-papers/articleshow/81160249.cms||Sampath Kumar
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Stop behaving like aliens, divide staff: HC tells T, AP Inter boards||Hyderabad: Coming down heavily on top officials of Boards of Intermediate Education of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh for not evincing interest in the division of employees, Telangana high court on Monday described them as selfish persons who are only bothered about their salaries and perks. “You do not do anything and wait for a court order in every case. You cannot behave like aliens,” the court said, A bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Vinod Kumar said, “You have not done anything for the last six-and-a-half years. You are enjoying your life without showing any concern for the struggling employees who are fighting to get themselves allocated to one of the states.” The bench made critical remarks on the top authorities of the Intermediate boards of both states while hearing a five-year-old petition filed by three superintendents of the board — S Savitri, K Venkateswar Rao and G Venkat Rao —questioning the delay in dividing the employees between both the boards. They lamented that the modalities for distributing the employees have not been finalised till now though they are bound by section 82 of the AP Reorganisation Act. “We are fed up with your inaction. You want the HC to decide every case. There are nearly 100 common institutions in the Ninth and Tenth Schedules. You want the court to decide each one of them,” the bench said censuring both the boards. Appearing for Telangana, its counsel Radhive Reddy sought three months to complete the process and reminded the bench that the court gave the same amount of time in the case of division of employees of another common organisation. The bench also found fault with the experimentation being done by both boards keeping at stake the lives of their own staff. “Your actions are emotionless and it is high time you stopped behaving like aliens,” the bench told both the boards. The bench warned the boards that it would impose costs on them and reserved its judgment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stop-behaving-like-aliens-divide-staff-hc-tells-t-ap-inter-boards/articleshow/81160267.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Agra||Rs 100 cr each for tourism in Varanasi, Ayodhya, zero for pandemic-hit tourism industry in Agra||Agra: The UP government’s decision to allocate Rs 100 crore each for the development and beautification of tourism facilities in Ayodhya and Varanasi and “ignoring” the Taj city — hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic — has left professionals and gig workers dejected. “We were expecting some relief in the budget, but it seems the city of Taj has lost importance for the present regime,” said Tourism Guild of Agra vice-president Rajiv Saxena, adding that everyone in the tourism industry is “shocked and shattered”. “It’s unbelievable that the government has ignored tourism in Agra, which is often called as the tourism capital of India,” said Saxena accusing the BJP government of ignoring the city ever since it came to power in 2017. Echoing similar views, Agra Tourists Welfare Chamber president Prahlad Agarwal told TOI: “The state government has again neglected Agra in its budget despite knowing that the city’s economy is largely based on tourism, which is badly hit by the Covid-19 pandemic.” The tourism industry inAgra city alone accounts for nearly 5 lakh employees engaged in hotels, restaurants, emporiums and handicraft shops, while a large number of photographers, guides and taxi drivers rely on it for their livelihood, said Agarwal. “We don’t mind the government's decision to promotes other cities, but they should not ignore Agra, which is known internationally,” said Agarwal, adding that a civil airport in Agra has been a long pending demand, but again no budgetary allocation was made for it. “The government has allocated a budget of Rs 2,000 crore for an airport in Jewar, while a small fraction of it could have made the much needed Agracivil airport possible,” said Sunil Gupta, chairperson of North Indian Association of Tour Operators. “The government’s focus is clearly on religious tourism, but there is a need for a balanced approach towards cultural and adventure tourism, too.” Approved Tourists Guide Association president Shamsuddin Khan said, “It seems that the state government will allocate a budget for the Taj city only when the Taj Mahal becomes 'Tejomahalaya' and Agra 'Agravan'.” “Last year, in an advertisement released on World Tourism Day to promote tourism in the state, UNESCO World Heritage site the Taj Mahal was missing. It reflects that the city is not on the government’s priority list,” said Khan, adding that the government must think about the people directly or indirectly connected with the tourism industry rather than taking a different course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rs-100-cr-each-for-tourism-in-varanasi-ayodhya-zero-for-pandemic-hit-tourism-industry-in-agra/articleshow/81158872.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 23, 2021||Trichy||Crop, edu loan waiver was DMK’s idea, says K N Nehru||Trichy/Madurai: Participating in the demonstrations against fuel price hike organised by the DMK in Trichy on Monday, party principal secretary K N Nehru criticized chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for ‘being a copycat’ in following the plans of the DMK regarding the crop loan waiver to gain political mileage. He said that DMK president M K Stalin was the one who promised waiver for crop loans, self-help group loans and education loans once voted to power. “Our district secretaries and functionaries wanted the announcements to figure in the election manifesto. The state government got a wind of it and is calling it as its assurance.” The DMK Trichy south district organized the demonstration near Anna statue at Chinthamani. DMK south district secretary Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi and others also participated. North and Central district secretaries Kaduvetti Thiagarajan and K Vairamani also organised the demonstration near Trichy collector office. They raised slogans against the state and central governments over the fuel price hike. A two-wheeler mounted on a bullock cart was demonstrated to mark the exorbitant price hike of petrol, diesel and LPG. On MNM president Kamal Haasan’s comment on ‘feelers’ from the DMK for the alliance, Nehru said, “We did not say there is no chance. We had no idea whether he spoke. Our leader will only take a call on the alliance,” he said adding that separate teams would look into the preparation of the manifesto and the alliance talks. Meanwhile, DMK workers also staged protests against fuel price rise at Ambiga Theatre in Anna Nagar in Madurai city. A few hundred party workers took part in the protest led by former minister and DMK urban north district secretary Pon Muthuramalingam and urban south district secretary G Thalapathi. The protesters raised slogans against the state and central governments. They demanded immediate withdrawal of the price hike as it will push the price of essential commodities up. They threatened to intensify the protest if the duel price was not brought down. A large number of police personnel were deployed at the venue. Vehicles were diverted through other roads due to the protest. The CPM conducted a street corner meeting in the evening at Ponnagaram in protest against the fuel price hike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/crop-edu-loan-waiver-was-dmks-idea-says-k-n-nehru/articleshow/81160291.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Illicit relationship behind murder & suicide, say cops||Jaipur: Amber police have confirmed that complexities in an illicit relationship had led to the murder of a married woman in a hotel on Sunday. Killer Radhey Shyam, who was the woman’s paramour, was working at the garment factory run by the husband of the victim, Jyoti Chauhan, from their residence in 2019. After the murder, Shyam committed suicide by jumping in front of a train at Kanota. Police said since both of them died, the exact reason for the murder is very difficult to ascertain. They, however, are only relying on circumstantial evidence to find out. “The family of the woman has denied knowing anything about their relationship. We were told that the deceased had stopped using mobile for long and hardly went out of the house,” said SHO Amber Police station Shiv Narayan. The police are also trying to find out out why the woman’s family did not approach police since she left home at 11am on February 20. “The family told us that they were searching for her and were hopeful that she would reach home on her own,” Narayan said. The post mortem report has confirmed the cause of death due to strangulation. “The phone details are being examined to find out if any clues emerge that could solve the murder mystery,” said Narayan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/illicit-relationship-behind-murder-suicide-say-cops/articleshow/81160294.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Aurangabad||Man wanted for double murder ends life in Hingoli||Aurangabad: A 28-year-old man wanted by the Panvel police for allegedly murdering a woman and his daughter for turning down his marriage proposal was found hanging from a tree at Vaijapur village in Hingoli district on Sunday. Prakash More, hailing from Pehni village, close to the village where he committed suicide, was charged with committing the double-murder on February 18 in Dapoli, Panvel, and was on the run since then, said Hingoli police. Hingoli superintendent of police Rakesh Kalasagar said the accused wanted to marry Sujata (19), but her father Siddharth Balkhande had rejected his proposal citing that he was already married and that his wife had died while delivering a baby. The slain woman and her mother too hailed from Hingoli district and had moved to Panvel in search of work a few years back. The accused had recently shifted there and got acquainted with the family. According to the charges, on February 18, More proposed to marry Sujata but her father rejected it. He got violent and allegedly stabbed Sujata and her mother Surekha multiple times. When Balkhande tried to save his wife and daughter, the accused injured him and fled. The mother-daughter duo were declared brought dead on arrival in a nearby hospital. Balkhande had lodged a complaint against More.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-wanted-for-double-murder-ends-life-in-hingoli/articleshow/81160281.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||When British accused Nizam of apartheid||HYDERABAD: As black history month is observed in the USA and other countries, archival data reveals that the British had in the late 19th century accused the Nizam of Hyderabad of allowing apartheid or slavery in the princely state.  The black history month is observed from February 1 to March 1 every year in the USA and Canada to recognise the contribution of black people and give them importance in all spheres of life.  Documents available with the National Archives of India (NAI) on the correspondence between Charles B Saunders, then resident of the British in Hyderabad, and the secretary (foreign affairs) to the Government of India in 1870 and between the resident and the Salarjung, prime minister of Hyderabad reveal some interesting exchanges on the alleged slave system in the princely state. The correspondence was done by Salarjung as the Nizam VI, Mir Mahbub Ali Khan, was only four years old then. On November 13, 1870 the Salarjung wrote to the resident stating that “There is no doubt that some Africans do come with Arabs when the latter come from Arabia; but I do not know whether they come in the condition of slaves or freemen, because soon after coming into Hyderabad they are seen in the service of other masters. And therefore, I conclude that the rights of slavery are not exercised over them. Since I have assumed the administration, except one or two cases, I have not heard of any complaint from any African of oppression having been exercised on him, or any complaint touching slavery”. The correspondence between Charles Saunders and the secretary (foreign affairs) on November 30, 1870 reveals that it was EG Balfour, deputy inspector-general of hospitals, who had complained to the British government about the alleged slavery in Hyderabad. “Deputy Inspector-General of Hospitals EG Balfour, is perhaps not wholly misinformed when he state, that "every Arab, who comes to Hyderabad to "seek his fortune, or who returns from a visit to Arabia, brings with him one or " two Habshi (Abyssinian) slaves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/when-british-accused-nizam-of-apartheid/articleshow/81160286.cms||Syed Akbar
February 23, 2021||Bareilly||Smugglers fell 3 sal trees in PTR core forest, raising questions ondeployed officials & technology||Pilibhit: In a daring operation that was reported on Sunday evening by Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) sub-divisional forest officer (SDFO) Praveen Khare, smugglers illegally felled three sal trees in Compartment 9, the core forest area of Deuria south forest range. It has put in a spot the officer in-charge of Deuria forest range, V K Gupta, who already stands accused of colluding with illegal tree fellers and of inability to prevent massive illegal exploitation of forest produce from the core forest area. In fact, range officer Gupta and his field staff remained unaware of this illegal activity, despite the smugglers entering the forest with giant saws and cutting the trees into logs on spot. It raised big question marks about the intentions of the range officer-in-charge, as well as the utility of advanced M-STrIPES (monitoring system for tigers-intensive patrolling and ecological status) technology being used by the forest department during patrolling. Taking serious cognizance of the matter, chief conservator of forest (Bareilly zone) Lalit Verma said stern action will be taken against the careless forest personnel as the incident in the core forest area displayed extreme negligence of the range officer and the beat in-charge. Prior to this, a flying squad designated by the officiating field director of PTR, Javed Akhtar, had caught a tractor-trolley laden with long grass that had been mowed down from Deoria forest range. It should be mentioned here that as per laws applicable to a tiger reserve as promulgated by the National Tiger Conservation Authority, all activities related to the collection of any forest produce, felling of trees, fishing, hunting, etc., are strictly prohibited. Even the forest department is not authorised to carry out any such activity in the core area. In fact, no person except for authorised forest staff can enter the core area without valid permit of competent authority. Such activities are liable to cause immense disturbance to tiger habitats, and can force them to stray. SDFO Khare said the three felled trees had circumference of 1.0, 1.29 and 2.20 meter respectively. Assessment of their value was yet to be done, he said, adding that he had conducted a raid on the spot following a tip-off, upon which, the smugglers fled, leaving the timber and saws on spot, which were impounded. The range officer and the beat in-charge have been asked to explain, while a departmental case had been registered under appropriate sections of the Indian Forest Act and Wildlife Protection Act, said PTR deputy director Naveen Khandelwal. He expected the accused to be arrested by Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/smugglers-fell-3-sal-trees-in-ptr-core-forest-raising-questions-ondeployed-officials-technology/articleshow/81158837.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||150 contractual staff of Doon Hospital on strike, seeking permanent jobs||Dehradun: Over 150 nurses, paramedical staff and helpers at Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) sat on an indefinite strike demanding renewal of their contracts that will expire on February 28. These health care workers were appointed on contractual basis in March last year when Covid-19 hit the state and, now, with cases of coronavirus decreasing in the state, the government is all set to terminate their contracts. “We have supported the government in all possible ways, without thinking about our lives and families, rather than rewarding us with jobs, they are snatching away the same,” said Preetam, a staff nurse who was employed via Uttarakhand Purv Sainik Kalyan Nigam Limited (UPSKNL) at DGMC in March 2020. Deepak Kumar, another staffer, said that the government had recently issued a notification for recruitments of nurses in government medical colleges and hospitals in the state. “Most of the PRD and UPSKNL workers hired at GDMC in March 2020 were earlier working in private hospitals but have left their jobs in the hope that if they would serve the government in need and that they might be considered for full-time jobs keeping in view their work experience. We want that the government should consider us first when permanent recruitment notification is on,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/150-contractual-staff-of-doon-hospital-on-strike-seeking-permanent-jobs/articleshow/81158869.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||State record: 57.4k take jabs||Spurred by rumours, the state inched closer to the one million vaccination mark as it registered its highest single-day turnout (57,367) on Monday. In Mumbai, too, 93% of the daily target of 11,300, or 10,556, took the vaccine on Monday, reports Malathy Iyer. Since the drive began on January 16, over 9.8 lakh healthcare and frontline workers — 6.9 lakh and 2.9 lakh, respectively — have been vaccinated across the state. A senior health official said Monday’s higher turnout could be due to fear over the surge in cases. Moreover, there were rumours over the weekend that the state would stop offering the first shot of vaccine to healthcare workers this week. State immunisation officer Dr D Patil denied there was any deadline for the first shot. However, the Co-WIN app has stopped new registrations for healthcare workers; preparations are underway to start the third phase for people above 50 years and those with comorbidities since March 1. “Registrations are closed for healthcare workers, but it is on for frontline workers,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC’s executive health officer. On Monday, 32,132 healthcare workers and 25,235 frontline workers took the shots in Maharashtra. In the city, frontline workers (6,706) outstripped healthcare workers (3,850).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-record-57-4k-take-jabs/articleshow/81160365.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 23, 2021||Goa||Goa: DJ held for ‘vulgar’ comments on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj||PANAJI: A 32-year-old DJ has been arrested by Goa police for posting “vulgar” comments against Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj on social media. Police said Necellis Noronha from Siolim was arrested on Sunday after a complaint was lodged by Samarthan Sanghatana president Premanand Arolkar. In the complaint, Arolkar alleged that the post against Chhatrapati Shivaji on Facebook was vulgar, “thereby hurting the religious sentiments of the public”. Anjuna police registered a first information report (FIR) under Section 295 (A) IPC (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs). Police said Noronha is in their custody and would be produced before the court on Wednesday. Anjuna PSI Akshay Parsekar is investigating the case.  Earlier, Goa police had also registered complaints against many people for hurting religious sentiments or for vandalising religious structures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dj-held-for-vulgar-comments-on-shivaji/articleshow/81161919.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Intensified Mission Indradhanush launched for vaccinating kids||JAIPUR: Intensified Mission Indradhanush (IMI) was launched from Bhilwara on Monday with an aim of achieving 100% per cent immunization target in the state. Health minister Raghu Sharma, while launching the state-level campaign at the Community Centre at Bapu Nagar in Bhilwara, said that the intention of the state government is that no pregnant woman and child below the age of two years is deprived of vaccination. टीकाकरण का मिशन इन्द्रधनुष-3.0 अभियान के प्रथम चरण का आज शुभारंभ किया। 15 दिन तक चलने वाले मिशन इन्द्रधनुष-3.0 के त… https://t.co/VW2OM0JvQJ— Dr. Raghu Sharma (@RaghusharmaINC) 1613974787000Intensified Mission Indradhanush has been launched with an aim to reach the unreached population with all the available vaccines under Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) and thereby accelerate the full immunization and complete immunization coverage of children and pregnant women. Sharma said that this phase of Mission Indradhanush was launched in 24 districts from Monday. In the next 15 days, pregnant women and children below 2 years who were not immunized will be identified and will be vaccinated under the mission. He said that this work will be started again in the next phase from March 22. Sharma addressing the function said that immunization is important for pregnant women and children for preventing them from diseases. The health department acknowledged that the pace of immunization became slow during the Covid-19 period, but the state government has made better infrastructure in health services due to which the pace of vaccination is being increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mission-launched-for-vaccinating-kids/articleshow/81160341.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Youth held for ‘killing’ aunt at engagement||Kalyan: A 21-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly firing at his mother and an aunt in Kalyan late on Sunday during an engagement party. While the aunt died on the spot, his seriously injured mother is admitted at a private hospital in Kalyan. Police said the accused, Pawan Mahatre, took advantage of DJ music playing at cousin Tushar Ghode's engagement in his Saparde neighbourhood to shoot his aunt Suvarna Ghode (36). His mother, Bharti Mahatre (40), sustained a bullet wound while trying to save Ghode. Police have reportedly found that Mhatre was in a relationship with Ghode. After committing the crime, he tried to make it appear like a robbery gone wrong and told everyone that he fell unconscious. Police said Mhatre then got himself admitted to a hospital. During questioning, though, police found Mhatre kept changing his statement and later they learnt he was involved with Ghode. Vivek Pansare, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2, Thane police, said: “The primary probe revealed the accused killed the deceased over an illicit relationship and a detailed probe is on.” Police are also investigating where he accessed the revolver used in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/youth-held-for-killing-aunt-at-engagement/articleshow/81158384.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 23, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Pre-poll surveys predict return of LDF||Thiruvananthapuram: Two pre-poll surveys released on Sunday night predicted that LDF will come back to power in the forthcoming assembly polls. The surveys by Asianet News and 24 News channels hinted at a close contest in the poll but concluded that LDF will win a clear majority. In both the polls, CM Pinarayi Vijayan emerged far ahead of his rivals as the people’s choice for the next chief minister. The results of the poll, which is in line with the results of local body polls held in November last, added to the confidence of LDF which has launched its poll campaign through ongoing election rallies led by LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan and CPI leader Binoy Viswam, MP. “Though the results are encouraging, we are not going to be lazy. We will be working hard at the grassroots to ensure that LDF returns to power,” said Vijayaraghavan, who is also the acting secretary of CPM. During a meeting of CPM leaders held here two weeks ago, Vijayan had suggested that the campaign focus more on the development and welfare measures initiated by the state government. When a few leaders raised concerns regarding the ongoing political controversies and the intensified attack from the opposition, Vijayan said voters would recognize the positive elements of LDF as they knew that the front had implemented these projects with sincerity. The advertisement blitzkrieg on the projects launched by the government is part of the strategy to highlight the positives and win over the negative campaign. In fact, the findings of both Asianet News and 24 news have vindicated the CM’s arguments. Majority of the sample were impressed by the welfare measures, including free grocery kits and increased social security pension and the development projects. Vijayan has emerged as a strong leader who could handle natural disasters and crises like Nipah and Covid-19 efficiently. Asianet News-C Fore survey predicted 72 to 78 seats for LDF and 59 to 65 seats for UDF. NDA would win three to seven seats, according to the survey. While 39% chose Vijayan as the next CM, 18% chose Oommen Chandy, 9% chose Shashi Tharoor, 7% chose K K Shailaja and 6% chose Ramesh Chennithala. According to Kerala Poll tracker survey conducted by 24 News, LDF will come back to power by winning 68 to 78 seats. UDF was predicted to win 62 to 72 seats while BJP will win one or two seats. 30% of voters chose Vijayan as the next CM while 22% chose Oommen Chandy. Ramesh Chennithala was chosen by 18% while K K Shailaja got the support of 11%. Both surveys were conducted during the first two weeks of February. Head - Pinarayi top choice for next CM Asianet News-C Fore LDF - 72 - 78 seats UDF - 59 - 65 seats NDA - 3 - 7 seats Next CM choice Vijayan - 39% Oommen Chandy - 18% Shashi Tharoor - 9% K K Shailaja - 7% Ramesh Chennithala - 6% —————— Kerala Poll tracker (24 News) LDF - 68 - 78 seats UDF - 62 - 72 seats BJP - 1 - 2 seats Next CM choice Vijayan - 30% Oommen Chandy - 22% Ramesh Chennithala - 18% K K Shailaja - 11%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pre-poll-surveys-predict-return-of-ldf/articleshow/81158920.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Trichy||Pulses cultivated in delta dists washed away||Trichy: The production of pulses including black gram and green gram in delta districts is expected to come down drastically this year as untimely rain has washed away seeds from 64% of cultivated lands in December and January. Farmers had adopted rice fallow pulse cultivation.Rice fallow pulse is a source of additional income to farmers as Farmers cut the whole plant and heap them up for drying and further processing. As a result, the nutrient-rich soil would enhance the paddy yield during the next season. Farmers from Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Trichy districts adopt rice fallow system to cultivate black gram. The seeds are sown manually in the fields at least 7 to 10 days before harvest paddy or dibbling manually immediately after paddy harvest. This is a low-cost traditional practice as the crop will grow uniformly under optimum soil moisture condition, officials said.S Kalidass, a farmer who sowed black gram on around 5 acres in Mayiladuthurai lost almost everything. “The rain washed away the black gram seeds and caused damage to the standing paddy crop,” he said. According to officials, farmers carry out pulse cultivation in large number of acres in Mayiladuthurai district. “The period between December 15 and January 15 is the opt season for rice fallow pulse cultivation. The area has been reduced to 20,000 acres from 87,500 acres, which is the normal area covered every year in Thanjavur. This apart, farmers also take up green gram on around 7,500 acres in Melatur in the district. That was also washed away by the rain,” said A Justin, joint director of agriculture department, Thanjavur. Officials said that farmers who lost their pulse crop can take up sesame cultivation now. Unlike the other three districts, agriculture officials from Trichy expressed hope that they would reach the usual target area of 30,000 acres as only a small area was affected in the rain in Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pulses-cultivated-in-delta-dists-washed-away/articleshow/81160339.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Leopard sighted in Mulugu||Hyderabad: Villagers of Kongala village in Wazeed mandal of Mulugu district sighted a leopard on the top of a tree on Monday. District forest officials who were informed about the big cat rushed to the spot and set up nearly eight cameras in the area to track the movement of the leopard. “Leopard movement was noticed in this area, between Kongala and Bogatha waterfalls, earlier as well. Since this place is close to the villages, we have conducted an awareness session after the leopard was sighted to ensure there is no man-animal conflict. We have asked the villagers to exercise caution while venturing out in this area,” said district forest officer Pradeep Kumar Shetty. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leopard-sighted-in-mulugu/articleshow/81160340.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt clears Rs 6k-crore investments||GANDHINAGAR: In a positive beginning to 2021, the Gujarat government has approved five big-ticket investment proposals by four companies, which will invest close to Rs 6,000 crore in diverse sectors. The companies will set up manufacturing facilities in Dholera and Halol.  The state industries and mines department has approved a proposal of ReNew Saksham Urja Private Limited (a 100% subsidiary of ReNew Power Private Limited), which has pledged an investment of over Rs 4,000 crore investment to set up a 2 to 4 GW solar module, cell manufacturing and lithium-ion battery production plant at Dholera. Government has approved 100-acre land allocation for the said project at Dholera Special Investment Region (DSIR). Spate of approvalsBaby diaper manufacturing brand Avgol’s proposal for setting up a Rs 1,000 crore new technical textile plant at Halol has also been approved. The company has proposed to manufacture technical textile products and hygiene products at their Gujarat plant. Leading furniture manufacturing company Merino’s proposal to establish a plant with an investment of Rs 630 crore at Halol has been approved. Merino has proposed setting up facilities for wood processing for particle board, pressing for particle board, pressing for pre-lam particles board, coating on pre-lam particle board, and cutting edging and drilling of furniture. Another leading company Trafalgar’s Rs 250 crore investment proposal has also got the nod of the state government. The company has sought to produce state-of-the-art natural fibre-based industrial sacks, a substitute of plastic. The company has also proposed an investment of Rs 325 crore for manufacturing value added products for the automotive and glass industry. Manoj Das, additional chief secretary (ACS) in chief minister office (CMO) and in charge ACS, industry & mines department said the investments will be made in diverse sectors like renewable energy and technical textiles. “Despite the impact of Covid-19 worldwide, the state has been able to attract fresh investments in 2020 and this year too, the number of investment proposals is encouraging. Under ease of doing business (EoDB) mandate of central and state government, we are proactively facilitating all investment proposals,’’ Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-govt-clears-rs-6k-cr-investments/articleshow/81160296.cms||Kapil Dave
February 23, 2021||Nashik||Autorickshaw driver killed in accident||Nashik: A 35-year-old autorickshaw driver was killed in an accident at the Bytco junction of Nashik Road at 4,45 am on Sunday when his vehicle was knocked down by a speeding luxury bus. The deceased autorickshaw driver has been identified as Anil Balu Thakre, a resident of Gorewadi, Shastri Nagar, Nashik Road. The Nashik Road police have registered an offence against the bus driver — 40-year-old Hasan Shaikh from Mumbai — under sections 304 A and 279 of the IPC. The autorickshaw was hit by the speeding bus coming from the Datta Mandir signal and going towards the Sinnar side. Thakre suffered serious injuries on his head, face and other body parts. The bus driver has been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/autorickshaw-driver-killed-in-accident/articleshow/81157719.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Trichy||EB poles not relocated on newly built footpaths||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation is reconstructing the stormwater drains-cum-pedestrian platforms without relocating the electricity poles that stand in the middle of the platforms and causing a hindrance to the pedestrians. The corporation under Smart Cities mission has taken up multiple pedestrian platform projects each costing around Rs 90 lakh. However, the way the project is being implemented has irked many. Instead of relocating the electricity poles and transformers, the civic body is establishing the platforms around the pole, which over a period of time, serve as a safe zone for hawkers to establish stalls near it like on West Boulevard road’. At least a dozen electricity poles hinder the movement of pedestrians in the pedestrian tracks on Anna Nagar link road and Sankaran Pillai road. “Tangedco had asked us to pay Rs 7 to Rs 8 lakh for the relocation of poles. As the process will take time, we have constructed the platforms without relocating the poles,” an official with the corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/eb-poles-not-relocated-on-newly-built-footpaths/articleshow/81160319.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 23, 2021||Aurangabad||Cong may get cornered over power subsidy||Aurangabad: While industries from Marathwada, Vidarbha and parts of Central Maharashtra continue to await official decision on resuming power subsidy, the Congress, which is holding the portfolio of energy department, is likely to get cornered again. The grand old party had witnessed similar situation while dealing with the demand for waiver in power bills for residential consumers and now it is up against a similar situation. Congress leader Jitendra Dehade said the finance department should not make a U-turn in the matter of power subsidy for the industries like it did while dealing with the demand for relief in electricity bills for the residential consumers. “Both NCP and Shiv Sena should follow the ‘Coalition Dharma’ and ensure necessary funds towards power subsidy. The move is necessary for industries that have already bearing the brunt of the pandemic,” he said. Dehade said the coalition parties were responsible for confusion and chaos associated with the waiver in power bills for residential consumers. “The energy minister had contemplated the move of offering some relief to the residential consumers after due consultations with different departments. However, the relief could not be offered due to non-cooperation from the finance department,” he said. State energy minister Nitin Raut said Shiv Sena holds the portfolio for the industries department and should also push for continuation of the power subsidy. “I’m pursuing the demand for resumption of the power subsidy, but other ruling parties should also support the decision,” he said while speaking with ToI recently. The Maharashtra government, in 2016, had decided to subsidise power tariff for industries from areas classified as ‘industrially least developed’ by offering a 50 to 75 paise respite in power tariff per unit. The power subsidy of Rs 1,200 crore provided by the state government for year 2020-21 has got exhausted by January.  A delegation of Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture (CMIA) on Monday met state industries minister SubhashDesai in Mumbai to press for the release of additional grants towards the continuation of the power subsidy besides raising other demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cong-may-get-cornered-over-power-subsidy/articleshow/81160329.cms||Prasad Joshi
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Couple crushed under truck||Hyderabad: A Nepali couple working at a fast food centre at Alwal died when a truck turned turtle and fell on them at Temple Alwal on Sunday night. The deceased were identified as Numlal Bhandari, 40, a chef at Wow Kitchen fast food centre at Alwal, and his wife Meena Devi Bhandari, 35, a worker at the eatery. The truck driver was booked. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-crushed-under-truck/articleshow/81160336.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Bhopal||No lift act in Madhya Pradesh: Use building elevator at your own risk||BHOPAL: Using the lift of a building in Madhya Pradesh? Good luck to you as you are responsible for your own life. The state has no Lift Act to regulate lifts installed in any building. Around 60% lifts installed in the state capital are vulnerable as there is no government machinery to inspect or monitor them on a regular interval. The rest are monitored by the lift company under the annual maintenance contract (AMC). Installation of lifts is no longer a premium feature. Usage of lifts has become as common as building an apartment with more than two floors. From developers to individuals, as all are opting for lifts, it is important to stay abreast of lift regulations. In the absence of the Lift Act, there is often ambiguity pertaining to the legal aspects of installing lifts in a building. Notably, lift licences, as of today, are required only in states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, West Bengal, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi. Every state’s Lift Act defines the procedures, fee structure and timelines for obtaining various permissions for lifts and escalators within that state. A lift maintenance company owner claimed that there is an urgent need to have a Lift Act. “The ongoing process has left the lift industry vulnerable. Only recognised companies — under AMC — inspect lifts and monitor it regularly. In Bhopal, there are around 70% lifts which need to be inspected and monitored regularly,” said the owner, not wishing to be named. In MP, the electrical safety department — based at Satpura — is the sole authority to provide permission for installing lifts. When contacted, officials avoiding the questions. However, they admitted that in the absence of the Lift Act, the government has no specific rules and guidelines for lifts. Talking to TOI over phone, deputy chief (lift under electrical safety department), A Dubey said, “We have no specific rules and regulations as there is no Lift Act in the state. A level contractor has been given authority to check the proper functioning of the lift. We provide only permission and nothing else.” Dubey refused to talk further and hung up when he was asked further questions. Reacting to the absence of a Lift Act, even professionals have raised objections. “No lift Act has been enacted by the Madhya Pradesh government till date. When any accident takes place, the government starts showing concern for a couple of days and thereafter nothing is done to work on it,” alleged Kamal Vishwakarma, managing director, High Rise Elevators India Pvt, Bhopal. He added, “The government should make the law like in other states. Government should give licences to lift companies, in which lift buyers should also have agreement with maintenance companies for maintenance of the lift. At present, in Madhya Pradesh, the office of Chief Engineer (Electrical Safety) and Chief Electrical Inspector at Satpura Bhavan allows lift installation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-lift-act-in-mp-use-bldg-elevator-at-your-own-risk/articleshow/81158925.cms||Ramendra Singh
February 23, 2021||Agra||Budget puts mass, rapid transport projects in UP in high gear||Meerut/Agra: In a significant move to bolster regional connectivity within NCR and beyond, the UP government on Monday allocated Rs 1,326 crore for the country’s first Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) between Delhi and Meerut in the state budget 2021 presented on Monday. Similarly, it also approved Rs 471 crore for the Agra metro rail project. Puneet Vats, chief PRO, NCRTC (National Capital Region Transport Corporation) said, “The budget allocation for Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS Project by the state government will further strengthen the resolve to complete the entire corridor by 2025.” Earlier this month, the Government of India had allocated Rs 4,472 crore to the RRTS project in the Union Budget 2021. In 2020, Rs 900 crore were allocated to NCRTC by the UP government. This year, the budget allocation is almost 1.5 times of what was allocated last year. Earlier in September last year, a loan agreement of USD 500 million was signed with Asian Development Bank (ADB) for funding the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor. The Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS Corridor will have a total of 24 stations. It will be elevated for around 70.5 km and 11.5 km of its stretch will be underground. Civil construction work is in progress on more than 50-km of this 82-km-long corridor. The 17-km long priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai of this corridor is scheduled to commence operations in 2023. The entire corridor will be opened to the public by 2025. The total cost of the project is estimated at Rs 30,270 crore. Welcoming the allocation of Rs 471 crore for Agra metro rail project in the state budget, project director Arvind Rai, said it will help in the completion of the work in a time-bound manner. Last year, Rs 286 crore were allocated by the state government. So far, the state government has released Rs 767 crore for the Agra metro rail project. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 8,379.62 crore. Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) in the first phase will develop a 7-km ‘priority corridor’ comprising three elevated and three underground stations between Taj east gate and Jama Masjid. The Agra Metro project comprises 2 corridors with a total length of 29.4 km and will connect major tourist attractions like Taj Mahal, Agra Fort and Sikandra with railway stations and bus stands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/budget-puts-mass-rapid-transport-projects-in-up-in-high-gear/articleshow/81158914.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||JMC-Heritage begins clean campaign ahead of swachh survey 2021||Jaipur: An awareness campaign was launched by JMC-Heritage on Monday to generate awareness on Swachh Survekshan-2121. Mayor Munesh Gurjar, deputy governor Aslam Farooqui and commissioner Lok Bandhu launched the campaign by releasing flakes to be installed at various places in the city. Inaugurating the campaign with a programme organized at the civic body headquarters, Gurjar said the corporation will take all steps for cleanliness. “It is our endeavor that a hooper is being provided by the corporation for each ward to ensure that there is no dirt in the corporation area,” said Gurjar. To strengthen cleaning, a mechanized sweeper and at least two RCs (Refused Compactor) are being provided in every zone. The mechanized sweeper will clean the roads and it will be easy to transport the collected waste from house to house directly to the dumping yard with the help of RC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-heritage-begins-clean-campaign-ahead-of-swachh-survey-2021/articleshow/81160315.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||Body found inside temple complex||Mussoorie: An unidentified body was found inside the complex of Radha Krishan temple near Picture Palace in Mussoorie on Monday. The cause of death is yet to be ascertained. “Age of the deceased man was around 65 to 70 years. We will keep the body in the mortuary for 72 hours for identification,” sub-inspector Suraj Kandari said. He added that prima-facie the cause of death seems to be biting cold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/body-found-inside-temple-complex/articleshow/81158893.cms||Anmol Jain
February 23, 2021||Goa||SC orders joint inspection to verify Goa’s claim of Mhadei diversion||PANAJI: In a major setback to the Karnataka government, the Supreme Court on Monday ordered a joint inspection of the controversial Kalasa-Bhandura project over the Goa government’s claim that Karnataka has illegally diverted from the Mhadei river. The Supreme Court also asked the joint inspection team of Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra officials to submit the report within four weeks. “The Supreme Court order came on the contempt petition filed by us against Karnataka on the issue of diversion of water and breach of orders of the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said. The tribunal in its award had made it clear that Karnataka must prepare revised detailed project report (DPR) and obtain all mandatory clearances before diverting 1.72TMC of water from the Kalasa nullah into the Malaprabha basin.In October 2020, the Goa government filed a contempt petition in the Supreme Court against Karnataka for illegal diversion of the Mhadei’s waters to the Malaprabha river basin and sought a direction to restore the natural flow towards the state. The plea has also stated that due to Karnataka’s contumacious acts, there is a sharp reduction of water flow to the Surla nullah that passes through the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary and is a violation of the Wildlife Protection Act. In the plea, it was pointed out that by an interim order dated April 17, 2014, the tribunal directed that Karnataka “...shall not actually utilise the water or divert the waters under Kalasa-Bhandura project till the disputes arising between the three states are finally adjudicated by this tribunal”. The award dated August 14, 2018, also incorporated the interim order. Advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI that the hearing of the case went on for nearly 15 minutes in the apex court. He also said the state government showed the inspection report prepared by the water resources department (WRD) to prove that the water has been diverted. “The joint inspection will bring out the truth,” Pangam said. The tribunal in its award had made it clear that Karnataka must prepare revised detailed project report (DPR) and obtain all mandatory clearances before diverting 1.72TMC of water from the Kalasa nullah into the Malaprabha basin. The three-decade-old dispute between Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra over sharing of the Mhadei water ended with the tribunal rejecting Karnataka’s demand for 36.5tmc ft of water, and allotted it only 13.4tmc ft, including 3.9tmc ft for drinking purposes through diversions, against its demand for 7.5tmc ft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-orders-jt-inspection-to-verify-goas-claim-of-mhadei-diversion/articleshow/81161957.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Bareilly||Minor girl ‘abducted’ by 2 youths, rescued||Bareilly: A day after a 15-year-old girl was allegedly abducted by two youths in Bareilly district, police rescued her. The two youths, Mohammed Waseem (21) and Mohammed Azeem (19), were arrested. They have been booked under IPC sections 363 (abduction), 366 (abducting a woman to compel her marriage) and the POCSO Act. However, police refused to book the duo under the ‘love jihad’ Act, till the girl says anything in her statement in court. The girl is a student of class VIII while the main accused, Waseem, is a mason, and his friend is a labourer. Rajkumar Agarwal, additional SP (rural), told TOI, “The girl told us that she had eloped with Waseem while Azeem helped them. Since the girl is a minor, we have slapped the POSCO Act against the accused. During questioning, the girl did not say she was forced to convert or was raped. We will wait for the court’s decision after recording her statement.” A medical examination of the girl was conducted on Monday. The report is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-girl-abducted-by-2-youths-rescued/articleshow/81158927.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||Realise the dream of New India, Kerala governor tells IAS officers||Mussoorie: Inauguration ceremony of Phase-III of Mid-Career Training Programme (MCTP) for IAS officers was held on Monday at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration. Governor of Kerala, Arif Mohammad Khan, attended the programme as the chief guest. As many as 84 IAS officers with seven to nine years of service experience were present in the programme, which will continue till March 19. Khan urged all participants to fulfil their duties as enshrined in the Constitution and work tirelessly for the development of the country. “Sardar Patel used to call the civil services as the steel frame of India. Today, this steel frame has the onerous responsibility of realizing the dream of new India,” he said. Sanjeev Chopra, director of the LBSNAA,told the participants that ‘the responsibility of transforming the country and creation of a new India’ lies with them. Notably, the objectives of MCTP are to equip officers with tools, skills and knowledge that will help them achieve excellence in the implementation of programmes, strengthen communication, inter-personal and team-building skills and learn about efficient service delivery in specific sectors from experience across states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/realise-the-dream-of-new-india-kerala-governor-tells-ias-officers/articleshow/81158929.cms||Anmol Jain
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||KMDA floats tender for Bypass-New Town flyover||Kolkata: Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) on Monday floated the tender to invite agencies for construction of the proposed four-lane flyover from Metropolitan Housing on EM Bypass to Mahisbathan close to New Town. The flyover has been planned to decongest Chingrighata and Salt Lake Bypass. Though published on Monday, interested bidders will be able to open and go through the tender documents from March 5 and a pre-bid meeting will be held on March 30, after which agencies interested to take up the project will be able to start submitting bids from April 6. The last date for submitting bids is April 30. The bids will be opened on May 3. According to plans, the 6km flyover will take off from Metropolitan crossing and will move over Chingrighata, Salt Lake Bypass and Sector V — bypassing the wetlands — to reach Mahisbathan. The flyover will also have connectivity with Sector V with an arm coming down at the IT hub. The project cost has been pegged at Rs 598 crore. The authorities recently came up with some modifications in the flyover alignment so that it can move parallel to the Metro line. In the earlier alignment, the flyover was supposed to move over the central road median that leads towards SDF Building in Sector V after turning right from Nicco Park. As per the modified plan, instead of moving over the central median, the alignment will move over the west-side pavement side pavement to help the flyover move parallel with the Metro alignment. KMDA had earlier submitted a detailed project report of the flyover to the state Public Works Department (PWD) for scrutiny and to finalize the technical modalities. The authorities also sought clearance from RVNL on the proposed alignment as a Metro line would move parallel to it. KMDA officials said that it was necessary to execute the plan at the earliest as the existing Chingrighata flyover, which is out of bounds for long-term repairs, needs to be demolished in the long run. This could be done once work of proposed flyover starts off from the Chingrighata end, an official said. At present, only small vehicles can take the one-way Chingrighata flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmda-floats-tender-for-bypass-new-town-flyover/articleshow/81158957.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Will promote Unani medicine: Min||Hyderabad: Home minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali on Monday said that all possible efforts would be made for the promotion of Unani medicine and disbursement of funds from the Centre. Speaking at the seventh World Unani League and 20th Unani Medical Association Excellence Awards function to mark the birth anniversary of the late Hakim Ajmal Khan, an eminent Unani physician, Mahmood Ali said that the promotion of Unani medicine is necessary to deal with certain diseases in natural ways. Sohail Quadri, AIMIM corporator, Pathergatti urged the minister to resolve the issues of Unani medicine immediately. “There is a shortage of Unani medicine lecturers. For 26 years their services have not been regularised and there is no security at hostels,” said Quadri. Awards were presented to personalities from different parts of the country for their services in the field.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-promote-unani-medicine-min/articleshow/81160363.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Surat||Seven-time LS MP from Dadra found hanging in Mumbai hotel||MUMBAI/SURAT: Mohan Delkar, a seven-time Lok Sabha parliamentarian from the Union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH), was found dead in a Mumbai hotel on Monday. Delkar (58) was found hanging by the ceiling fan of his room at the sea-facing hotel in the Marine Drive area. According to sources close to the late leader, Delkar had left behind a six-page note at the Hotel Sea Green where he was staying. However, the content of the suicide note is not yet made public by the police that have launched a probe into the incident. The cause of death will be known after an autopsy, police said. Delkar is survived by his wife Kala, son Abhinav and a married daughter. Delkar had contested as an independent in the 2019 Lok Sabha election and won for the seventh time. Starting as a trade union leader in the industrial belt of Silvassa, the headquarter of DNG, Delkar began his electoral career at a young age of 27. Delkar won six consecutive elections from DNH during 1989-2009. He contested his first LS election in 1989 on a Congress ticket and again in 1991 and 1996 polls. In 1998, he switched loyalty to BJP and won again, but he rejoined the Congress and lost the 2009 and 2014 general elections. In October 2019, Delkar parted ways with the Congress ahead of the Lok Sabha polls and entered into an alliance with Nitish Kumar’s Janta Dal (United) for the district panchayat and Silvassa municipality elections. In fact, a team of JD (U) was scheduled to visit DNH on Wednesday to prepare a report along with Delkar about the issues concerning local residents, said a close aide of the deceased MP. Of late, Delkar had been at loggerhead with local administration over several issues. Delkar was also a member of the Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice and a member of the Consultative Committee, Ministry of Home Affairs of the Lower House. "I am shocked at learning this news about the passing away of Mohal Delkar. What prompted a strong tribal leader like Mohan Delkar to take this extreme step? Everyone -from DNH to Delhi- knew about why he was in pain? As an MP, he had raised local issues in the Parliament but nobody would listen to him. Local administration was not following the protocol for MP. This should be investigated," Congress leader Prabhu Tokiya, posted on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/7-time-ls-mp-found-hanging-in-mumbai-hotel/articleshow/81157783.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Chennai||City researchers find way to make high-yield ingots for solar panels||Chennai: Researchers from SSN College of Engineering in Chennai have developed high-performance solar ingots, one of the key components of solar panels. Touted to be the first of its kind in the country, the technology has the potential to make India a hub for next-gen solar panel manufacturing technology and has won a Rs 12 crore grant from the department of science and technology under Make in India initiative. The research team has successfully developed directional solidification furnaces for growing multi-crystalline (mc-Si) silicon ingots. “Multi-crystalline silicon is an important material with advantages of low-production cost and high conversion efficiency of solar cells. Market share of mono- and multi-crystalline silicon (mc-Si) is more than 90% at present and will remain so in the foreseeable future,” said professor P Ramasamy, dean (research), SSN Institutions. Indian solar cell industries import silicon cells and convert them into solar modules. As of now, 98% of the silicon cells imported into the country are multi-crystalline silicon cells. Very few efforts have gone into developing mc-Si crystal in Indian labs. The lack of manufacturing capabilities has rendered India dependent upon imports and in 2018-19 alone, India imported US$2.2 billion worth of solar photovoltaic (PV) cells, panels, and modules. “There has been a lack of technical know-how and capability when it comes to manufacturing solar wafers and ingots. A handful of countries such as Japan, Germany, Taiwan, South Korea, Finland and China dominate the market,” Ramasamy added. During the testing, the efficiency of the indigenously developed solar cells were found to be higher than commercially available cells. The department of science and technology has granted Rs 12 crore for the team to apply their methods and design and develop 800kg multi-crystalline silicon directional solidification furnace and slicing machines for industrial-scale applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-researchers-find-way-to-make-high-yield-ingots-for-solar-panels/articleshow/81160360.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Nashik||Nashik ZP plans to reopen CCCs after rise in Covid cases||Nashik: As the Covid cases are increasing in the rural parts of the district, the health department of the Nashik Zilla Parishad is planning to reopen the covid care centres (CCC), which were closed down due to the drop in active cases a couple of months ago. A decision in this regard will be taken any time depending upon the surge in covid cases. District health officer Kapil Aher said, “Until a fortnight ago, for the past couple of months we were getting less than 50 cases in the rural parts, which have now started rising steadily.” “Currently the maximum number of cases are reported in Sinnar, Nandgaon, Satana and Niphhad. The CCCs of these places were never closed down. In case, covid cases are reported from other talukas, where the CCCs were closed, we would restart them,” said Aher. There are 22 CCCs under the ZP. According to Aher, very few CCCs were closed after the drop in cases. “Now with the rising cases, currently the focus of the Nashik ZP is more on conducting antigen test and RT-PCR test of suspected Covid patients. This testing facility has been made available at some of our prominent CCCs spread across the rural district,” said Aher. Meanwhile, the compulsion of wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing is being strictly implemented in the rural district. The rural police have started taking action against people who do not wear masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-zp-plans-to-reopen-cccs-after-rise-in-covid-cases/articleshow/81157741.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 23, 2021||Dehradun||Six members of auto-lifter gang held, 14 bikes recovered||Rudrapur: With the arrest of six members, the Udham Singh Nagar district police on Monday claimed to have busted an inter-state gang of motorcycle lifters in Kashipur. The police also recovered 14 stolen motorcycles from their possession. However, one member of the gang is still on the run. Additional superintendent of police (ASP), Kashipur, Pramod Kumar, said three people riding on two bikes were interrogated by the city police during a routine checking on Sunday evening. On being questioned, they failed to show the documents and were found to be possessing stolen bikes. “They admitted that they used to steal motorcycles from different towns of the district and after collecting 20-25 stolen motorcycles, they used to sell them in Uttar Pradesh,” ASP Kumar said. “At their instance, we raided a house in Sitarampur village near Kosi river and recovered twelve more motorcycles along with three other gang members. They would sell the stolen motorcycles at throwaway prices to mechanics in Uttar Pradesh. All the accused will be booked under the Gangster Act along with the sections of theft under the IPC,” ASP Kumar added. The accused have been identified as Pawan, Ankush, Arjun Singh, Prakash, Gajendra, and Arpit — all residents of Rampur district of Uttar Pradesh. Sonu Kashyap, the seventh member of the gang, is still at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/six-members-of-auto-lifter-gang-held-14-bikes-recovered/articleshow/81158939.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 23, 2021||Trichy||Panchayat councillor beheaded in Tamil Nadu's Tiruvarur||TIRUVARUR: A 38-year-old panchayat union councillor was hacked to death by an unidentified gang near Muthupettai in Tiruvarur district on Monday. The deceased was identified as Rajesh, affiliated to AIADMK. Police said that the gang severed the victim’s head. Rajesh, a native of Kovilur near Muthupettai in Tiruvarur district, was elected as Alankadu union councillor in the civic polls. Though he contested the polls as an independent candidate, he later joined the AIADMK. Rajesh was on his way home from Muthupettai riding a bike on Monday morning. As he was approaching Alankadu Anna Statue, a gang which was waiting in a car armed with sharp weapons knocked him down. They hacked him to death and severed Rajesh’s head and dumped the severed head in Asad Nagar in Muthupettai. On information, Muthupettai police reached the spot and conducted an investigation with the locals. Police also retrieved the body and collected the severed head and sent it to a government hospital in Tiruvarur. Police said that they have registered a case and were on the lookout for the culprits who were on the run. Police said that a murder case was pending against the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/panchayat-councillor-beheaded-in-tiruvarur/articleshow/81160356.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: After school kids test +ve, health department ups ante||JAIPUR: At least 130 schoolchildren have been found infected with Covid-19 from across the state since reopening of the schools. Children have started going to schools after state government gave its nod for reopening the institutions. The schools were reopened in phases. From January 18, students of classes IX-XII could join schools, while children studying in classes VI-VIII could attend classes physically from February 8. “We have been continuously monitoring health of schoolchildren after reopening of the schools. We have found 130 children infected with Covid-19 from the date of reopening of schools till now,” said a senior health department official. Out of 130 cases of Covid-19 found in schools of the state, a lot of them were reported from Kota. “At least 40 Covid-19 cases have been reported here from schools and education institutions,” said Dr BS Tanwar, chief medical health officer (Kota). The health department teams across the state have been visiting schools since reopening to ensure that schools should follow guidelines issued for schools. “Whenever a student is tested positive for Covid-19, we conduct RT-PCR test of all the children in the school and follow guidelines issued by the state government. The students are not allowed to attend that particular class till they get the negative report, the schools are sanitised,” said Tanwar. The health department has issued strict instructions to its officials to keep monitoring health of the schoolchildren. They also need to check if the schools are following protocols properly. These protocols include students wearing face masks, maintaining distance in sitting arrangement, no assemblies to be held and cleaning of hands frequently, etc. In Jaipur too, the health department officials are inspecting schools to ensure safe practices. “We have dedicated one mobile laboratory for schools. The health team with mobile laboratory visits 5-6 schools daily including private ones. It takes samples for Covid-19 test, but no outbreak of Covid-19 in any school has been reported in Jaipur,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur). The health department has claimed that a message circulating on social media of a school where seven children tested positive is fake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-school-kids-test-ve-health-dept-ups-ante/articleshow/81160367.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||30 companies of central forces to arrive on Thursday||Thiruvananthapuram: Beginning security preparations for the upcoming assembly elections, the first team of central forces will arrive in the state on Thursday. As many as 30 companies of central armed police forces (CAPF), including Border Security Force (BSF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) will arrive in the state. The state had received 130 companies of CAPF in 2016 assembly elections. The state asked for 175 companies this time, considering the increase in number of booths. “The first team of central forces of 30 companies will be arriving ahead of the elections. They will undertake familiarization and area-domination exercises in their districts of deployment. We are requesting more companies this time than the last assembly elections,” said K Padmakumar, ADGP (armed police battalion) and nodal officer for CAPF. Of the 30 companies arriving in the first phase, four each will be sent to politically-sensitive Kannur and Kasargod districts, three each in Thrissur and Ernakulam, two each in Kasargod, Wayanad, Malappuram and Palakkad, and one each in the remaining districts. In addition to CAPF, 34,000 personnel from the state police force would also be deployed for election duty. For the first time, the election commission of India (ECI) directed that a committee of chief electoral officer, state CAPF coordinator and state police nodal officer should be constituted that should jointly decide the election security plan and ensure randomization of state police and the CAPF personnel. The committee will meet periodically and monitor the deployment and ensure effective and optimum utilization of the security force. An additional 15,730 polling booths are being set up for the upcoming elections, as the total number of voters permitted in each booth is only 1,000, taking the total number of polling booths in state to 40,771. The security plan, that will detail the critical, vulnerable and sensitive booths and hamlets in each district, will be prepared jointly by the district collector and the district police chief. Once the plan is prepared, the plan for the deployment of forces will be prepared by the state-level committee. Also, for Kannur, Kozhikode rural, Wayanad, Malappuram and Palakkad, which are categorized as Left Wing Extremism (LWE)-affected districts, additional security plans will be prepared. The government has identified 346 LWE-affected polling booths in these districts, which will get five additional CAPF personnel in each booth besides the usual security deployment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/30-companies-of-central-forces-to-arrive-on-thursday/articleshow/81158954.cms||KP Saikiran
February 23, 2021||Bhopal||MP bags 40 medals to win Jr Canoe Nat’l Championship||Bhopal: Host Madhya Pradesh performed strongly at the 31st Junior, Sub Junior Canoe Sprint National Championships and won the overall championship with 256 points. MP won 10 gold and 9 silver medals in junior men and sub junior boys. At the same time, 19 gold and 2 bronze medals were won in junior women and sub junior girls category. MP won a total 40 medals, including 29 gold, 9 silver and 2 bronze in the three-day competition. Uttarakhand in the boys’ category and Kerala in the girls’ category were runners-up.The championship was organised under the joint aegis of the Indian Kayaking and Canoeing Association and Madhya Pradesh Kayaking Canoeing Association. The 200 m and 5000 m races were held on the last day of the competition. In 5000 m, Balveer Jat of MP won the gold medal in the junior men's K-1 event of the race. Binita Chanu of MP won the gold medal in the junior women's K-1 event. Kaveri Deemar of MP won the gold medal in the junior women's C-1 event.Devendra Sen of MP won silver medal in Junior Men's C-1 event. Aastha Dangi of MP won the gold medal in the Sub Junior Girls K-1 event in the 200 m race. MP junior's Shivani Verma won gold medal in Sub Junior Girls' C-1 Event.Lalita, Niharika, Binita and Sheetal's team won bronze in the Sub Junior Girls K-4 event. Rohan Keer-Yashu Vishwakarma of MP won the gold medal in the Sub Junior Boys K-2 event. Nitin Verma of MP won silver medal in sub junior boys class K-1. Deepak, Nitin, Raju and Yashu pair of MP won the gold medal in the Sub Junior Boys K-4 event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-bags-40-medals-to-win-jr-canoe-natl-championship/articleshow/81158947.cms||Ramendra Singh
February 23, 2021||Chennai||Existing shelters all run-down, but corpn plans to build more||CHENNAI: The civic body is all set to add 28 shelters to cater to the increasing demand post-pandemic, but what’s the state of the 55 existing ones? When the fan is switched on at the corporation shelter for boys at Kakka Thoppu, paint on walls peels off and falls on your head. There are about 21 boys staying there, many of whom were abandoned by their parents and some rescued from slums. Leaky roofs, peeling paint, cracked buildings, broken toilet doors and lack of kitchen infrastructure haunt at least 25 of the shelters, a recent audit has found, and most of them are pinched for funds. Four of five shelters TOI visited were in bad condition. The audit by Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities (IRCDUC) has, in fact, found many elderly and people with mental health issues living in unsuitable spaces, without adequate medical help including access to a permanent psychologist. During the pandemic, the shelters were crowded with more than 3,000 living in them collectively and now, since migrant workers have left, at least 1,700 remain. And the numbers are increasing again, say shelter managers. Thirumal Prasanth, who runs the shelter on NSC Bose Road, said at least three people come asking for a roof every day. “We cannot take in more than 50 people as per norms and should have at least 50sqft space per person,” he said. Greater Chennai Corporation officials get at least 10 calls for rescue every day from areas such as Central, Koyambedu, Marina, Mint Street and Broadway. GCC has allocated Rs 10 lakh per year for each shelter and Rs 3 lakh more for ones functioning out of rented buildings, and the fund is credited monthly and pays for basic utilities, grocery, among other necessities. But several shelters haven’t received their dues for more than a year, said one of the shelter’s coordinators, on condition of anonymity. The shelters, run by NGOs, are managing with donations, but can barely make it. “Many of the coordinators, who are on GCC payroll for Rs 15,000/month, have not been paid for two months. The shelter in Koyambedu is dilapidated, the one in Egmore needs a proper toilet. The one in Chetpet, despite being the only corporation-run shelter for transpeople in the state, requires major refurbishing,” he said. Activists demanded that better inter-departmental coordination to ease shelter occupants into rehabilitation — by ensuring access to social security pension, PDS, ICDS, financial inclusion, schooling and affordable social housing. “Our audits have often brought out several infrastructure-related issues and allied services that are missing in the shelters. GCC must, on priority, undertake a technical and social audit of the facilities to assess their quality and address issues immediately as it’s the government’s involvement that is lacking,” said Venessa Peter, a policy researcher at IRCDUC. When TOI took up the issue with GCC, a senior official confirmed receiving inputs from various NGOs and said action will be taken on a warfooting to make the facilities better.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/existing-shelters-all-run-down-but-corpn-plans-to-build-more/articleshow/81160438.cms||Komal Gautham
February 23, 2021||Bhopal||294 new Covid cases, positivity rises to 2.2% in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: On Monday, 294 new cases of Covid-19 infection were reported in Madhya Pradesh. Positivity rate rose to 2.2% out of 12989 people tested for the infection. Since the pandemic began, 259721 have been diagnosed with the infection. No deaths were attributed to Covid-19 on Monday. MP Covid-19 death toll is 3,854. A total of 241 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the count of recoveries in Madhya Pradesh to 2,53,763. With 104 new cases, Indore where tally went up to 58,860 while that of Bhopal rose to 43,693 with addition of 76 new Covid-19 cases. Till date, 43,693 people have been infected in Bhopal. On Monday, 81 people recovered, taking the total recoveries to 42,580. There were 495 active cases of Covid-19 in the city on Monday. Indore has so far reported 931 deaths and Bhopal 618. Bhopal is now left with 495 active coronavirus cases while Indore has 660 such cases. With 12989 new tests, the total number of samples tested for coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh has crossed 56.90 lakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/294-new-cases-positivity-rises-to-2-2/articleshow/81158945.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Goa||Goa: Palolem structure up in flames||POINGUINIM: The kitchen and dormitory of Dream Catcher eco-resort at Palolem was gutted on Monday evening. Firefighters from the Canacona fire station battled for more than two hours to extinguish the flames. A fire tender from Margao was also requisitioned later. The fire caused gas cylinders inside the structure to explode, exacerbating the blaze. Mattresses, clothing, kitchen articles and other belongings of the staff were destroyed. Officials from the Canacona fire station said that some nearby coconut trees also collapsed due to the impact of the inferno, while a nearby residential hut belonging to Prabhakar Komarpant was also affected. Two cycles, food material and crockery items, besides clothes and utensils from the hut were consigned to flames. Upon receiving news about the incident, deputy Speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes also rushed to the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/palolem-structure-up-in-flames/articleshow/81161972.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||In healthcare worker vaccination drive, Rajasthan at 11th position||JAIPUR: The state has slipped to the 11th position in vaccinating healthcare workers (HCWs) with the first dose despite covering 76%. Giving a push to increase the percentage of coverage of HCWs, the health department is planning to give one more chance to them. The health department is likely to organise vaccination sites for the left out HCWs on February 25. Health department will send them messages and inform them that the vaccines are safe and they should get it. The officials will take measures to encourage them to get the first dose. “Another chance will be given to left out HCWs,” said Dr Raghuraj Singh, project director (immunization), health department. The health department had launched the Covid vaccination drive from February 16, but a lot of HCWs have not been vaccinated. According to the report issued two days ago, Bihar is at the top of the list with 85% coverage of 1st dose among registered HCWs, followed by Tripura (83%), Odisha (82%), Lakshadweep (81%), Gujarat (81%), Chattisgarh (80%), Madhya Pradesh (78%), Uttarkhand (77%), Jharkhand (76%), Uttar Pradesh (76%), Rajasthan (76%) and Himachal Pradesh (76%). However, among frontline workers (FLWs), Rajasthan is among top states/UTs having vaccinated more than 50% as far as the first dose was concerned. In fact, it is at No. 2 in the list of states and UTs having highest percentage coverage of registered FLWs. Dadra and Nagar Haveli tops the list with 90% coverage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-healthcare-worker-vax-drive-raj-at-11th-position/articleshow/81160377.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Goa||Goa: Bombay HC pulls up election panel for notifying polls while petitions pending before it||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Monday orally pulled up the state election commission for hurriedly notifying the election even as petitions are pending before the court. There are around a dozen petitions pending, challenging delimitation and reservations. The government has stated that the reservation was done legally. “It is only prudent that the election process should be completed at the earliest”, director of municipal administration Gurudas Pilarnekar submitted to the court. The government, responding to these, stated that the Constitution prohibits interference by the court, and that any interference at the present stage with respect to the municipality election will only result in postponing and delaying the election and the schedule of election, which are reasonably imminent. He also stated that public interest lies in strengthening democracy by holding public elections to local bodies and not by postponing or stalling them. With regard to wards 5, 6, 8 and 9 of Quepem municipal council, which have allegedly remained intact, Pilarnekar submitted to the court that delimitation was carried out in 2015 and 2021. “In 2015, one additional ward was added. In 2021, two additional wards have been added. I say that upon delimitation, reservation of seats vis a vis scheduled tribes, scheduled castes and women is carried out de nuovo, and is a fresh exercise. As such there is no question of rotation at the time of de nuovo reservation upon delimitation,” he submitted, denying that the policy of rotation has remained intact with regard to these wards. The ten-day period for perusal of lists of voters in wards is sufficient, he stated, especially if the list is displayed in various public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-pulls-up-election-panel-for-notifying-polls-while-petitions-pending-before-it/articleshow/81161970.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Aurangabad||CAP: 4,844 Aurangabad pupils haven’t taken admission yet||Aurangabad: With the Centralised Admission Process (CAP) for Class XI admissions coming to a close for the academic year 2020-21, around 4,844 students in Aurangabad have not taken admission to any junior college so far. As per official data, a total of 16,933 students have been admitted to junior colleges though 31,470 seats were available for Class XI admissions. Around 46% of the seats reserved in junior colleges in Aurangabad are still lying vacant — the highest vacancy among the six cities where the CAP is held for Class XI admissions. While Aurangabad is second after Nashik in terms of percentage of non-admitted students, CAP authorities said the fact that many candidates choose other career paths was the reason behind such high figures. “Sufficient number of CAP rounds was held to ensure admission to every registered student. However, a section of students chose ITI or other career paths and left the process in between,” said Madhukar Deshmukh, the deputy director of education. With regard to vacant seats in the junior colleges, Deshmukh said there was a gradual decline in the number of students from other parts of Marathwada opting for post-SSC education in Aurangabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cap-4844-aurangabad-pupils-havent-taken-admission-yet/articleshow/81160385.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s biggest cycle track project goes off track||MUMBAI: Environment and tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray son Sunday announced that major arterial roads would be made pedestrian-friendly and cycling tracks provided wherever feasible, but the city’s biggest cycle track project, in terms of length and cost, along the Tansa pipeline has hit a bump. With just three months to go, the project will miss the deadline for the first two routes. The Rs331-crore project was launched with much fanfare in 2018 after the BMC cleared encroachments from Tansa pipeline following a Bombay HC order. The civic body hoped the 39-km cycling track would prevent encroachers from returning. According to officials, two routes were supposed to be ready by May 2021, while the third was to be ready by November. However, on all three routes, less than 40% of the work is complete. Times ViewThe state government’s move to provide cycling tracks on major arterial roads wherever feasible is welcome since it will go along way in decongesting roads and reducing pollution. However, a feasibility study of such projects must be carried out, else public money could end up getting wasted. Mumbai’s biggest cycle track project on the Tansa pipeline is a case in point. The BMC must review this project and ensure it is completed.Though the BMC had sanctioned more than Rs 488 crore in its previous budget, work has been moving at snail’s pace. In Bhandup-Mulund areas, where the BMC claims to be making progress, the condition of the tracks that have been laid so far has already worsened. The opposition said the cycling track along the Tansa pipeline has become a pipe dream. “It is a criminal waste of public money. There is not even a 5-km stretch for cycling. The pavements and track constructed have already broken and encroachments are coming up on the patch once again. Instead of announcing new cycle tracks, the BMC must first complete this project,” said Mihir Kotecha, BJP MLA from Mulund, one of the starting points for the cycling track. “It is now clear this project is not feasible at all. The BMC must complete the missing links and scrap the remaining part of the project. Before making such announcements, project feasibility must be checked,” Samajwadi Party corporator and MLA Rais Shaikh said. “We have reviewed the project and are initiating some changes,” additional municipal commissioner (projects) P Velrasu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/citys-biggest-cycle-track-project-goes-off-track/articleshow/81162016.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Amravati, Yavatmal daily positivity rate as high as September peak||MUMBAI: The daily positivity rates of Yavatmal, Akola, Amravati and Wardha districts from Vidarbha region are higher or almost as bad as the September peak. State experts believe that if Pune and Mumbai were driving the September peak, Vidarbha is the epicentre for the February surge. Data accessed by TOI showed that Yavatmal’s daily positivity on Sunday was a whopping 41.4%, double that of September 15, when it recorded 21.7%. Amravati’s daily positivity was 38%, higher than its September rate of 32.5%. Significantly, Wardha’s daily positivity of 24% is almost three-fold higher than September’s 8.5%. Even Akola’s positivity of 29% is marginally higher than September, although it carried out more than double tests now. Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra peaked between September 10-30. A state official said they picked up one of the worst days (September 15) to make the comparison with ongoing positivity rate and stumbled upon the alarming rise. Six of 11 districts in Vidarbha have a high positivity rate, almost three- to four-fold of the state’s present average. In fact, state’s daily positivity rate touched 11% on Sunday, after dipping to almost half in January. Dr T P Lahane, head, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said hospitalisation in these districts has seen a 20-30% jump over the past two weeks. Last week, genomic sequencing of four patients from Amravati had shown mutation (E484Q) and four samples from Yavatmal found the N440K mutation. Lahane said over 300 samples from the region are being studied to understand if mutations have a correlation with the surge. At GMC, Yavatmal, dean Milind Kamble said the only thing that separated the current incidence with the September peak is the infection of entire families. “We have six families whose all members are affected and currently hospitalised,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/amravati-yavatmal-daily-positivity-rate-as-high-as-sept-peak/articleshow/81160458.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 23, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Kolar SHO, SI removed from active duty for negligence||BHOPAL: The station house officer (SHO) of Kolar police station and a sub-inspector who was investigating the rape and murder attempt on a 24-year-old girl in Kolar area has been removed from active duty for negligence on Monday. SI Jay Kumar was made in-charge of Kolar police station. DIG Irshad Wali ordered removal of SHO Sudhir Arjaria and the investigation officer in the case SI Shweta Sharma, three days after a special investigation team (SIT) was constituted to investigate the horrific case in which the survivor sustained severe spinal injury. Both the police officials were removed as despite receiving the survivor’s medical report they neither added the charges of attempt to rape and attempt to murder in the case nor informed the senior officers about the gory crime. A month after the incident, the survivor and her mother questioned the police functioning. They even suspected the police claim of having arrested the accused. The SIT led by CSP Bhupendra Singh is investigating the case after identifying 15 points. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota and the SIT quizzed the accused, a Haryana-based student who was arrested in the case and checked his mobile phone location and call details. However, sources said police could not get any conclusive clue from it. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kolar-sho-si-removed-from-active-duty-for-negligence/articleshow/81158960.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||CBI questions Abhishek’s sis-in-law in 'coal scam'||KOLKATA: A CBI team, comprising eight officers, questioned Mamata Benerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee’s sister-in-law, Menka Gambhir, at her residence for over three hours on Monday in connection with its probe into the alleged coal-mining scam. A few minutes before the CBI team knocked at Gambhir’s house on EM Bypass, the Trinamool Congress Diamond Harbour MP’s wife Rujira Banerjee Naroola told the agency that its officers could visit her at her Harish Mukherjee Road residence between 11am and 3pm on Tuesday. She, however, said she “was unaware” why she was being questioned and did not know the “subject matter” of the probe. On Sunday, the CBI had served Rujira and Gambhir summons to question them. The investigating agency registered an FIR last November, naming six people, including prime suspect Anup Maji and five officials of a nationalised mining company, while several others of a coal company, the CISF, the Railways and other departments were under suspicion. Raids were conducted at various places, including at the home of Trinamool youth leader Vinay Mishra in the last few months. Both Mishra and Maji are said to be absconding. Rujira wrote to CBI additional police superintendent Umesh Kumar (the investigation officer) on Monday morning, acknowledging the summons that arrived when she was not at home on Sunday, and requesting him to inform her about its schedule. A six-member team, led by Kumar, is likely to question Rujira on Tuesday, officials said. The team may be accompanied by a legal adviser, who is being flown in from Delhi. A Kolkata-based lawyer will also be present during the questioning to assist Rujira. There was, however, no official word from CBI. Kumar and seven CBI officers, including two women, reached Gambhir’s residence at 11.54am on Monday. They unofficially said they wanted to question Gambhir on whether she was aware of a businessman, now based in the UAE. The businessman, CBI suspects, has received a portion of the money from the illegal coalmining scam. It also suspects that the businessman had helped the masterminds of the scam to stash money overseas. The complex chain, CBI believes, extends beyond the UAE to several countries. “Summons under 160 CrPC are issued to witnesses. It has been decided that they (Rujira and Gambhir) will speak to the CBI officers. They will not move court immediately,” a legal expert said. TMC didn’t respond to the developments or Bengal BJP leaders’ barbs. Abhishek issued a statement on Monday, which read: “We have full faith in the law. However, if they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cbi-questions-abhisheks-sis-in-law-in-coal-scam/articleshow/81162959.cms||Rohit Khanna
February 23, 2021||Pune||Crucial practicals, lab work lost in a start-stop academic session||PUNE: Students who had just started their laboratory work pending for almost a year are disappointed that educational institutes have been shut by the state government over the spike in Covid-19 cases. From students of culinary arts to fundamental science, curricula primarily based on practical work has been affected badly by this decision. Many students complained that they incurred financial losses as they had already paid the rent and mess fees for February for what seems to be just a week of offline classes. A first-year student of electronics and telecommunication engineering in an autonomous college said her class was finally going to start the laboratory work from Monday but was cancelled for the one-week closure. “Though online lectures are fine, when it comes to understanding the basics of electronics, laboratory work is very important. Our batch was supposed to be called from Monday, but now we don’t know when we will be able to get it done,” the student said. While colleges have closed down, most research students are still working in their respective laboratories. Educators called closing down of colleges detrimental to the teaching-learning process. “Students have been waiting for offline classes. They can’t be given a degree or a postgraduate certificate without completing basic lab work. Learning cannot happen without actually completing the practicals. While theory can still be done online, colleges should not have been closed, especially when everyone was being called in batches to ensure adherence to safety norms,” the director of a college said. Law student Krishnarav Sathe said many outstation students thought everything would be back in order from February and they had found accommodation in the city.  “The deposit and the pending rent cost a lot of money. Houseowners also deducted money. Now, with the colleges once again closing down and rumours rife about them not reopening, it is becoming a big concern,” he said. The head of the electronics department in an engineering college said they were conducting online lectures and have also given small kits to students to practice, but a subject like electronics requires laboratory practice. “Without laboratory experience, one cannot gain expertise. It will be hard to get jobs once they graduate ,” the head of the department added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crucial-practicals-lab-work-lost-in-a-start-stop-academic-session/articleshow/81160398.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 23, 2021||Goa||BJP’s hypocrisy about family raj exposed: Congress||PANAJI: The BJP’s tall claims against family raj have been exposed in the state capital with the party fielding sons and daughters on the panel for the Corporation of the City of Panaji elections, Congress said here on Monday. Congress office bearers said that the decision to field Rohit, the son of Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate and revenue minister Jennifer Monserrate proves that the BJP has double standards. The BJP is also set to field Karan Parekh, the son of former mayor Yatin Parekh and sitting councilor Lata Parekh from ward 11. “The BJP’s hypocrisy can be seen in Panaji where the MLA and a BJP minister’s son is contesting the elections. The son may become the mayor of the city soon,” said state Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar. Interestingly, former BJP Panaji MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker took to social media to take a dig at his party colleagues. Without directly naming Monserrate, Kuncalienker appeared to question the selection of BJP-backed candidates for the civic polls in the state capital. “Rules for BJP in Gujarat for the Municipal election candidate selection: No candidate over age of 60. No candidate can be family member of party functionary or elected representative. No candidature to those who have completed three terms as elected members,” said Kuncalienker. The Congress said that the constitution of the BJP panel for the CCP elections prove that the BJP’s criticism about family raj are either hollow or that Monserrate has greater control over the BJP party. Meanwhile, the Congress party said that it is gearing up to contest the coming civic polls by fielding candidates in all the 11 civic bodies but will not form a panel for the polls in the state capital. “As a party we have decided to give full freedom to the local units and the local blocks to join hands with other parties and independents and we will guide them as required,” said state Congress chief Girish Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjps-hypocrisy-about-family-raj-exposed-cong/articleshow/81162010.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Petition against reports by extra judicial bodies||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Tuesday issued a notice to the Centre, police and Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) on a plea questioning the legal validity of the commission’s fact finding reports on last year’s northeast Delhi riots. The plea has sought reports by DMC and other extra judicial bodies be declared as having no standing in law, while challenging similar reports on the riots brought out by the Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, etc. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justice Jyoti Singh acted on the plea by a lawyer, whose school was burnt down in the clash. The petitioner, Dharmesh Sharma, contended that since the chargesheet had been filed in the matter, the fact finding reports by extra judicial bodies would interfere with the due process of the trial. “The form and content of the reports are designed in a way to deceive the judicial forums and the public, and pass off the same to prejudice people against the investigation and subsequent proceedings in accordance with law,”the petition submitted. Appearing for the Centre, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, told the court that the matter required examination. He said even before the high court, petitions had been filed making “wild allegations”, and such people had contributed to these reports. Mehta added that, while some of the reports were by self-constituted bodies, DMC was a statutory one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/petition-against-reports-by-extra-judicial-bodies/articleshow/81179536.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Bhopal||I use dance to spread the message of green, clean earth: Aruna Mohanty||Bhopal: When she’s performing on stage, you are reminded of those murals of Konark temple, which are the epitome of art’s spiritual nuances. A Padma Awardee, an environment activist and a teacher who has carried forward the ancient tradition of guru-shishya parampara, Odissi exponent Aruna Mohanty has been a regular to Khajuraho. “I’m blessed that since 1985 Khajuraho and MP have beckoned me,” she said, after her performance at the ongoing Khajuraho festival. Travelling during the second surge of pandemic is ‘worrisome’ she admitted, as the family tends to fret along. “Covid had isolated all of us due to social distancing and fear factor, yet we were dying to have an opportunity to perform live. Odisha government first gave us an opportunity when Konark festival was organised in December 2020, with all the precautions in place. That gave us confidence and boosted our morale. When Khajuraho invite came, we stepped out of Bhubaneshwar for the first time. My husband was calling me constantly on phone to wear the mask, and I was passing on these instructions to my students,who are like my children. But then, we all have to learn to learn to live with discipline since Covid is not going away,” she said. Along with dance, Aruna has also done a lot to create awareness towards environment and plastic-free society. Recently, she has choreographed a special piece dedicated to environment. “I use dance to spread the message of a green, clean earth. My new composition is called ‘Nature Calling’, where earth is calling out saying, listen to me talk about the damage you have done to environment. We must realises that more pandemics would follow if the abuse of environment is not stopped.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/i-use-dance-to-spread-the-message-of-green-clean-earth-aruna-mohanty/articleshow/81158983.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
February 23, 2021||Pune||Biker dies in collision with PMPML bus on BRTS route||PUNE: A young medical representative died after his motorcycle collided head on with a PMPML bus along the Yerawada-Wagholi BRTS corridor at Kharadi around 10.15am on Monday. The CNG-run bus caught fire soon after the accident, prompting 22 passengers on board to be evacuated. “Bavdhan resident Ajinkya Sunil Yevale (25), working with a pharmaceutical firm in Wagholi, drove into the unmanned bus rapid transport system (BRTS) crridor while on way to his office,” assistant inspector Rahul Patil of Vimannagar police told TOI. Times ViewThe accident underlines the need to find a solution and prevent other vehicles from straying into the BRTS corridors. Wrong-side driving alog the BRTS corridor is another serious problem. Police and the PMPML need to act fast to avert serious accidents. The wardens at the bus corridors have to be adequately equipped, empowered and be capable of acting tough against erring citizens.“Yevale’s bike got stuck under the front right wheel of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus. It got dragged for about 25ft before the bus driver could stop the vehicle. The resultant friction and sparks from the bike’s leaking fuel tank set off the fire in the underbelly of the bus.” Gajanan Pawar, senior inspector of the Vimannagar police, said, “The man was not wearing a helmet. He was taken to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him dead.” Patil, who is investigating the case, said, “There were no security guards at either end of the BRTS track.” A fire tender rushed to the spot after the city fire brigade received an emergency call at 10.16 am. It took about 30 minutes for the fire brigade team to extinguish the fire. Dattatray Zende, traffic manager, said, “The bike entered the corridor from wrong side and came right in front of the bus, giving very little time to the driver to react before the collision. Our accident department will carry out further probe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/biker-dies-in-collision-with-pmpml-bus-on-brts-route/articleshow/81160421.cms||Gitesh Shelke
February 23, 2021||Goa||Goa state government keen on smaller budget projects: Joshua D'Souza||SALIGAO: Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza has said that the state government is keen in taking up projects achievable within a year’s time, this despite the financial crunch it faces due to the Covid -19 pandemic. He was speaking to reporters after inaugurating the works of laying of underground cables and installation of decorative conical poles with LED lights from KTC bus stand up to Mapusa Urban Co-operative Bank. The work has been taken up by Goa State Urban Development Agency. Also present were former Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) chairperson Ryan Braganza and former councillor Sandeep Falari, among others. “Rather than just launching projects costing Rs 5 crore, 10 crore, 20 crore, etc, we are focusing on smaller budget projects which can be achieved and can be completed within a year’s time,” D’Souza said. On the proposal of laying an 11 KVA underground high-tension line for the entire Mapusa city, D’Souza said it has remained pending due to the pandemic and that he is pursuing the same with power minister Nilesh Cabral. Further, he said the work of hot-mixing of internal roads will start shortly as the work order has already been signed by the finance secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-keen-on-smaller-budget-projects-joshua/articleshow/81162001.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Pune||Trio held for robbing tempo driver & friend||Pune: The Yerawada police on Sunday arrested three criminals and booked six others on the charge of intercepting a tempo and robbing its driver and his friend. Police said the driver and his friend were robbed of Rs3,000 and two smartphones worth Rs21,500 in the incident that happened at Ambedkar Chowk at 2.30am on Sunday. “We have arrested Javed Shaikh (20), Tayyab Shaikh (19) and Vijay Rathod (21). Search is on for six others,” senior inspector Yunus Shaikh of the Yerawada police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-held-for-robbing-tempo-driver-friend/articleshow/81160467.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Police arrest fraudster from Tamil Nadu||HYDERABAD: CCS police arrested a fraudster Raman Ramesh Babu of Coimbatore for duping partners of a city-based diagnostic centre for Rs 4.43 crore. In 2019, Daniel Solomon, one of the partners of Arpitha Diagnostics at Habsiguda, lodged a complaint alleging that they approached R Ramesh Babu, agreed to supply the equipment. The total amount for the purchase of the equipment was Rs 4.43 crore. “But he did not supply the equipment and cheated us,” the complainant alleged. A special team lead by SI D Nippun went to Tamil Nadu and arrested him on February 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-arrest-fraudster-from-tn/articleshow/81160465.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Pune||5 booked for vandalising firm property||Pune: The Yerawada police on Monday night registered a criminal case against five MNS workers on the charge of rioting and threatening officials of a pharma company on the Ahmednagar road, and damaging glass panes of the office door on Monday afternoon. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh said there is some labour issue in the firm and the MNS workers wanted to make an inroad into the company by raising the workers’ issue. An officer from Yerawada police said, “The MNS workers went to the office of Fresenius Kabi company with hockey sticks. They raised slogans, issued threats and damaged the glass panel of entrance.” The company’s security guard filed an FIR.  Multiple attempts to reach Fresenius Kabi for reactions to elicited no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-booked-for-vandalising-firm-property/articleshow/81160452.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||Seniors happy as Golf Green gets own PS||Kolkata: Golf Green in south Kolkata where many senior citizens reside now has a local police station. Police commissioner Soumen Mitra inaugurated the Golf Green PS on Monday, raising hopes of senior citizens that their concerns will now be addressed. PWD minister Aroop Biswas was also present on the occasion. “The nature of crime is changing in the city. New-age cyber crimes make the elderly vulnerable. The aim of this police station is to act as a service provider. We might be wearing uniforms. But we can work together unitedly to help you. If you have any problem, you can always contact us,” Mitra said. The Golf Green PS has been carved out of Jadavpur police station to ensure better and more effective policing covering a smaller area. This is the 80th divisional police station and ninth in the south suburban (Jadavpur) division. Biswas said the bifurcation of Jadavpur PS was in line with the government’s policy to improve policing in the city. “The area under the Jadavpur PS was huge. Today, there are multiple police stations that have smaller jurisdiction. It helps citizens to approach police conveniently,” he said. Residents of the area said they were hoping the new police station will take care of specific issues and instil confidence among the locals. “We always wanted a bit more protection around Central Park since we are a non-gated society. Rogue biking is an issue. When we approach Jadavpur PS, we receive immediate support. But given its size, it is very difficult to sustain specific drives. Now, with a smaller area to cover, we hope the elderly will feel safer,” said Arindam Raha, secretary of the Golf Green Central Coordination Committee. “It is not that we had not received help from Jadavpur police station. But given its size, resource allocation was always an issue. Distance wise, both police stations are located at almost the same distance. But with allocations more specific, maybe things as simple as waiting time at both police stations will come down,” said Sandip Nandi Majumdar, a member of the committee. The area is now dotted with nuclear families from affluent backgrounds and a host of other modern facilities that cater to an upwardly mobile population. The influx of a far younger generation — in areas adjoining Golf Green like Bikramgarh and Azadgarh, several of them either IT professionals or students — has not only changed the population profile of the area but also triggered a shift in the nature of crime, felt locals. Officers of the Golf Green police said senior citizens will be their priority. “Our motto will be to protect them from new-age crimes like ATM frauds,” said a senior officer. Sources said there was a proposal to further curb out a portion of Jadavpur police station — along with Patuli and Netaji Nagar — and form a separate Baghajatin police station. Now, only four police stations occupy areas equal or above to 10sq km. These are Haridevpur (21 sq km), Parnasree, North Port and Pragati Maidan police stations. “We are making arrangements for another four police stations, including south Behala, Barisha and Rajdanga, soon,” said a top Lalbazar officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/seniors-happy-as-golf-green-gets-own-ps/articleshow/81158992.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 23, 2021||Goa||‘BJP has no respect for judiciary’:Congress||PANAJI: The State Election Commission’s (SEC) move to announce the municipal election schedule despite the high court hearing several petitions challenging the delimitation process, proves that the BJP is trying to pre-empt the judicial process, Congress said here on Monday. Congress said that the SEC’s actions suggest that the state government has no respect for the judiciary or constitutional process. Congress contends that the SEC should have waited till the court gave its verdict before announcing the election dates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-has-no-respect-for-judiciary/articleshow/81162013.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Surat||29 new cluster containment zones declared in Surat city||Surat: Amid fear of another spike in Covid-19 cases, the containment zones to control the spread of virus are back. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) declared 29 new containment areas, taking the total number of such zones to 224. Even as health officials claimed that the daily increase in the number of positive cases in the city were not alarming, they are not taking chances looking at the worsening Covid situation in neighbouring Maharashtra. SMC has also relaxed the criteria for declaring containment areas. “Earlier, we used to declare a containment zone only when two or more cases were found. But now, we even if one case is found, the area will have restrictions. We have intensified the contact tracing as well,” A K Naik, deputy municipal commissioner, health. On Monday, SMC officials held a meeting with various bodies of doctors and city hospitals including Indian Medical Association (IMA) and instructed them to share details of suspected patients with the health department on priority. They were also asked to make preparations for the next stage of vaccination drive for those above 50 years age and co-morbid patients. In the next phase, around 4.65 lakh patients will be vaccinated. Surat city is registering an increase of 10 cases daily, mainly attributed to increasing infection in neighbouring Maharashtra and public gathering events organised in the city in past few days. People gathered in huge groups in marriage functions, political and social events.  “The rise in the number of cases per day is not big, but we are taking all preventive actions.,” he added.  Currently, 5,500 health department staff of SMC are working for prevention of Covid19. In all, 62 people are taking treatment as indoor patients in Covid hospitals of whom 17 are SMC-run SMIMER Hospital and 12 in New Civil Hospital. No death due to Covid was reported on Monday.  SMC has intensified checking at city entry points. In the three days, SMC collected a fine of Rs 4.24 lakh from individuals for not wearing a face mask and violating social distancing norms.  On Tuesday, SMC will hold a meeting with representatives of the textile industry to discuss various measures to be taken to tackle the next possible wave of Covid19 in the industry and market places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/29-new-cluster-containment-zones-declared-in-surat-city/articleshow/81157832.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 23, 2021||Pune||Post-pandemic biz on agenda of Asia Economic Dialogue||Pune: The fifth edition of the Asia Economic Dialogue (AED), scheduled online from February 26 to 28, will focus on global trade dynamics in a post-Covid-19 era.The event will feature foreign ministers and top trade envoys from Asia-Pacific and Africa.AED is a policy dialogue backed by the Ministry of External Affairs and is organized jointly with Pune International Centre (PIC) in Pune. CM Uddhav Thackeray is scheduled to open the summit with an address.The external affairs minister S Jaishankar will be part of the opening session, with industrialist Naushad Forbes, discussing “resilient” growth in a post-pandemic world. Union foreign and commerce secretaries, Harsh Vardhan Shringla and Anup Wadhawan, will be part of a panel discussing India’s role as a global trade partner on the final day. Some of the attendees represent countries that sought after for their sphere of influence, particularly in the Indian Ocean rim, such as Mauritius, Maldives, and South Africa, and also those with long-standing diplomatic and trade spats with China, such as Bhutan, Japan and Australia. The conveners dismissed suggestions of the summit being a trade diplomacy counterweight to China.“This is a purely geo-economics conference. Over the past few years, several parts of Asia have risen, such as ASEAN,, India, and China. We will steer clear of politics. We have also invited the vice-president of Asian Development Bank, who is a Chinese national, as well as representatives of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), which is headquartered in Beijing,” said Gautam Bambawale, India’s former envoy to China and AED convener.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/post-pandemic-biz-on-agenda-of-asia-economic-dialogue/articleshow/81160487.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: 10-year wait ends, first train to chug out of Dakshineswar station on Tuesday||KOLKATA: The extended section of the north-south Metro corridor, which will be thrown open to public from Tuesday, will now link Kolkata with the districts. The link will enable commuters from Hooghly, Dunlop, Bonhooghly, Belghoria and other areas of the northern suburbs travel to the southern parts of the city in just an hour. The new stretch will also connect two of the most prominent pilgrimage spots in and around the city — Kalighat in the south to Dakshineswar up in the north. Prime Minister Narendra Modi remotely flagged off the first train from the newly constructed Dakshineswar Metro station at 4.55pm on Monday. As the giant screen showed the PM waving the green flag, officials of Metro Railway, which operates the city’s rapid transit network, and Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL), the implementing agency of the project, burst into cheers. The decked up MR-413 slowly chugged out of the station, signalling the much-awaited launch of the 4.1km Dakshineswar-Baranagar-Noapara section. At Hooghly’s Dunlop grounds, Modi also virtually inaugurated railway projects, like the third line between Kalaikunda and Jhargram, doubling of the Azimganj-Khagraghat Road section, the fourth line between Dankuni and Baruipara of the Howrah-Burdwan chord line and the third line between Rasulpur and Magra of the Howrah-Burdwan main line. Railway minister Piyush Goyal, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and Union minister of state for environment, forest and climate change Babul Supriyo and dignitaries like Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi were present on the dais. The entire 32km Dakshineswar-Kavi Subhas stretch, Modi said, can now be covered in just an hour’s time. “Several commuters will benefit from the Metro. Apart from Kolkata, people of Hooghly, Howrah and North 24 Parganas will also be getting the Metro facility. Commute time will be reduced from 90 minutes to 25 minutes,” he said. “The new Metro will not just help people reach ISI in Baranagar, it will help devotees reach out to Dakshineswar and Kalighat easily as well,” the PM said. “Be it Metro or railway system, whatever is being constructed in India now, the impact of ‘make in India’ is clearly visible,” Modi said, adding, “All these networks are connecting Bengal to regions that have coal, steel and fertilizer industries and agricultural heartlands. The connectivity will not just ease living but also provide opportunities for trade and industry. Bengal has huge trade potentials with the northeast and neighbouring countries. Keeping this in mind, serious efforts have been made in the past few years to strengthen the rail network.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/10-yr-wait-ends-first-train-to-chug-out-of-dakshineswar-stn-today/articleshow/81158996.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 23, 2021||Kochi||Kerala HC upholds ruling on KC(M) symbol||KOCHI: The high court has upheld a single bench’s judgment backing the Election Commission’s order assigning the ‘two leaves’ symbol to Jose K Mani group of Kerala Congress (M). A division bench comprising Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly said it does not find that the single bench exercised discretionary jurisdiction illegally so as to interfere with its decision. The single bench’s judgment was rendered on November 20. The order assigning the symbol was made by the Election Commission by virtue of the independent power enjoyed by it under the Constitution and it was bearing in mind the law in this regard that the single bench arrived at the conclusion, the division bench said while upholding the single bench’s decision. It was contended by MLA PJ Joseph and PC Kuriakose in the appeals that 59 affidavits relied upon by the Election Commission in the majority test was submitted at an earlier occasion for accepting Jose K Mani as chairman of the party. The division bench said even though the argument seems attractive at the first blush, a deeper analysis shows that the appellant could not establish any case that the state committee members who submitted the affidavits have retracted from the deposition made in the affidavits. Merely because the affidavits were submitted earlier, that cannot be said to be bad, unless and until the deponents retracted from the same subsequent to signing them, the court said. Another contention was that even the conduct of the appellants makes a clear indication of the split or rival groups in the party. But the division bench pointed out that what matters is the satisfaction of the EC based on the information before it and that the appellants have no case that the Election Commission did not hear them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-upholds-ruling-on-kcm-symbol/articleshow/81159004.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Vadodara||41 new Covid-19 cases in Vadodara||Vadodara: New Covid-19 cases in the city and district refused to go down any further. As many as 41 cases were reported on Friday taking the total number of cases reported so far up to 24,439. According to official data, 50 cases were reported in the city on February 3. After this the number of new cases has gone down at snail’s paceand on most days hovered around 42. On Monday, 1,989 samples were tested out of which the 41cases were found positive. The positive cases include nine from the areas ofthe district outside city limits and the remaining 32 cases from Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) areas. With now new deaths being confirmed by the authorities, the total number of deaths due to Covid-19 being the primary cause remained at 241. Out of 578 active cases in the city, 490 were stable while 62 were on oxygen and 26 on ventilators or BIPAP machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/41-new-covid-19-cases-in-vadodara/articleshow/81157869.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Indore||Madhya Pradesh CM orders inquiry into Indore lift collapse incident, Kamal Nath thanks him||BHOPAL: A day after LoP Kamal Nath’s narrow escape in an elevator accident in Indore, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan told the House on Monday that he has already ordered an inquiry into the incident. “The lift in which the LoP was there, crashed. It is God’s grace that he is unhurt. I have given orders for an inquiry into the accident and asked for all information on it,” Chouhan told the House. CM also paid a visit to the Leader of Opposition at the latter’s official residence and enquired after his health. In the assembly, Chouhan said, “In a democracy, we might have differences of ideology but there is no conflict.” He mentioned there have been other incidents also of lifts crashing. “The Opposition comprises of our friends and leaders of another political party. We want God to keep you all in good health,” the chief minister said. LoP Kamal Nath thanked the chief minister for ordering an inquiry within one hour of the incident.  “The lift crashed not till the basement but fell another two to three feet lower into the pit. In every lift, there is always mention of when the last inspection was done,” he said. Nath asked Chouhan to constitute a technical committee who should frame rules and provide guidelines so that such incidents do not occur in future. Chouhan accepted the recommendation to constitute a technical committee for operation of elevators in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/chouhan-orders-inquiry-into-indore-lift-collapse-incident-nath-thanks-him/articleshow/81163631.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Deshbhakti curriculum in Delhi schools from next session||NEW DELHI: Nationalism may be the buzzword in contemporary India. But Delhi government would like to see students getting an educated view of nationalism. It will launch the Deshbhakti curriculum for the 2021-22 academic session beginning in April, in which students will engage with ideas on self, family, school, community/society, nation and world. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday that the new curriculum was aimed at instilling a sense of pride about and responsibility towards the country among students through self-understanding and critical reflections. The curriculum will be initiated in classes KG to VIII alongside the happiness curriculum. Explaining what Delhi government’s third such innovative curriculum is all about, Sisodia said, “It is aimed at instilling values that would prepare children to be active and committed citizens who contribute to nation-building.” The curriculum will involve storytelling, group activities, mind mapping, role plays and group reflections about self, society and country. The curriculum committee is assisted by teachers of Delhi government schools and other different organisations. Meanwhile, the state government also launched its eighth World-Class Skill Centre at the Industrial Training Institute on Jail Road in west Delhi on Monday. It has been opened in collaboration with Sun Foundation. The first centre was started in 2015 in collaboration with the Singapore government. Sisodia said, “It is our dream to provide education and skills to every child. World-Class Skill Centre is an important step in that direction.” He added that within a year, students at such centres exhibited tremendous results and secured much better placements compared with those from Delhi University colleges because there was a clear demand for skills in the job market. “Skilling is the only way to tackle the problem of unemployment,” Sisodia said. Ten courses have been introduced at the newly established centre and these can be accessed by students from Class VIII onward till the graduation level. The courses are aligned with the National Skills Qualification Framework and accredited by National Skill Development Agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nationalism-with-world-view-delhi-govt-to-catch-em-young/articleshow/81160748.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Chhagan Bhujbal tests positive||Another Maharashtra minister has tested positive for Covid-19. Food & civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal tweeted on Monday an appeal to all who came in contact with him to get tested. Bhujbal said his health was fine. In the last two days Bhujbal was at his hometown in Nashik where he had held meetings to review the Covid-19 situation in the district. Many state ministers have tested positive in the last one week. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chhagan-bhujbal-tests-positive/articleshow/81160493.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Goa||Goa: MLA Babush stamps authority in choosing BJP candidates for CCP elections||PANAJI: More than half the sitting councillors will not be re-contesting the elections to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) on the Babush-BJP panel announced by Panaji MLA Atanasio (Babush) Monserrate. The panel will be retaining 13 corporators and giving tickets to 17 others for the 30-member civic body. Seven corporators from the BJP panel and ten from Babush’s panel in the outgoing CCP body haven’t been given tickets by the Babush panel. However, some kith and kin of current corporators have been accommodated. The last election held in 2016 was a fierce battle between Monserrate panel and BJP panel which the former had won wresting control over the municipal corporation. But once Monserrate joined BJP with nine others from Congress, the saffron party in the state capital underwent a metamorphosis. Especially the hardliners who had been strongly opposed to Monserrate went on a silent mode as the party leadership which had used all possible words to dissuade people from voting for Monserrate as Congress candidate in the May 2019 bypolls, suddenly found the Panaji MLA as saviour for the government’s stability in July 2019. Out of the 13 sitting corporators who will be re-contesting, seven belong to Babush’s panel and six BJP. Political bosses have retained these 13 despite their reservation status changing for this election, by renumbering the wards. Sources say mayor Uday Madkaikar who contested from ward 18 last election wouldn’t have been able to do so this time if the ward numbers weren’t reshuffled. While ward number 18 has been made a women’s ward, the reshuffle in ward numbers means that he is now contesting from the unreserved ward of 14. “By changing the ward numbers, it is the same people from the ward who are getting an opportunity to contest,” a citizen said. Last month, Monserrate told mediapersons that Madkaikar would not be in the race for the election and that his son would take his place. Besides Monserrate fielding his own son Rohit for the first time, a ticket is also being given to Lata Parekh’s son Karan who will contest in the general ward that was reserved for women in the last election. BJP’s Vaidehi Naik, Sheetal Dattaprasad Naik, Menino Da Cruz, Rekha Khande, Pundalik Dessai, and the husband and wife Aarti Harlarnkar and Rupesh Harlarnkar from Ribandar haven’t been given tickets on the Babush-BJP panel. Not surprising, most of them were either very close to former MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker or known critics of Monserrate, and die-hard supporters of former chief minister Manohar Parrikar. Sheetal’s husband Dattaprasad had contested from Taleigao in the assembly election Mayor for four times Surendra Furtado and his wife are also out of the race from the present panel after his ward was reserved. A woman voter said it is strange to see some women, who were in the forefront saying women in Panaji would be unsafe if Monserrate is elected to power, now in the same panel headed by the Panaji MLA. When asked whether he was happy with the panel, former MLA Sidharth Kuncalienker told TOI that the elections are not being held on party lines. “It’s not a panel-based election and neither a party-based election. It is an election of individuals. The CM has said this and our party has reiterated that there are many local factors and hence the elections are not on party lines,” he said. Contrary to this, the advertisements of Babush panel have big photos of chief minister Pramod Sawant. Kuncalienker took to social media to take a dig at his party colleagues. Without directly naming Monserrate, Kuncalienker appeared to question the selection of BJP-backed candidates for the civic polls in the state capital. When asked about the turn of events considering BJP and Babush were at loggerheads in the past, sitting corporator and former mayor Shubham Chodankar said “Babush joined the BJP and we are all together now”. Political observers say that with the selection of candidates, Monserrate has shown his authority on the politics of BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/babush-stamps-authority-in-choosing-bjp-candidates-for-ccp-elections/articleshow/81162018.cms||Lisa Monteiro
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Hospital settles Covid victim’s dues under Swasthya Sathi scheme||KOLKATA: At a time when patients have been alleging of private hospitals refusing to entertain Swasthya Sathi scheme, a city hospital has decided to settle the bill of a Covid victim through the government’s universal health scheme. But the relief to his family came after it knocked the doors of the West Bengal Health Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission. The patient, Pranab Kumar Banik (64), was admitted to Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences on January 10. The Shakuntala Park resident, who had tested Covid positive and had various ailments, died on January 29. The family had already paid a bill of Rs 1.8 lakh and Rs 6.2 lakh was due. “During the treatment period, the family’s Swasthya Saathi card got activated and the hospital agreed to adjust the bill against the scheme. The hospital even refunded a part of the 1.8 lakh after adjusting the whole treatment fee against the government’s health scheme,” said justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, WBCERC chairperson. The panel asked Desun Hospital to refund Rs 2 lakh to a patient as it felt that hospital had overcharged with a total bill of Rs 5.9 lakh. The hospital has also been asked to deposit Rs 50,000 against a complaint of bed sore by a patient’s family. Belle Vue clinic was asked to offer Rs 50,000 discount to a patient and AMRI Hospital, Dhakuria, was told to waive about 1.5 lakh due from a patient’s family. The Covid patient, who had co-morbidities, died during treatment last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosp-settles-covid-victims-dues-under-swasthya-sathi-scheme/articleshow/81158995.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 23, 2021||Kolkata||Net loss: IIM-Calcutta students fear impact on placements||KOLKATA: Students of IIM-Calcutta who will be going in for their placements on Thursday, are worried that the internet connection may snap during their interviews, costing them a coveted berth. The network facilities at the Joka campus have been described as “abysmal” by the students who complained that they were often disconnected during online classes. This year corporate houses will not be on campus and placements will take place through virtual interviews. Second-year MBA students will appear for the placements. The batch size is 480 and 50% of these students will be appearing for the interviews as the rest had already bagged pre-placement offers. “If a candidate’s internet gets snapped during the interview and it takes a while before he or she can get back to the interviewer again, will the latter have the patience to allow him again? He will simply move on to the next candidate,” said a student. The students’ council had written to the director earlier and is in touch with the computer services committee, which has now deployed a technical team to work around the clock in the hostel rooms to solve the problem. All students will appear for the interviews from their hostel rooms. “There are LAN ports that need to be replaced and routers that need to be procured and placed in the rooms that have severe internet issues. At the moment, the institute has started changing the LAN ports,” said student council representative Yash Verma. “Teachers know the problem and the fact that we are not being able to do our classes continuously. They are sympathetic to our cause, but we cannot expect that from our prospective employers. If they choose to move on, a student loses his/her opportunity forever,” another student said. Soumyakanti Chakrabarti, head of the committee that is looking into the problem, said that the institute is taking placements very seriously and all efforts are on to get better LAN ports. “Procuring new Wi-Fi connections is a long-term plan and at a government institute, it goes through a long process,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/net-loss-iim-c-students-fear-impact-on-placements/articleshow/81158993.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: After last year’s riots, crime graph goes down in northeast district||NEW DELHI: A year after the riots, the crime situation in North East district seems to have improved substantially. Data compiled by police shows a dip in snatching and robbery cases, the two prime indicators of street crime in a city, in 2020 compared with the previous year. Even this year, the fall has continued as crime data till mid-February shows a decline in snatchings compared with the corresponding period in 2020. Last year, 956 calls of robbery were made from North East district against 1,353 in 2019. This was a decrease of 20.3%. In 2020, 2,460 snatchings were reported against 4,225 in 2019, a decline of 41.8%. In 2021, 349 snatching cases were reported till February 16 against 518 last year, a dip of 32.6%. The dip in crime is being attributed to Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava’s focused approach towards having robust beat policing and basing the patrolling plan on crime mapping and geofencing data. Sources said that hotspots were identified by analysing PCR calls from each of the 11 police stations in the district and assigning the routes of patrol bikes accordingly. PCR calls are the true indicators of the crime situation in an area as police have no control over registering them, unlike FIRs. Patrolling was stepped up in areas like Khajuri Khas, Bhajanpura, Karawal Nagar, Gokalpuri, Jafrabad and Dayalpur, which were among the worst hit during last year’s riots. Many criminals fled to other states fearing arrest, police claimed. North East district, police say, is considered one of the most crime-prone areas in Delhi. A porous border with UP, dense demography and existence of local rival gangs makes the area vulnerable. For over a decade, criminal gangs led by Irfan Chhenu and Abdul Nasir have been at loggerheads. Over two dozen deaths have occurred in gang wars in the last few years. Other gangs cannot function in the area without being affiliated to either one of them. Sources said a transfer to the district was an unofficial “hard posting” for police officers and a good performance usually meant a “peace posting”. Meanwhile, DCP (North East) Ved Prakash Surya was among the 16 officers reshuffled on Tuesday. He has been posted to Rashtrapati Bhavan. Sanjay Sain, a 2011-batch IPS officer, has now been posted there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-last-years-riots-crime-graph-goes-down-in-north-east-district/articleshow/81179575.cms||Raj Shekhar
February 23, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Experts see reduced Covid virulence as deaths stay low||PUNE: There has been a steady drop in the district’s weekly Covid case fatality rate (CFR) despite the recent surge in cases. The February 13-19 week recorded the lowest CFR (just 0.7%) since January 23-29, when it was 1.2%. The case fatality rate helps assess the severity of a disease by determining total number of deaths among reported cases within a specific period. Experts said large caseload with a low CFR suggests suggests high SARS-CoV-2 transmission, but not serious Covid-19. “Though the number of cases is high, most are mild to moderate patients who can be managed with home quarantine,” said Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services (Pune region). Dr Kapil Zirpe, member of the Pune Covid-19 task force, said there has been an increase the mild and asymptomatic categories over the last couple of weeks. He said, “The number of critical patients requiring oxygen is less. A clearer picture will emerge in the next three weeks. Case numbers are rising rapidly due to high transmissibility as entire families seem to be contracting the infection. However, status of spread seems to indicate high virus transmission, but reduced virulence.”  Dr Zirpe said another key reason for the fall in CFR is increased awareness among Covid patients, who are seeking care quicker. Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association’s Hospital Board of India, said, “Covid cases increased this week, while the inflammatory phase of the infection starts after the eighth day of symptoms. So the death rate may rise after three weeks in the case of the newly detected infections.” Dr Urvi Shukla, chief intensivist at Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre, said, “There are adequate health facilities to cater to patients, including those who are critical. This is helping keep fatalities down. Health systems that are not inundated can contribute to lower CFR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-see-reduced-ncov-virulence-as-deaths-stay-low/articleshow/81160491.cms||Neha Madaan
February 23, 2021||Goa||BJP government cannot win without cheating: Vijai Sardesai||PANAJI: Reacting to the State Election Commission’s (SEC) move to announce the dates for the municipal polls, NDA member Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Monday said that BJP cannot win the municipal elections without “cheating” . GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that BJP was scared of contesting the civic polls on party lines despite a resounding victory in the zilla panchayat elections which were held on party lines. “It is very clear that this government cannot win these elections without cheating. They have to cheat to win and I don’t know why they are scared,” said Sardesai when asked about the SEC’s move to announce the election schedule even as the high court Goa bench was hearing a petition challenging the delimitation exercise for the civic polls. The court is expected to deliver its verdict on Wednesday. Sardesai said that GFP was ready to fight the civic polls on party lines. “We have been saying right from the start that elections should be on the party symbol, but for some reason the BJP got scared,” said Sardesai. “The government is theirs, they are passing all kinds of laws, they should have done this too.” Sardesai also said that chief minister Pramod Sawant would come in for scathing criticism in the next five years for pushing through the three linear projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-govt-cant-win-without-cheating-gfp/articleshow/81162017.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM orders inquiry into Indore lift collapse incident, Kamal Nath thanks him||BHOPAL: A day after LoP Kamal Nath’s narrow escape in an elevator accident in Indore, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan told the House on Monday that he has already ordered an inquiry into the incident. “The lift in which the LoP was there, crashed. It is God’s grace that he is unhurt. I have given orders for an inquiry into the accident and asked for all information on it,” Chouhan told the House. CM also paid a visit to the Leader of Opposition at the latter’s official residence and enquired after his health. In the assembly, Chouhan said, “In a democracy, we might have differences of ideology but there is no conflict.” He mentioned there have been other incidents also of lifts crashing. “The Opposition comprises of our friends and leaders of another political party. We want God to keep you all in good health,” the chief minister said. LoP Kamal Nath thanked the chief minister for ordering an inquiry within one hour of the incident.  “The lift crashed not till the basement but fell another two to three feet lower into the pit. In every lift, there is always mention of when the last inspection was done,” he said. Nath asked Chouhan to constitute a technical committee who should frame rules and provide guidelines so that such incidents do not occur in future. Chouhan accepted the recommendation to constitute a technical committee for operation of elevators in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chouhan-orders-inquiry-into-indore-lift-collapse-incident-nath-thanks-him/articleshow/81158998.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Chennai||Metro rail users struggle as in-train route maps don’t mention new stns||Chennai: It has been a week since metro rail commenced services in north Chennai, but electronic route maps in the coaches are yet to be updated to include the new stations on the 9km metro line from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar. This has left commuters in the trains peering through glass panes to see which stop’s next. Though recorded announcement about the approaching station is played, commuters say it is not audible enough, especially during crowded peak hours. While the 42 trains run on the 45km phase-1 have both static and dynamic route maps installed above the train doors, they are not updated to include the new stations on the north Chennai route. Static maps are plain maps with only the route and the stations, while dynamic maps are electronic displays where a red light blinks next to the approaching station’s name. The 10 new trains procured for the north Chennai line have static maps with the new stations, but commuters say it is not helpful as it does not indicate which station the train is approaching. “We are forced to look through the glass to see where the train is every time it nears a station,” said S Kumaran, of Tiruvottiyur. CMRL has a fleet of 52 trains and operates 42 four-car trains during peak hours and 35 during non-peak hours. The new line in North Chennai has been recording an average 9,000 passengers daily with the maximum on February 21 with 16,058 passengers. This has boosted the total ridership to a daily average of 73,634 passengers. A CMRL official said they have floated tenders to both upgrade the static and dynamic route maps as well as install LED display screens in all the 52 trains soon. The LED screens will have information on approaching stations, availability of last mile connectivity and the landmarks around a station. “Once we confirm the contract, all trains will be upgraded in six months,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-rail-users-struggle-as-in-train-route-maps-dont-mention-new-stns/articleshow/81160576.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Goa||Goa: Shripad Naik likely to go home on February 24||PANAJI: Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik is likely to be discharged from Goa Medical College Hospital, Bambolim on February 24. Naik has been in the hospital for nearly one and half month after he met with an accident in Uttar Kannada. In the accident that occured on January 11 late evening, his wife Vijaya and personal secretary lost their lives. Last month, a team from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) had examined him in GMC. Several VVIPs, including Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Union ministers have visited him in the hospital. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shripad-likely-to-go-home-on-feb-24/articleshow/81162032.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Bhopal||Nath meets Cong MLAs, chalks out House strategy||Bhopal: Former chief minister and LoP Kamal Nath on Monday evening called a meeting of the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) at his residence to chalk out a strategy for the budget session. The meeting stretched for over two hours. Legislators were told to unitedly raise issues of public interest and welfare in the assembly. According to sources, the issues that will be raised by the Opposition include the Sidhi bus accident, inflation and the steady rise in prices of petrol-diesel and LPG cylinders, farmers protests against the three Central laws. It will also question the government on non-implementation of the third phase of Jai Kisan Fasal Rinn Maafi Yojana started by the erstwhile Congress government. Tuesday could be noisy in the House also because Congress is demanding the post of deputy Speaker, while the BJP says that in January 2019, it was the Nath government that broke the tradition and did not give the post to the Opposition. BJP had proposed to make Jagdish Dewra as deputy Speaker, while the Congress, then in power, elected two-time MLA Hina Kawre. Congress MLAs also said that Youth Congress will hold a protest and gherao of the state assembly on March 3, a day after budget presentation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-meets-cong-mlas-chalks-out-house-strategy/articleshow/81159005.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP brass livid with 20 party MLAs who complained to Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: A letter by 20 BJP MLAs, mostly former CM Vasundhara Raje aides expressing discrimination in the assembly, has faced the ire of the leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria and deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore on Monday. The letter was addressed to state president Satish Poonia directing towards Kataria and Rathore of repeatedly allowing some MLAs to raise issues in the assembly while ignoring others. Reacting to the letter, Kataria said if any party MLA had any issue in the assembly, they should have written a letter to me as well. “I am astonished the way the matter has been raised by some party colleagues. The matter could be raised during our MLAs meet or they could have shared the concern directly with me,” said Kataria. Rathore has called the move against the values and culture of the party and akin to challenging the state party leadership. He said, “Eighty per cent of these MLAs have spoken in the assembly in some issue or the other. I really don’t understand why they have taken this move. If they have any issue that could be raised in our weekly MLAs meet during the assembly session.” Taking the matter forward, he said that issue will be discussed in the core committee meeting to be held on Tuesday. Reacting to the statements of Kataria and Rathore, Pratap Singh Singhvi (Chabbra), one of the signatories said, “We have raised our concern now they have theirs. Our letter is just a request to our party president highlighting an issue which we felt could compromise public issues from being raised in the assembly. I am committed to the party and the move is to be seen as a normal expression.” Singhvi is considered close to the Raje camp. In a new twist to the issue, three signatories — Shobha Chauhan (Sojat), Ram Pratap Kasania (Suratgrah) and Chagan Raj Purohit (Ahore) — said they were no aware of the contents of the letter. Singhvi laughed off the excuse given by the three MLAs saying all the three MLAs are seasoned legislators who know what they are doing. “I don’t know why they are refusing,” said Singhvi. The much talked about letter, which has created a storm, has not been received by anyone so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-bjp-brass-livid-with-20-party-mlas-who-complained-to-poonia/articleshow/81160499.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Pune||Experts want walk-in jab, not app, for 50-plus||PUNE: Members of the central Covid-19 task force and public health experts have called for walk-in registrations instead of pre-registration on the CoWIN app when vaccine drives open next month for people over 50 years of age. The experts said their suggestion comes in the wake of reports of CoWIN glitches from many states. Currently, health and frontline workers have to pre-register on the CoWIN app before they can get their shots. “People over 50 should be able to walk to the vaccination sites and register themselves after submitting their Aadhaar or voter IDs. This will make the entire process much more simpler,” said task force member Dr Giridhara Rao. He added that it’s time the government considered “out-of-the-box solutions”. “We need walk-in vaccinations. That means, you walk in with your Aadhaar, authenticate age in a minute, get vaccinated, wait 30 minutes and get home,” Rao said. The government had earlier announced that people over 50 will be able to self-register on the CoWIN app, but experts said the process needs to be simplified further if pace of vaccination has to pick up. They said the private sector too has to play a key role in the plan that hopes to cover 7-10 million people per day. They suggested that private hospitals, corporates and NGOs need to be roped in to boost the drive. “Health workers, who were already under pressure while caring for patients, were then burdened with a system that needed pre-registration, which was of not much use,” said a health official. Rao said, “CoWIN is not the problem, but the over-reliance on it is. The real strength of India is health workers and the micro-planning they use to carry out several immunisation campaigns. We need to use these micro-plans, permit walk-ins and rope in private hospitals.” Epidemiologist Dr Lalit Kant said while CoWIN ensures monitoring of distribution and dosage, it should be improved for faster vaccination in the above-50 group. He added that three quarters or more of all deaths in the country due to Covid-19 have been among people in this category. “Vaccination of this group is key to reducing hospital admissions and deaths. The process has to be made much more simpler,” he said. He also added that the shots have been found to be effective against new variants. “These variants may have put a dent on how well the vaccines work, but have not made them ineffective. The vaccines reduce the number of severe cases even among the elderly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/task-force-members-want-walk-in-registrations-for-those-above-50/articleshow/81160513.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Expect warm day, shallow fog today||NEW DELHI: Mercury is likely to rise from Tuesday with maximum temperature predicted to remain around 31 degrees Celsius. According to India Meteorological Department, the maximum temperature may rise further to around 32 degrees Celsius on Wednesday and the minimum temperature may touch 13 degrees Celsius. The temperatures are set to rise mainly due to clear skies. The maximum and minimum temperatures recorded on Monday were 28.9 degrees Celsius and 11 degrees Celsius, respectively. Shallow fog was observed during morning hours and the visibility was reported at 800 metres at Safdarjung station. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Due to clear skies and sunlight, the day temperature is warm and comfortable. As there has been no major rain activity in the hills, the sky is not cloudy in the region and temperature is rising.” Met officials said the temperatures might decrease marginally in the subsequent three days under the influence of a western disturbance. “A western disturbance is about to impact the hills. Due to this, the mercury level may decrease by a degree or two for a day but there would be no major variation in the temperatures,” said an official. IMD forecast shows the maximum and minimum temperatures may dip to 30 and 11 degrees Celsius, respectively, on February 28. There is a chance of mist or shallow fog during the morning hours for the week. The overall Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) was 288 in ‘poor’ category on Monday and the air quality may improve marginally on Tuesday. AQI is likely to remain in ‘very poor’ category on February 24 and 25, said System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/expect-warm-day-shallow-fog-today/articleshow/81160511.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Tax evasion of Rs 90 crore revealed||JAIPUR: The Anti-Evasion Branch of CGST Commissionerate, Jaipur, which probed against multiple non-existing, non-operating firms on Monday, found that fake invoices of goods worth Rs 3,300 crore had been issued to evade tax of more than Rs 90 crore. Officials arrested seven people, including five proprietors - Rishi Raj Swami, Mahendra Mangal, Raj Kumar Sharma, Sunil Kumar and Lalit Goyal and two others - Arun Sharma and Harish Jain — in this connection. The accused were produced before the court, which directed them to be sent to judicial custody till March 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tax-evasion-of-rs-90cr-revealed/articleshow/81160506.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kappan floats NCK, to be UDF constituent||Thiruvananthapuram: Rebel NCP leader and Pala MLA Mani C Kappan on Monday floated a new political party, Nationalist Congress (Kerala) and announced that the party would associate with UDF. Kappan is the founding president of the new regional outfit. On Tuesday, Kappan will represent the new party at the concluding rally of Aiswarya Kerala yatra led by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala that will be inaugurated by AICC former president Rahul Gandhi. Kappan said he had held discussions with senior UDF leaders, including KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, before announcing the new party. When asked about Mullappally’s suggestion to Kappan to join Congress, he said that might be because of his care and concern for him. “The decision to float a new political party was conveyed to all UDF leaders,” said Kappan. Kappan’s NCP colleagues Babu Karthikeyan, Sulfikkar Mayoori and P Gopinath have joined the new party. While Karthikeyan will be the working president of NCK, Mayoori and Gopinath will be the general secretaries. Siby Thomas is the treasurer of the new party. Kappan said district committees have been formed in 12 districts and he expected more NCP leaders to join the party soon. NCK will demand accreditation as UDF constituent and three assembly seats to contest. Besides Pala, which Congress has promised, NCK would demand Kayamkulam and one seat in north Kerala. Mayoori is the party nominee to contest from Kayamkulam. NCK’s demands will be discussed by the UDF high-power meeting this week itself. Kappan said that he was forced to float a new party as LDF hasn’t done justice to him. “I won Pala when the LDF government was in ventilator after the huge defeat in Lok Sabha elections. I won by 2,940 votes in a constituency where UDF’s Lok Sabha candidate led by 33,000 votes. Yet, LDF snatched the seat,” he said. Meanwhile, NCP state council met in Kochi on Monday to discuss the political situation after Kappan’s exit. Sources said a section of leaders unleashed scathing criticisms against state president T P Peethambaran and minister A K Saseendran, alleging that the weak leadership cost the party a seat and a strong leader. Later, Saseendran told reporters that only a handful of workers went out of the party with Kappan and the split hasn’t affected the party. “We are bargaining for four seats, including Pala,” he told reporters in Kochi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kappan-floats-nck-to-be-udf-constituent/articleshow/81159054.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Vadodara||Skull opened, but Gujarat man chats with doctors||VADODARA/ ANAND: The mere thought of undergoing a surgery can be scary. But a 41-year-old Petlad resident not only went under the knife, but also remained awake for nearly two-and-a half hours while his brain was being operated. Doctors operated and sucked bleeding from the brain of Udesinh Vasava through a rare ‘awake craniotomy’ – a brain surgery typically performed keeping the patient remains awake.  Vasava, a labourer by occupation, was suffering from acute headache since the last eight months while his movements had got severely hampered.  He was diagnosed with right fronto-parietal cavernoma (bleeding inside the brain in simple terms). His left hand and left lower limb had weakened because of this condition.  “Usually, brain surgeries are done under general anaesthesia. But the beauty of this surgery is that the patient remains awake while the surgery is being performed,” said Dr Hitesh Patel from Changa-based Charusat hospital.  “We had to keep the patients awake to check whether the upper limb movement was adequate or not. Also, we had to keep a check so that vital structures do not get affected. The patient remained conscious on the operation table while he was being operated and responded to us when we asked him to move his body parts,” said Patel. Before the surgery, Vasava’s upper limb was weaker compared to the left lower.  “During surgery, we had blocked all the nerves of the right side of the skull. After giving mild sedation to the patient, the skull was opened. We reached the location where bleeding was happening,” said Patel. The Petlad resident, who was operated free under MA Amrutam Yojana, was discharged after he started performing his routine work without any hiccups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/skull-opened-but-man-chats-with-doctors/articleshow/81157918.cms||Prashant Rupera
February 23, 2021||Jodhpur||Prohibitory orders clamped in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Considering the threat of coronavirus infection, the police invoked section 144 across the entire jurisdiction of Jodhpur police commissionerate on Monday. The prohibitory orders, which do not allow more than five people to assemble at a place, will remain in force for a month till March 21. DCP (headquarters) Rajkumar Choudhary said the decision was taken after the assessment of present situation of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/prohibitory-orders-clamped-in-jodhpur/articleshow/81160510.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 cases rise 22% in state, 55% in city in 2 days||Ahmedabad: Gujarat registered more than 300 Covid-19 cases in a day after a gap of 21 days. The state recorded 315 new cases in 24 hours on Monday. The last time that the state had witnessed 300-plus cases was on January 31 with 316 cases. In fact, the rise in daily cases in the state over the past two days is 22% -- one of the highest since the post-Diwali surge. The surge in cases has been noticed just a day after the voting for municipal corporation polls got over on Sunday. All political factions were on the radar for flouting mask and social distancing rules in public events. Experts caution that a similar surge can be reported in non-city areas after upcoming civic body polls if due care is not taken. In fact, Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association on Monday has written to CM Vijay Rupani, seeking strict enforcement of preventive measures and speeding up of vaccination drive in Gujarat. "Maharashtra has already reported an increase in cases, and states like Karnataka and Kerala are also seeing a rise. It has been noticed that people in Gujarat are becoming carefree and the rule of wearing a mask in public places is being done away with," stated the letter. It also mentioned that the ‘precarious situation’ can go any side within the next few days. "‘Now is the time to be strict with all to avoid situations of further restrictions in the future.... any laxity on our part can lead to a disastrous situation." Analysis of the four major cities reveal that Rajkot almost doubled the daily cases in two days – from 20 on February 20 to 39 on February 22, recording a jump of 95%. Ahmedabad was second with 55.5% jump (from 45 to 70), followed by 44% in Vadodara (from 41 to 59) and 33% in Surat (from 36 to 4)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-cases-rise-22-in-state-55-in-city-in-2-days/articleshow/81160626.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Lockdown is not necessary, say experts||MUMBAI: While the first lockdown introduced in March 2020 helped check the spread of Covid-19 across the country, experts believe such a stringent measure would not be necessary now even though SARS-CoV-2 cases are on the rise at the moment. On Sunday, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned of a second complete lockdown if people failed to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour, but experts said “micro-containment” that has already started in the state’s new hotspots would be a better option. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s Covid task force, said people have shown “utter disrespect” for Covid norms, resulting in a rise in cases. “At the moment, the state is using a micro-containment policy, but if people continue to disregard basic Covid norms, the administration may have no choice but to impose a lockdown,” he said. In Maharashtra, daily cases rose to over 6,000 after a month of being under 3,000. Cases have risen severalfold in the districts of Akola, Amravati and Yavatmal. In Mumbai, too, cases rose from 300-odd until the first week of February to 761 on Monday. Genomic sequencing of random positive cases is underway to check for mutations and variants that may be responsible for the rise, and state officials said the results should be available later this week. On Monday, state Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) head Dr T P Lahane said a total lockdown was not an option any longer. “The strategy this time will be micro-containment, containment of bigger areas or local lockdowns,” he told TOI. Lockdowns, said scientists, is a public health tool used in pandemics when the health system isn’t ready for the critical cases and mortality. “Lockdown was necessary in March 2020 as the health system had to be upgraded to ensure adequate oxygen supplies, medicines as well as human resources,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, an epidemiologist with the Public Health Foundation of India. India had a massive shortage of ventilators in January 2020, and the lockdown slowed down the progress of Covid-19, allowing authorities to acquire medical equipment and resources. “Lockdown is needed only if the system is unable to handle hospitalisation of severe cases or prevent deaths,” he said. The need of the hour is containment policies to ensure early diagnosis and isolation of cases in hotspots. “Areas need to be categorized as high-risk, moderate and low-risk zones. The administration will have to use different strategies for areas that are high-risk, including vaccinating the vulnerable (elderly and those with comorbidities) ahead of the rest of the places,” Dr Babu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lockdown-is-not-necessary-say-experts/articleshow/81160530.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 23, 2021||Chandigarh||Centre unyielding, so are farmers: More to head for Delhi from Feb 27||Bathinda: Farm organisations are planning to mobilise more activists to protest sites on the borders of Delhi from February 27, when the ongoing agitation against the central government’s three agro-market laws will complete three months. Even as the laws have sparked widespread protests in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the Centre has been toughening its stand against their demand to repeal the laws. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had on Sunday hit out at farmers groups by saying that merely gathering a crowd — in this case, thousands of people protesting on three national highways which enter Delhi — would not lead to revocation of laws and farmers should tell the government which provisions in the laws they found against their interests. Farm unions feel mobilisation of support is the foremost option with them at the moment and only this will force the central government to rethink on its stand. They may plan another strategy after February 28, when the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) will meet again. Under the plan, farm organisations have banked on the appeals they have made in mahapanchayats to farmers to reach Delhi borders on February 27, but not at the cost of leaving the ripening wheat crop unattended. “Though the minister has claimed that laws could not be revoked only by ensuring gathering of crowds, we are banking on ensuring more farmers reach the protests. With this, we could pressure the government to either restart dialogue process or simply get ready to concede to our demand,” said farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan. Farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said they needed to ensure that more farmers and people from other walks of life reach protests. “The government feels that as harvesting season is about to start, farmers will shun protests, but it is a mistaken as many farmers will leave behind younger members of their families to take care of crops,” he said. Another farmer leader, Ruldu Singh Mansa, said noth sustaining the protest and taking care of crops was important for farmers. “But the government is only trying to mislead the nation and the farmers by making vague claims. When we gather crowds, we will force the government to listen to us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-unyielding-so-are-farmers-more-to-head-for-delhi-from-feb-27/articleshow/81160514.cms||Neel Kamal
February 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Micro-containment zones back in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: After nearly a month, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has announced three micro-containment zones in Shilaj, Ghatlodia and Khokhra, putting 114 persons under quarantine. To curtail the spread of coronavirus, AMC puts an area or a residential society under micro-containment zone if a large number of cases are detected from there. AMC put Gopi Rowhouse in Ghatlodia, certain sections of Hariharashray Bungalows in Shilaj and Bhuleshwar Society in Khokhra under quarantine on Monday. Meanwhile, with the rise in Covid-19 cases in Gujarat and neighbouring states including Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, the state will screen passengers coming in by railway, road and air. State health department officials said that the number of Dhanvantari Raths would be increased as more rapid antigen test (RAT) kiosks would be activated. “Checkposts have been created at state borders to carry out stringent checking of incoming passengers using temperature guns and other measures. Random testing will also be carried out to ensure that the passengers are not carrying viral infection,” said a senior health department official.  “Screening will also be carried out in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Bhavnagar and Rajkot. All airports will carry out checking of passengers. Those suspected will be isolated and tested.” Officials added that general practitioners are also instructed to keep an eye on influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) cases. “Cases on 104 and 108 helplines will also be under scrutiny. The focus will be on urban areas with sudden rise in cases,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/micro-containment-zones-back-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/81160624.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Healing touch: Delhi Development Authority falls back on Vedas to save waterbodies||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is now employing the healing touch of ayurveda for the treatment and rejuvenation of large waterbodies in the capital. Apart from the conventional and expensive sewage treatment plants (STP), DDA is now experimenting with traditional and cheaper Vedic methods, which it says have proven successful. The rejuvenation of waterbodies include success stories like Neela Hauz. DDA is currently working on 50 waterbodies, where it is employing different techniques. It has also floated a first-of-its-kind tender for rejuvenation and ecological restoration of a waterbody in Smriti Van, a park in Vasant Kunj. Tenders have been invited from specialised firms for using “suitable ayurvedic technology and other management services for liquid management”. The contract is for six months costing Rs 5.8 lakh. The selected firm would need to have experience of similar work, apart from ayurvedic technology, “cownomics” or bioremediation. While bioremediation uses microbes and bacteria to remove contaminants and toxins from water, officials said cownomics is a method where ayurvedic concentrate is mixed in water, which DDA says has been tried at a smaller scale and found successful. Rajeev Kumar Tiwari, principal commissioner (horticulture), DDA, said, “We used the in situ remediation method on an experimental basis twice earlier, at Prasad Nagar Lake and a waterbody in Rohini. This was done for around two months to see the efficacy of this technology and the results were very satisfactory.” “Gaining confidence from these experiences, we are now going for it on a larger scale. This is the first time that we have floated such an open tender for various in situ treatment methods,” he added. Tiwari said DDA has made the rejuvenation process open to all kinds of technologies and products. “As an organisation, we are only concerned about the water quality getting improved and whoever does it at lowest rate, will get the work. We will carry out tests every month and if the water sample results are as per norms, payment shall be made,” he added. Dirty water from a drain gets mixed in the waterbody at Vasant Kunj. While DDA could have put an STP, the cost would have been in crores of Rupees, apart from maintenance and electricity cost. “We can use this conventional method (STP) anytime, but it will be very expensive. There are a lot of such products available now, which through microbial action and oxidation do in situ treatment,” said Tiwari, adding that similar methods like adding solutions to waterbodies had given results at Mehrauli Archaeological Park and Hauz Khas Lake. Watch Healing touch: To save water bodies DDA falls back to Vedas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/healing-touch-dda-falls-back-on-vedas-to-save-waterbodies/articleshow/81179670.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 23, 2021||Nashik||Woman gets back purse left on train||Nashik: Officials and personnel of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) on Monday helped a woman get her purse, containing Rs 15,000 cash and a cellphone worth Rs 8,000, which she had forgotten at the Nashik Road railway station while alighting from the Sevagram Express, back. The woman was travelling from Nagpur to Nashik. When the train arrived at Nashik Road railway staion around 8.15am, the woman deboarded the train in haste and left her purse on the seat. By the time she realized she has forgotten her purse, the train had already left the railway station. She immediately brought the matter to the attention of D P Zagade, the sub-incpector of the RPF who was on duty at the railway station at that time. Since the next stop of the train was Igatpuri station, Zagade immediately contacted the RPF personnel at Igatpuri and told them to check for the purse in the concerned coach and seat number provided by the woman. When the train arrived at Igatpuri railway station, assistant sub-inspector S K Sainee and one more RPF personal checked the concerned coach and asked fellow passengers about the purse. The RPF personnel immediately informed their contemporaries at Nashik Road railway station that the purse had been found. The woman’s husband than left for Igatpuri by another train and received the purse from RPF personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-gets-back-purse-left-on-train/articleshow/81157931.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 23, 2021||Jaipur||Puducherry events unfortunate: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||Jaipur: Reacting to the fall of the Narayan Samy government in Puducherry, chief minister Ashok Gehlot accused the BJP of grabbing power by destabilising Congress governments. “What has happened in Puducherry is most unfortunate and yet another case of how the BJP is destabilising Congress governments to grab power through unethical means. First, they created problems in running the administration through the lieutenant governor and now this has happened,” tweeted the chief minister. What BJP is doing is only undermining democracy in the country. The people are watching what tactics BJP is adoptin… https://t.co/k6Qqv3pYWt— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1613983886000“Luring Congress MLAs has been their modus operandi in all Congress-ruled states,” Gehlot said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/puducherry-events-unfortunate/articleshow/81160521.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Chennai||Weaving a new story with grass||Chennai: Since she was 12, A Mohamed Fathima has been weaving ‘pais’ or mats out of ‘korai’ grass. But, in the past few weeks, the 30-year-old from Pattamadai in Tirunelveli district has been learning how to incorporate new designs and colours and also market the newer products.Fathima is one of 40 women mat weavers of Pattamadai who have been picked for the skilling programme being conducted by the Government of Tamil Nadu and The Crafts Council of India (CCI)."We have been working with the women at Pattamadai for many years, and selling their mats through our shop, Kamala, in Chennai," says Gita Ram, chairperson, CCI, adding that CCI had conducted a dye workshop for 20 women mat weavers in November 2020.The traditional ‘pattamadai pai’ is usually dark green or red and made of korai grass. "Among Tamil Brahmins, the ‘pattu pai’ is traditionally gifted to the bride and groom by the bride’s family when they get married," says Gita. "The couple’s names are also woven into the mat and they stand on it while getting married."The traditional mat, which is of 120 counts, feels like silk. "It takes a long time to make one, which is a little less than 3ft in width and 6ft in length, so it costs about Rs6,000 to Rs7,000," says Gita. "That’s why they have begun making mats of 50 to 70 counts, which are durable and affordable. They cost about Rs3,000 each and takes about three days to make." The 100-hour skilling programme is designed by the Tamil Nadu Skill Development Centre under Skills Acquisition and Knowledge Awareness for Livelihood Programme (SANKALP), and funded by the ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship and World Bank."The women will be taught financial literacy and digital empowerment — how to run a business enterprise, how to budget, how to use a smartphone, and the internet," says Gita.They are also being taught to make new products. "Our designer and master tailor is training them how to make bags, table runners and mats," says Gita.The programme, which began on January 11, will be on till February 28. "In March, we will conduct a virtual exhibition to showcase products made by the weavers," says Gita.The district collector, V Vishnu, is also planning to create a group called Nellai Crafts. "There will be a retail shop in the centre of the city , which will sell the products. We are also planning to create an FB page, which will also help artisans with online sales."Fathima says she is learning how to market her products. "Earlier we only wove the mats. Now we are doing all the finishing work, and also learning how to connect with customers from home," she says. "We can showcase our products in the shop and also take photos of it and post it on the FB page and customers can contact us directly."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/weaving-a-new-story-with-grass/articleshow/81159048.cms||Priya Menon
February 23, 2021||Coimbatore||Employee of private company deposits fake notes, booked||Coimbatore: An employee of a private company was booked for depositing counterfeit currency notes amounting to Rs 14,000 at a private bank in Pollachi.Vijayakumar, 45, of Avalappampatti in Pollachi, is working with a private company in Pollachi. On February 18, he deposited Rs 2 lakh in the account of his company owner Palanisamy Maruthamuthu at a private bank near BSNL office in Pollachi. The bank staff noticed 28 of the 500 notes fake. Vijayakumar told bank officials that he was not aware about the counterfeit currency notes and he was asked to deposit the amount at the bank by the company. Bank manager Selvakumaresh lodged a complaint with the Pollachi east police on February 20. Police registered a case against Vijayakumar under Section 489 (c) (possession of counterfeit currency) of the Indian Penal Code. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/employee-of-private-company-deposits-fake-notes-booked/articleshow/81159056.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Chandigarh||R-Day events: Leftists, Sikhs continue to spar||JALANDHAR: The farm stir might have helped unite people from different identities – regional to religious to caste – but bitterness between a section of Punjabi Leftists and Sikhs has been brewing, more so after the events of Republic Day. Though initially it was dismissed as confined only to social media, later it was realised that it had the potential to cause damage to the movement. This led to a few prominent Punjabi commentators addressing the issue and urging people to reduce the friction, while emphasising nuanced understanding of the things. Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leadership also appeared to be concerned about it. The rift between Sikhs and Leftists had widened in 1980s after which Left parties were pushed to electoral insignificance in the state. Some of the Leftists, rather ultra-Leftists, joined Sikh stream after Operation Blue Star and they became biggest critics of Left politics and the Left’s understanding of Sikh and Punjab issues. Some bitterness has lived between two sides since. It was the peasantry movement which brought them closer once again as quite a few farm unions have Left or ultra-Left orientation and played significant role in providing leadership. Sikhs became biggest strength of the movement, providing the crucial resources, numbers, institutional support, apart from the spirit with motivation from Sikh history. Though some differences were visible earlier too, but the sheer scale of the movement, the challenge it posed and faced from the government – overshadowed these differences. It prompted both sides to be accommodating to each other. However, the events of January 26 and the subsequent reactions and handling by the farm union leaders, especially a couple of those coming from Left background, differences between perceptions in viewing the events, led to spiralling up of bitterness. Acrimonious exchanges have been happening since then. The narrative set by a few farm union leaders and their supporters on social media appeared to be holding the sway initially for a couple of days, but several Sikh netizens countered this narrative and questioned the role of leadership. Postmortem of the January 26 and later events, role played by different persons and positions taken by different quarters from Left and Sikh fold, is continuing. SKM leadership appears to be striking a balance for now. While author Jaspal Singh Sidhu has already written about this divide in detail and has advocated restraint from both sides, Sikh author Gurbachan Singh, himself earlier a Leftist, has said that the fight between both sides would only benefit the Union government and some “half-literate” fellows who did not understand the essence of Sikh philosophy and Marxism were widening the rift. Professor of Economics at Oxford Brookes Business School, UK, Pritam Singh has gone on record saying that farm leadership should be respected by all and they deserved credit for building the movement, but the leaders should also admit the flaws in their post January 26 articulation and handling of the situation. He also said that none, including Deep Sidhu, should be called traitor by the union leaders and dissent within those part of the movement should be respected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/r-day-events-leftists-sikhs-continue-to-spar/articleshow/81160545.cms||IP Singh
February 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Six days to go, 72% vaccination target met||Ahmedabad: With less than a week for Gujarat to wrap up the first two phases of Covid-19 vaccination drive, the state has achieved 72% of its target so far. The drive is supposed to cover 4.33 lakh healthcare workers and 6.93 lakh frontline workers by the end of February. Till February 22 Gujarat recorded 8.13 lakh cumulative vaccinations. In the past 24 hours, Gujarat recorded inoculation of 1,035 persons, taking the total to 8.13 lakh. Moreover, 11,891 persons took the second dose, taking the total to 67,300. “Over 85% of the healthcare workers and over 80% of other government department officers and personnel are covered. Those who are left out either have medical issues preventing them from taking the vaccine, or they could not approach the vaccination centres,” said a senior state health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/six-days-to-go-72-vaccination-target-met/articleshow/81160616.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: IGI tests to cover 10 times more international flyers||NEW DELHI: With the Union health ministry issuing more stringent guidelines to tackle new Covid-19 strains, testing at Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport is increasing over 10 times — from 500-700 international passengers each day to over 7,000. While it was only mandatory for passengers from the United Kingdom to undergo Covid testing, the new guidelines also mandate testing for passengers from the rest of Europe, West Asia, Brazil and South Africa, where new variants have been detected. To avoid overcrowding on the airport premises, passengers, other than those taking a connecting flight, will leave after giving a sample. The airport operator, Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), said it had revamped its Air Suvidha portal, which will now allow “death in the family” as the only exemption. “As per the guideline, filling up of a self-declaration form on www.newdelhiairport.in has been made mandatory for all international-arriving passengers,” said a DIAL spokesperson. They will also have to upload a mandatory RT-PCR/molecular test report — undertaken within 72 hours of departure — in the the form. “These forms will help in identifying passengers on flights from the UK, Europe and West Asia, who will undergo mandatory RT-PCR on arrival,” said the spokesperson. The Centre had issued new guidelines on February 17 following increased evidence of circulation of mutant variants of novel coronavirus, which have demonstrated increased transmissibility in many countries, an official said. While the airport’s RT-PCR testing lab is capable of processing over 15,000 samples daily, officials said the operations team, comprising of data entry operators and sample collection technicians, has seen a 10-fold increase to handle the large inflow of passengers from the affected countries. “Suddenly from testing 500-700 international passengers per day, the lab is staring at 7,000-plus number, starting zero hour of February 23,” said an official. Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder director of Genestrings Diagnostic, the testing lab at IGIA, said, “We’re fully prepared and will ensure a smooth experience for all passengers who’ll be obviously quite anxious,” she said. Soon after the new norms were announced, over 200 staff members have been trained and recruited, she added. “It is expected that during peak hours, between 3am and 5am, there will be roughly 1,200 passengers an hour who will undergo mandatory testing.” DIAL says passengers can either avail a regular service at Rs 800 per test, or a “faster” premium service at Rs 1,300. “If a flyer opts for the premium service, he can get a help who will assist in fast-tracking test processes like filling up forms, getting test done, etc,” the official added. In Gurgaon, the flyers testing positive will be admitted to Covid care centres while others will have to stay under home quarantine for seven days, following which the health department will conduct another RT-PCR test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/igi-tests-to-cover-10-times-more-intl-flyers/articleshow/81160612.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 23, 2021||Delhi||SDMC seeks 90 acres from railways for new dumpsite||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) is planning to set up a new dumpsite in Tughlaqabad and it has approached the railway ministry to hand over 90 acres of land for this purpose. SDMC mayor Anamika and railway minister Piyush Goyal held a meeting on Friday to explore cooperation on several projects for improving sanitation and civic infrastructure in the city. Anamika said that Delhi High Court has already ruled in its favour and the Okhla landfill site was oversaturated. “This 90-acre land is under the possession of Northern Railway. It is a vulnerable site for open defecation and it is not being currently put to any use. We will set up a new dumping yard here. The minister has responded favourably and asked senior railway officials to follow it up with us on the matter,” the mayor said. The civic body has also sought help from the ministry on other projects, including reuse of railway containers to create schools or dispensaries in unauthorised colonies and a new bio-methanation plant catering to Okhla fruit and vegetable wholesale market. “We have asked the ministry to supply 100 old railway containers, which can be refabricated and used in setting up mini-dispensaries and schools in unauthorised colonies,” she added. Goyal enquired about the availability of doctors and health workers for these new units. “We have doctors and staff available with us,” said the mayor. The issue of vegetable and green waste coming from Okhla mandi was also discussed. “This wholesale market generates a lot of green waste and the railways has a 500sqm plot, which can be used for bio-gas plant. It will reduce garbage reaching landfill site while creating byproducts in the form of fuel and compost,” she added. The two sides also discussed solutions to the problem of open defecation along the railway track. “We have asked the railways to give us permission to put up mobile toilets along JJ clusters or the railways should build toilets,” she added. Goyal asked railway officials to find a solution to providing a permission to create toilets on railway land while also directing them to explore ways to manage waste from JJ clusters located along the tracks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-seeks-90-acres-from-rlys-for-new-dumpsite/articleshow/81160552.cms||Paras Singh
February 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Counting on, it’s poll khol day||AHMEDABAD: The fate of candidates who contested the municipal corporation election will be decided on Tuesday. Even as the BJP aims to retain power in all six urban civic bodies, the Congress is confident of a good show. Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) are looking to open their account here. The authorities have made elaborate arrangements to ensure that counting is taken up with all Covid-19 safety guidelines in place. Counting of votes for the municipal corporation elections will be taken up at 15 locations in six cities. The six cities of Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar polled an average of 46% votes when voting was held on Sunday. Jamnagar recorded the highest turnout of 53.4% while Ahmedabad registered the lowest voter turnout of 42.5%. The BJP has been in power in all the six municipal corporations for a decade or more. After the voting on Sunday, both the BJP and Congress expressed confidence of winning the elections. This is the first time that AAP and AIMIM have fielded candidates for civic elections in Gujarat, as the two parties look to spread their base across the country. An official statement issued on Monday said that the counting centres will be manned by 52 election officers and 58 assistant election officers. As many as 664 tables have been laid in 60 halls, where 3,500 counting staff will be posted. The SEC said that the number of counting tables has been increased substantially to ensure social distancing and other safety guidelines are observed. Over 4,800 security personnel and 227 health personnel have been posted at counting centres to ensure smooth counting of votes for the municipal corporation election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/counting-on-its-poll-khol-day/articleshow/81160621.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Surat||‘Most migrants are out of electoral process’||Surat: This year the voter turnout for the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) was higher at 45.51% compared to around 40% in the last election. But going by the population numbers, only 22% of the city’s population voted on Sunday. Considering the city’s estimated population of around 70 lakh less than half 32.88 lakh are registered voters and of them, 15.50 lakh have exercised their franchise.In 2015, 26.54 lakh voters were registered of which 10.60 lakh had voted. Though there is a rise in numbers of registered voters and total polling, experts say that an entire section of society is being kept out of the democratic process. The voice of a larger part of the population is not being heard in the electoral process. “The estimated population of the city is nearly 70 lakh and it is growing fast. At this juncture with just 22% of the population voting, it becomes a serious issue,” said Kiran Desai, director of Centre for Social Studies (CSS). “From the numbers, it is clear that a large number of migrant populations, which is floating, are not registered voters. Hence, no political party or civic body addresses their issues and they continue living in miserable conditions in Surat which is being developed as a resilient city,” Desai added. Apart from the government’s campaign to register voters, no political parties take initiative on a massive scale to register voters. In the recent past, campaigns were organised to register voters by BJP but that never became a continuous process. “The figures of registered voters and voter turnout shows that the government failed to encourage people to vote. If the government is claiming good governance, people should have come out in large numbers to vote,” said Krishnakant Chauhan, a social activist. City BJP leadership claimed that they were successful in increasing the percentage of voter turnout. “It is a matter of concern that a large population in the city is not registered as a voter. We will take steps to register voters,” said Niranjan Zanzmera, city BJP president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/most-migrants-are-out-of-electoral-process/articleshow/81157980.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 23, 2021||Nashik||Two woman thieves arrested in Nashik||Nashik: The Nashik Road police have arrested two women in connection to a theft case. The two women, a 50-year-old and a 23-year-old, were handed over to the police by a group of people, who nabbed them after they were committed the theft. The accused are residents of Chausala in Beed district. The complainant, Laxmi Dhotre of Jail Road, Nashik Road, lodged a complaint against the duo. Dhotre said in her complaint that she and her son-in-law were travelling towards Jail Road from Nashik Road in an autorickshaw on Saturday morning when the two women took the same auto. As the autorickshaw reached near the Nashik Road Central Prison, the two women snatched the purse Dhotre was holding and tried to escape the spot. Dhotre’s son-in-law chased the two women and with the help of other citizens nabbed them. They handed them over to the Nashik Road police. The police are investigating the case further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/two-woman-thieves-arrested-in-nashik/articleshow/81157948.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Coimbatore||Drinking water supply scheme inaugurated||Coimbatore: Municipal administration minister S P Velumani inaugurated the Kurichi – Kuniyamuthur drinking water augmentation scheme on Monday. The Rs 165.43 crore project will benefit over 40,000 households.“Under the scheme, the areas will get an additional 15 MLD of drinking water. The quantity of water supplied will increase to 35 MLD. It would take care of the drinking water needs of residents there till 2030. After that, more water will be drawn from the Pillur III scheme,” said a Tamil Nadu water and drainage board (TWAD) official. “With this, drinking water will be supplied once in two to four days to the areas. The quantum of water will increase from 70 litres per capita a day (LPCD) to 135 LPCD, on par with the residents of core corporation limits. Now, the areas get only 20 MLD drawn from Siruvani, Pillur and Aliyar reservoirs, which is supplied once in six to eight days.”Siruvani water will be stored in a 15-lakh litre tank near Kovaipudur, which will be shifted to a 15-lakh litre tank at Press Enclave and then to a 20-lakh litre tank at Pillayarpauram near Kurichi before distributing to households, a statement from the city corporation said.Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had virtually inaugurated the Kavundampalayam – Vadavalli drinking water augmentation scheme on February 4. The areas will get 25 MLD, an addition of 11.52 MLD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drinking-water-supply-scheme-inaugurated/articleshow/81159072.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Coimbatore||Seven idols found in Coimbatore lake||COIMBATORE: Officials from the revenue department and police personnel recovered seven idols from Perur Periyakulam on Monday. The officials found bronze idols of Goddess Vishnu Durga, Mahalakshmi, Karumariamman, Lord Krishna, Vinayaga, Goddess Saraswathi and a Karumariamman sculpture from the lake. They were taken to the Perur taluk office for safekeeping. Sleuths of the idol wing police inspected the idols. Experts from the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will visit the taluk office on Tuesday to ascertain the age of the idols, sources said. “Smugglers would have dumped the idols in the lake during vehicle check near Perur Periyakulam. We are trying to gather information about idols stolen from other districts also. We believe the idols are not antiques,” said a police officer. “We have not received any complaints about idol theft from Coimbatore.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/seven-idols-recovered-from-waters-of-perur-periyakulam/articleshow/81159063.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Jose K Mani begins poll campaign in Pala||KOTTAYAM: Jose K Mani launched his campaign in Pala assembly constituency on a high note on Monday, a day in which the high court also reiterated that the ‘two leaves’ symbol of the Kerala Congress (M) belongs to him. The writ appeal by P J Joseph challenging the earlier judgment of the single judge upholding the Election Commission order passed in favour of Jose K Mani, granting two leaves symbol to his faction, was dismissed on Monday. The day also saw his rival Mani C Kappan launching a new political outfit in Thiruvananthapuram to take him on in Pala. Reacting to the court judgment, Jose K Mani said that it will add strength to the progress of his party. The judgment shows that truth and justice will prevail, he said. He also termed the judgment as a setback to those who conspired to ruin the politics of K M Mani. The judgment has come as a big relief to the Jose group as doubts over the name and the symbol of the party are over for the moment, and Jose could concentrate on his election campaign. Jose camp is not taking Kappan lightly and the launch of the campaign even before the election notification is a proof of it. Jose started a travel-by-foot campaign to all the panchayats in Pala. The campaign is being organized by LDF and began from Mutholy panchayat. CPM district secretary V N Vasavan inaugurated the campaign. The CPM leaders are directly taking on Kappan and are criticizing him saying that he cheated LDF and switched over to UDF. However, Jose K Mani is taking a careful approach and is concentrating more on playing the ‘Mani card’ to ensure that he doesn’t lose the votes of traditional Kerala Congress and Mani loyalists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jose-k-mani-begins-poll-campaign-in-pala/articleshow/81159073.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Back up, moving on with life. Because it’s only choice they have||NEW DELHI: Maujpur, Seelampur and Mustafabad in northeast Delhi, populated by migrant labourers, never drew attention to themselves — until the communal riots of February 2020 seared their names in public consciousness. A year on, the signs of that violence have been obliterated and the houses do not betray that trauma. And yet, the past lingers on in the background. In Seelampur, hawkers today set up wares along the pavements where over 500 women gathered every day a year ago to protest against the Centre’s Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Spray-painted slogans of resistance that once stood out against whitewashed walls have faded, but memories of a “revolution” are fresh in the minds. The riots broke out near Jaffrabad metro station on February 23, and eventually killed 53 people, maiming over 500 others. “The women’s demands were not illegitimate. Our community was apprehensive of the implications of CAA. We still are,” said Moinuddin, 45, whose spare cloth shop was gutted on February 24. “But people do not speak out against it because there is an environment of fear.” Moinuddin has returned to his house, but his business hasn’t recovered from the double whammy of the riots and the Covid-19 restrictions. In Mustafabad too, small businesses are struggling. “We came back to our homes a week after the riots,” said Mehtab Qamar of Old Mustafabad, whose shop was set ablaze by rioters. His home, located above his shop, also suffered damages. “The heat from below damaged my house, but I do not have money to fix it,” he added. The 50-year-old only received Rs 21,000 from the government as compensation, a sum that proved abysmally inadequate to begin life anew. Most victims have similar tales of woe. Former Congress MLA Bhisham Sharma told TOI that he suffered a loss of over Rs 1 crore when rioters burnt down the school he had founded on February 25. The building of Aun Modern Senior Secondary Public School in Brijpuri was completely destroyed, but Sharma received a compensation of just Rs5 lakh. “The school buses, computers and books alone cost over Rs 50 lakh. I also had to bear the cost of constructing a new building since the old one was irretrievable. I now have debts of Rs 80 lakh. It was only for the students’ future that I chose to construct a new building,” Sharma said. Afreena and Asadullah, residents of Khajuri Khas, lost everything on February 24 when their two-storey house was set ablaze. “They did not even spare the home of our neighbour, which belonged to a BSF officer. We would have all died that day but we fled at the right moment,” recalled Asadullah, who used to make lanterns for a living. He was shot in his left arm and hasn’t recovered from the injury. At Moonga Nagar, Vikalp Kochhar, owner of Bunny Bakery, remembered encountering men wearing helmets and carrying sticks on February 25. They set his shop on fire as he watched helplessly. “Our bakery was completely razed by the fire. Not even a spoon survived the blaze,” mumbled Kochhar. “It took us several months to do so, but we reopened in May after spending a lot of money. We got a mere Rs5 lakh as compensation, that too only in January this year.” The bakery owner, however, is relieved at the improved environment in his locality. “Though our’s is a Muslim-majority area, we non-Muslims feel safe here,” Kochhar said. “I do not want to comment on who destroyed my shop because they were all rioters and such people don’t belong to any religion.” Electric appliances seller Jagroshan Kumar also recalls how rioters assembled in front of his home and destroyed his shop. His family members locked themselves in the house and managed to escape the threat to their lives when the police arrived the next day. “The mob broke down my shop’s shutter and looted everything on February 24,” said the man, who got just Rs 45,000 from the government. Kumar also disclosed that the environment in the locality is better now, believing that “it was just politics that fuelled the riots”. He added, “If there is no politics, then we are better off.” Kumar’s neighbours, however, never returned. “They set up residence somewhere else,” he said. There are many houses that have rental boards with the owners’ phone numbers. Clearly, many are still wary of returning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/back-up-moving-on-with-life-because-its-only-choice-they-have/articleshow/81160587.cms||Anam Ajmal
February 23, 2021||Kanpur||Crooks selling firearms online usingslain gangster Vikas Dubey’s name||Kanpur: The city police are all set to take strict action against individuals using slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s name on Facebook pages to sell lethal weapons, property and running job placement agency. In the past few days, several groups claiming to be fans of slain gangster Vikas Dubey are creating Facebook pages on which they are selling firearms, running job placement agencies and real estate business. “We are identifying individuals and groups, who are sharing such objectionable posts and selling arms, which is illegal, on social media. The Cyber Cell has been entrusted the task of identifying and locating such people. A surveillance team is working round-the-clock on this. Objectionable posts will not be allowed at any cost and strict action will be initiated against the accused,” said SP Rural Brijesh Srivastava. Nearly two dozen Facebook pages and groups are active on social media, out of which one page ‘Pandit Vikas Dubey Kanpur Wala Fans Club’ has more than 17,000 active members, said officials. On the ‘Pandit Vikas Dubey Kanpur Wala Club’ page, an individual who has introduced himself as Sonu has posted an advertisement asking users if anybody requires a weapon to get in touch with him on a WhatsApp number. He also claims that the deal will be done in a very transparent manner. If one wants a firearm in Kanpur, there is provision of hand-to-hand delivery. If someone needs a firearm in another district or state, then one has to make payment in advance. The man has also quoted different rates for delivery outside the state. For delivering weapons in Rajasthan, one has to shell out additional Rs 2,500 and for Gujarat Rs 3,200 in advance. Similarly, there is a separate rate list for delivery in Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and others. IG (range) Mohit Agarwal told reporters, “The task of zeroing-in on the crooks has been assigned to the cyber cell. We will procure a complete call detail record (CDR) of the crook who has posted advertisements on social media, and will also take action against those who contacted him or bought illegal firearms from him.” “At the same time, instructions have also been given to the cyber cell to identify all the members of the gangster’s fan club who had uploaded advertisements of selling property or providing jobs. They could be fraudsters, so one should not indulge in any kind of monetary dealing with these crooks,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/crooks-selling-firearms-online-usingslain-gangster-vikas-dubeys-name/articleshow/81140949.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 23, 2021||Chandigarh||Stay strong, don’t destroy crops or commit suicide, says Charuni||Kurukshetra: With several farmers from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) resorting to destroying their standing crops in protest against the Centre’s three agr-marketing laws, Gurnam Singh Charuni of BKU, Haryana, on Monday made a fervent appeal to not resort to such drastic measures. “Over the last two days, we have been getting reports from several places of farmers mowing down their standing crops. It hurts to see this. Farmers grow crops just as they would raise their own children. Mowing down crops is very saddening. To those farmer brothers, who are doing this in the heat of the moment, we want to tell them that by resorting to such acts we are not going to make the government accept anything. The government did not listen even when 10-15 farmers committed suicide, a saint shot himself,” Charuni said in a video released late in the evening. Farmers have taken to destroying standing crops following BKU national spokesman Rakesh Tikait’s appeal in Hisar recently, to be ready to sacrifice their standing crop if their demands are not met by the Union government. “Whatever Tikait Sahib had said, it was meant to be to stay prepared, just in case there is a need to burn our crops. Tikait never asked (farmers) to mow down the crops. I request farmers not to get into such emotional state. I request with folded hands, that no brother should destroy standing crops in fields. No one should commit suicide,” he appealed. Asking farmers to remain strong in this movement against the Centre’s three controversial agri laws, Charuni added, “We are still sitting on protest and have not left the morcha. We will fight till our demands are accepted. I again request you all to stop destroying crops as this (farming) is our only means of livelihood. Without crops, how will we survive?” “I reiterate that Tikait Sahib never asked anyone to mow down crops and all brothers should refrain from doing so. No one should commit suicide. We will continue our struggle till the end and we need your support in this movement,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/stay-strong-dont-destroy-crops-or-commit-suicide-says-charuni/articleshow/81160579.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Coimbatore||Frontline fighters on contract seek job regularisation||Coimbatore: Twenty contract workers at the ESI Hospital and Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Monday requested the Coimbatore collector to either extend their contact or provide permanent employment.The petitioners were working as laboratory technicians and data entry operators at the hospitals. “We started work in June when the fear of pandemic was at its peak, against our parents’ wishes. As we collected nasal swabs and blood samples in July, September and October, almost all of us tested positive for the virus. We were exposed as much as the medical professionals,” said lab technician Sakthi Babu. “We were ostracized by neighbours and hesitated to tell people that were working in the Covid-19 ward.”The initial contract was for three months. “However, authorities extended it by another three months. But now as cases have reduced, they want us to leave,” said data entry operator Sri Balaji. Several technicians who were recruited when dengue cases peaked a few years ago were given permanent positions, the petitioners said.“Our batchmates who joined private laboratories eight months ago got contract extensions or completed probationary periods to become permanent employees,” added Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/frontline-fighters-on-contract-seek-job-regularisation/articleshow/81159059.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||BMC’s not vigilant about sealing bldgs: Residents and netas||Mumbai: A housing society in the eastern suburbs cancelled its annual general body meeting scheduled on Sunday evening at the last minute on learning that five residents had tested Covid positive. The information, however, had not come from the BMC. “Neither did the BMC inform us nor was a banner placed on the society gates about the premises being sealed,” said the building secretary. This is not an isolated case. The BMC recently circulated a list of 1,305 sealed buildings and floors, but many of the societies TOI spoke to claimed there was no vigilance on behalf of the civic authorities. As on February 21, the number of sealed buildings stood at 876—the earlier list of 1,305 sealed buildings/floors was erroneous, said sources. Last week, the BMC had ordered its officers to seal buildings with five or more positive cases and resume stamping of asymptomatic patients. Officials were also asked to begin work on reactivating the Covid care centres. “During the initial days of the pandemic, when we had 1-2 cases, the BMC would place a banner informing that the premises had been sealed. But now we are doing it ourselves,” said a housing society secretary. But additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “The banner is placed on the floor where the positive case is detected and not necessarily at the building entrance. We are asking our field staff to conduct surprise inspections which is more effective.”Mulund MLA Mihir Kotecha agreed that the BMC vigilance is no longer the same. “On Monday, I had a discussion with the civic authorities on how the vigilance could be made more stricter which is the need of the hour.” Bandra corporator Asif Zakeria pointed out that civic officials do not check every flat in the building if many positive cases were reported, like earlier. In Cuffe Parade, corporator Harshita Narwekar said in the last few months, the BMC would not seal the floor, but just instruct the patient’s family not to step out. Pali Hill corporator Swapna Mhatre pointed out that people no longer fear the virus and hence, do not follow the 14-day quarantine rule in sealed buildings.In BMC’s defence, Kakani said, “It is also not possible to inform all the managing committee members, so only one person is informed in case of a floor being sealed. Our staff also informs the patient and high-risk contacts to stay in 14-day home quarantine and download the Aarogya Setu app.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmcs-not-vigilant-about-sealing-bldgs-residents-and-netas/articleshow/81160604.cms||Richa Pinto
February 23, 2021||Nashik||Bhujbal tests Covid-19 +ve, requests contacts to isolate||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who has tested positive for Covid-19, took to Twitter to inform others of his infection on Monday. Bhujbal was in Nashik over the past two-three days. In his tweet, Bhujbal said his health condition was stable. He also appealed to people who had come in contact with him to isolate themselves and get tested. Avesh Palod, the corona coordinator of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), confirmed that Bhujbal is mildly symptomatic and stable. The NMC teams visited Bhujbal’s residence and office near the Mumbai Naka area and collected swab samples of 60 people, including his family members, his office staff and other associates. “We visited the office and residence of the district guardian minister immediately after he was tested positive. We have traced 60 close contacts and have sent their swabs to the lab for testing,” said Palod. “We have also appealed to the officials and people who were in close contact with the Bhujbal to isolate and get tested,” he said. Over the past few days, Bhujbal has had a hectic schedule in Nashik as he chaired Covid and Marathi literary festival-related meetings among others. During a Covid review meeting on Sunday evening, Bhujbal had taken cognizance of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Nashik city and had declared the night curfew between 11 pm and 5 am. Bhujbal had increased the fine amount for people caught without masks in public from Rs 200 to Rs 1,000 each and had directed the NMC and police administration to take strict action. The guardian minister had warned of increasing the night curfew duration — from 9 pm to 5 am instead of 11 pm to 5 pm — if the cases continued to rise in the next eight days. Bhujbal had also attended the wedding of an elected representative in the city. NCP district president Ravindra Pagar said those who attended the wedding and were in contact with Bhujbal have been informed about his Covid-positive report and have been appealed to isolate themselves and get tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-tests-covid-19-ve-requests-contacts-to-isolate/articleshow/81157965.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Tech & trust key to northeast Delhi riots probe: Cops||NEW DELHI: They received 16,000 PCR calls as the mayhem of the northeast Delhi riots unfolded. Violence broke out near the Jaffrabad metro station on February 23 last year and quickly spread to other areas. Before the communal frenzy abated around six days later, 53 people had lost their lives and over 600 were injured. It was almost after three decades that Delhi Police was going to probe such a large number of casualties in communal violence. Its task was compounded by the fact that there was a lack of trust among many people and the apprehension that they would be targeted besides the fear of a backlash by police. The probe began with a change in guard at the helm. With then police chief Amulya Patnaik on his way out, 1985 batch officer S N Shrivastava was brought back to the force from CRPF where he was on deputation. An officer with a clean track record, he had no time to settle down. A couple of quick decisions were taken: the investigation was divided into two parts. One, to probe the violence and the other the conspiracy which led to the mayhem. The first part was investigated by two entities — the important ones, including the murders, were assigned to the Crime Branch SIT — further divided into three sections — and the cases of non-lethal violence were probed by the local police. The conspiracy case was probed by the Special Cell and was marred by controversy as it involved activists and former student leaders. The Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown were unprecedented developments but the investigations recovered pace quickly. As the year ended, Delhi Police had filed 755 FIRs. Special camps were organised to facilitate registration of offences and the crime branch teams were deployed to assist the local police in ensuring registration of all prima facie verified complaints. “Each and every PCR call received for the duration of the riots was accounted for. The number of cases registered are the highest ever in comparison to all previous riots reported in Delhi, even higher than those registered in 1984,” said the police commissioner. Investigators say the chief insisted on relying on technical evidence as much as possible. “The biggest thrust was given to ‘identification’ so that as far as possible, every possible rioter could be identified. This was considered cardinal not only to ensure justice in the registered criminal cases but also to send out the message that cover of a mob would be of no help to anyone who harbours such criminal thoughts for the future,” he added. From using artificial intelligence-based technology for the enhancement of CCTV images to scanning e-Vahan and driving licence databases, an operation was launched to identify the rioters. So far, 1,825 accused have been arrested by the SITs, Special Cell and the North East district police. Two hundred and thirty one people were arrested on the basis of CCTV/mobile footage, of which 137 were identified through the facial recognition system matched with criminal records and 94 identified through driving licence photographs. “The arrests include that of 869 rioters belonging to the Hindu community and 956 of the Muslim community,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal. A year later, Delhi Police has filed chargesheets in 349 cases. In 102 of these, police have filed additional chargesheets with supplementary evidence. The courts have taken cognizance in 303 of these cases, and in many of them, ‘arguments on charge’ are proceeding on a day-to-day basis. Special public prosecutors were appointed and special courts constituted to expedite the legal process. “Legal advisors to assist the IOs were appointed and a dedicated team was formed to monitor the pairvi and trials,” said an official. A mapping exercise showed large-scale violence in 11 police station areas of North East district. Maximum damage was noticed in Khajuri Khas, Bhajanpura, Karawal Nagar, Gokalpuri, Jafrabad and Dayalpur. The chargesheets narrate what transpired between February 23-25. “The probe concluded that the riots took place as the culmination of various sustained sit-in and roadblock protests organised by — seemingly amorphous but bonded by undercurrents — anti-CAA groups,” the police spokesperson said. According to the cops, the conspiracy probe has revealed that the conspirators were aware of the fact that any communal violence in Delhi during US President Donald Trump’s visit would immediately be picked up by international media and cause huge embarrassment to the central government. “They decided to resort to ’chakka jam’ at communally sensitive spots and attacked police personnel,” said the spokesperson. The conspiracy chargesheet names former JNU students Umar Khalid and Sharjeel Imam and sacked AAP councillor Tahir Hussain as prime conspirators. The cops have alleged that Khalid fostered nationwide alliances with ‘like-minded people’ soon after CAA received cabinet assent for being placed before Parliament. Police have accused him of mentoring formation of a group called Muslim Students of JNU through a protege, Sharjeel Imam, which played a major role in fomenting the riots. Khalid, cops allege, “remotely controlled” the happenings of February 23-24. Activists like Natasha Narwal, Devangna Kalita, Safoora Zargar and others were also caught. Police, meanwhile, held 471 peace committee meetings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tech-trust-key-to-ne-riots-probe-cops/articleshow/81160601.cms||Raj Shekhar
February 23, 2021||Chandigarh||AAP rally in Bagha Purana on March 21||Bathinda/Jalandhar: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is going to hold a Kisan Mahasammelan on March 21 in Moga district’s Bagha Purana town. AAP supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is expected to speak at the rally, which the party claims is being organised “in support of the farmers and their agitation”. Speaking at a press conference in Jalandhar, AAP Punjab president Bhagwant Man aid people from all parts of Punjab would be invited to the rally. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-rally-in-bagha-purana-on-march-21/articleshow/81160609.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Chennai||Three women killed by their spouses in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Three housewives were murdered by their husbands in separate incidents, two in Kancheepuram and one at Kunrathur, on Sunday night. A 40-year-old woman, Jeeva, was burnt alive by her husband Parthiban, 43, at their home near Achirapakkam because he suspected she was having an affair with an employee of his. The man and the couple’s 19-year-old daughter Pavithra are also in hospital in a critical condition as the fire engulfed them too. Police said initial reports suggest that Parthiban of Mettu Colony who runs an iron scrap shop believed some acquaintances who told him that his wife fed him sleeping pills at night and was having an affair with an employee of his. On Sunday night he locked the house and set her on fire. The fire spread to Parthiban and his daughter. Neighbours broke open the door and took the trio to hospital where Jeeva died. A 28-year-old driver Ezhumalai also murdered his wife Sasikala, 26, suspecting she was having an affair. Police said Ezhumalai was addicted to alcohol and used to assault his wife accusing her of having an affair. On Sunday night, he came home drunk and picked a fight with his wife and slit her throat and fled. Neighbours drawn by the cries of the couple’s three children took Sasikala to the Kancheepuram Government Hospital where she was declared on arrival. Later that night Ezhumalai surrendered at the Kancheepuram police station. The third murder took place at Kunrathur where the woman, Keerthana, died on Sunday after battling injuries for nearly a week. Keerthana had married Panneerselvam, a rice trader, four years ago and the couple lived in Poonamallee. They did not have children and often quarrelled, police quoted relatives as saying. In the first week of February, Keerthana left her husband and returned to her parents’ house in Kundrathur. On February 15, Panneerselvam reached his in-law’s house on the pretext of reconciling with Keerthana and took her to the terrace for a chat. However, a quarrel broke out between them and Panneerselvam who had a knife hidden in his clothes slit Keerthana’s neck and fled the spot. Keerthana’s family rushed her to a private hospital, but she died without responding to treatment on Sunday. Kundrathur police who had earlier registered a case of assault have altered it into murder and have launched a hunt for Panneerselvam. The state in 2020 witnessed nearly 20,000 domestic abuse cases. “We used to counsel not less than 10 cases of domestic abuse everyday. In many cases women may be unable to air grievances as their communication is monitored,” said a senior officer attached to Poonamallee all-woman police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/three-women-killed-by-their-husbands/articleshow/81160593.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Coimbatore||Expert committee inspects elephant rejuvenation camp||Coimbatore: A five-member committee comprising veterinarians of the forest department and animal husbandry department that checked Srivilliputhur Andal temple elephant Jayamalyatha at the rejuvenation camp for temple and mutt elephants in Thekkampatti here on Monday said that the animal was not injured.The mahout of Jayamalyatha and his assistant were arrested on Sunday after a video that showed them thrashing the animal went viral on social media.The committee, consisting of forest veterinary officer Dr A Sukumar, retired additional director of animal husbandry and member of captive elephant management committee of Project Elephant Dr N S Manoharan, regional joint director of animal husbandry department Dr Perumalsamy, former forest veterinary assistant surgeon of Mudumalai elephant camp Dr N Kalaivanan and veterinary assistant surgeon of Mudumalai Tiger Reserve Dr K Rajesh Kumar will inspect the 23 temple elephants and thee mutt elephants at the camp to verify if they were subjected to cruelty.“We conducted a meeting with the mahouts and their assistants to sensitize them. The mahouts promised us that they won’t ill-treat the elephants. They were asked to notice aggressive behaviour in elephants and inform veterinarians,” said R Senthilvelavan, joint commissioner of the Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department. “We also warned the mahouts of action if they manhandle the animals.” The forest department had booked Jayamalyatha ’s mahout Vinil Kumar, 46, and his assistant Sivaprasath, 32, under Section 13 (acts which are tantamount to cruelty to elephant) of the Tamil Nadu Captive Elephants (Management and Maintenance) Rules, 2011 and Section 51 of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. The duo was remanded in judicial custody and lodged in the Avinashi sub-jail. The HR&CE department also suspended Kumar from service.“Jayamalyatha allowed mahout’s assistant Subramaniam to approach her. He will look after her,” Senthilvelavan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/expert-committee-inspects-elephant-rejuvenation-camp/articleshow/81159079.cms||A Subburaj
February 23, 2021||Lucknow||Allocation of Rs 1,000cr to plant 30cr trees||Lucknow: The state government has made a provision of Rs 600 crore for plantation this year under Rajya Pratikaratmak Vanropan Yojana and another Rs 400 crore under social forestry scheme to achieve the target of planting 30 crore trees this monsoon. Under Vriksharopan Jan Aandolan 2021, UP will plant 30 crore trees in July. This will be 5 crore more than the target of last year. The forest department, along with 23 other government departments, will do the plantation. The government has set an aim to increase the state’s green cover by 15% by 2030. To achieve this, the state has been planting trees every year. In 2020, the target was 25 crore trees while a year before that, 22 crore trees were planted. In 2018, over 11 crore trees and in 2017, over 5.7 crore trees were planted. According to the India State of Forest Report 2019, the state’s green cover, which includes forest cover (greenery on forest land) and tree cover (greenery outside forest) is around 9% at present. This is much lower compared to the national average of 33%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/allocation-of-rs-1000cr-to-plant-30cr-trees/articleshow/81162062.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Pune||Pune: Daily Covid tally drops but still stays above cured count||PUNE: The daily Covid-19 cases declined to five-day low of 701 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday, primarily on less testing during the weekend. Besides, 671 recoveries were recorded in the region in the past 24 hours. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that among the new cases, the PMC limits added 328, followed by the PCMC areas (223) and the rural pockets (150). With this, the region’s caseload has increased above 3.99 lakh. As for the recoveries, the PMC areas recorded 318 discharges, followed by the rural areas (248) and the PCMC limits (105). The daily testing dropped to 6,925 on Monday from over 8,000 on Sunday. The region’s total sample testing has reached 22.48 lakh. The report stated that region’s death count increased to 9,192 on Monday, with nine more patients succumbing to the infection in the last 24 hours. Among these, four deaths were reported in the PMC limits. The tally of active patients has increased to 7,376 in the region. A report by the PMC’s health department stated that 379 patients were on oxygen support in its limits and 172 were at critical stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-tally-drops-but-still-stays-above-cured-count/articleshow/81160619.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 23, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra told to boost coverage after it sought early phase 3||PUNE: Central health officials have told Maharashtra to ramp up vaccine coverage of health and frontline workers after it approached the Centre seeking an earlier start to vaccinations among the 50-plus. The state had made the demand after some districts reported a spike in Covid cases. It has also reported less than 60% vaccination coverage. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan told TOI vaccination performance has not been satisfactory in Maharashtra and Punjab. “We will start the process to vaccinate 50-year-olds in March, as announced earlier by the health ministry,” he said. Bhushan also called for improved contact tracing and testing. State technical expert, Dr Subhash Salunke, said he has discussed the matter with the Union health secretary. Dr Salunke said, “We have been asked to improve vaccination. We had demanded an early start to vaccinations among those above 50. But we are happy that the Centre is planning to start the drives from the first week of March.” Bhushan on Sunday wrote to all states asking them to enhance the pace of vaccinations. “The pace of vaccination needs to be accelerated exponentially to cover all identified beneficiaries in minimum possible time,” he said. The Centre has also asked states to ensure that all public health facilities are ready to start offering the vaccines from March 1. The number of vaccination days must also be increased to a minimum of four days a week to speed up the process, Bhushan said in his letter. The next phase of vaccination will cover about 27 crore beneficiaries aged 50 or above. Government sources said some beneficiaries in the group may have to pay for the shot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-told-to-boost-coverage-after-it-sought-early-phase-3/articleshow/81160598.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 23, 2021||Pune||Pune varsity exams likely to be delayed||PUNE: The semester examinations scheduled by Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) may be postponed after the state government ordered the closure of educational institutes in the state till February 28, officials said. “The students are in the process of filling examination forms. February 25 is the last date. The forms had to be filled up offline at the respective college/department level. The closure is for a week and the remaining students will be unable to fill up the forms. Now, an extension would need. With these delays, there is a possibility that the semester examination too would be delayed this time,” Mahesh Kakade, director of examination and evaluation, said. The first semester theory examinations were to be held in March with the first-year first semester examination scheduled from March 30 and the remaining year first semester examination scheduled from March 20. Meanwhile, in the management council meeting conducted on Monday, members of a students’ organisation staged a protest, demanding a refund of examination fees paid by students of non-final year batches in departments and colleges affiliated to the university. However, the protesters seemed to blatantly flout the norms of social distancing and other safety precautions as most of them were either seen without masks or not wearing the masks properly. Some senior officials from the university were seen alos seen without masks during the protest in the videos and photographs circulated on social media. After the protest ended, the Pune university officials decided to institute a committee to look into the matter of refund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-varsity-exams-likely-to-be-delayed/articleshow/81160607.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 23, 2021||Pune||41% get first dose in Pune Metropolitan Region, over 1,400 receive 2nd shot||PUNE: Around 41% of the total targeted beneficiaries for the day were administered the first dose of Covid vaccine in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday, with 3,649 of the 8,900 beneficiaries taking the shot. Besides, a total of 1,450 health workers received the booster shot in the region on Monday. Among the first dose recipients, as many as 1,397 were healthcare workers, while 2,252 were frontliners, data by the district administration showed. Kamala Nehru hospital had the highest turnout (159%) of first dose takers. It was followed by the police hospital in Shivajinagar, which achieved 148% immunisation. The percentage of beneficiaries was maximum in PMC limits (54%), followed by the Pune rural areas (35%) and the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits (33%). Vaccination appealThe Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has appealed to the healthcare workers to complete administering first dose of Covid vaccine by February 24. “Healthcare workers who have been registered in the CoWIN app, but have not been vaccinated, should take the shot,” Ashish Bharati, PMC health department chief, said. As per the PMC, 27 vaccination centres have been set up across the civic areas to administer vaccine from 9am to 5pm. A statement issued by the PMC stated that healthcare workers in private hospitals could reach out the authorities to know if they have been registered or not by calling on 020-25502110.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/41-get-first-dose-in-region-over-1-4k-receive-2nd-shot/articleshow/81160630.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
February 23, 2021||Chennai||‘Edappadi K Palaniswami, O Panneerselvam, seasoned politicians, know how to handle Sasikala’||Confident his party would emerge as a force in Tamil Nadu in the next Lok Sabha polls, BJP national general secretary C T Ravi said it is making the right moves to achieve the goal of forming its own government in the state. In an interview with Shanmughasundaram J, the BJP’s TN unit in-charge says the AIADMK-BJP alliance will retain power in the state. He felt assured that seasoned politicians — Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam — would negate Sasikala and other factors and herd the alliance to victory, while the BJP would play its part to ensure it.Q: What is the BJP’s poll plank this assembly election?Development and poverty alleviation are our main agenda. We are focusing on these aspects to retain power. The governments led by Modi and EPS are doing well when compared to the previous governments led by the Congress at the Centre and DMK in the state. Q: Why do you think that the BJP’s political strategy that has worked in other parts of the country is not falling in place in TN?The ruling and opposition parties in TN are strong. We are a minor party here and our cadres are our voters. We are trying to groom our cadres to become mass leaders. Our Vetrivel Yatra and Modi’s development projects have reached everywhere. More than 1.6 crore people benefited through various schemes and it will also help us convert our party into a party of the masses. Q: The DMDK and the PMK are unhappy with the AIADMK. Do you think that will destabilise the alliance?Our alliance is intact. Talks are going on to sort out the differences. EPS and OPS are brilliant leaders and they know how to handle the issues. We are also supporting them. Our national-level leaders will chip in and iron out the issues. Q: Will Sasikala’s attempts to reclaim the AIADMK threaten your alliance?Both EPS and OPS are seasoned politicians. They know the strengths and weaknesses of Sasikala and will be able to handle her. Besides, it is their internal issue and we support whatever decision they take. Q: DMK leaders say their alliance is based on ideology, and that the AIADMK-BJP tie-up is an electoral alliance.Stalin is unaware of political history. The birth of the DMK was due to Congress’s politics of oppression. It dismissed the DMK government twice. Now, they are claiming to be an ideology-based alliance. They are political opportunists. Q: Starting with the PM, several BJP politicians speak richly about Tamil culture and language. But why has the BJP government allocated more funds to promote Sanskrit and not taken efforts to make Tamil one of the subjects in Union government-run Kendra Vidyalayas? When compared to other southern languages, the Union government is allocating more funds for the Tamil language. Kendra Vidyalayas were started 40 years ago, and the Congress government had designed the syllabus. Now, our government has announced the new education policy (NEP) that gives importance to all languages. A student in Delhi can learn Tamil, if he/she so wishes, under the NEP. Moreover, our PM is a friend of Tamils and has high regard for the language. Q: During the 2016 election campaign, Amit Shah had called the AIADMK the most corrupt party in the country. Now, the BJP is going to face the 2021 polls along with AIADMK. Has the BJP changed its stand on corruption?Our party’s stand against corruption remains the same. When the two Dravidian parties are compared, the DMK is the more corrupt party. The better option for us was the AIADMK. Moreover, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is a humble man, hailing from an agricultural family, unlike DMK leader M K Stalin, who is arrogant. Those who worked with Kalaignar (Karunanidhi) are also unhappy with Stalin. The attitude of Russia’s (Joseph) Stalin and DMK’s Stalin is the same. They are dictators. Russia’s Stalin killed his own associates during his regime. DMK’s Stalin is ending the political career of his associates. Q: When you were appointed Tamil Nadu in-charge, you said the BJP will soon form its own government? What are the efforts taken by the party to achieve this goal? We are strengthening the party at booth level. Of the 70,000 booths, we have committees in 48,000 booths now. We see opportunities for the party to grow. In some states, we have come to power in a short span, but we are struggling in Kerala and Tamil Nadu. But we know how to build our party. One day our party ideology will win the hearts of the Tamil people and we will win in TN. Q: Barring one seat, the AIADMK-BJP alliance lost all seats in the 2019 LS polls? Do you think the trend would have changed within a year? In Kerala and TN, they (opposition) were able to spread propaganda against the BJP and succeed in the LS polls. The AIADMK was also facing internal crisis at that time. But now the AIADMK is intact. We are also convincing Tamil people and there is a huge response to our leaders like Amit Shah and Narendra Modi whenever they visit the state. Our internal survey says that we are emerging strong. EPS has been doing good work in the past one year and there is no anti-incumbency. Now, there is the Modi trend and AIADMK-EPS trend and it will help us romp home with a majority. Q: How many seats is the BJP expecting in TN? We want more seats. But our priority is the victory of the alliance to retain power. If we (BJP) contest in 100 seats, we want to win all the seats. Q: Has the BJP taken any measure to woo minorities in the state? Modi is doing a lot for all sections of people. So, educated minorities will vote for us. We know that the uneducated among the minorities will not vote for us as they fall for misinformation campaigns. Once truth triumphs, they will realise their mistake and support us. Q: Do you think the fuel and gas price hike will have an impact?People will understand that the fuel price rise is not because of Modi. It is because of international oil prices. The Union government is working on a long-term policy such as promoting electric vehicles and usage of ethanol fuel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-ops-seasoned-politicians-know-how-to-handle-sasikala/articleshow/81159130.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
February 23, 2021||Delhi||AAP will win all five seats in Delhi civic bypolls: Gopal Rai||NEW DELHI: AAP Delhi convener Gopal Rai on Tuesday said AAP would win the bypolls in all the five municipal wards, which is due on February 28. Rai was speaking at party workers conference in Kondli’s Kalyanpuri ward to support a party candidate, Dhirendra, alias Bunty Gautam. Stressing that the Delhi governance model had got a pan-India popularity, Rai claimed the government had worked extensively to better the lives of Delhiites, with immense focus on health, education, electricity, water, protection of women and poor. He asked the workers to ensure the party wins all the five seats with a high margin, adding that AAP was putting all the efforts to win the polls with a focus on the three municipal corporations where it is currently in opposition. “People of Delhi are tired of the BJP-run municipal corporations and now want to see honest governance. They want AAP running the corporations too,” Rai said. He asked voters to be aware of those who distribute alcohol and cash for votes, since they were responsible for spreading hatred and enmity based on religion and caste. The AAP member asked the party workers to work hard. “People believe that AAP councillors in the corporations will ensure speedy development,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-will-win-all-five-seats-in-bypolls-rai/articleshow/81179742.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Terrible times for us, say families of accused||NEW DELHI: The families of students and activists who were arrested in cases related to the riots in northeast Delhi last year have had a harrowing time since. For months now, they have been connecting with their incarcerated family members only over video calls since the Covid-19 pandemic has led to curbs on physical meetings in jail. Mahavir Narwal, father of Pinjra Tod member Natasha Narwal, last met his daughter in June last year. “Physical meetings in jail have been allowed now, but it is difficult to get a slot,” said Mahavir. “The charges against Natasha are all arbitrary. I know my daughter well.” He hopes the PhD scholar’s 32nd birthday on March 5 will provide an opportunity to meet. With the case hanging over her head, Natasha could not register for the semester at Jawaharlal Nehru University to be able to complete her PhD. Delhi High Court will start hearing her bail plea on March 10. Father SQR Ilyas too last met his son, Umar Khalid, in September. The JNU student’s mother and sister were allowed 10 minutes to meet him at the Karkardooma courts last month. “The charges against Umar are all fabricated. They say he was the mastermind of the riots, but he was not even present in Delhi at that time,” raged Ilyas. “If you see the chargesheet, you can easily discern the charges are fake. The real culprits are free, only the anti-CAA, NRC activists were jailed.” Sarwar Jahan says that the family has had a terrible time after her sister, former councillor Ishrat Jahan, was slapped with two riot cases and imprisoned. Though granted bail in one case, Ishrat remains in jail in the case under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. “Covid 19 made the already bad time even worse,” said Sarwar, adding that video-conferencing is no substitute for meeting her sister in person. The Jahan sisters lost their father 11 years ago. “Ishrat was single in February last year at the time of her arrest. She came out of jail on interim bail for 10 days to get married. For our mother, it was very difficult to see her newly-wed daughter return to prison with mehndi on her hands,” said Sarwar. The mother of Asif Iqbal Tanha, a third year BA Persian student at Jamia Millia Islamia, is sure her son is innocent of the conspiracy charge her son faces. Speaking to TOI from Jharkhand, Jahan Ara said, “We didn’t have money to send Asif to Jamia, but he told us that we needn’t worry. He worked at a call centre and then partnered in a food business to meet his expenses.” Tanha was also sending money home, where Ara took tuitions to sustain the family. During the protests against CAA and NRC, the family learnt of Tanha’s participation and asked him to be careful and consider his ailing father. “But he insisted what he was doing was for lakhs of people who could be affected by these laws,” the mother said. The family hasn’t been able to visit Tanha in jail owing to the pandemic and his father’s poor health. “We are hoping he gets bail. We learnt that he is very anxious in jail,” said Ara. Nargis, wife of Khalid Saifi, imprisoned member of United Against Hate, was luckier in being to meet him with her three children on February 2, the eve of his 40th birthday. “He told me he was tortured in the jail,” alleged Nargis. She claimed that they ran a travel business for which Saifi often travelled to Saudi Arabia. “Police are using that against him, but the truth is my husband is just an activist raising his voice against some wrongs,” she insisted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/terrible-times-for-us-say-families-of-accused/articleshow/81160668.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi govt disbursed Rs 26 crore to 2,221 riot victims as relief||NEW DELHI: In a year since riots ripped across northeast Delhi, the state government has given over Rs 26 crore to 2,221 people ranging from the dependents of those killed in the violence to those sustaining grievous injuries and loss of property and assets. Tuesday marks the first anniversary of the outbreak of communal frenzy. Aiming to restore normalcy in the lives of those affected and those suffering asset losses, Delhi government came up with a compensation plan to cover all types of losses, including the loss of lives. The government has paid Rs 4.2 crore to the dependents of 44 individuals who lost their lives, Rs 1.7 crore to 233 people who suffered grievous or minor injuries, and Rs 8.5 crore to 731 people who lost their residential properties. The biggest portion of compensation went to those who suffered damage to their commercial properties during the rampage. Altogether, 1,176 people have been compensated with Rs 11.2 crore. In contrast, the lowest fraction of compensation was for loss of livestock and damage to e-rickshaws and electric scooters: Rs 4.4 lakh to 12 people. Rs 5.5 lakh has been disbursed in 22 cases where people claimed damage to jhuggis, while Rs 20 lakh was the compensation for damages to three school buildings. Around 3,200 applications for compensations were received, of which 2,221 applications were cleared. While 900 were rejected, the remaining are yet to be finalised due to issues like lack of necessary documents. Of the 1,286 claims for damage to residential property, over 300 were rejected because no damage was found during assessment. Some denied people have approached Delhi Assembly’s committee on minority welfare for “proper compensation to the victims”, with allegations that their applications were wrongly rejected or they got lesser compensation than warranted. The panel has advised reassessment in around 150 cases. AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj said Delhi government compensated the riot victims within a short time of a year when others, the 1984 riots victims, for example, had to struggle for a long time. Even in the latter case, the AAP government gave the pending compensation, the MLA claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-disbursed-rs-26cr-to-2221-riot-victims-as-relief/articleshow/81160623.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 23, 2021||Pune||Shopowner nabs robber carrying air gun||Pune: A 30-year-old man, owner of a hardware shop at Nighoje village near Chakan, nabbed a man who had robbed him of Rs2,000 at gunpoint on Saturday night. The shopowner had no idea about the type of firearm the man was carrying, but showed courage in chasing and nabbing the man with the help of some locals. It was later revealed that the suspect was carrying an air gun, police said. The Chakan police later arrested suspect Deepak Shinde (32) of Talawade. Mukesh Chaudhari (30), owner of the hardware shop, lodged an FIR. Chaudhari told TOI, “I was in the shop with my father and brother. Around 8pm on Saturday, a man walked into the shop on the pretext of purchasing a door lock. The man kept a cloth bag on the counter.” “All of a sudden, the man fished out a gun from the bag and threatened to shoot me. He told me to hand over the cash from the counter. There was Rs2, 000 in the counter, which I gave him,” Chaudhari said. Chaudhari said that when the man started demanding my gold chain, his brother picked up a stick. “Seeing this, the man started running away. Some people from a restaurant, neighbouring my shop, joined me in the chase. We nabbed him about half-a-km from my shop.” Sub-inspector Pradip Gaikwad of the Chakan police told TOI, “Shinde said he had robbed the shopowner as he was in need of money.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shopowner-nabs-robber-carrying-air-gun/articleshow/81160620.cms||Mihir Tanksale
February 23, 2021||Ahmedabad||SC junks appeal against counting day||Ahmedabad: The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed an appeal filed by two Congress leaders from Anand district taking exception to counting of votes for the municipal corporation elections on Tuesday, five days ahead of the second phase of polling. The bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy refused to interfere in the issue at the last moment, “however, the question of law is left open”. The Gujarat high court on Friday turned down the petition challenging the poll schedule and demanding that the counting of votes should be kept once polling for both the phases is complete. The high court had rejected the petitioners’ argument that the declaration of result for the municipal corporation elections on February 23 may influence the voters of 81 municipalities and 31 district panchayats, who are to poll votes on February 28. The petitioners argued that the State Election Commission’s (SEC) poll schedule may influence the voters in rural areas. The high court opined that the voters are influenced by so many factors in India that a decision by SEC would be the least influential factor, if it is at all. The judges also said that the voters in India should not be considered to be weak in thought process and that the chief election commissioner can influence them. The high court also made it clear that if there was a question on SEC’s decision-making process, the court may review it judicially, but there was no point in the judicial review of SEC’s decision itself. However, since the apex court has said that it has left the issue of law open, petitioners’ advocate in the high court Pankaj Champaneri said that the SC could consider it once such a petition is filed in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-junks-appeal-against-counting-day/articleshow/81160637.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Rec rooms for elderly to rise from the dumps||NEW DELHI: These sites once reeked of garbage; now South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to turn 125 of its old dhalaos into mini-libraries and reading rooms for all or recreation centres for senior citizens. It has cleared a Rs 12.5-crore project under which garbage dumps, which are no longer in use, are to be redeveloped as social infrastructure. “The selection of libraries or senior citizen centres will be made based on the need of a locality. The repair in form of plastering, tiling, new flooring and purchase of furniture will be carried out and Rs 10 lakh has been allocated for each site,” the leader of the House, Narendra Chawla, said. The House has cleared the budget and the sites should be ready this year, he added. TimesViewThis is a good example of creative use of unused space. Given that space in the city is at a premium and corporations are perpetually resource constrained, optimising use of available resources and not allowing space to go waste makes sense.In SDMC’s four zones, 125 out of the 978 dhalaos have been selected for the project. These dhalaos are no longer in use due to introduction of fixed and mobile garbage compactor stations, which can handle volumes of multiple dhalaos. “Door-to-door collection coupled with the compactor station is leading to more and more dhalaos being closed down. Under this project, all such sites will be brought to use,” a senior official said. Chawla said they were in talks with many non-governmental organisations and citizen associations, which could partner with SDMC. “We will also encourage families to donate books of their children for underprivileged students after the annual academic session ends,” Chawla said. “People are also feeling the need for common space for the elderlies who can spend time, read newspapers or play some board games there,” he added. The 125 sites are spread across all four zones, said a senior official. “Areas where more fixed compacting stations have been installed have more dhalaos that are no longer in use,” he added. The SDMC areas produce over 3,600 metric tonnes of garbage every day and the civic body claims it has deployed six-eight auto-tippers for door-to-door collection in each of its 104 wards. It hopes to process the entire waste when its second waste-to-energy plant starts operating this December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rec-rooms-for-elderly-to-rise-from-the-dumps/articleshow/81160650.cms||Paras Singh
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Teachers want to work from home as Covid cases rise||MUMBAI: With Covid-19 cases rising and students still not back in the classroom, teachers want to be allowed to work from home until the situation in the state improves. Teachers in the city have been going to school and conducting online classes for students. “The chief minister in his address on Sunday appealed to continue working from home. Teachers have been going to school for three to four days a week as per the old directive. But, with students still not in the classroom, we can work from home too. The education department must take back its directive...,” said Rajesh Pandya of the Teachers Democratic Front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/teachers-want-to-work-from-home-as-cases-rise/articleshow/81160632.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Nashik||Civic body to seal buildings if cases are reported from there||Nashik: With Covid cases rising in Nashik city, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to seal residential buildings and apartments if five or more cases are reported there. According to the health department of the NMC, the majority of fresh cases are reported from various residential societies in the city and hence, these measures will be taken. “The Covid-19 cases are still under control in slum areas of the city, but the new cases are emerging from the residential buildings and apartments. This is due to a section of city residents not being serious about the Covid safety protocols,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintendent of NMC. Most cases have been recorded in the Cidco division, which has the largest population among the six division. “The movement of people from the buildings sealed will be restricted, except for essential services. We will follow the government guidelines while sealing the buildings,” said Nagargoje. The number of active patients in Nashik city has increased from 494 active patients on February 10 to 1,269 active patients so far. The number of containment zones has also increased from 185 to 317 containment zones so far.The NMC commissioner has issued an order to levy a Rs 1,000 fine on those not wearing masks in public places. Earlier, the fine was Rs 200 each. But after the directive of the district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal,the fine amont was increased. Police to conduct nakabandisThe city police on Monday implemented the night curfew orders under Section 144 from February 22 to March 8, which would be in force from 11 pm to 5 am. All police stations would be conducting nakabandis in their respective jurisdictions to keep a check on the unnecessary movement of people during the curfew period.Meanwhile, the city police have also instructed the citizens to follow all the covid related protocols like the use of masks, maintaining a distance of six feet between two people,The police have also banned spitting in public places or the open. There is also a restriction on five or more people gathering in public places, said police commissioner Deepak Pandey in his order||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-to-seal-buildings-if-cases-are-reported-from-there/articleshow/81157985.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 23, 2021||Chandigarh||From the farm: Women help groups doubled income in 2020||Pathankot: While the world economy has stalled during the coronavirus pandemic, 250-300 women of 20 self-help group (SHGs) of Dhar block in Pathankot district have nearly doubled their income and found hidden opportunities in the jungles and wastelands. Along with pickles, spices and amla (Indian gooseberry) candies, these women have started making face masks and herbal immunity booster concoctions. SHG member from Durang Khud village Sushila told TOI on Monday, “We used to think that we couldn’t cultivate anything in the jungle, but now we are growing high value crops.” Sushila, one of the many women of Dhar Block who have been able to change their lives through cultivating medicinal herbs after coronavirus outbreak, said most of the women knew the basics of stitching, so they had no problem in making face masks too. An SHG member from Kakdui village, Sudarshana Devi, said after the onset of pandemic in 2020 their stock of amla preparations went off the shelves within days and they were flooded with fresh orders. On an average a member of SHG who used to add anything between Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000 per month to her family’s income now started adding over Rs 20,000, said the DFO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/from-the-farm-women-help-groups-doubled-income-in-2020/articleshow/81160622.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 23, 2021||Nashik||9 traffic islands in Nashik city planned under CSR scheme||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has given its nod to develop traffic islands at nine locations in the city. The civic body had earlier invited expressions of interest for the development and maintenance of traffic islands at nine locations across the city.Accordingly, nine private firms had shown interests in developing the traffic islands under the CSR schemes.Standing committee chairman Ganesh Gite, during a recent meeting, had given his approval to the proposal of the civic administration without discussions.According to the proposal approved by the standing committee, the private firms concerned will design, develop and maintain the traffic islands for a period of 10 years.Moreover, these traffic islands are to be developed by the private firms under CSR schemes and the municipal corporation will not have to spend money on them. But it will get a royalty from each private company, which will be in the range from Rs 5,000 to Rs 21,000 per year for the next 10 years.NMC will get total royalty amounting to Rs 72 lakh per year from these nine firms.The nine locations include the road and cycle track on the road opposite Nashik district civil hospital and Golf Club grounds, Model Colony on College Road, Mahindra & Mahindra circle in Satpur, Raka Colony square, Samta Nagar Takli square in Jail Road area of Nashik Road, Dwarka Upanagar square on Nashik Road etc. Moreover, one of the nine private firms will build public toilets in the Satpur area of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/9-traffic-islands-in-nashik-city-planned-under-csr-scheme/articleshow/81158011.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 23, 2021||Pune||Hadapsar records most patients in Pune municipal limits, Sinhagad Road follows||PUNE: The Covid-19 cases have shot up in the Hadapsar area owing to excess public movement, massive rush in markets and people not following mask and social distance norms. PMC assistant medical officer Sanjeev Wavare on Monday said, “Hadapsar reported the highest 85 cases in the city on Sunday. The areas under the Sinhagad Road and Warje-Karvenagar ward offices recorded 71 and 67 cases, respectively. We have launched one more mobile centre for collecting swab samples in Hadapsar. We will take a call on starting micro-containment zones and imposing local restrictions in the affected areas soon.” In all, as many as 17,964 people have been infected in the Hadapsar area till date, while 17,331 have recovered. The area has recorded 303 active cases and 330 deaths. Santosh Warule, head of Warje-Karvenagar civic ward, said, “A swab collection centre is operational at the SNDT campus. We are planning to start one more centre in Warje. We will soon hold meetings with wedding hall owners, asking them to ensure strict implementation of Covid norms.” PMC deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Kadam teams were making public announcements at market and crowded places, appealing people to abide by Covid-appropriate behaviour. An official from the Sinhagad Road ward office said, “We have asked shopkeepers and vendors to strictly follow safety measures.” Strict action soughtPMC corporators attending the Hadapsar ward committee meeting on Monday demanded that civic officials should take stern action against people caught maskless in public places. PMC corporator Vaishali Bankar said, “Most patients testing positive in the Hadpasar area are not from Pune. The highest 12 cases have been reported in Satavwadi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hadapsar-records-most-patients-in-pune-municipal-limits-sinhagad-road-follows/articleshow/81160638.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Grandmom hatched 4-yr-old’s abduction for Rs5cr ransom: CP||Amravati: Arti Singh, commissioner of police, on Monday told TOI that 4-year-old abducted kid Nayan Mukesh Luniya’s grandmother had hatched the abduction plot to demand Rs5 crore ransom. Singh said after interrogating Nayan’s grandmother Monica, it has come to light that the kidnapping was hatched by her and she had given the contract to Ajju and Issar Taklya, who is at large. The CP said a team has been sent out of the district to nab Taklya, who is believed to be hiding in Mumbai. Six of the seven accused are in police custody remand till February 28 and more details are expected to come out as the interrogation progresses. Nayan, son of a businessman, was kidnapped by two bike riders from posh Sharda Nagar locality under Rajapeth police station here on Wednesday night. Within 48 hours of the kidnapping, local police had rescued the four-year-old and apprehended the accused from Ahmednagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/grandmom-hatched-4-yr-olds-abduction-for-rs5cr-ransom-cp/articleshow/81174144.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Vadodara||BJP’s ‘Mission 76’ to be tested, Cong hopeful||Vadodara: With the voting for the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) polls remaining near equal to the polls for the civic body in2015, the Congress and BJP have started making their claims for victory with the BJP seeming more confident amongst the two. The surge in voting in the last couple of hours has surprised many including the Congress. Against voting of 48.71% in the 2015 civic polls in the city, the voting percentage stood at 47.84% on Sunday. The fall that is less than a percentage is expected to have only a marginal effect on the poll results. Against this, the BJP had set a target of sweeping the polls with a cent per cent result and called the polls ‘Mission 76’. How many it actually wins out of 76 will be revealed on Tuesday.BJP spokesperson Satyen Kulabkar said that the party was headed towards a landslide victory. “Seventy-six seats was the aim and mission of the party and we have worked hard towards it,” he said. The Congress, however, maintained that it was on the track to reach the halfway mark. “We will establish majority even if with a small majority,” said Congress spokesperson Narendra Ravat. Former BJP organising secretary for central Gujarat Jitendra Rai who parted ways with the party recently, but is a keen observer of politics in the city, said that he expected no major surprise in the results. “The voting is also at par with previous elections and not abnormally high or low that would hint at a surprise,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bjps-mission-76-to-be-tested-cong-hopeful/articleshow/81158008.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Pune||Man threatens to kill guard, extort company||Pune: A 33-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for threatening to kill a security guard of an auto components manufacturing company and attempting to extort Rs25,000 from the firm. The man, Mangesh Ambole, damaged the security cabin with a sharp weapon. The security supervisor of the company, Lokesh Patil (22), lodged an FIR with the Chakan police against the suspect. Ambole has been charged underrelevant sections of the IPC and Indian Arms Act. Police booked three of Ambole’s accomplices as well. On February 19 night Ambole, a former employee, went to the company. Patil stopped him at the gate, following which Ambole threatened to kill him. He then started abusing the company officials and demanded Rs25,000 per month, if the management was not going to engage his vehicle to transport the company’s employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-threatens-to-kill-guard-extort-company/articleshow/81160636.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Ruckus in SDMC House as AAP & BJP trade charges||New Delhi: South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s House meeting on Tuesday witnessed a ruckus with both AAP and BJP councillors trading allegations of corruption against each other. The meeting, which had already started an hour late, had to be suspended and the proposals were passed amid a shouting match. Earlier, after reading condolence messages for victims of the Uttarakhand disaster, deaths of protesting farmers and a sanitation worker, the House began discussing issues. Leader of Opposition Prem Chauhan red-flagged a corruption case related to a scholarship scheme in which three civic officials were arrested. Chauhan demanded all the officials involved should be suspended and the mayor, Anamika, said they would take action if any officials were found guilty. BJP councillors, on the other hand, alleged that large-scale corruption was taking place in Delhi government departments. While AAP councillors entered the well of the House with banners and posters, councillors from both sides called each other’s leaders as “thieves”. Chauhan alleged that between 2012-13 and 2015-16, the amount received from Delhi government for giving a scholarship of Rs 500 per child (SC&ST) per year, was misused. “The matter was investigated by the anti-corruption department after taking permission from SDMC’s education director and subsequently, an FIR was filed and three junior officials were arrested. However, the vigilance department of SDMC didn’t take any action,” he claimed. Chauhan further alleged, “The scholarship fund was transferred to a Central Zone account and from there, it was transferred to a fake account. Later, some people in Bihar and UP had withdrawn the money. But as soon as the matter came to light, some people returned it also. On the written complaint of a deputy director (education) to ACB, an inquiry had started. Initial inquiry revealed that Rs 5.7 crore had been misused, but we felt that the amount could be even bigger. After we were denied access to records, we filed an RTI and gathered some information, which proved there was a scam of at least Rs 20 crore.” Mayor Anamika, however, said that “AAP councillors come prepared with banners and posters to disrupt the meeting every time.” “I provided them enough time to raise the issue. The matter is not new and it is being investigated. How can all the officials be terminated when the investigation is still under way? We will take action if people are found guilty. I have also warned AAP councillors to maintain the decorum of the House,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ruckus-in-sdmc-house-as-aap-bjp-trade-charges/articleshow/81179801.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Chennai||Bangladeshi gets passport using forged docus, caught||Chennai: A man from Bangladesh was detained by the immigration officials at Chennai airport after he tried to fly out to Dubai using a passport obtained using fake documents. A CISF personnel who had served in the north eastern border states, while verifying the man’s documents, noticed that he had a heavy Bangla accent but held an Indian passport with address based in Tirupur and began questioning him. A few minutes into the interrogation, the man confessed to have obtained the passport by submitting forged documents. The passport identified him as Solaiman Hossain, 29, a Tirupur resident, while inquiries revealed his original name was Miyak, from Bangladesh. The CISF officials cancelled his flight ticket and handed him over to the airport police. Tamil Nadu ‘Q’ branch sleuths and intelligence officials also interrogated him to ascertain if he had links to any terror organisation. After questioning him for hours and recording his statement on how and when he entered India and for how long he had been staying in the state, Miyak was handed over to the passport wing of central crime branch sleuths of the city police. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bangladeshi-gets-passport-using-forged-docus-caught/articleshow/81160706.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Pune||Over 1,000 Army personnel inoculated||PUNE: Over one thousand Armed forces personnel, including infantry soldiers posted in Pune and Khadki garrisons, have been vaccinated in the first round for frontline workers over the past few days. The vaccination drive for the frontline workers commenced at the Army Institute of Cardio Thoracic Sciences (AICTS), Military Hospital (MH), Kirkee and the Southern Command Hospital in Wanowrie, an Army officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-1k-army-personnel-inoculated/articleshow/81160705.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 23, 2021||Nashik||Dhule district to enhance contact tracing||Nashik: With a marginal rise in Covid-19 cases reported per day in the district, the Dhule administration has decided to enhance testing of suspected Covid patients and contact tracing of patients. Vishal Patil, the district coordinator of Covid-19, said the daily cases, which was less than 20, has now suddenly started rising. “We have decided to increase testing and contact tracing, especially in Dhule city, from where a majority of the new cases are being reported,” added Patil. The daily tests conducted in the district are around 300 to 400 but as cases are rising it will be increased to over 500 tests per day. According to him, the district administration has decided to reopen four Covid care centres (CCC)-one each in the four talukas of the district. “We have also askedprivate medical practitioners to convince their patients with Covid symptoms to undergo the Covid test immediately,” said Patil. The officials of the Dhule Municipal Corporation officials said the Covid test centres in the city will be increased from two to five. “We would appeal to people to observe Covid-19 guidelines by wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently or using sanitisers,” said the civic officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-district-to-enhance-contact-tracing/articleshow/81158019.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai zoo welcomes 11,000 visitors over weekend||MUMBAI: On the first weekend after it reopened to the public, 11,000 visitors thronged to the city zoo. The total revenue collected was Rs. 5.74 lakh. However, the number was lesser as compared to pre-Covid times when the zoo saw up to 15,000 visitors. Dr. Sanjay Tripathi, director of the zoo, said that on Saturday they received 4,600 visitors. However, at no point of time did the authorities need to shut the gates due to over crowding. “We were expecting a comparatively larger crowd on the weekend. So, adequate guards were stationed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/zoo-welcomes-11000-visitors-over-weekend/articleshow/81160704.cms||Richa Pinto
February 23, 2021||Madurai||‘Release vehicle seized in criminal case’||Madurai: Citing a Supreme Court order that whatever be the situation, it is of no use to keep seized vehicles at police stations for a long period as it wont serve any purpose and result in loss of value, the Madras high court has directed the authorities to release a vehicle seized in a criminal case. The court, which was hearing petition filed by Maridurai seeking to release his tractor seized by the Puliangudi police in Tenkasi district in connection with an illegal sand mining case, directed the petitioner to pay Rs 20,000. Justice G R Swaminathan said that in the present case the vehicle is yet to be produced before the jurisdictional court and hence the writ court definitely has the power to direct release of the vehicle. The judge said that neither the petitioner nor the vehicle is involved in any previous case of the same nature. The counsel for the petitioner undertakes to remit a sum of Rs 20,000 as non-refundable cost for release of the vehicle. The judge said that K Veera Raghava Rao, who is the director of employment and training is presently working out a module for imparting training to visually impaired people in typewriting and stenography. To enable the aforesaid government department to conduct the said programme so that at least some of the visually challenged persons can stand on their own feet with dignity, the judge directed the petitioner to pay the Rs 20,000 to the registrar (administration) of HC Madurai bench and the amount be deposited for the aforesaid purpose. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/release-vehicle-seized-in-criminal-case/articleshow/81160724.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Pune||No decision on vax pricing for next group||Pune: Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the Centre was yet to decide if vaccines will be free during the third phase of Covid inoculations. The shots are currently free for healthcare and frontline workers as the Centre has agreed to bear the costs. Central government sources said the pricing policy of vaccines for the next target group was being worked out. The Centre and the states may end up sharing the costs, a source said, while adding that the final price of the shots may be nominal. However, some states, including Maharashtra, have opposed this direction saying the Centre had earlier agreed to bear costs for the 30 crore priority population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-decision-on-vax-pricing-for-next-group/articleshow/81160720.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 23, 2021||Vadodara||Fingers crossed: Counting today||Vadodara: Counting in Vadodara will begin with the counting of postal ballots at 9am at Polytechnic College campus on Tuesday. Of the six municipal corporations that saw voting in Gujarat, it was only in Vadodara that the first phase of voting through postal ballots was conducted ahead of Sunday’s civic body polls. The counting of EVM votes will be carried out after the counting of postal ballots. The counting process will be carried out phase-wise. “In the first phase, ward numbers 1, 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16 will be included followed by the second phase counting consisting of wards 2, 5, 8, 11, 14 and 17. In the third phase, votes of wards 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18 will be counted. After this, votes of ward 19 will be counted,” said Vadodara district collector Shalini Agrawal. “There are total eight strong rooms and votes will be counted under the supervision of 12 returning officers (ROs) and assistant ROs at 12 counting rooms,” she said. Polythene hand gloves, masks and sanitisers have been arranged for the table inspectors, supervisors and staff to ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines. A total of 84 counting tables will be set up in all at the counting centre. “The results will be fed online on the state election commission’s website. They will be also declared through a public announcement system outside the centre,” she said. “A three-tier security ring has been set up around the the counting centre by the city police to ensure peaceful counting of votes while SRP, BSF and local police have been deployed across the city to maintain law and order,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fingers-crossed-counting-today/articleshow/81158031.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra cases dip after 6 days, curbs placed in Nagpur, Akola||MUMBAI: After a surge in daily Covid-19 cases for the last six days, Maharashtra and Mumbai reported a slight dip on Monday that officials attributed to fewer than usual tests on Sunday. But the high numbers in the Vidarbha region led to the imposition of more localised curbs. The state reported 5,210 cases and 18 fatalities, the lowest in two weeks, taking the total to 21,06,094 and the toll to 51,806. Mumbai reported 761 cases — the fewest in the past four days — and four deaths, pushing the tally to 3,19,889 and toll to 11,450. In Maharashtra, the highest addition of cases came from the Mumbai circle, including MMR, at 1,364 cases, followed by the Akola circle that reported 1,154 cases. Nagpur region was the third, contributing 946 cases. Among civic corporations, Nagpur and Amravati reported 643 and 555 cases, nearly as many as Mumbai. A day after Amravati, Nagpur guardian minister Nitin Raut on Monday ordered schools, colleges, coaching classes, resorts and weekly vegetable markets shut from February 23 to March 7 in the district. Weddings and religious, cultural and political programmes will remain suspended from February 25 till March 7. Restaurants must run at 50% capacity and close at 9pm, two hours before what was allowed earlier. The minister clarified there would be no full lockdown and said no new coronavirus mutation has been found in the district. In Akola, the collector said only five petrol pumps will remain open from 8am to 3pm. Milk delivery will be allowed for two hours each in the morning and evening. In Buldhana, even for a wedding with 25 invitees, permission will be necessary. Lockdown-like restrictions have been imposed in Buldhana, Chikhli, Malkapur, Khamla, Deulgaon Raja, all tehsil headquarters, for a week. In Bhandara, the Bodalkasa Bird Festival in Gondia district was cancelled. Active cases in the state increased to 53,113, of which 5,986 were in Mumbai. Cases were rising in the MMR region too. For the fifth day in a row, cases went above 90 in Navi Mumbai, pushing the number of active cases to over 1,000 from its lowest of 700 a fortnight ago. The civic body has begun a crackdown on risky behaviour and increased the penalty for venues flouting the 50-person rule in social functions to Rs 50,000. Thane added 132 cases on Monday and recorded two deaths. A day after CM Uddhav Thackeray appealed to the public to follow safety norms to avoid another lockdown, health minister Rajesh Tope reiterated the message. “Our state is known for its understanding, sensitive and cooperative people. We have seen how people have cooperated with patience during the lockdown. However, another lockdown will be unaffordable,” he said. (Inputs from BB Nayak and Nagpur bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/state-cases-dip-after-6-dayscurbs-placed-in-nagpur-akola/articleshow/81163146.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 23, 2021||Delhi||‘Sensitise children about cyber threats’||Delhi government has directed schools in the city to sensitise students and parents about cyber bullying and online threats, and how to protect children from these risks. “The internet spaces are growing and data security, privacy is inadequate to keep a check on this. It is important that everyone is aware of the risks,” DoE said. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sensitise-children-about-cyber-threats/articleshow/81179842.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Coimbatore||Anganwadi workers demand pay hike, permanent jobs||Coimbatore: More than 350 anganwadi workers, working under the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme, protested in front of the district collectorate on Monday demanding a salary hike and to make their jobs permanent as well as provide all accompanying benefits. Workers said their salary was last increased to Rs 13,300 per month in 2006. Since then prices have increased multifold. Besides, other perks attached with government jobs like pension, maternity leave of nine months and “surrender able leaves” were not available to us, they said. Many of the protesters had joined the programme during its inception in the state in 1982, they said. “Besides taking care of children in anganwadis, we distribute nutrition kits to pregnant and breastfeeding mothers, cross check pregnant women who have pre-registered in the PICME programme and organize, along with village health nurses, vaccination drives for children,” said one of their spokespersons, S Shanthi. Despite undertaking such critical works for women and children, we were neither made permanent employees nor brought under any pay commission or grade, they said. “In 2006, our salary was increased and structured into basic pay, house rent allowance, dearness allowance and medical insurance of Rs 280 per month, etc. Before that, we had fixed salary based on “no work, no pay” policy,” said another worker Kavitha. “In the present situation, the salary of Rs 13,300 is not enough for the work we take on,” she added. Shanthi said they want benefits like pension, maternity leave of nine months unlike the central government fixed six months and leaves that can be surrendered and encashed like government employees. “We have only a few sick leave days and on top of that we lose our pay when we take sick leave,” she said. Workers threatened to continue the protest till their demands are met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/anganwadi-workers-demand-pay-hike-permanent-jobs/articleshow/81159247.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra cases dip after 6 days, curbs placed in Nagpur, Akola||MUMBAI: After a surge in daily Covid-19 cases for the last six days, Maharashtra and Mumbai reported a slight dip on Monday that officials attributed to fewer than usual tests on Sunday. But the high numbers in the Vidarbha region led to the imposition of more localised curbs. The state reported 5,210 cases and 18 fatalities, the lowest in two weeks, taking the total to 21,06,094 and the toll to 51,806. Mumbai reported 761 cases — the fewest in the past four days — and four deaths, pushing the tally to 3,19,889 and toll to 11,450. In Maharashtra, the highest addition of cases came from the Mumbai circle, including MMR, at 1,364 cases, followed by the Akola circle that reported 1,154 cases. Nagpur region was the third, contributing 946 cases. Among civic corporations, Nagpur and Amravati reported 643 and 555 cases, nearly as many as Mumbai. A day after Amravati, Nagpur guardian minister Nitin Raut on Monday ordered schools, colleges, coaching classes, resorts and weekly vegetable markets shut from February 23 to March 7 in the district. Weddings and religious, cultural and political programmes will remain suspended from February 25 till March 7. Restaurants must run at 50% capacity and close at 9pm, two hours before what was allowed earlier. The minister clarified there would be no full lockdown and said no new coronavirus mutation has been found in the district. In Akola, the collector said only five petrol pumps will remain open from 8am to 3pm. Milk delivery will be allowed for two hours each in the morning and evening. In Buldhana, even for a wedding with 25 invitees, permission will be necessary. Lockdown-like restrictions have been imposed in Buldhana, Chikhli, Malkapur, Khamla, Deulgaon Raja, all tehsil headquarters, for a week. In Bhandara, the Bodalkasa Bird Festival in Gondia district was cancelled. Active cases in the state increased to 53,113, of which 5,986 were in Mumbai. Cases were rising in the MMR region too. For the fifth day in a row, cases went above 90 in Navi Mumbai, pushing the number of active cases to over 1,000 from its lowest of 700 a fortnight ago. The civic body has begun a crackdown on risky behaviour and increased the penalty for venues flouting the 50-person rule in social functions to Rs 50,000. Thane added 132 cases on Monday and recorded two deaths. A day after CM Uddhav Thackeray appealed to the public to follow safety norms to avoid another lockdown, health minister Rajesh Tope reiterated the message. “Our state is known for its understanding, sensitive and cooperative people. We have seen how people have cooperated with patience during the lockdown. However, another lockdown will be unaffordable,” he said. (Inputs from BB Nayak and Nagpur bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-cases-dip-after-6-dayscurbs-placed-in-nagpur-akola/articleshow/81160739.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 23, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra cases dip after 6 days, curbs placed in Nagpur, Akola||MUMBAI: After a surge in daily Covid-19 cases for the last six days, Maharashtra and Mumbai reported a slight dip on Monday that officials attributed to fewer than usual tests on Sunday. But the high numbers in the Vidarbha region led to the imposition of more localised curbs. The state reported 5,210 cases and 18 fatalities, the lowest in two weeks, taking the total to 21,06,094 and the toll to 51,806. Mumbai reported 761 cases — the fewest in the past four days — and four deaths, pushing the tally to 3,19,889 and toll to 11,450. In Maharashtra, the highest addition of cases came from the Mumbai circle, including MMR, at 1,364 cases, followed by the Akola circle that reported 1,154 cases. Nagpur region was the third, contributing 946 cases. Among civic corporations, Nagpur and Amravati reported 643 and 555 cases, nearly as many as Mumbai. A day after Amravati, Nagpur guardian minister Nitin Raut on Monday ordered schools, colleges, coaching classes, resorts and weekly vegetable markets shut from February 23 to March 7 in the district. Weddings and religious, cultural and political programmes will remain suspended from February 25 till March 7. Restaurants must run at 50% capacity and close at 9pm, two hours before what was allowed earlier. The minister clarified there would be no full lockdown and said no new coronavirus mutation has been found in the district. In Akola, the collector said only five petrol pumps will remain open from 8am to 3pm. Milk delivery will be allowed for two hours each in the morning and evening. In Buldhana, even for a wedding with 25 invitees, permission will be necessary. Lockdown-like restrictions have been imposed in Buldhana, Chikhli, Malkapur, Khamla, Deulgaon Raja, all tehsil headquarters, for a week. In Bhandara, the Bodalkasa Bird Festival in Gondia district was cancelled. Active cases in the state increased to 53,113, of which 5,986 were in Mumbai. Cases were rising in the MMR region too. For the fifth day in a row, cases went above 90 in Navi Mumbai, pushing the number of active cases to over 1,000 from its lowest of 700 a fortnight ago. The civic body has begun a crackdown on risky behaviour and increased the penalty for venues flouting the 50-person rule in social functions to Rs 50,000. Thane added 132 cases on Monday and recorded two deaths. A day after CM Uddhav Thackeray appealed to the public to follow safety norms to avoid another lockdown, health minister Rajesh Tope reiterated the message. “Our state is known for its understanding, sensitive and cooperative people. We have seen how people have cooperated with patience during the lockdown. However, another lockdown will be unaffordable,” he said. (Inputs from BB Nayak and Nagpur bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/state-cases-dip-after-6-dayscurbs-placed-in-nagpur-akola/articleshow/81163147.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 23, 2021||Madurai||Reimburse dead govt staff’s wife his med expenses: HC||Madurai: The Madras high court has directed an insurance company to reimburse a woman the medical expenses of her deceased husband on the ground that he was registered under the insurance scheme and the monthly insurance premium was deducted from his salary.The court was hearing a petition filed by Nesamani who sought the authorities to reimburse the amount, which he spent towards his medical expenses. Since the petitioner died during the pendency of the petition, his wife Glory Florance was substituted as the petitioner.Nesamani joined the transport corporation in 1978 as a driver. He has enrolled under Tamil Nadu Government Employees New Health Insurance Scheme from the day of its inception and the monthly premium of Rs 25 was recovered from the salary of the petitioner’s husband every month by the transport corporation and the said amount was also paid to the insurance company.He was admitted to a private hospital in Nagercoil where he underwent a surgery for heart ailment in 2011. Subsequently, he submitted an application in 2012 seeking reimbursement of Rs 1,42,000, which he spent towards the medical expenses.However, the same was not reimbursed on the ground that the government had fixed May 2011 as the last date for uploading the employee details on the website of treasuries and accounts department in respect of people appointed before March 31, 2011. In the absence of the ID number of the petitioner, they were unable to respond to the claim of the petitioner.Justice M Dhandapani observed that since the transport corporation has paid the amount to the insurance company, which was deducted from the salary of the petitioner towards health insurance and a proof has also been filed to that effect, the insurance company is liable to pay the expenses incurred by the petitioner for his medical treatment.Taking into account that the petitioner died during the pendency of the petition, the judge directed the insurance company to reimburse his wife the medical expenses within six weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/reimburse-dead-govt-staffs-wife-his-med-expenses-hc/articleshow/81160727.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Chennai||Active Covid cases increase by 68 since last week in Chennai||CHENNAI: The number of active Covid-19 cases in Chennai rose to 1,627 on Sunday from 1,559 on February 14 despite adding fewer cases during the week. Public health experts say this is because fewer people were being discharged from hospitals — possibly because more people are delaying testing. Greater Chennai Corporation statistics show that between February 14 and 21, there were 1,146 new cases and 1,088 discharges. Between February 6 and 13, there were 1,175 new cases and 1,167 discharges. The average number of daily cases between Feb 6 and 13 was 147, which dropped to 143 between Feb 14 and 21. The average number of daily discharges also came down from 146 to 136 and the number of deaths rose from 9 to 17. Epidemiologists say this is a sign of complacency. “Many people are not wearing masks and following distancing norms. We are not done with Covid-19 because we are reporting fewer cases and administering vaccines,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur. Many are delaying testing despite showing symptoms, say doctors. “We are able to treat most people who come in for early treatment, but delays increase complications,” said Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital dean Dr E Theranirajan. “Tomorrow we will discharge a 35-year-old patient after nearly 60 days. He came with complications nearly 10 days after onset of symptoms. While this patient is lucky, many don’t make it.” In the past week, the number of active cases increased in seven zones — Madhavaram (59 to 61), Tondiarpet (68 to 73), Thiru-vi-ka Nagar (99 to 114), Ambattur (114 to 151), Kodambakkam (150 to 167), Alandur (84 to 92) and Adyar (119 to 141). There were 69 streets with positive cases compared to 48 last week, although the test positivity rate (TPR), indicating infection rate, has been consistently around 1.5%. Officials said 14 streets in south Chennai, 15 in north Chennai and 40 in central Chennai have positive cases. Infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan said newer strains had emerged in South Africa and Brazil. “It is important for everyone to wear a mask and maintain social distance. Many cities across the world are seeing a second wave. We must be careful.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/active-covid-cases-increase-by-68-since-last-week-in-city/articleshow/81159297.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Madurai||Consider male, female descendants same: HC||Madurai: Observing that there cannot be any difference between a male and a female descendant, the Madras high court has refused to interfere with the order of a single judge, who had directed the authorities to grant Marudhu Pandiyar brothers’ descendant pension to three women from Ramanathapuram district. The court was hearing an appeal preferred by the state government against the order of the single judge dated September 11, 2020. The single judge who went into the issue at length before holding that even the female descendants of the two freedom fighters are entitled for the pension, as against the male descendants. The special government pleader appearing for the state submitted that a three-member committee had prepared a list of 202 descendants to provide them freedom fighters’ descendants political pension of Rs 150 per month and passed the GO in 1982. A division bench of Justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed that they do not find any merit in this appeal. The single judge went into the issue at length. There are two people, namely - Kalyani and Kasthuri Kannan, similarly placed to the three women respondents in the present appeal, who were directed to be given the relief, in pursuant to the orders of the court. “In law, there cannot be any difference between a male descendant and a female descendant. Any such artificial classification would be hit by Article 14 of the Constitution. So long as there is no dispute with respect to the respondents being the descendants of the Marudhu Pandiyar brothers, their claim cannot be denied on the premise that only male descendants are entitled to pension,” observed the judges. Hence, the judges disposed of the petition holding that they are not inclined to interfere with the order of the single judge. With regard to the plea of the special government pleader that the single judge did not specify the date on which such benefit is to be conferred, the judges observed that since nothing has been stated in this regard, it is well open to the appellants to take a decision themselves in this regard. After all, the single judge has remitted the matter to the authorities concerned, said the judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/consider-male-female-descendants-same-hc/articleshow/81160731.cms||Kaushik Kannan
February 23, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: Night curfew imposed in Jalgaon, educational institutes shut||NASHIK: Curfew has been imposed from 10pm to 5am and educational institutions across Jalgon district have been closed with immediate effect till March 6, said district collector Abhijit Raut on Monday. “Essential services like milk distribution, medical sector, industrial workers with company identity cards going their workplace or returning home and petrol stations will not be under the purview of the night curfew. Educational institutions can conduct classes online,” he said. Movie theatres, gyms, swimming pools, gardens and auditoriums across the district will remain closed till the set date. Weekly markets will not be allowed to function. Libraries can function with maximum 50% of their capacity. The district collector said a maximum of 50 people will be allowed at weddings and the footfall at religious places must not be above 10. “We took the decisions after deliberating with all stakeholders. We will continue to monitor the Covid scenario in the district closely before any further decisions,” said Raut. Jalgaon district, which was one of the Covid hotspot districts in the state in May-June last year, has witnessed a significant increase in cases in the last four days. The daily positive cases has increased to triple-digit as compared to double-digit that the district was registering for the last few months. “We don’t want to witness a repeat of what the district faced in mid-2020. I have also asked doctors, path labs, radiologists to inform the local authorities in case they get patients with Covid-like symptoms,” said Raut. The district collector has asked different departments to crack down on those violating Covid rules, such as not wearing masks and maintaining social distance at public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/night-curfew-imposed-in-jalgaon-edu-institutes-shut/articleshow/81158034.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
February 23, 2021||Salem||CM Edappadi K Palaniswami launches cattle park in Salem, says it’s Asia’s largest||SALEM: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced that a frozen semen station to develop high milk yielding indigenous and cross bred cows will be set up in Karumandurai at the cost of Rs 100 crore. He made this announcement after inaugurating the Asia’s biggest cattle park - Advanced Institute for Integrated Research on Livestock and Animal Sciences (AIIRLAS) - spread over 1,600 acres and constructed at the cost of Rs 1,023 crore on Koot Road near Thalaivasal in Salem district on Monday. He also inaugurated a veterinary medical college and Thalaivasal revenue taluk office. Recalling his visit to foreign countries before setting up the cattle park, the CM said that the exotic breeds in those countries were giving 60 liters of milk per day. At the same time, our country exotic breeds were giving only 15 liters of milk. “To help our farmers to get more milk from our exotic breeds, the government will set up a frozen semen station to develop high milk yielding indigenous and cross bred cows will be set up in Karumandurai,” he added. Palaniswami refuted DMK chief MK Stalin’s charge that the CM was laying foundation stones everywhere but did not ensure that the projects were completed. Asserting that he laid the foundation stone for this cattle park one year ago, the chief minister said. “I had allotted funds and land for this project. Now, it is completed, and I had inaugurated it as well.” The CM issued admission orders to students who got admission at the Theni, Udumalaipettai and Thalaivasal veterinary medical colleges. He inaugurated 58 completed projects at the cost of Rs 125 crore and laid foundation stones for 58 new projects at the cost of Rs 181 crore. He said his government has provided an exclusive water connection for this cattle park by bringing water from the Cauvery at Poolampatti near Edappadi. “We had spent nearly Rs 700 crore to bring 10 mlt water,” he added. Earlier, animal husbandry department minister Udumalai Radhakrishnan said the number of head of cattle had increased in the state to 95.19 lakh, which was 7.40 % higher when compared with previous cattle census. Similarly, the number of goats has increased to 98.89 lakh, which is 17.65 % higher when compared with the previous census. “Steps are being taken to recruit 1,110 veterinary assistant doctors through TNPSC,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/cm-inaugurates-asias-biggest-cattle-park-in-salem-district/articleshow/81159299.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ludhiana||4-day MachAuto Expo concludes on positive note||Ludhiana: The four-day exhibition on machine tools and automation technology, MachAuto Expo 2021, concluded on Monday. In four days, over 50,000 visitors attended the expo to witness, learn and adopt the latest technology. According to the organisers, exhibitors have got business queries and orders worth several crores and several prominent personalities, including Avon Cycle MD Onkar Singh Pahwa, MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, SAD district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon, ADCP Sachin Gupta and others attended the expo. According to Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), “The exhibitors displaying CNC machines, laser cutting machines, quality control accessories, robotic technology, engineering tools, machine tools, welding machines and other machines and equipment’s evoked huge response from the visitors. During the expo, many latest technology machines, which were brought in Punjab for the first time, were the attraction among visitors. Latest CNC machines, robotic technology, laser cutting machines, elevators, scanners, machine tools, engineering tools, electrical/electronic equipment, foundary and forging machines, quality control accessories and many more were displayed in the expo.” GS Dhillon, the organiser, said that the large number of visitors attended the exhibition in four days and the exhibitors generated business queries worth several crores. The motive of the expo was to display latest technology for the industrialists to support Industry 4.0 and smart manufacturing. According to Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of CICU, “Today, a vendor development meeting was also organised by our association with Sonalika Tractors, in which more than 100 companies participated and interacted with the officials from the company. As Ludhiana is a hub of engineering industry, especially small scale, it can be of great help for big companies like Sonalika Tractors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-day-machauto-expo-concludes-on-positive-note/articleshow/81159264.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS fielded Vani from ‘losing’ seat: Congress||Hyderabad: The Congress criticised TRS for fielding Vani Devi from the Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar graduates MLC constituency. It said that the she should have been sent to Rajya Sabha or nominated for the legislative council under the governor’s quota if the party really respected PV Narasimha Rao. Vani Devi is the daughter of former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao and the election is scheduled to be held on March 14. TPCC working president and former MP Ponnam Prabhakar has appealed to Vani Devi not to fall into the political trap of the ruling TRS. “Vani Devi akka please seek Rajya Sabha nomination or a seat in the council under governor’s quota without having to contest elections,” said Ponnam Prabhakar in a statement issued on Monday. The Congress has charged the TRS of not having a good candidate to contest from Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar seat and had fielded Vani Devi with the intention of deriving political advantage in the name of PV Narasimha Rao. Referring to animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav’s appeal to all the rival political parties to make Vani Devi’s election a unanimous affair, the Congress leader sought to advise the minister and the TRS leadership not to insult Vani Devi and her late father, by giving her a ticket from an MLC constituency which the TRS is not sure of winning. TRS working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy threw a challenge at CM KCR to give the ticket to one of his family members if he was confident of winning the Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-fielded-vani-from-losing-seat-congress/articleshow/81160743.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Aurangabad||Classes up to IX shut in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Monday ordered blanket closure of all educational institutions, except classes X and XII, till February 28. The civic administration has also decided not to permit private coaching classes up to Class XI till the end of this month, in the wake fresh surge in Covid-19 cases. Civic health officer Nita Padalkar said proper precaution can definitely beat the fresh surge in cases. “Restrictions will be also strictly observed at weddings and other gatherings, where assembly of only 50 individuals is permitted,” she said. Padalkar said that any violation of this norm, along with disregard to other Covid prevention norms such as wearing of face-mask and sanitization, will attract fine of Rs 10,000 at such gatherings. The civic administration said the concept of containment zone would be back, if necessary, with areas reporting minimum 20 cases being declared as prohibited zone. Also, a sticker carrying awareness message will be affixed on every house that reports positive cases. Additional municipal commissioner B B Nemane, who chaired a review meeting on Monday, said both RT-PCR test and Antigen testing would scaled up among different target groups. “Instructions have been issued for speeding up Covid vaccination among health care and frontline workers. All target beneficiaries must undergo necessary immunisation as vaccination for other target age groups is slated to begin in March,” he said. Savita Mulay, principal of SB Education Society-run Sharada Mandir School, said e-learning was already on at many schools simultaneously with actual conduct of classes. “As per the norms, we will conduct only virtual classes till February 28,” she said. A day after reporting 201 new cases, Aurangabad on Monday reported 132 fresh cases , taking the total number of confirmed cases to 48,770. It includes1,255 deaths and 941 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/classes-up-to-ix-shut-in-aurangabad/articleshow/81158040.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Work kicks off on 17th bridge across Yamuna||NEW DELHI: Work has begun at full pace for the construction of the 17th bridge over the Yamuna, this one as part of the 82-km high-speed Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) connecting the capital with Meerut in Uttar Pradesh. From Palla, where it enters Delhi, to Badarpur in the south, the Yamuna flows for 54km. Moving downstream, the first road bridge across the river is at Wazirabad, followed by the Signature Bridge, the latest to be built over the river. Adjacent to these bridges meant for road traffic is the upcoming Delhi Metro 1.3-km bridge connecting the upcoming Soorghat station and Sonia Vihar station of the Majlis Park–Maujpur extension of the Pink Line. The Pink Line, which also crosses the Yamuna near Nizamuddin, will see Delhi Metro’s fifth and the city’s 16th Yamuna bridge coming up near Sonia Vihar. Construction work on Delhi Metro’s first cantilever bridge there started last year. The work on the RRTS bridge, which is being executed by the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), started recently. Apart from these two bridges, two other bridges under construction make up the 17: the Phase III Barapullah flyover connecting Mayur Vihar and Sarai Kale Khan and a bridge coming up parallel to the Old Iron Bridge (Loha Pul). The RRTS bridge, which will connect the Sarai Kale Khan RRTS terminal station with the New Ashok Nagar RRTS station, will come up almost parallel to the existing DND Flyway. “The length of the bridge crossing the Yamuna River will be around 626 metres and the rest of the bridge will be over the riverbank area on either side. Construction will employ box girders,” an NCRTC spokesperson said, adding that the bridge would have 32 piers and 44-metre spans over these piers. Apart from being constructed at the same time, the RRTS and Delhi Metro bridges have another thing in common – the use of ‘building information modelling’ (BIM) technology, which allows a 3D model of a structure to be uploaded with details of the proposed structure for the engineers, architects and other experts then to finalise the design. “Since the beginning, NCRTC has been using BIM technology for finalising its stations and structure designs. The design of the Yamuna Bridge has also been finalised using the same technology,” revealed the spokesperson. “With the help of this technology, a 3D model of the bridge was created with intricate details of the proposed structure which brings in efficiency in the execution.” While around 68 km of the RRTS corridor falls in Uttar Pradesh, around 14 km of it will come up in Delhi. The construction of the Delhi section of the high-speed corridor also started recently with the beginning of the foundation work for the RRTS viaduct near Dharamshila Marg, New Ashok Nagar. NCRTC said that all the construction activities were being carried out according to the prescribed guidelines to avoid any adverse impact on the Yamuna floodplain. “Various eco-friendly measures will also be adopted during the construction. The muck and debris generated will be disposed of systematically and no dumping will be allowed on the floodplain,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/work-kicks-off-on-17th-bridge-across-yamuna/articleshow/81160755.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 23, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district reports 20 Covid cases||KOLHAPUR: The district reported 20 fresh Covid cases, including 13 from Kolhapur city, and one death due to the infection on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 50,206. The death toll has now risen to 1,737 The district has 160 active cases and 48,309 patients have recovered from the contagion. The health administration has increased the number of testing as on Sunday, around 617 throat swabs were tested. Sangli reports 11 casesOn Monday, 11 fresh cases of Covid were reported in Sangli district. The total number of patients reached 48,384, of them, 120 patients are currently undergoing treatment, 46,506 have been cured and 1,757 have succumbed to infection. 85 cases in SataraSatara district registered 85 cases and one death on Monday. Currently, the district has 909 active patients and 1,848 patients have succumbed to Covid. The district has reported 58,031 cases Solapur rural adds 35 casesOn Monday, Solapur rural district recorded 35 cases and one death. The active cases in rural parts are 365. The total number of patients rose to 40,239, out of them, 1,176 patients succumbed to infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-reports-20-covid-cases/articleshow/81158048.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ludhiana||SAD protest outside CP office against Bains||Ludhiana: SAD senior leader Harish Rai Dhanda and YAD district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha on Monday staged a protest outside police commissioner office to support the woman who had levelled rape allegations against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Simarjit Singh Bains. Demanding registration of an FIR against Bains and his arrest, both leaders, along with several of their supporters and the woman, sat on a dharna outside the CP office while holding placards and raising slogans against Bains, police and state government. Harish Rai Dhanda said, “Ludhiana Police has adopted separate law in case of MLA Simarjit Singh Bains. Even after three months, the police didn’t investigate the matter properly and in spite of knowing the legal facts and directions of the Supreme Court, the police have failed to register a case against Bains. The victim is getting threats and offers to take back complaint. Police have closed their eyes and are giving time to the accused to destroy the evidence and manage the complainant. The matter is in the notice of chief minister Amarinder Singh, DGP Dinkar Gupta and police commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal, but no action has been taken against Bains.” Gosha said, “Due to failure of law enforcing agencies and government, the victim was left with no other option but to protest and therefore, she had been sitting here for the past two weeks hoping for justice. Unfortunately, the police is not allowing the protest and this is a perfect example of murder of democracy. But SAD will not sit silent and we will fight the case of the victim and take it to a logical end. The victim has already said that the Congress government and Ludhiana police has made it clear that there was no law in favour of the woman and for the last three months the accused was moving freely and no action had been taken against him.” Gosha added that, “A close aide of Bains has also have come out in support of the victim and Amit Kumar, senior vice-president of Lok Insaaf Party also supported the victim outside the police commissioner office. Amit has said that he has left the party and supporting the victim as he found that the statement of the victim was correct.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-protest-outside-cp-office-against-bains/articleshow/81159338.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Salem||Fall of AIADMK will begin in Edappadi: Stalin||Erode/Salem: Taking on chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in his home turf of Salem, DMK president M K Stalin said that the fall of AIADMK would begin in Edappadi, the native of EPS in the coming election. While campaigning at Mechery in Salem on Monday as part of `Ungal Thogithiyil Stalin’, the DMK chief said that though AIADMK has been elected consecutively from Edappadi, the segment remains backward lacking even basic amenities. “What has EPS contributed to the Edappadi constituency? Have the problems faced by the people of Edappadi solved?’’ he asked, alleging that even the primary health centre in the constituency was in bad shape. Stalin said that neither EPS nor AIADMK has worked for the growth of Edappadi. “What has AIADMK done for the constituency despite winning the seat for so many years. Has it turned self-sufficient? Can Palaniswami say that he has fulfilled all the requirements of the people of Edappadi?’’ he asked. Stalin said that the farmers of Edappadi have a list of grievances and blamed EPS for their problems. “The primary health centre here lacks even basic facilities. Most often, the patients are sent to Salem even for minor treatments. EPS has opened Amma clinics, but there are no doctors,” he alleged. The cooperative societies in Edappadi have turned into a breeding ground of corruption, he said adding an AIADMK functionary was accused of swindling Rs 15 crore in Nangavalli cooperative society. Earlier in the day, campagining in Erode district, Stalin hit out at the BJP government for not reducing fuel prices even as crude oil prices have fallen in the international market. He also questioned chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami why he can’t give reprieve to people from burgeoning fuel prices by reducing state government’s fuel tax like Assam did. He visited Andhiyur, Bhavani, Gobichettipalayam and neighbouring villages in the district. At Punjai Thuraiyampalayam village near Athani, he participated in a DMK demonstration condemning increase in fuel and LPG prices. During an interaction with the DMK leader, some villagers lamented that the government had increased the rent of shops in the Bhavani bus stand by five times and it even forced the tenants pay rent during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/fall-of-aiadmk-will-begin-in-edappadi-stalin/articleshow/81159362.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Chennai||Doing random tests on those going to rallies: Health secy||Chennai: Tamil Nadu added 449 cases and six deaths to the state Covid-19 registry on Monday when 461 people were discharged. There were 4,091 people on the active cases list as the case tally moved to 8,32,167 and the death toll touched 12,466. Barring Kallakurichi all districts reported new cases, and deaths were reported from three districts Chennai (4), Coimbatore(1) and Chengalpet (1). While Chennai reported 151 new cases, Coimbatore reported 40 and Chengalpet reported 34. All other districts reported less than 30 cases, and at least 25 districts reported a single digit increase in cases. The state has been conducting random RTPCR tests on people who attend public meetings and rallies to keep a check on infection rate, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said. “We have asked political parties to ensure cadres wear masks during rallies and maintain social distances, just like how we insist people should wear them at family reunions, weddings and funerals,” he said. While cases have gone down in most districts, Chennai, Coimbatore and Chengalpet has not shown a considerable decrease. “Reports submitted after contract tracing show there have been isolated family clusters,” he said. The state has collected more than Rs 13 crore as fine from 14 lakh people. “Our intention is not to fine people but if people ignore pandemic protocols if we want to stay the course,” he said. “We are screening international passengers at airports and at our state border. We are able to treat different strains of the virus, diseases among the elderly and vulnerable population 98% recovery rate. Complications and death occur when treatment is delayed,” he said. Meanwhile, the state vaccinated 14,754 people, including 4913 people who returned for the second shot. So far, the state has vaccinated 3,85,366.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/doing-random-tests-on-those-going-to-rallies-health-secy/articleshow/81159339.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Madurai||Teams to sensitise Madurai villages on female infanticide||Madurai: Various departments including police, revenue and health departments have come together to carry out a sensitisation on a mass scale to reach out to all the villages in Usilampatti against female infanticide.The district has witnessed three female infanticide incidents last year, including two incidents in Usilampatti belt alone. The most recent was a seven-day-old baby smothered to death by her grandmother. Although there is an option of handing over a baby to adoption agencies, only a few consider it, officials said.Usilampatti block was notorious for feticide and female infanticide until a couple of decades ago. While there has been no incident in the last few years due to various steps taken by the government through various departments, it is felt that the social malady is again rearing its ugly head. Activists too had appealed the government to conduct an awareness activity to safeguard female children.Students studying in second year from Arul Anandar College in Karumathur, village health nurses, village administrative officers, police, elected representatives of panchayats and school teachers will be involved in the awareness programmes which will be conducted in the next few weeks. Village-level and block-level committees will to monitor children related issues. Police officials say that the rural development department, labour department, child welfare committee, district child protection unit and social welfare department too joined hands for the cause. While a formal inauguration of the sensitisation programme will be conducted at Arul Anandar College on Tuesday, teams will start working on awareness activities immediately after the inauguration. Students will join a few days later as they have exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teams-to-sensitise-madurai-villages-on-female-infanticide/articleshow/81160750.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra Covid cases up, but little change in number of fatalities||PUNE: Maharashtra has reported a steady rise in Covid-19 cases every day over the past eight days, but there has been little change in the number of deaths during the same period. On February 14, the state had reported 4,092 cases and 40 fatalities. A week later, on February 21, the figures were 6,971 cases and 35 fatalities. While the rise in cases was over 50% during this period, there was no increase in deaths. State disease surveillance officer Pradip Awate said, “The fatality rate in Maharashtra has been going down on a week-on-week basis. In fact, in the last week, the rate was less than 1%. The rise in Covid-19 infections are due to several reasons but deaths have remained low.” According to data from the state public health department, Mumbai and Nagpur municipal corporations reported fatalities on all days of the past week (February 14-21), though the daily numbers were in single digits. At the same time, Kolhapur, Dhule and Malegaon municipal corporations did not report even a single death during the same period. In the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations, no fatality was reported on three days during the week, while the Aurangabad, Thane, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar municipal corporations did not report a single death for almost five consecutive days. The Nashik civic body reported either one or three deaths daily on six days during the week. Awate explained that clinical management and evolution of a set protocol for handling Covid-19 cases has helped keep a check on fatalities. “Importantly, there is awareness and we are seeing patients reporting symptoms at an early stage. There is also a good referral system that has evolved for handling Covid-19 patients,” he said. Awate said they are conducting a death audit regularly to keep a close watch on the reasons for casualties and work on remedial steps that can be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-cases-up-but-daily-fatalities-see-little-change/articleshow/81160744.cms||Swatee Kher
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cops network across stations to trace gold left in auto in 2 hours||MUMBAI: When a 25-year-old homemaker accidentally left behind her bag of gold jewellery in an auto on Western Express Highway (WEH), personnel from three police stations got together to retrieve it within two hours. Malad resident Sandhya Kale and her brother, Sagar Didore, wanted to travel to their hometown at Aurangabad recently. Kale was carrying 13 tolas of gold jewellery, her clothes and some cash in a bag. The brother and sister boarded an auto at Malwani and got off at Malad (E) on WEH. They were to board a bus for Aurangabad on WEH and in their hurry to catch it Kale forgot her bag in the auto. The auto had left by the time she realised her folly. “Kale and her brother ran helter-skelter to look for the auto. Traffic constable Pradeep More, on duty on WEH, spotted them and wondered what was wrong. Kale’s brother told More about the bag they had accidentally left behind, but they did not have the vehicle’s registration number,” said senior inspector Mukund Yadav, Dindoshi traffic division. More took the duo to Kurar police station, where officers checked CCTV footage of the stretch. Fortunately, the auto had been captured on camera clearly. More entered the vehicle’s registration number into a handheld device issued by traffic department to staff for checking the status challans and got the vehicle owner’s contact details. When More called up the vehicle owner, he learnt that the auto was rented out and the driver had reached Chembur. “More called up his brother, also a policeman based out of Chembur. He told his brother to take the auto and Kale’s bag to RCF police station in Chembur,” said Yadav. Kale and the police went down to RCF police station, where the bag was opened and all valuables were found intact. “Kale thanked the police personnel for their prompt help,” said Kurar police senior inspector Prakash Bele.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-police-stns-get-back-womans-gold-jewellery-left-in-auto-in-2-hrs/articleshow/81160752.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 23, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Dr Sudhir Gupta appointed GMCH in-charge dean||NAGPUR: Veteran gastroenterologist Dr Sudhir Gupta has been appointed as in-charge dean of Government Medical College and Hospital on Monday. Dr Gupta will take charge of the GMCH dean’s post, which has been vacant since January 21 after Dr Sajal Mitra proceeded on sick leave. Dr Mitra has also applied for voluntary retirement, a plea which is likely to accepted by the state government. This may also result in Dr Gupta becoming full-time dean of the GMCH. Presently, Dr Gupta heads gastroenterology department of Super Speciality Hospital (SSH) attached to the GMCH. The Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) issued orders of Dr Gupta’s appointment on Monday. He will take charge on Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dr-sudhir-gupta-appointed-gmch-in-charge-dean/articleshow/81179986.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Kolhapur||KMC takes action against bars & restaurants flouting norms||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has imposed fine on 10 wedding hall operators, three bars and restaurants owners for flouting Covid norms Since the last two days, 37 wedding hall operators have been fined for not ensuring a limited number of guests. Some bars and restaurants were fined for keeping the establishments open beyond 11 am and allowing more than 50% of customers.District guardian minister Satej Patil issued a deadline of February 26 for all the registered frontline workers to take the first dose of the vaccine. Then, he will seek the report of the drive. “I expect 100% vaccination of frontline workers by Friday. It will be the responsibility of every departmental heads to get them vaccinated. Their turnout has remained low so far,” said Patil.Patil also directed the officials to keep Covid care centres (CCC) ready as most of the CCCs were shut after the decline in the cases. District collector Daulat Desai has ordered health officials to send letters to all the private hospitals to provide the details of Covid patients undergoing treatment there. Shetti cancels tourSwabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana president Raju Shetti has cancelled his state-wide tour organised in support of farmers, who are protesting against the Centre’s farm laws in view of rise in Covid cases.Pandharpur to be closedThe district administration has imposed curfew in Pandharpur, the town of Vitthal-Rukhmini temple in Solapur, from Sunday. Four teams have been formed to check the mutts. Thousands of Warkari’s (pilgrims) have come into these mutts ahead of the annual fair on Monday and Tuesday. Night curfew in SataraSatara district administration has imposed a night curfew. All activities will remain shut between 11 pm to 6 am. The curfew will not be effective along the National Highway passing through the district. The Three-day lockdown in Dahiwadi town of Satara ended on Monday and was extended for ten days. A jumbo facility with 280 beds for treating Covid patients has been kept ready at Satara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-takes-action-against-bars-restaurants-flouting-norms/articleshow/81158055.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Vani thanks KCR for choosing her||Hyderabad: Surabhi Vani Devi paid floral tributes to the Telangana martyrs at the Martyrs Memorial and sought the blessings of her father at P V Narasimha Rao’s ghat before filing her nomination papers from Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbunagar graduate MLC constituency She said that education was one of the favorite subjects of her father and that she would work hard to live up to the expectations of TRS party president chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Earlier, she also called on the CM at Pragati Bhavan and thanked him for finalising her name. Meanwhile, Palla Rajeshwar Reddy of the TRS filed his nomination papers from Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam graduates MLC constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vani-thanks-kcr-for-choosing-her/articleshow/81160756.cms||Roushan Ali
February 23, 2021||Madurai||Rahul’s visits will only ruin Cong: Murugan||Madurai: The visits of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to Tamil Nadu will only help ruin the Congress’ name, BJP state president L Murugan said on Monday. “The Congress will lose wherever he visits,” Murugan told reporters in Madurai. Murugan visited Madurai to inaugurate a BJP election office for the Madurai South constituency. He said the BJP led by Amit Shah was working with an aim to eliminating the Congress. “The fall of the Congress government in Puducherry is an example. This was due to the inefficiency of former chief minister V Narayansamy,” he added. The BJP leader said the farm laws enacted by the BJP were initially proposed by the Congress government. He said DMK members were not happy with the way party president M K Stalin was running the party. “Stalin is making some announcements beforehand when the state government is planning something to be announced. The DMK alliance will break soon in Tamil Nadu,” he said. Murugan said the party had started poll work by opening election offices. Offices would soon be opened in all the 234 assembly constituency segments to hold election-related work, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rahuls-visits-will-only-ruin-cong-murugan/articleshow/81160766.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Chennai||No more govt advertisements in newspapers, TV: Tamil Nadu to HC||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government will not issue advertisements in newspapers and televisions any more, as all such advertisements had been stopped since February 18, the government informed the Madras high court on Monday. The submission was made by advocate-general Vijay Narayan, in response to a plea by the opposition DMK taking exception to the AIADMK government spending crores of rupees of public funds ‘to lure voters’ through advertisements in almost all television channels and newspapers. “The advertisements were issued only to showcase the performance of the state government for the past four years. All such activities will be stopped once the Election Commission Of India (ECI) notifies election for the state,” advocate-general Vijay Narayan said. Actually, the matter has become infructuous since the government has stopped issuing such advertisements from Thursday, he added. Earlier, representing DMK, senior advocate P Wilson said, free and fair elections and purity in elections are basic features of the constitution. The chief minister of the state is indulging in advertising in all TV channels, newspapers and all websites commercial internet sites pampering and projecting him for the past two months. On October 7, 2016 ECI issued directions to all political parties to resist from indulging in such acts and clarified that it would attract freezing of election symbols. DMK has made representation citing violation of the direction in January and February 2021 but so far, the ECI has not taken any action, Wilson said. To this, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said these are the advantages of being a ruling party and DMK would also get the advantage once it comes to power. Senior advocate G Rajagopal, appearing for the ECI, submitted that the commission had called for remarks from AIADMK and was awaiting reply. He further sought time for filing a status report. Granting time till March 2, the bench adjourned the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-more-govt-ads-in-newspapers-tv-tn-to-hc/articleshow/81159367.cms||Suresh Kumar
February 23, 2021||Mumbai||Forget Ram temple, cut fuel prices: Saamna||MUMBAI: Coming down heavily on the Centre, Shiv Sena said instead of “chanda vasuli (raising subscription)” for the Ayodhya Ram temple, the Modi government should bring down the prices of petrol and diesel that are touching the moon. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamna on Monday reminded that when fuel prices had shot up under the previous regime, Modi, then the Gujarat CM, had slammed Congress, calling it “lootaru (dacoit)”. In another barb, the editorial added: “However, if one were to do the same thing today, he would be charged for sedition and sent to jail.” Applauding earlier governments at the Centre, Saamna said they had started major public undertakings, such as Indian Oil, ONGC, Bharat Petroleum, Hindustan Petroleum, Mumbai High, and discovered oil reserves in sea. “Modi is now putting all PSUs on sale and blaming the previous governments for fuel price hike,” it added. Sena also became the second state ruling party after Congress to point fingers at celebrities like Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar, saying the ones who had decried high fuel price before 2014 are mum today even after prices have crossed Rs 100 per litre. “But they should not be blamed. It means that before 2014, freedom of expression, right of criticism were in existence. No one was sent to jail under sedition charges for criticising government policies. However, we have lost that freedom today,” said the Sena mouthpiece.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/forget-ram-temple-cut-fuel-prices-saamna/articleshow/81160809.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 23, 2021||Coimbatore||Make our jobs permanent: TNEB contract employees||Coimbatore: Thirty members of the TNEB Contract Labourers’ Union on Monday threatened to boycott the assembly election unless they are given permanent positions. The contract employees met Coimbatore collector K Rajamani and tried to surrender their Aadhaar and voter ID cards. “Why should we vote for a government and a system that abandons us,” said union representative P Nagaraj. “Two years ago, power minister O S Manian offered us permanent positions. He was impressed by our service after cyclones hit Chennai and coastal areas. However, the government took no steps to help us. So, we have decided to boycott the elections and the government.” “The minister also announced that we will be given Rs 380 per day. We went from pillar to post to find out the status of his promises, but received no reply,” he added. The collector promised to take their demand to the chief minister’s attention. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/make-our-jobs-permanent-tneb-contract-employees/articleshow/81159380.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 23, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Woman kills husband for abusing her in front of kids||NEW DELHI: A 35-year-old woman has been arrested for allegedly killing her husband in their south Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri home for abusing and thrashing her every day in front of their children. The woman reportedly strangled the man to death using her saree during one such clash on Sunday. The accused woman has been identified as Sarita Devi, and her husband, Sikandar Sahni, was an alcoholic. The 38-year-old man was also suffering from chronic tuberculosis. Sahni was brought to Safdarjung Hospital in an unconscious state by his wife. He was found dead and the matter was reported to police. The cops found ligature marks on the neck, indicating that the man had been murdered. A case of murder was registered to probe the death. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said a crime team and a forensics team were also sent to the spot. “When the deceased’s wife was questioned about his death, she gave misleading statements. But CCTV camera footage and local enquiries revealed that no one had visited the couple on that night. When the woman was questioned again with facts, she confessed to have killed her husband,” Thakur said. The DCP said the woman disclosed that her husband was an alcohol addict and did not work. “She said he used to beat and abuse her daily in front of her children. She said that during one such clash, she strangled him using a saree,” he said. In another incident in northeast Delhi’s Khajuri Khas, a 64-year-old woman was killed allegedly by her son after she refused to lend him money for alcohol on Sunday night. When Lalli Devi refused to give money, Sushil Pandey (22) picked up a screwdriver and attacked her multiple times with it. Devi’s husband immediately informed police and Pandey was arrested. A case of murder has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-kills-husband-for-abusing-her-in-front-of-kids/articleshow/81160802.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Nomination accepted, Surabhi Vani Devi will finish it today||HYDERABAD: The nomination process of TRS candidate Surabhi Vani Devi, daughter of former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao, for Mahbubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad graduates’ MLC constituency could not be completed on Monday. TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao took everybody by surprise on Sunday by announcing her candidature for the MLC seat. Sources said Vani Devi will complete the nomination procedure on Tuesday, the last day for filing nominations. “Some documents were missing. Though her nomination has been accepted, returning officer of the election Priyanka Ala gave her a checklist of the documents to be handed over,” said a GHMC official who has been appointed as nodal officer for the election. A total of 26 nominations were received on Monday for the biennial elections to Mahbubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad MLC constituency scheduled to be held on March 14. Till date, 59 nominations have been received. Sitting BJP candidate N Ramchander Rao also filed his papers on Monday. Congress candidate and former minister G Chinna Reddy filed two sets of nominations papers. The last date for filing nominations is Tuesday. With last two days left for nominations, security was beefed up in and around GHMC head office and only two persons are being allowed with the candidate to submit the nomination papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nomination-accepted-vani-will-finish-it-today/articleshow/81160793.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 23, 2021||Rajkot||Counting in Rajkot at six places||Rajkot: In Rajkot the counting of votes for the civic body elections will be held at six places. Some of the BJP candidates, who are confident of their victory have even made preparation for procession. However, many fear that this time it will be difficult for the entire BJP panel to win in a number of wards. According to the experts, because of BJP president C R Paatil’s new criteria, 28 new faces got the ticket in Rajkot, who contested against the old players of Congress. They feel that dissidents in BJP and AAP candidates may further dent the prospects of the saffron party.According to the district administration, the counting will start at 9am under Covid-19 guidelines at Virbaima Mahila College, S S Chaudhri High School, S V Virani High School, A V Parekh Institute of Technology, P D Malaviya College and Ranchoddas Bapu Community Hall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/counting-in-rajkot-at-six-places/articleshow/81158059.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: East Singhbhum panchayat poll preparations reviewed||JAMSHEDPUR: State election commissioner D K Tiwari visited East Singbhum on Monday to oversee preparations for the upcoming three-tier panchayat polls. He held a meeting with district officials at the circuit house where deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar was also present. Tiwary enquired about the technicalities pertaining to the area delimitation and about the number of seats reserved for women members in the three different tiers of panchayat system in the district. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, he said, “Panchayat polls are vital in a democracy but due to the pandemic, it had to be postponed. The review meeting was held to collect details required to hold the polls in a smooth manner.” He added, “I will be visiting all the districts in Jharkhand to gather detailed information about the district-specific administrative requirements for a smooth panchayat election.”The dates for the panchayat polls are yet to be announced, although the terms of all the local bodies have expired earlier this year. Tiwary said that once the state election commission is done with the ongoing inspection process, it would announce the poll dates. The panchayat elections were last held in 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/east-singhbhum-panchayat-poll-preparations-reviewed/articleshow/81158878.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ranchi||‘Opposition lotus’ will not fructify in Jharkhand: Congress in wake of Puducherry government fall||RANCHI: The Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) on Monday rued the fall of the party’s only government in south India at Puducherry and said BJP’s “operation lotus” will not be successful here. On Monday, Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy resigned after he lost the vote of confidence on the floor of the House after a few of his MLAs defected to rival camps. While tendering his resignation, Narayanasamy had blamed BJP for the defections of his party MLAs to rival camps, including the saffron party. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said, “What has happened in Puducherry is a very sad development. The situation in Jharkhand is, however, different. We, as an alliance, have only grown stronger since we took charge in 2019. After winning two bypolls, we are working as a unit to also clinch the Madhupur bypoll.” He stressed that the alliance government will complete its full term and said, “BJP will never be able to achieve its agenda here and the government will complete its full term.” The Puducherry development came at a time when JPCC, a ruling alliance member of the JMM-Congress-RJD government, is grappling with serious infighting and factionalism both within the party and among the alliance. On Monday, party workers clashed during a meeting at the state party office in the presence of Oraon. A few days back, similar unruly scenes were witnessed at a programme in Giridih while many Congress MLAs openly criticized the functioning of the government recently over alleged mistreatment to them by bureaucrats. On the other hand, RJD — which is a minority alliance partner — is also demanding “respect” for its senior leaders by absorbing them in appropriate positions in boards and corporations of the state. Currently, the alliance enjoying an absolute majority in the House and does not face any imminent risk, but alliance sources admitted that keeping their flocks together is often a big challenge as BJP is an expert in triggering defections. Oraon said efforts are on both within the party and among the alliance partners to mend any existing chinks and to prevent any attempt to bring down the government. Meanwhile, BJP took a dig at the Congress workers’ clash. Party spokesperson and former Baharagora MLA Kunal Sarangi tweeted in Hindi, “Pawri Ho Rahi Hai (’Party is on’, a term which trended on the internet last week after a Pakistani social media influencer shared a funny video. After losing in Puducherry, they seem to repeat it in Jharkhand, too. They made a girl dance on an item song in Seraikela during their farm rally and now the Congress workers clash during a meeting on fuel price.” Oraon, however, brushed off Monday’s fight at the party office as stray incidents which should not be taken seriously. He said, “We are a party which works for the public and the best way to strengthen ourselves is to raise public issues. Sometimes, such incidents do happen. We intend to tackle such fights by keeping them engaged with suitable roles. Our ministers have also been tasked to undertake routine field visits to take care of the public needs and table the issues on party platforms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/op-lotus-will-not-fructify-in-jkhand-cong-in-wake-of-puducherry-govt-fall/articleshow/81158816.cms||ASRP Mukesh
February 23, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Administration takes effort for conservation of Palamu forts||DALTONGANJ: The Latehar district administration has taken an initiative to conserve the 400-year-old Palamu forts comprising two wings. Both the wings are located 27km from Daltonganj and are in ruins owing to lack of proper upkeep. The Palamu forts fall under the Betla range of Palamu Tiger Reserve (PTR). The deputy director of PTR’s north division, Kumar Ashish, said a meeting in this regard has been scheduled for Tuesday under the chairmanship of Latehar DC Abu Imran. The regional manager of the Archaeological Survey of India, S K Bhagat, will also attend the meeting. Ashish said, “The DC has also sent a letter to the vice-chancellor of the Nilamber Pitamber University, Ram Lakhan Singh, to send a professor or assistant professor from the history or the archaeology department for the meeting.” Sources said that the administration has planned to give a facelift to the Shahpur fort, which is located along the Koyal river, after completing the conservation work of Palamu forts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/admin-effort-for-conservation-of-palamu-forts/articleshow/81158813.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ranchi||Students in a Ranchi school stir against school’s decision to hold offline exams||RANCHI: The students of DAV Kapil Deo School here staged a protest, along with their parents, in front of the campus on Monday against the school’s decision to hold offline examinations next month “on such short notice”. Last week, after the state government allowed schools to reopen from Class VIII onwards, DAV announced to hold in-person exams for students of Class VIII onwards from March 1. The pupils have demanded that either the school organize online exams or give them at least a month’s time to prepare for the offline ones. A student of Class XI preferring anonymity said, “The school informed us about conducting offline examination only last week, leaving us with very little time to prepare. I am a resident of Jehanabad in Bihar and it’ll be tough for me come to Ranchi to take the test.” He claimed that other schools that decided to go for offline exams had intimated the students about their decision around a month ago, giving them ample time to prepare. A parent, who was unwilling to be named, said, “After conducting online classes for the past one year, the school has now wants to go for offline exams amid a pandemic. The students must be given at least a month’s time, especially when CBSE itself has given adequate time to Class X and Class XII examinees for their board exams.” Meanwhile, National Student Union of India member Indarjit Singh allegedly spoke to principal M K Sinha regarding the matter and the latter has reportedly assured him that a meeting would be held on the issue later. Sinha could not be contacted for his comments. Talking on the issue, the principal of DAV Hehal, M K Sinha, said Class VIII and Class XI exams are held at an all-India level and it is difficult for a school to change the dates. Several other CBSE schools, including Delhi Public School and Jawahar Vidya Mandir, Shyamli, have decided to conduct exams online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/students-stir-against-schools-decision-to-hold-offline-exams/articleshow/81158751.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ranchi||Scholars back Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren on ‘tribals not Hindu’ remark, BJP divided||RANCHI: Scholars and academicians have backed chief minister Hemant Soren’s claim that adivasis have a distinct religion and should not be grouped with Hindus. While addressing the Harvard India conference on Saturday night, Soren had mentioned that a political effort is on to club tribals with Hindus, which is against their concept of distinct identity. Ranendra Kumar, director of Dr Ram Dayal Munda Tribal Welfare Research Institute, said tribals have a distinct identity in terms of religious practice and it is upheld even by Indian courts. “Though Buddhism, Sikhism and Jainism are dealt under Hindu Personal Law, it is not so in case of tribals. The courts on several occasions have referred to customary laws in deciding cases related to the tribals,” he said.The institute had organized an international conference on tribal philosophy last February in which most researchers and tribal religious leaders from across the world shared their views on tribal philosophy. “Unlike the institutionalized religions of the country, tribals do not have any religious book, priests, building or structure to symbolize their religion. They do not even have the concept of soul and moksha (salvation),” Ranendra said. Expressing similar views, head of department of tribal and regional language at Ranchi University Dr Hari Oraon said tribals are nature worshippers who do not visit temple or have deities. “Some changes have been observed in the society and a few tribals visit Babadham to offer water, but these are more fashion than religious devotion,” he said. Corroborating the statement, Ranendra shared example of Jagannathpur temple where Sabar tribe offer prayers. “During monarchy in our country, social engineering was decided by the kings and there are some examples of this. But it does not establish tribal community as idol worshippers,” he said. Dr Lois Marandi, BJP leader and a professor, also believes that tribals should not be grouped with other religions. “As a professor and a Santhal tribal, I have been telling this to my students,” she said, criticizing Soren for blaming others for deplorable condition of tribals. “Soren and his family have been in power in Santhal Pargana for more than three decades and they should own the responsibility for poor condition of the tribals,” she said. Senior BJP leader and former deputy speaker of Lok Sabha Karia Munda however rejected the idea of putting tribals in a separate religious group. “Religion is a matter of faith and I believe they are very much Hindus. People call them nature worshippers but are Hindus any different?” he asked, citing example of the vedic practice of ‘purnahuti’ in yajnas, which is considered incomplete without paying obeisance to panchbhoot, which is nothing but nature. Munda stressed that there could be differences in the rituals but the basics of religion are same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/scholars-back-hemant-on-tribals-not-hindu-remark-bjp-divided/articleshow/81158533.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
February 23, 2021||Ranchi||Rameshwar Oraon promises corrective measures to check prices of food, essential products in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Even though the state government is reluctant to cut its share of VAT on fuel to reduce the price burden on the common people, it is planning to evaluate the situation of hike in prices of other essential commodities to stabilize them. Besides petrol, diesel and LPG, price of other essentials are gradually rising. For example, onion prices have shot up to Rs 60 a kg, an increase of at least Rs 5 compared to a few days back. Traders are foreseeing a further rise in coming days as rise in fuel prices will prompt transporters to increase freight charges. Talking to TOI, state food and civil supplies minister Rameshwar Oraon, whose department is entrusted to regulate fair prices, said he has asked officials to evaluate the rise in prices of different items and take corrective measures. “As of now, onion prices are going up. We have to see if anyone is resorting to hoarding or not. The basic principal of keeping prices stable is to curb hoarding. I have asked my officials to evaluate the situation. If needed, we shall also write to the Centre on it,” he said. On fuel prices, he said that there is not much the state government can do to bring them down immediately as the onus lies with the Centre. “We are demanding the Centre to cut petrol and diesel prices. After imposition of GST, the states do not have options to generate revenue. State VAT on fuel is among a handful of options available with us to generate our own revenues. Slashing them at a time when we are hard-pressed for central assistances would make it difficult for us to run the state,” Oraon, who is also the state Congress president, said. He said that the party has decided to hit to streets against the rise in fuel prices amid the pandemic to force the Union government to take corrective steps. “To being with, the party will take out a mashal julus on February 26 in all the districts and we will stage another stir on February 27,” he said. Meanwhile, Jamshedpur East MLA Saryu Rai has written a letter to the Centre to reduce prices of fuel and other essentials to rid people of unwanted financial stress. He has also urged all parties and public to submit memorandums addressed to the Union government before all the deputy commissioners on February 23 to put up a unified fight against price hikes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/oraon-promises-corrective-measures-to-check-prices-of-food-essential-products/articleshow/81158544.cms||ASRP Mukesh
February 23, 2021||Ranchi||Few samples collected at Birsa drome in four days, none at Ranchi railway station||RANCHI: After states like Maharashtra and Kerala reported a surge in Covid-19 cases, the state health department asked the authorities concerned to ensure that anyone returning from places with a high infection rate be tested at the entry points. A letter in this regard was issued by the managing director of the National Health Mission, Ravi Shankar Shukla, directing the civil surgeon of Ranchi to set up testing centres at the Birsa Munda International Airport. All the districts in the state were also asked to start such facilities at railway stations within their respective jurisdictions. Civil surgeons have been asked to make arrangements for sample collection of people returning from affected states and those who show symptoms of Covid-19 at the time of arrival. The letter also harped on ensuring proper contact tracing. “If a person whose samples have been collected upon his return tests positive, at least 30 of his direct and indirect contacts must be traced and tested for Covid-19,” read the letter. The state health department also directed the authorities to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for epidemiological surveillance and response in the context of new variants of Covid-19 found in the United Kingdom, among other places. Meanwhile, public health experts said that Jharkhand has less chances of reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases even as many parts of the country have witnessed a renewed spike. “The possibility of the reversal of the current consistent drop in cases is bleak unless there is a spread of a mutant strain. But this can only happen through widespread migration of infected people. However, the screening and testing protocols in place at present are quite robust,” a professor of community medicine at Rims, Dr Dewesh Kumar, said. When contacted, Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said they have already started testing facility at the Birsa Munda International Airport and were going to start the same at the Ranchi railway station soon. However, the number of samples taken was low. “We have collected samples of around a dozen people from the airport in the last four days. Moreover, sample collection at Ranchi railway station will start by Tuesday,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/few-samples-collected-at-birsa-drome-in-4-days-none-at-ranchi-railway-station/articleshow/81159473.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 23, 2021||Ranchi||DNA samples collected from kin of missing Chamoli workers||GUMLA: The Lohardaga administration has started collecting blood samples from family members of the workers missing and feared dead in the glacier burst at Chamoli district in Uttarakhand earlier this month. The DNAs from the collected samples will be matched with the bodies recovered from the mishap site to establish the identities of those hailing from the district. A total of 14 workers from the state -- nine from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh and one from Bokaro -- went missing in the tragedy. So far, four persons from Lohardaga and one from Bokaro were identified among the dead. Bodies of the remaining persons, who are believed to have died, are yet to be identified. Sadar hospital staff Shambhu Chaudhary collected the samples after Lohardaga DC Dilip Kumar Toppo issued a directed in this regard. Later, Chaudhary said, "The samples will be tested in Ranchi and the reports will be sent to Chamoli for matching with those from the bodies recovered from the mishap site." Toppo said, "We want to be doubly sure in identifying the bodies with the DNA tests. It will help in giving compensation to the bereaved family members and completing legal formalities in future." He added, "Efforts are also on to help the family members like giving them jobs or houses apart from the compensation."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dna-samples-collected-from-kin-of-missing-chamoli-workers/articleshow/81159485.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 41 fresh infections, one death||RANCHI: The state reported 41 fresh infections against 45 recoveries on Monday. Meanwhile, one casualty was also recorded, taking the overall death toll from the virus to 1,086. The fresh infections reported on Monday came from six districts, with state capital Ranchi alone recording 27 cases. The other five districts reported cases in single digits. As per government data, as many as 1,19,637 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,18,103 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 98.71%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.03% against the national average of 0.09%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 2386.38 days against the national figure of 783.44 days. Meanwhile, a total of 7,453 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Monday. This figure included 5,561 who were administered the first dose, while 1,892 were administered the second dose. The overall coverage for Monday among first-dose recipient was 32%, while it was 54% for beneficiaries who took the jab for the second time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-records-41-fresh-infections-1-death/articleshow/81159250.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Ranchi||Scale up tests to check Covid-19 infection, districts told in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Acting on the Centre’s directions to step up testing after the sudden rise of Covid-19 cases in some parts of the country; the state health department has directed all civil surgeons to comply with the order in their respective districts. A letter in this regard was issued by the managing director of the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand, directing the surgeons to ensure daily target-based testing with RT-PCR as well as TrueNat methods. The number of tests in the state was reduced after the decline of the infection rate. The letter also directed the district health authorities to track down all travellers who have returned to the state from countries like the United Kingdom, Brazil and South Africa in the last 14 days to prevent the spread of the mutant strains of the virus in the state. Sources said the health department had issued revised targets in November last year which set over 20,000 tests to be conducted across the state daily. However, only about 14,000 tests were conducted across the state on average. Talking to TOI, state head of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program (IDSP), Dr Praveen Karn, said, “We have set different targets for each district which included separate numbers of TrueNat and RT-PCR methods and most of the districts are following it. However, we have directed each district to stick to the revised testing targets set in November considering the surge of infection in other states.” Dr Karn further said the civil surgeons have also been directed to ensure that 70% of total tests in each district is done through the RT-PCR method. “The district authorities have also been asked to compulsorily conduct RT-PCR tests on those persons who had tested negative through the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits,” he said. On how the government plans to track people, who have returned from countries where mutant strains have been reported, Dr Karn said, “The district authorities have directed to conduct RT-PCR tests on all returnees and their family members within 24 hours of their reaching the state.” He added, “A list of of the returnees been provided to the district authorities concerned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/scale-up-tests-to-check-cov-infection-dists-told/articleshow/81158952.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 23, 2021||Vijayawada||AP civic polls: Many file petitions, seek fresh notification||VIJAYAWADA: Several petitions have been filed in the high court challenging the fresh schedule issued by the state election commission for municipal elections. The petitioners have sought directions from the court to the SEC to cancel the current schedule and issue fresh notification for the elections. The SEC had issued the notification for municipal elections in March 2020. However, the elections were postponed at the stage of withdrawal of nominations due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Continuing the earlier notification, the SEC issued fresh schedule for the elections and stated that the withdrawal of nominations will begin from March 2, 2021. The petitioners have challenged the fresh schedule stating that they are being denied of their right to contest in the elections. Arguing on behalf of the petitioners, senior counsel P Veera Reddy told the court that the election notification was 11 months old. In the meantime, many voters have become eligible to contest the polls and continuing the old notification is nothing but denying them their right to contest, he said. Any person is eligible to contest in municipal elections if he or she is above the age of 21. Between March 2020 and February 2021, many people in the state became eligible to contest but their right is being denied because of continuation of the old notification, he stated. Another senior counsel, Vedula Venkata Ramana, said there is no provision in the Constitution that the SEC should continue the same notification if the elections are postponed. As the delay in conducting the elections is 11 months, a fresh notification has to be issued to give opportunity to new eligible contestants, he said, adding that there’s no precedent where elections were postponed for this long and there is no point in starting the process from withdrawal of nominations without giving an opportunity to eligible candidates to file nominations. The high court, after hearing the arguments of the petitioners, posted the matter to Tuesday to hear the arguments of the SEC and the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/civic-polls-many-file-petitions-seek-fresh-notification/articleshow/81158138.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 23, 2021||Vijayawada||Contempt petition: High court seeks affidavit from former chief secretary||Vijayawada: The high court on Monday found fault with the state government in implementing its orders with regard to extending cooperation to the state election commission and, at one stage, even issued orders directing former chief secretary Nilam Sawhney and panchayat raj principal secretary Gopala Krishna Dwivedi to appear in person. However, the order was modified later as the government pleader urged the court to allow them to file affidavits before directing them for personal appearance. The court allowed his request and asked to file affidavits. The high court, on November 3 last year, had directed the state government to extend cooperation to the SEC in filling up of vacancies and with release of funds required for conducting local body elections. It also asked the SEC to send proposals on the required cooperation and directed the government to provide all necessary support for conducting elections within the specified time period. The SEC sent the proposals and even sent reminders to the government. When there was no response from the government’s side, the SEC moved the high court with a contempt petition and sought action against officials responsible for failing to implement the court’s orders. The standing counsel for SEC, N Aswani Kumar, told the bench that the officials concerned did not cooperate with the SEC even after the court’s directive. He said the SEC had to conduct the elections with 2019 electoral rolls because officials did not update the electoral rolls which is nothing but non-cooperation on part of the government and wilful disobedience of the court’s order. Government pleader C Sumon countered the arguments of the SEC, stating that funds have been released by the government and staff recruitment process was also initiated. After considering the arguments from both sides, Justice Battu Devanand said the government did not implement the court’s order in true letter and spirit and initially passed orders for personal appearance of Sawhney and Dwivedi. However, he later modified the order and exempted them from personal appearance while allowing them to file affidavits before summoning them. Further hearing of the case has been posted to March 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/contempt-petition-high-court-seeks-affidavit-from-former-chief-secretary/articleshow/81158177.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 23, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh anticipates increase in Covid-19 cases next month||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh health department is anticipating an increase in daily Covid-19 cases in March. It has decided to ramp up its surveillance mechanism and clinical facilities. While states like Kerala and Maharashtra are already grappling with resurgence in disease incidence, there has been a spike in daily cases in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Jammu & Kashmir in the last few days. According to state health officials, the emerging trends from other states and countries point to a gap of about six to eight months from the first wave before the threat of this highly transmittable viral disease looms large again. Considering the increase in the daily cases, the Centre has advised the states to refocus on strict and comprehensive surveillance. It has asked the states to regularly monitor the mutant strains through genome sequencing, as well as the emerging clusters of cases. Speaking to TOI, AP Covid-19 nodal officer, Dr K Rambabu said that the health department is constantly monitoring the weekly average growth rate of the cases to understand the disease dynamics right from the beginning of the outbreak. “The average case positivity rate, reproduction numbers, and growth rate can be used as indicators to measure the upward trend. Considering the increase in the case numbers in other states, the health department would enhance surveillance, testing and tracing. The health department has also focused on addressing vaccine hesitancy. We request the public to not lower the guard and follow all Covid-19 precautions such as physical distancing, mask wearing and frequent hand washing,” said Dr Rambabu. Andhra Pradesh reported its first case on March 12 when a youth who returned from Paris tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease. From then on, the state has witnessed nearly 8.9 lakh cases and 7,167 fatalities. The daily incidence of cases was at its peak from late July to early September with a daily average of around 9,000 cases. The number of daily cases, which had dropped to 600-range by December, hovered around 30-90 range in the last three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-anticipates-increase-in-covid-19-cases-next-month/articleshow/81158222.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 23, 2021||Visakhapatnam||APSET results: 2,090 candidates qualify||Visakhapatnam: As many as 2,090 (7.88% of the appeared candidates) candidates have provisionally qualified the Andhra Pradesh State Eligibility Test (APSET) for assistant professor/lectureship in the results announced on Monday. APSET member secretary Prof K Srinivasa Rao said that 26,527 candidates appeared the test conducted on December 20 last year. “The candidates can visit the https://apset.net.in to know the results. The results of APSET-2020 have been finalised as per the guidelines of UGC, New Delhi. These results were scrutinized and approved by the Moderation Committee and Steering Committee of APSET,” said Prof Rao. According to Prof Rao, the APSET was conducted in 30 subjects on the lines of UGC-NET. The candidates have to secure at least 40% aggregate marks (two papers put together) for candidates belonging to general category and at least 35% aggregate marks for reserved categories. The University Grants Commission had first accredited Andhra University to conduct three SETs (once in a year) from 2016 to 2018. The UGC granted reaccreditation to Andhra University for three more SETs in 2019. Eligibility in SET is considered for recruitment of lecturers and assistant professors in universities, degree colleges and institutes of higher learning in Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/apset-results-2090-candidates-qualify/articleshow/81158253.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Goa||Swayampurna Goa now in municipal areas||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday launched Swayampurna Goa in municipal areas and said that municipalities should avail of the various state and central governments schemes to provide better facilities to the public. Stating that he has found that the municipalities have not utilised the 14th finance commission and silver jubilee funds, Sawant said that unnecessary money will not be allocated to municipalities. “We have started depositing the 15th finance commission money in many municipalities,” he said. The CM, who was speaking at a virtual meeting, said that Swayampurna Goa is receiving good response in village panchayats. He also listed various schemes offered by the state and the central governments to help different sections of society. Sawant said that details of the schemes would be given in another meeting. He asked councillors to ensure that 100% insurance is covered in municipalities and said that every Saturday the Swayampurna mitras will visit municipalities to help resolve issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/swayampurna-goa-now-in-municipal-areas/articleshow/81161054.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Goa||Getting loans made easier for SC, ST and businesswomen: SIDBI||PANAJI: At a time with local industrial units and entrepreneurs find it hard to access credit, the central government has made some improvement to the Standup India Scheme to make it easy for SC, ST and women entrepreneurs to access credit. The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) said that the changes brought in by the Centre will pave the way for enterprises run by women or individuals from the SC and ST community to avail faster loans for manufacturing, services or trading activities. While the new changes still require the borrower to invest 10% of the project cost, it has reduced the quantum of margin money that the borrower has to obtain through other state or central schemes. Earlier, beneficiaries had to source up to 25% of the project cost through state or central schemes, but this has been reduced to 15% of the project cost. The Union government has also permitted allied agriculture activities such as pisciculture, beekeeping, poultry livestock, rearing, grading, sorting, aggregation agro industries, dairy, fishery, agriclinic and agribusiness centres, food and agro-processing and services for benefits under the Stand Up India scheme. “Timely and hassle-free credit to MSMEs is need of the hour to help them take advantage of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat initiative where MSMEs would be able to cope with increasing demand arising within domestic market,” said Pranava Piyush, AGM, SIDBI - Panaji. Piyush said that in order to create further awareness about initiatives for MSMEs and to improve credit linkage, SIDBI will organise a webinar, e-Udyam Sangyan, for MSMEs in Goa. The objective, said Piyush, is to inform about initiatives like TReDS and GeM platform MSMEs about SIDBI’s credit initiatives such as Speed, Pratham and Star loans where SIDBI is able to sanction and disburse loans within a week to eligible MSMEs. The standup India scheme, which has been extended up to 2025, facilitates bank loans between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 1 crore to at least one scheduled caste (SC) or scheduled tribe (ST) borrower and at least one woman borrower per bank branch for setting up a new enterprise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/getting-loans-made-easier-for-sc-st-biz-women/articleshow/81161097.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 41 new Covid cases||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 41 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,89,339. The state has not recorded any new deaths from the virus for the third consecutive day. Altogether, 71 patients were declared cured on Monday. There are currently 590 active cases with 8,81,582 cumulative recoveries and 7,167 fatalities. Chittoor reported 10 new infections on Monday. Prakasam and Vizianagaram districts did not record any new cases. The remaining 10 districts posted single-digit case numbers. The active case load is less than 50 in nine districts. Vizianagaram has only six active cases. Andhra Pradesh tested 18,257 Covid-19 samples on Monday and detected 41 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.2%. The positivity rate has remained under 0.4% on any given day in February. With the decreasing case numbers, more than 98% of beds at 52 Covid-19 hospitals in the state have remained vacant.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-pradesh-reports-41-new-covid-cases/articleshow/81158279.cms||---
February 23, 2021||Goa||‘Government departments, smart cities must adopt green building norms’: CII in its proposal to Goa||PANAJI: Municipal corporations, housing boards, government departments, railway authorities, and Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Limited (IPSCDL) should be encouraged to adopt IGBC green ratings, said the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in a proposal to the state government. Adoption of green building project developments and optimum use of natural resources will reduce the impact of climate change, CII’s recommendations said. CII has also recommended that grant of Rs 15 to 20 lakh could be earmarked for registration and certification of IPSCDL under IGBC Green Cities rating for implementation of green features in the state capital. The Goa 2035: Vision and Road Map (Report of Goa Golden Jubilee Development Council) highlights the need of green buildings and green infrastructure for Goa, a point which CII has highlighted while calling for the state government to set aside funds for such an endeavour.  “IGBC-rated green building projects including green logistic parks, warehouses and data centres should be eligible for suitable concession in stamp duty, power tariff and other developmental charges. Municipal corporations, housing boards, government departments, railway authorities and smart cities should be encouraged to adopt suitable IGBC green ratings for their own projects,” CII said in its proposal to the state.  CII has also recommended that training on design, construction and maintenance of green building and green affordable housing should be provided and should be made tax-free to encourage sustainable practices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-depts-smart-city-must-adopt-green-building-norms/articleshow/81161152.cms||---
