February 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Two months on, panel to probe drinking water scam not set up||BENGALURU: It’s been over two and half months since chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced a probe by a joint house committee into the alleged irregularities in installation of safe drinking water units across the state. But till date, no committee has been set up, making people doubt the government’s intentions. Yediyurappa, in December last year, had announced in the assembly that a house committee will be formed to probe the allegations after many MLAs, including a few from the treasury bench, complained of largescale corruption in installation of safe drinking water units and majority of them being rendered defunct. Among others, one major allegation was about exorbitant escalation in cost per unit — from around Rs 5 lakh, when the scheme was first launched in 2013-14 during the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government, to Rs 12-13 lakh per unit by 2019.  The government has set up around 18,653 units across the state since 2013 and as per a survey done by rural development and panchayat raj ministry last year, more than 30 per cent of them have become defunct due to lack of proper maintenance. But officials put the number of defunct units at more than 50 per cent. “Almost every second unit has become defunct. There are multiple reasons for this, including sub-standard machinery and lack of maintenance,” said an RDPR official, while refusing to be named. BJP MLA Araga Jnanendra from Thirthahalli, who was among the MLAs who raised the issue in assembly, said that in his constituency, out of around 25 units, over 10 are defunct. RDPR minister KS Eshwarappa said the corruption allegations are not baseless. “Huge corruption has taken place in implementing the novel scheme aimed at providing safe drinking water to people, especially in rural areas,” he said. Asked why the committee was not yet formed, Eshwarappa said since it is a joint house committee, the chairs of both houses will have to take a call. “They have to choose members from all parties of both the houses for the committee. Since there was an election to the council chairman’s post, there was a delay in setting up the committee. I will meet the assembly speaker and the council chairman during the budget session and request them to set it up,” he said, adding that the government is keen to unearth the corruption that has taken place. Introduced in 2013-14The scheme was the brainchild of former RDPR minister HK Patil, who introduced it in his constituency, Gadag, in his personal capacity, and it had grabbed the nation’s attention then. When Congress came to power in 2013, it had implemented it across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/two-months-on-panel-to-probe-drinking-water-scam-not-set-up/articleshow/81178492.cms||Anil Gejji
February 24, 2021||Bengaluru||BJP brass’ dilemma grows as BS Yediyurappa-Basanagouda Patil Yatnal feud continues||BENGALURU: The BJP brass appears to be in two minds about the ‘Game of Thrones’ between chief minister BS Yediyurappa and senior BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, but quick developments could force the party to come out unequivocally in support of one sooner than later. Yediyurappa and his loyalists have been reportedly mounting pressure on the leadership to rein in Yatnal, who has been issued a show-cause notice, by suspending him since he has been hitting out at the CM and his son, highlighting all their alleged wrongdoings, much to the embarrassment of the party. But the party brass is keeping its cards close to its chest. For, Yatnal has carved out a group of his own to emerge as a Lingayat leader and he is no more the lightweight he once was. So far, Yediyurappa was considered the undisputed leader of Lingayats, but for the first time in his five-decade career, his leadership is being questioned. Yatnal’s growing popularity and the support he is getting from the community has not only unnerved the 78-year old CM, but also put the leadership in a dilemma. The Panchamasali Lingayats’ convention held on Sunday to culminate the 708-km padayatra undertaken by their religious heads, seeking 2A reservation category status, too dented Yediyurappa’s image as the undisputed Lingayat leader: it was the first time the Lingayats on stage openly attacked him. “Whatever action the party takes against Yatnal is bound to have repercussions, since Panchamasalis form nearly 80% of the total Lingayats, who constitute the core support base of BJP,” said a senior party leader.  If party functionaries, who are in constant touch with their counterparts in Delhi, are to believed, Yatnal would not have dared to take on the CM if he didn’t have the backing of RSS or some seniors. On the other hand, the party brass knows that a change in state leadership is fraught with danger, while also being aware of the fact that it cannot ignore the issues being raised by Yatnal. Shift towards BJPSince the unceremonious removal of Veerendra Patil as chief minister by then Congress president Rajiv Gandhi, following communal clashes in different parts of the state in 1990, Lingayats shifted their electoral allegiance away from Congress. Today, they are considered the core vote bank of the BJP. The saffron party, too, suffered heavily for upsetting Lingayats in Karnataka during the 2013 assembly polls. The party had fought the election after removing Yeddyurappa as chief minister, following allegations of corruption; BJP had been voted out of power then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-brass-dilemma-grows-as-bsy-yatnal-feud-continues/articleshow/81178496.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
February 24, 2021||Hubballi||SC order on Mahadayi may delay Kalasa-Banduri work||BELAGAVI: The Karnataka government’s failure in expeditiously acting to secure forest and wildlife clearance to implement the Kalasa-Banduri drinking water scheme has allowed Goa to strategically stall the project, water experts said. The Supreme Court order on Monday to form a joint monitoring committee to probe accusations levelled by Goa against Karnataka of diverting water from Mahadayi to Malaprabha has come as a major setback to the state.  Despite the Centre issuing a gazette notification on February 27, 2020 on the award of water to repatriate states by the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal, thus allowing the state to go ahead with the project with a rider of forest and wildlife clearance, the state failed to act fast. Ashok Chandraragi, an activist, said: “The state government should have taken an all-party delegation along with MPs to get the sanction. Now with the JMC, Goa has strategically put a temporary hold on all works.” Rudraiah, technical adviser to water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, said the delay in getting clearance was due to some confusion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sc-order-on-mahadayi-may-delay-kalasa-banduri-work/articleshow/81178499.cms||Shreyas HS
February 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Man dies after bee attack as son writes JEE||BENGALURU: A 52-year-old man who had escorted his son to a college on Bannerghatta Road for JEE Main on Tuesday, died after he was attacked by honey bees. Sanjaynagar resident Kumar R had taken his son to the examination centre at a private engineering college when he and other parents were attacked by a swarm of bees at 1.30pm, police said. “Kumar was stung by bees and taken to a nearby hospital in an ambulance. He reportedly died before reaching the hospital. We will register a case if his family members file a complaint,” Bannerghatta police said. The authorities are trying to ascertain what triggered the bee attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-dies-after-bee-attack-as-son-writes-jee/articleshow/81178802.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Man loses 6 lakh in matrimonial fraud in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 33-year-old private firm employee from Marathahalli has alleged that he lost Rs 6 lakh to cybercriminals after he uploaded his profile on a matrimonial site. Rajesh (name changed) said a woman identifying herself as Jonitha Hiremath, a medical researcher in the UK, expressed interest in marrying him. The duo exchanged numbers and started conversing via calls and messages. Jonitha told Rajesh she is returning to India on February 11. Rajesh received a call from an unknown person claiming to be a customs official from Delhi airport, who informed him that Jonitha was caught with a cheque for a huge amount. The caller demanded that he pay customs clearance charges, money exchange and other charges. An unsuspecting Rajesh transferred Rs 6.1 lakh in three instalments to the bank account numbers provided by the miscreants. He tried to contact Jonitha to know more details about the cheque, but her mobile was switched off. When Rajesh discussed the matter with his friends and relatives, he realised he’d been cheated by the gang. He later lodged a complaint with Whitefield CEN Crime police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-loses-6-lakh-in-matrimonial-fraud/articleshow/81178809.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Goa||I-League: Churchill Bros look to stay focused||Regaining form just at the right time, Churchill Brothers FC will try to carry on the momentum when they face Neroca FC at the Kishore Bharati Krirangan in Kolkata on Wednesday. Three straight draws narrowed down Churchill’s advantage and they now have to keep pace with other teams to regain their hold on the top spot. Head coach Fernando Varela lauded the teams fighting mentality in their 2-1 win over Chennai City FC and wants them to stay focussed. “We won against Chennai in the last minute. I think that is good for the squad. We had another chance to get a score. I see that we dominate all the games. The spirit that players have in this team is amazing. We showed character to win the game,” Varela said in an online interaction on Tuesday. The two-time champions have played a game less and have 16 points from eight outings. Real Kashmir FC went on top with 17 points after their 3-1 win over Aizawl FC on Tuesday. Gokulam Kerala also registered a solitary goal win over Sudeva FC to move to 16 points and climb to second place. Churchill are now third and cannot afford to drop more points. Neroca are eight points away from Churchill, just above bottom-placed Indian Arrows. However, Varela has warned his side not to take the opposition lightly. “They (Neroca) are improving from the start. They have experienced players. They have very good spirit and competitive players with good foreigners. We have a tough match. We have to be focussed and improve. Keep the same mentality we are showing in all matches. Players are showing character to win the title,” said the Spanish coach. Lebanese Hamza Kheir has been a wall at the heart of Churchill’s defence. His presence has helped the team secure a defensive record: they conceded only four goals and, alongside Real Kashmir, are the only unbeaten teams. “We already know all the matches are competitive. We have to prepare with different teams on how they play. They are tough. Every team wants to be in the top-six. It is motivation for players to show their quality,” said Varela. Neroca won their last game against Sudeva FC 2-0 and coach Gift Raikhan is happy they are scoring, even if it meant a 3-4 defeat against Real Kashmir. He will hope his defence makes no mistakes, especially against the league’s best forwards. “Now our team are underdogs and we only have to give our level best and 100%. They are bigger than us, they have better players than us. They are at the top of table everybody knows, but football is about 11 vs 11. I believe and trust in my players. They will surely fight and get something from Churchill,” said Raikhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/i-league-churchill-bros-look-to-stay-focused/articleshow/81179625.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
February 24, 2021||Goa||I don’t care about statistics and ranking, we have to play stronger opponents: Stimac||Panaji: When an opportunity knocked on India’s door for a friendly against Iran, coach Igor Stimac didn’t think twice. He immediately gave the go-ahead for the All India Football Federation (AIFF) to make it happen. That it didn’t work out because the Asian powerhouse wanted to play at home rather than away in Dubai – where India would be camping next month for a fortnight – is an entirely different story. Instead, India have lined-up friendlies against Oman (March 25) and United Arab Emirates (March 29) in Dubai. The choice of opponents is a welcome change from the comparatively weaker opponents that India faced in an attempt to improve ranking. Stimac does not advocate such methods and believes India (ranked 104) can improve only if they continue to punch above their weight against teams like Oman (81) and UAE (74). “Many people are too often looking at Fifa rankings. That is not important,” Stimac told TOI on Tuesday. “We have to play better teams. I don’t want opponents who are easy to beat. I don’t care about statistics and numbers. We have to look at the long-term development of Indian football.” India have played Oman twice in the Fifa World Cup 2022 qualifiers, losing both games narrowly, while UAE were group opponents at the Asian Cup 2019. As they face the teams again, Stimac believes this will be ideal preparations for the qualifiers in June. “We reacted quickly (after the postponement of qualifiers in March). It’s been a long time since we played and we could not let go of this window (for friendly matches). I am happy we will face Oman again, while UAE, everyone knows, are contenders (to qualify) in their group,” said Stimac. Stimac’s initial plan was to have the first phase of the camp in Goa for players from clubs who do not make it to the Indian Super League (ISL) playoffs. Scheduled between March 1 and 14, it would have given the Croatian World Cup bronze medallist enough time to see the debutants from close. However, with two friendlies lined up in Dubai, new faces may have to wait. “I wanted to see many new players, particularly youngsters who have impressed this season. This is by far the best ISL season and shows the quality of young players we have. We need to work harder to open spaces for them,” said Stimac. Once the friendlies in Dubai are over, Stimac is planning a longer camp in April, possibly for six weeks. “Some of the youngsters have come up with great performances, but they may not be there (in Dubai). They will get their chance, surely, when we have the second phase of the camp prior to qualifiers,” said Stimac. Stimac is expected to name 28 probables and eight reserves for the two friendlies in Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/i-dont-care-about-statistics-and-ranking-we-have-to-play-stronger-opponents-stimac/articleshow/81179907.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 24, 2021||Goa||India to play Oman, UAE in friendlies||Panaji: The All India Football Federation (AIFF) has managed to convince Oman and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to play friendlies against India in Dubai next month. The national football team has not had any assignment since the solitary goal loss against Oman in the Fifa World Cup 2022 qualifiers on November 19, 2019. India were scheduled to resume in March last year, but the coronavirus pandemic put a halt to the qualifiers. Since then there has been no international football. However, as the World Cup qualifiers are now set to resume in June, AIFF has ensured there are quality opposition for India to test their mettle. India will now play Oman on March 25 and then face UAE on March 29. Both friendlies will be played in Dubai. “We wanted to play a couple of friendlies. It took a little bit of time. It helped that other Asian countries were also interested in playing friendlies during this Fifa window,” said AIFF general secretary Kushal Das. AIFF believes the two friendlies against stronger opponents will be the norm rather than an exception. “We are very clear that we want to now play with stronger opponents. That’s the coach’s philosophy too. It’s not easy to arrange friendlies due to Covid restrictions (in India). UAE seemed the best option “Oman agreed (to play in Dubai), since they are not too far away. We haven’t played for more than a year and decided this would be a good opportunity to see where we stand,” said Das. While AIFF’s initial plan was to have the first phase of the national camp from March 1 in Goa, it has now been decided to have the entire first phase in Dubai, after the conclusion of ISL. The team will camp in Dubai from March 15 to 31. India are currently fourth in Group E of the World Cup qualifiers with three points from their first five matches. Qatar top the table with 13 points while Oman are close second with 12 points. India are aiming for a third-place finish in the group which will provide them with a direct spot in the third round of the Asian Cup 2023 qualifiers. India will resume their qualifying campaign in June at a centralised venue. They play Qatar on June 3, before crucial games against Bangladesh (June 7) and Afghanistan (June 15).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/india-to-play-oman-uae-in-friendlies/articleshow/81180118.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 24, 2021||World||Truck collides with train in Texas, causing large explosion||CAMERON: A tractor-trailer and a freight train collided Tuesday morning in central Texas, causing a large explosion and fire, authorities said. There were no immediate reports of injuries after the collision in Cameron, about 130 miles (210 kilometers) south of Dallas. Homes in the immediate area were evacuated as the fire burned, authorities said. Milam County Judge Steve Young tells TV station KBTX that the truck hit the train, causing 14 train cars to derail. Milam County Sheriff Chris White said the train was carrying coal and gasoline, which caused the large fire. He said the back of the train contained hazardous material but it did not spill. "There's no more threat at this point,'' White said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/truck-collides-with-train-in-texas-causing-large-explosion/articleshow/81180737.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mangaluru||Covid-19: Dakshina Kannada district puts off interstate curbs||MANGALURU: In the wake of protests from daily commuters, the Dakshina Kannada district administration has temporarily shelved the plan of allowing only those with negative Covid-19 RT-PCR reports to enter Karnataka from Kerala through four designated checkposts. Commuters, including professionals, employees of various firms and students were permitted to enter without an RT-PCR negative certificate on Tuesday, but the district administration plans to implement the negative certificates order within three days. The curbs are aimed at limiting infections spreading from Kerala to Karnataka. Dr KV Rajendra, district deputy commissioner, said health department teams will visit educational institutions and collect samples of students for RT-PCR tests. “We will send our teams to all educational institutions which have students from Kerala on the rolls,” Rajendra said. “It will be difficult for students to visit hospitals each time they have to be tested, so our health teams will set up camps on campuses.” He said administration has been lenient with daily commuters, but also admitted that it would be “very difficult” to implement the rule. “We allowed students, emergency vehicles and those who are working on daily wages without restrictions,” he said. “No matter when we enforce the rule, there will be resistance.” He added: “Testing is insufficient in both districts [Kasaragod and Dakshina Kannada]. It is very difficult to strictly enforce restrictions on the border since we have opened everything as per unlock guidelines.” Dr Ramachandra Bairy, district health officer, said RTPCR test centres will remain open for commuters at four interstate checkposts. “We relaxed the rule so that students and people working in Dakshina Kannada should not suffer,” he said. “However, they will have to furnish a negative RT-PCR report after three days. The SMS received after giving swabs for RT-PCR test is sufficient to enter the district.” Meanwhile, a protest was organised by AIYF and DYFI, youth wings of CPI and CPI(M) respectively, at Talapady on Tuesday. Protesters from Kasaragod blocked the national highway demanding DK withdraw the order restricting interstate movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-relaxes-rt-pcr-rule-at-border-posts/articleshow/81181198.cms||Vinobha K T
February 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Chikkaballapur blast: Police lodge FIR against quarry owners; villagers shaken||CHIKKABALLAPUR: Hours after explosives allegedly transported from a quarry went off in Chikkaballapur district early on Tuesday, killing six men, first responders described the distressing scenes of strewn body parts and authorities filed an FIR naming 11 people. Three owners of Sri Sai Shiradi Aggregate Quarry, whose employees were killed, and a mini-truck driver, whose vehicle was used to move the explosives, are among those booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and other offences. The owners are on the run. A preliminary examination by forensic experts found traces of gelatin, petroleum gel and ammonium nitrate at the site near Hirenagavalli village, Chikkaballapur taluk, about 80km from Bengaluru. Police believe the blast occurred around 1.30am when the six men were trying to hide the explosives. The quarry unit had been facing police scrutiny and feared that a raid was imminent. Hirenagavalli villagers were sleeping when the explosion rocked the area. They, along with some officers from the Gudibande police station, rushed to the site to look for survivors. “You could smell burnt flesh and gunpowder from a distance. We first spotted the mini-truck and its injured driver. He revealed that the blast had occurred about 100 metres from him. We sent him to a hospital and started looking for other survivors using searchlights. There were none,” said an officer. “Bodies and limbs were scattered all over. A person’s face had been blown out, while another person was missing his lower body. We had never witnessed such horrific scenes before.” Before sunrise, hundreds of people, including police teams, had gathered at the spot. A mangled motorbike helped authorities identify one victim, Abhi Naik, who worked as an accountant at the quarry unit and became a father 20 days ago. A man who identified himself as Naik’s uncle, Lakshmappa, was inconsolable as he paced up and down the blast site. “How do we give this news to his wife? What should I tell others? He was with his friends near Gudibande when he received a call at midnight. He told his friends that he had urgent office work and left. Who called him? What was the office work so late at night?” Lakshmappa said. The mini-truck driver, Riyaz, has said in his statement that he didn’t know that they were transporting explosives. Health minister K Sudhakar and home minister Basavaraj Bommai visited the spot. “The impact of the explosion was huge. Body parts were strewn across a large area. Some bodies are beyond recognition,” Sudhakar said. Bommai said that strict action would be taken against the quarry owners and others responsible for the incident. Quarry had been under scanner, say police Police suspect that Sri Sai Shiradi Aggregate Quarry, located near Hirenagavalli, had illegally stored explosives and the management ordered employees to stash them away. “The local police had stepped up checks, so they wanted to hide the explosives,” another officer said. Chikkaballapur SP Mithun Kumar GK told TOI that the quarry unit was raided on February 7 and one staff member was arrested and material used in illegal quarrying was confiscated. “We seized 17 gelatin sticks, 14 gel tubes and a bundle of wire that had been stored illegally. On Monday, we seized a motorbike after another surprise check. Realising that we were after them, the owners seem to have decided to shift the explosives,” he added. Another officer said that traces of explosives were detected on the bike. “This suggests that it was used to move explosive materials, including gelatin sticks. The vehicle’s documents have not been found,” he said. Locals had raised concerns Muniyappa, who lives in a nearby village, said that residents had opposed quarrying activities in the region, petitioning authorities a few months ago. He claimed that quarry owners blast boulders after midnight, disturbing villages. “Senior citizens are facing health issues because of the dust generated by quarrying activities. The continuous movement of trucks also affects flora and fauna,” he said. Apart from the three owners, the FIR also names the six employees killed in the blast, another staff member and Riyaz. “The Gudibande police have filed a case against quarry owner Nagaraja Reddy, who is from Hirenagavalli, and his partners Shiva Reddy and Raghavendra Reddy, who are residents of Andhra Pradesh. They have booked under IPC section 304 [culpable homicide not amounting to murder] and under the Explosives Act. The charges are non-bailable. The three owners, who are the prime accused, are at large,” said a senior police officer, adding that three people had been detained. Oppn leader seeks murder charge against suspects Siddaramaiah, the opposition leader in the assembly, visited Hirenagavalli village on Tuesday afternoon and demanded answers from police and officials of the mines and geology department. “Do these things happen without your knowledge? A similar incident had happened in Shivamogga. Don’t some quarry owners indulge in illegal quarrying? And you people don’t have any control on them?” he said. He asked why police had not booked the quarry owners for murder. “Six men are dead. Why not book the owners for murder?” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-inaction-to-blame-says-oppn/articleshow/81181202.cms||---
February 24, 2021||India||As vaccination drive hits Co-WIN bump, experts suggest a ‘hybrid’ solution||MUMBAI: On a single Sunday, India vaccinates roughly 17 crore children with polio drops. Even when the vaccine is an injection, coverage is in crores; in a drive against measles-mumps-rubella two years back, most big states vaccinated 1-2 crore kids in a month. But amid the Covid pandemic that’s claimed over 1.5 lakh lives, progress is slow — it has taken 39 days to inoculate 1.19 crore across the country. Experts blame over-reliance on the Co-Win app and the absence of a plan to manually reach out to potential recipients. A senior doctor with a public hospital said the app should be scrapped and “we should go back to our offline method that has worked for decades”. Designed as the backbone of the Covid vaccination drive, Co-Win’s performance has been spotty. Problems vary from registration hitches to missing names and duplication, though when it does function, as a BMC officer put it, things are fine. “It has advantages. Thousands get auto-generated certificates. Imagine if these had to be physically printed and handed out,” he said. For a vaccination day, CoWin has to be fed with names of beneficiaries before it throws up a list and even works out the number of sessions/booths needed. “The list, more often than not, has duplications. It has to be pruned, leading to fewer people getting messages,” said a BMC official. Dr Lalit Sankhe, nodal officer for vaccination at staterun JJ Hospital, said many glitches have been resolved,but some remain. “We have not managed to vaccinate several senior medicine professors who have been at the forefront of Covid treatment simply because their names have not got registered despite trying,” he said. There’s also an issue of transparency, underscored by RTIs filed by activists for information. The Software Freedom Law Centre, India, found the app does not have a specific privacy policy. Many believe a ‘hybrid’ approach — allowing both online and offline work flows — may work better. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid task force, said if there are glitches, “we should allow people to work in offline mode as well”. Dr Giridhara Babu, an epidemiologist with the Public Health Foundation of India and a member of the Karnataka Covid task force, has a different viewpoint: Co-Win is only one of the problems. “Overreliance on Co-Win seems to be the main issue. It is similar to a logistics software, but public health needs to back it up with microplanning,” he said. In mass vaccination programmes, a bottom-up approach is used with the lowest rung delegated powers to carry out the drive. “With Covid-19, we are following a top-down approach that includes uploading a list planning schedules, etc. We need to back this up with microplanning,”' he said. Indeed, last Saturday, when Mumbai witnessed a 133% turnout, BMC officials said, the outcome was a result of micro-planning. “Even if public health infrastructure alone is used for vaccination, we can do three million vaccinations a day. That should take care of the elderly and those with comorbidities,” said Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-vaccination-drive-hits-co-win-bump-experts-suggest-a-hybrid-solution/articleshow/81181218.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 24, 2021||India||CBI quizzes Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee’s wife for 1.5hrs||KOLKATA: Officers from the Central Bureau of Investigation questioned Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee’s wife at the couple’s home on Tuesday, reaching the property exactly three minutes after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee left after a brief visit with the family. The questioning, in connection with an alleged coal-mining scam in the state, went on for nearly one-and-a-half hours. People close to the Banerjee family insisted Rujira “cooperated with the CBI officers” and the session “went off very well”. There was no official word from the CBI about Tuesday’s session except that the questioning was video-recorded and that officers would be going through Rujira’s responses. Tuesday’s questions could be divided into two parts, CBI insiders said, with the first half-an-hour devoted to “some basic queries about Rujira’s family” and the next hour or so focusing on specific questions related to “identity documents, bank account details, her knowledge about certain individuals and certain transactions”. The CBI team was led by superintendent of police Biswajit Das and comprised investigating officer Umesh Kumar, who led the questioning of Rujira’s sister, Menka Gambhir, on Monday. Rujira, in her first response to the CBI notice, had said that she was “unaware” of the reasons for which she was being questioned. A source close to the Banerjee family told TOI that Rujira was a Thai citizen by virtue of being born in Thailand. “She still holds a Thai passport and an Overseas Citizenship of India card.” Family insiders also told TOI that there was “a discrepancy in her PAN and OCI applications”. “But that error has long been rectified and the government of India has also issued her a fresh PAN card on the basis of which Rujira has been filing her returns,” the source added. The CBI team’s questioning was preceded by a visit by the Bengal CM. Mamata reached her nephew’s home at 11.24am and left at 11.33am. Abhishek’s daughter saw the CM off and went back into her house after appearing dazed at the sight of hundreds of camera flash-bulbs and mediapeople. The CM did not speak to reporters but a family insider said she went to her nephew’s home “not as a CM but as a family elder”. “They are a very close-knit family,” he added. Senior officers also monitored the session from the agency’s office. The team drove out of the Banerjees’ home around 1.10pm in two cars with New Delhi licence plates and headed to the agency’s office, where they held several meetings. CBI officials later said they might contact “some Thai banks for some details”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-quizzes-trinamool-congress-mp-abhishek-banerjees-wife-for-1-5hrs/articleshow/81181264.cms||---
February 24, 2021||India||Leaks, cheating have perverted exam system, Supreme Court says||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday said question paper leaks and mass cheating in examinations had “distorted and perverted” the examination system and stayed a Karnataka high court order discharging a state bureaucrat from a case relating to alleged procurement of Class 12 question paper for his son in 2016. Leak of the question paper had resulted in cancellation of the chemistry exam. The re-examination too had to be cancelled as the same modus operandi was allegedly used by the accused, who were physical education teachers in various schools of Karnataka, in collusion with the bureaucrat and others. Even before Karnataka’s counsel V N Raghupathy began his argument, a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked, “These people are ruining the education system.” The SC recalled the huge scam in Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board (popularly known by its Hindi acronym ‘Vyapam’), which was unearthed in 2011. Times ViewMaintaining fairness is a fundamental requirement of any examination. An alleged abuse of the system by a senior bureaucrat has rightly prompted a serious view from the apex court. We all know that power comes with responsibility. When those in positions of authority are the ones violating the rules, the violation must be viewed even more seriously.It involved 13 different exams conducted by Vyapam for selection of medical students and state government employees. The CJI-led bench said, “We know of the Vyapam case in MP. What happened there? The education system is getting distorted and perverted.” It issued notice to the accused in the Karnataka case and stayed the HC order discharging them from the case. In 2016, the SC had ordered a CBI probe into the Vyapam scam, which involved legislators, bureaucrats, professionals and businessmen and it was alleged that bribes were paid for securing high ranks in recruitment examinations to get government jobs and seats in medical colleges. In a 4,000 page chargesheet, the CBI last month named 60-odd accused before a Gwalior court. Then, there was the case of one Ruby Rai, whose father allegedly helped her through unfair means to secure top rank in Bihar state board’s Class 12 examination in 2016. Rai was exposed when she referred to ‘political science’ as ‘prodigal science’ before TV cameras and went on to explain that prodigal science was all about cooking. Indicating no leniency to those who pollute the examination system at the cost of meritorious students, the CJI-led bench said, “We want to send a message.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/leaks-cheating-have-perverted-exam-system-supreme-court-says/articleshow/81181292.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 24, 2021||India||NHAI draws a line to stop queues from forming at toll plazas due to glitches in reading of FASTags||NEW DELHI: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will draw a distinct coloured line at every toll lane on NHs and once the queue of vehicles touches that line, the toll operator will have to open the gate for all vehicles on that particular lane to travel free. Sources said the plan is being prepared and this has started after the road transport ministry started real time monitoring of toll plazas and queues in its response to reports of congestion despite increased use of FASTag for paying toll charges. “There is strict live monitoring at the top level and we have been directed to take all necessary steps to ensure commuters pass through toll plazas smoothly since the government has promised seamless travel through plazas with the use of FASTag to pay toll, which has been made mandatory,” said a senior NHAI official. Times ViewTime is money. This is the right way to compensate travellers for inordinately long delays at the toll booth. The move will hopefully ensure faster traffic movement and happier drivers. It should also give toll operators a strong incentive to get their act together.For the past few days, senior officials including the regional officers, general managers and chief general managers have been supervising the traffic management at toll plazas. One of them said, “The number of transactions through FASTag has increased to 90% from merely 60-70% even at toll plazas in remote areas. So, now we can’t hide behind any excuse for congestion at toll plazas. Strict monitoring of live data through an IT platform has brought huge change in the past few days,” he added. Meanwhile, officials said the distance at which the coloured line will be put will differ from plaza to plaza depending on the traffic flow and the number of toll lanes available at particular sites. They also claimed that all toll operators have been strictly instructed to allow people to cross the plaza for free, if their system doesn’t work or fail to read the smart tag. The notification issued by the road transport ministry on May 7, 2018 specifies, “If a vehicle user with a valid, functional FASTag or any such device with sufficient balance in the linked account crossing a fee plaza installed with electronic toll collection infrastructure, is not able to pay user fee through FASTag or any such device owing to malfunctioning of electronic toll collection infrastructure, the vehicle user shall be permitted to pass the fee plaza without payment of any user fee. An appropriate zero transaction receipt shall be issued mandatorily for all such transactions.” Complaints of no discount for return journey: There have been some complaints of commuters of not receiving the discount for return journey within 24 hours and they are ending up paying full toll both ways. The discount for return journey is allowed as per NHAI rules on public funded stretches where the toll is collected for NHAI. This rule doesn’t apply to most of the tolled stretches under private players because of specific contract conditions. However, NHAI officials said they will look into the issue and fix it soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nhai-draws-a-line-to-stop-queues-from-forming-at-toll-plazas-due-to-glitches-in-reading-of-fastags/articleshow/81181295.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 24, 2021||India||Can’t equate terror victims & plotters, India tells UN body||NEW DELHI: Foreign minister S Jaishankar reminded the UN Human Rights Council, which has also passed critical comments on Jammu & Kashmir, that terrorism is a crime against humanity and violates the most fundamental human right, the right to life. Addressing the high level segment at the UN Human Rights Council on Tuesday, Jaishankar said, “As a longstanding victim, India has been in the forefront of global action against terrorism. This is possible only when there is a clear realisation, including in bodies dealing with human rights, that terrorism can never be justified, nor its perpetrators ever equated with its victims.” The exchanges have continued to be sharp after Michelle Bachelet, a socialist politician and former Chilean President, became United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Jaishankar’s strong words are a pointed message to the global human rights body that has been critical of decisions like scrapping of Article 370 in J&K but which seldom pays attention to the role of Pakistan-backed terrorists in inflicting loss of lives and preventing normalcy in the Union Territory. In the past, India has said the council has taken egregious and unwarranted positions that do not recognise the efforts to ensure democratic functioning in the terror-hit region. In October 2020, the UNGA elected China, Cuba, Gabon, Pakistan, Russia, and Uzbekistan as members of the UNHRC, a fact that came under severe criticism. Pakistan was re-elected with China’s help even though in 2019, it failed to secure the necessary support to call for a debate on Kashmir, after India nullified Article 370. Jaishankar said, “violation of and gaps in implementation of human rights should be addressed in a fair and just manner, with objectivity, non-selectivity, transparency and with due respect to the principles of non-interference in internal affairs and national sovereignty.” The UNHRC has issued a number of very critical reports against India, particularly on Kashmir. The US quit the UNHRC in 2018 during the Trump administration citing unfair treatment by the body of Israel. Last week, the Biden administration said they would re-engage UNHRC formally, though a formal return may happen at the end of the year, say sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cant-equate-terror-victims-plotters-india-tells-un-body/articleshow/81181297.cms||---
February 24, 2021||India||OTT platform’s head records statement in UP||LUCKNOW: Head of Amazon Prime India (original content) Aparna Purohit got her statement recorded at the Hazratganj police station here on Tuesday in connection with the FIR against her for alleged objectionable depiction of Hindu deities in web series ‘Tandav’. Disposing of her petition seeking stay on police proceedings, the Allahabad HC had, on Monday, directed Purohit to appear before the police and co-operate in the investigation. Investigating officer Anil Kumar Singh said, “Purohit had not been co-operating in the probe. She finally appeared to record her statement.” “On January 17, an FIR was lodged against Purohit and director of the series Ali Abbas Zafar among others,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ott-platforms-head-records-statement-in-up/articleshow/81181351.cms||---
February 24, 2021||India||CA among 12 held in single day over GST evasion||NEW DELHI: The government is expecting robust collections in February, despite few days this month, banking on better compliance following a spate of arrests to check evasion. Revenue department sources said that in a single day 12 more arrests have taken place, including a chartered accountant, taking the number of arrests since mid-November to 329. Of those arrested, at least four persons have been booked under Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act (COFEPOSA). In the current drive so far, GST intelligence and CGST authorities have booked more than 3,200 cases against 9,600 “fake entities” which had got GST identification numbers. Over Rs 1,000 crore has been recovered from the alleged fraudsters, a source said. Top officials in the department believe that the drive against fake invoice and bogus entities is a key reason behind record collections during December and January with returns filed also touching a high of 90 lakh. Sources expect a similar higher collection trend to continue in the month of February 2021 as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ca-among-12-held-in-single-day-over-gst-evasion/articleshow/81181378.cms||---
February 24, 2021||India||Kerala ‘refreshing’ change from north, says Rahul; BJP hits out||NEW DELHI: BJP chief J P Nadda, along with several Union ministers, confronted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for what they called disparaging remarks against north India. Reacting to Rahul’s purported remark where he termed his current role as a Lok Sabha member from Wayanad in Kerala as a refreshing change from the experience he had as an MP from Amethi in Uttar Pradesh, Nadda said, “A few days back, he was in the northeast, spewing venom against the western part of India. Today, in the south, he is spewing venom against the north. Divide and rule politics won’t work Rahul Gandhiji. People have rejected this politics. See what happened in Gujarat today.” Speaking in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday, Rahul had said, “For the first 15 years, I was an MP in the north. I had got used to a different type of politics. For me, coming to Kerala was very refreshing as suddenly I found that people are interested in issues and not just superficially, but going into detail in issues.” Nadda was joined by senior BJP functionaries in taking umbrage at Rahul’s comment. “So Rahul Gandhiji thinks that people in the north are not interested in issuebased politics? They were not interested in your empty promises, Rahulji. You couldn’t understand the pulse of the people from your family’s pocketborough even after representing it for 15 years,” petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan said. Rahul had lost his Amethi seat but won comfortably from Wayanad in the 2019 polls. Housing minister Hardeep Singh Puri said instead of accepting his failure and the fact that he was forced to run away from Amethi, Rahul was trying to imply that he changed his constituency because voters lacked intelligence. “The man who ran to Kerala to save his Lok Sabha seat questions the intelligence of north Indians, including those who faithfully voted for his family for generations. Fact is, he was forced to run because of non-performance and lack of development,” he added. Sports minister Kiren Rijiju said, “Rahul Gandhiji, please don’t abuse Amethi and north Indians. Amethi people have given so much chance to your entire family. People from every part of India are good if you are good.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-refreshing-change-from-north-says-rahul-bjp-hits-out/articleshow/81181373.cms||---
February 24, 2021||India||42% frontline workers have got first dose of Covid vaccination||NEW DELHI: India has vaccinated around 42% of registered frontline workers with the first dose of Covid-19 jabs with nine states achieving a more than 60% coverage since February 2, when inoculation of this category was initiated. Among healthcare workers who have completed four weeks since receiving the first dose of vaccines, 62% had been given the second shot till Tuesday, official data shows. India’s vaccination programme began on January 16. With close to 1.2 crore vaccine doses administered till Tuesday evening through more than 2.5 lakh sessions, 64.7 lakh health and over 41.1 lakh frontline workers received the first shots. Besides, around 13.2 lakh health workers received the second dose of the jabs. Among the better performers are 10 states and Union territories, including Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Telangana, Gujarat and Tripura, that have vaccinated over 75% of eligible health workers with the second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/42-frontline-workers-have-got-first-dose-of-covid-vaccination/articleshow/81181415.cms||---
February 24, 2021||India||In rape case that felled a CM, money trail led police to main accused||BHUBANESWAR: Bibekananda Biswal, the prime accused in the 1999 Baranga gang-rape case, who was nabbed on Monday after being on the run for 22 years, came under police scanner for using a fake identity and frequently sending money to his family from a bank account he had opened using forged documents. Biswal, 50, had been working as a plumber at Lonavala in Maharashtra since 2007, having changed his identity to Jalandhar Swain. He had successfully managed to keep his identity guarded and police at bay for more than a decade until the Bhubaneswar-Cuttack commissioner of police, Sudhanshu Sarangi, met Dhirendra Mohanty, Biswal’s accomplice who is serving life term for the crime, in November last year and decided to reopen the case. Though the case was being handled by CBI, Sarangi became curious to know about Biswal’s whereabouts. “We found that Biswal’s family members have been withdrawing money from an account of one Jalandhar Swain in Lonavala,” a senior police officer said. Last week, a team from Cuttack went to Lonavala and detained the suspect. Police later ascertained his identity with the help of villagers and family members. In 1999, Biswal, Pradeep Sahu and Dhirendra Mohanty were accused of raping the estranged wife of an IFS officer at Baranga, the controversy around which forced the then CM J B Patnaik to resign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-rape-case-that-felled-a-cm-money-trail-led-police-to-main-accused/articleshow/81181447.cms||---
February 24, 2021||India||Bengal BJP neta’s arrest caps day of high drama||KOLKATA: Bengal BJP functionary Rakesh Singh, identified as a key conspirator in a drugs case in which a party colleague was arrested here last week for possessing cocaine, was picked up by police from Galsi in East Burdwan district late Tuesday evening. The arrest capped a day of dramatic developments that saw cops reaching Rakesh’s home in the afternoon and picking up his sons — 22-year-old Saheb Singh and 24-year-old Soham Singh — “for preventing public servants from doing their work” after a three-hour stand-off in a densely crowded Alipore neighbourhood. Bengal BJP functionary Rakesh Singh was apprehended around 8pm during a check on National Highway 2, about 125km from Kolkata. Police said that there were central security forces in the car and he was trying to leave the state. Rakesh had told media outlets on Tuesday that he was “going to Delhi”. Officials said his phone was switched off for most of the day but they managed to track him down from his cellphone signal when he switched it on for brief periods. Police had arrested Bengal BJP Yuva Morcha general secretary Pamela Goswami and a companion, Prabir De, last Friday for possessing 90gm of cocaine. Goswami told officers that Rakesh was the “key conspirator behind getting her arrested”, prompting cops to send him a notice on Monday asking him to join the probe. Rakesh did not appear for questioning but moved the Calcutta high court on Tuesday seeking interim relief and protection from “political vendetta” and “imminent arrest”. Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya, however, dismissed the petition, saying: “It is rather premature to allege that the notice was issued with mala fide intention to malign the petitioner”. Bengal advocate general Kishore Datta told the court that Rakesh was a “history sheeter” with 56 criminal cases, many of them registered decades before he joined BJP in 2018. Police officers along with colleagues from the detective department, the narcotics cell and the anti-rowdy squad, reached Rakesh’s Kolkata home around 2.30pm on Tuesday but were held off by his sons, who refused to let them enter even as central security personnel guarding the residence video-graphed the incident. Rakesh’s 22-year-old son, Saheb Singh, led the heated exchange, first demanding a search warrant and then asking cops to break open the door if they wanted to enter the property. The stand-off continued till the HC turned down Rakesh’s plea and cops finally entered his residence around 5pm. Rakesh’s sons — Saheb and 24-year-old Soham Singh — were picked up a little after 8pm, around the same time Rakesh was nabbed from East Burdwan district. Officials said Rakesh would be produced in court in Kolkata on Wednesday along with his two sons and the proceedings would follow the “legal route”. Rakesh told TOI before his arrest on Tuesday he had no relation with Goswami and had not met her in the last one year. “I am being framed by her,” he said, adding: “I will quit politics if they can produce any evidence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-bjp-netas-arrest-caps-day-of-high-drama/articleshow/81181461.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
February 24, 2021||Business||Office time: All dressed up, with lunch packed||Mumbai: Educational institutes may not be fully functional across the country, but lunchboxes are selling like hotcakes. Buyers: Officegoers.  “Over the last month, as offices started opening, we have seen a change in consumer trends with the ‘hot tiffin box for office’ range growing by 250% and tiffin boxes cover by about 100%,” said Tupperware India MD Deepak Chhabra, quoting data from Google Trends. As Covid numbers gradually decline in several parts of the country, people are regaining their confidence to step out for work. Consequently, formal clothes, accessories like shoes, bags & watches — apart from tiffin boxes — are seeing increased sales. A month-on-month recovery is being witnessed across many of these categories, said industry officials. As homemade food is being packed, so is the need to track time once you step out to work. “The recovery in watches has been steadily improving over the past few months. At the end of Q2, while our recovery was a little more than 50%, the same in Q3 has been close to 90% and we are seeing improvement across all channels and brands,” said Titan CEO (watches & wearables division) Suparna Mitra said. And enough of lounging around in athleisure with a year of WFH. Metro Brands has seen an uptick in formal and office wear, with Q3 formal sales witnessing about 200% growth compared to Q2 of this year. “People have started stepping out and travelling, many offices have opened up and also the number of weddings has increased in the last quarter,” said Metro Brands VP (e-commerce & marketing) Alisha Malik. Consumers, however, continue to look for fashionable products with comfort. “While it remains an important factor, consumers don’t mind paying the right price for the right quality,” said Malik. Bata India has witnessed growth in the sales of its comfortable smart business casual range in the last couple of months. Bata chief collection officer Matteo Lambert said, “Owing to the work-from-home culture, consumers’ preferences have evolved and moved towards casual space. We have seen people preferring comfortable and casual footwear, and we believe that people are going to carry the trend forward once offices open up fully. People will now prefer relaxed workwear where they can carry the comfort of home wherever they go and wear it through the day.” There are multiple reasons for growth across different consumer segments, including the festive season which boosted spending. Another key factor is consumers’ need to celebrate relationships and social bonding after a long lockdown. Due to the pandemic, the ‘on the go’ (lunches & bottles) segment had witnessed a significant drop in demand last year. Now Google Trends data shows that search levels for ‘lunches & tiffins’ have gone back to pre-Covid times, said Tupperware’s Chhabra. Moreover, the demand for Tupperware flasks and bottles too has risen in the last few months. “This shows how these unprecedented times have made people health-conscious and they now choose to carry their beverages with them,” said Chhabra. Peter England COO Manish Singhai said there is a surge in people stepping out for work as offices are gradually resuming their regular schedule. Singhai said a new trend has emerged as consumers have moved from conventional formal wear to performance-oriented attire. There is also a high affinity towards natural and wellness-infused products. “We are also seeing strong growth in the consumption of athletic and slim fit products, which is probably the result of consumers becoming more fitness-conscious,” said Singhai. In watches, the smart wearables segment has seen significant growth due to increased inclination towards fitness and consumers’ interest in using advanced technology products. Mitra of Titan Company said the company has also seen demand for fashion and lifestyle products. “Covid acted as a catalyst for many lifestyle changes. Focus on fitness, indoor & outdoor activities, the trend of contactless payment accelerated as well. Thus, there has been a boom in demand for fashionable and smart wearables — products focused on performance and activities,” said Mitra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/office-time-all-dressed-up-with-lunch-packed/articleshow/81180391.cms||Namrata Singh
February 24, 2021||Patna||Record 35.59 lakh MT paddy procured: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said the state government has made record procurement of 35.59 lakh MT paddy during the current season. He said there was no need for further procurement as it will only benefit the middlemen (traders) who had purchased paddy from farmers at low prices early in the harvest season and now wanted to sell it to the agencies concerned at the MSP for additional profits. He also referred to the development in the infrastructural sector encompassing roads, bridges, buildings, power distribution and connection to the households whose consumption has increased from 700MW in 2005 to 5,932MW, as also in all other sectors in the state during his regime. “The state will continue to forge ahead,” he said. Giving the government’s reply to the House debate in the state assembly on the motion of thanks to the governor’s address to the joint session of the state legislature, Nitish said only 21.59 lakh MT of paddy was procured in the 2011-12 season and the increased paddy procurement has been made over the years since his government abolished the Agriculture Produce Marketing (APMC) Act in 2006. Paddy has been procured through Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) and Vyapar Mandal, he added. Pointing to the pre-2006 situation, he said paddy was procured by Food Corporation of India (FCI), which purchased paddy from the farmers to the tune of 12,222 MT in 2000-01 and 72,000 MT in 2004-05. “Today, not a single farmer is left from whom paddy has to be procured. Those eager to sell paddy to PACS and Vyapar Mandal are middlemen (traders) who want to earn additional profits,” Nitish said, adding that the abolition of the APMC Act had brought increased earnings to the farmers, as a result of which shops and establishments in the cities and towns and trade and business activities had increased. Earlier, leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, said there were several farmers who could not be covered under the paddy procurement drive and, accordingly, had unsold sacks of paddy. Tejashwi also referred to several other points, insisting that the Nitish government had failed on several counts in the last 15 years. Towards the end of the CM’s reply, Tejashwi, along with members of the opposition RJD, Congress, CPI(ML), CPI and CPM, as well as of the AIMIM, walked out of the House. Referring to the maintenance of roads and buildings, the CM said the engineers of the departments have been assigned the task. “They will no longer just clear tenders and give work contracts to the agencies. Instead, they will have to also deliver the maintenance work. If they need additional manpower, it will be done,” he said and asked the MLAs to inform even his office if any substandard work was done. While the productivity and production of various crops had increased multi-fold in the state since 2005, the Centre had now given its clearance to the production of sugar cane-based ethanol whose units will be established in the state, Nitish said, adding that it would increase the income of the cane growers. He also said even in the health sector, the state had made new strides, as the health sub-centres had been linked with telemedicine services, coupled with the fall in infant and maternal mortality and even fertility rates. The CM said the Saat Nishchay-2 programme had also been launched with budgetary allocation for it to facilitate quality industrial training and skill development of the students to create work opportunities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/record-35-59-lakh-mt-paddy-procured-nitish/articleshow/81177905.cms||Abhay Singh
February 24, 2021||Patna||People of high socio-economic status more prone to Covid: AIIMS-Patna study||PATNA: People of higher socioeconomic status with better per capita income and education levels were more prone to catching the Covid-19 infection, compared to their less fortunate counterparts, according to research carried out by a team from AIIMS-Patna. The study also noted that Delhi had the highest mortality rate in the country and Bihar the lowest. The report titled "Socioeconomic inequality in national incidence and mortality rates of Covid 19 in India: An ecological study" was published in the Indian Journal of Community Health last week. The director of AIIMS-P, Dr PK Singh, a member of the research team, said the reason behind the low rate of infection in people of lower strata could be due to a better level of immunity which helped in shielding them from the pandemic impact. "Our observation of the positive cases admitted in AIIMS-Patna also supported the finding of this research that persons of high socioeconomic status were more prone to becoming victims of the virus," Dr Singh said. Another member of the team, Dr Alok Ranjan, said the human development index (HDI) taking into consideration health, education, per capita income and other variables was used in the study for analysing Covid cases reported till November 23 throughout the country, including the Union territories. "States with high HDI like Kerala, Delhi, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Maharashtra and some UTs reported a high incidence of Covid while those with low HDI like Bihar, UP, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and MP had a lower number of cases," Dr Ranjan said. "In layman's term, poor rural folk, farmers, labourers and slum dwellers had a lower number of Covid cases," he added. The study mentioned that morbidity and mortality of Covid 19 are more concentrated in regions with high socioeconomic status and education. He said the study used the data of Covid deaths per one lakh population after examining the variables like literacy rate, per capita income and secondary education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-of-high-socio-economic-status-more-prone-to-covid-aiims-patna-study/articleshow/81177352.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Vijayawada||AP reports 70 Covid cases, one death||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 70 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,89,409. The toll increased to 7,168 as one more patient succumbed to the novel coronavirus in Visakhapatnam district. Altogether 84 patients were declared cured on Tuesday. There are currently 575 active cases with 8,81,666 cumulative recoveries and 7,168 fatalities. Chittoor reported 18 new infections on Tuesday. Prakasam district has not recorded any new cases. The remaining districts registered single-digit case numbers. Andhra Pradesh tested 28,268 samples on Tuesday and detected 70 new cases, translating to a positivity rate of about 0.3%. The second dose of Covid-19 vaccination started on February 13 in AP. The state has administered 1.02 lakh vaccine doses as of February 22, to stand at the fourth position in the country after Karnataka (1.4 lakh second doses), Odisha (1.22 lakh) and Telangana (1.05 lakh). But vaccine hesitancy continues to be reported among healthcare workers as well as frontline staff. Only about 65% healthcare workers received their first dose with only three days left for the conclusion of the first dose of vaccine administration to this category. Vaccination for senior citizens and persons with comorbidities may likely start from March 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-reports-70-covid-cases-one-death/articleshow/81177641.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 24, 2021||Patna||Canada MP refers to Anand’s work||PATNA: Super 30 founder Anand Kumar’s name echoed in the Canadian parliament on Monday as Marc Dalton, MP of Maple Ridge and Pitt Meadows, referred to the “inspiring work of Super 30 in helping the students from the underprivileged sections of the society overcome all obstacles to reach premiere institutions”. Dalton also referred to the success of a recent Hindi movie, which is inspired by the popular book by the same name that encapsulates the journey of Kumar and his desire to do something for the underprivileged sections. India-born Canadian Dr Biju Mathew wrote the book after travelling several times to India to capture the essence. After the release of the movie, Kumar was invited to a special screening of the film in Canada on September 20, which was followed by an onstage interview. British Columbia minister for tourism, arts and culture Lisa Beare had also watched the screening of the film. Under his pioneering programme, Kumar drafted 30 educationally bright yet underprivileged students into his coaching program each year — free of cost — giving them a shot at the prestigious and highly competitive entrance exam for the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/canada-mp-refers-to-anands-work/articleshow/81178853.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Goa||Fake plans used to build in CRZ at Reis Magos||Panaji: A complaint filed before the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has found that fabricated land plans were used to carry out a construction in the No Development Zone of CRZ at Reis Magos. After an inspection by officials based on a complaint, even the builder against whom the complaint was made has expressed shock over the development. The builder has stated that the constructions were carried out after verifying the documents. GCZMA sought a report in the matter from the directorate of panchayats, Reis Magos panchayat, the town and country planning department’s Mapusa division and the inspector of settlement and land records in Mapusa. GCZMA received a complaint in August 2019 alleging that illegal construction had been carried out in two survey numbers in Reis Magos. The authority directed the Bardez mamlatdar to carry out a site inspection. GCZMA found that as per the plan of the directorate of settlement and land records (DSLR) illegal construction was carried out. At the hearing last year, the complainants reiterated that ‘a fabricated and manipulated plan of the DSLR has been produced by the violators by shifting the HTL by 100m’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fake-plans-used-to-build-in-crz-at-reis-magos/articleshow/81179973.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Do micro-detailing of new Covid-19 cases, DMs told||PATNA: The district magistrates will go for micro-detailing of all new Covid-19 cases being registered in Bihar. The decision was taken at the crisis management committee (CMC) meeting chaired by chief secretary Deepak Kumar on Tuesday. Nawada, Aurangabad and Purnia districts have been asked to explain the slight increase in Covid-19 positive cases recently. Health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said there was nothing to get panicked. He also said no decision was taken on people coming to Bihar from Maharashtra or southern parts of the country, adding they will hold another meeting next week. Senior police officers, especially the SPs, have been told to get the vaccination of home guards completed in the next three days. Nearly 42,000 beneficiaries of home department are registered for vaccination and only 3% of them have taken the jab. The health department has decided to stop the first round of vaccination of frontline workers from Monday and shift the focus on the second dose. Pratyaya said though Bihar was not witnessing any increase in new cases, they were now going for micro detailing of every Covid-19 positive case. “We were doing it earlier. We will find out all those who have come in contact with the Covid positive person. Micro containment zones will be created and everyone in such areas will be tested,” he said. He further said compared to previous week, there was a marginal increase in fresh cases in Aurangabad, Nawada and Purnia districts and the DMs concerned have been told to explain the reason. As per the information shared by state health society on February 15, Aurangabad had zero case, Nawada had five and Purnia one Covid-19 case. But on February 22, Aurangabad had 3, Nawada (14) and Purnia (8) had new cases. The CMC also reviewed the acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) cases and advised the DMs of 12 districts to remain alert and carry out community sensitization programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/do-micro-detailing-of-new-covid-19-cases-dms-told/articleshow/81177450.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 24, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Administer 1st dose to all frontline workers by March 1, hospitals told||PATNA: Health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit has directed all the centres to complete the process of administering the first dose of Covid vaccines to frontline workers by March 1. He has also urged people to get inoculated in order to protect themselves from coronavirus. Health facilities will start vaccinating people above the age of 50 years in Phase III of the drive. Meanwhile, private hospitals in the state capital claim that they have witnessed a tremendous improvement in the rate of vaccination. According to Paras HMRI’s regional director Dr Talat Halim, nearly 80% of the listed beneficiaries have received their second dose so far. “The immunization drive began on February 15 at 41 nursing homes and diagnostic centres attached to Paras’ vaccination centre,” Dr Talat said and added that the vaccines were being administered on Mondays and Thursdays. As many as 90 people received the second dose of the Covid vaccine at Ruban Memorial Hospital on Monday. “The pace of the vaccination drive is satisfactory. We are motivating more healthcare workers to get the vaccine shots as they can provide immunity against Covid-19,” the hospital’s managing director and senior doctor Satyajeet Singh said. A health department official claimed that any decision regarding the addition of more private hospitals before Phase III of the vaccination drive had not been taken yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/administer-1st-dose-to-all-frontline-workers-by-march-1-hospitals-told/articleshow/81177425.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Surat||Blast in Jhagadia chemical unit kills two||SURAT: Two persons were killed and five were reported missing following a major fire in a chemical factory in Jhagadia, Bharuch early on Tuesday morning. The fire that broke out after a blast in the unit of chemical major United Phosphorus Limited (UPL) also injured around 26 workers. The injured were undergoing treatment at hospitals in Ankleshwar, Bharuch and Vadodara, said police. According to fire officials, there was a blast at around 1.30 am on Tuesday at the UPL’s plant which resulted in a massive blaze that was visible from a distance. The cause of the blast and subsequent fire was not immediately known. It took over five hours for the firefighters to douse the flames. UPL in an official statement stated that the plant where the incident took place was shut since February 5 for its planned annual boiler inspection. “Since the plant was shut, there was no chemical reaction in progress at this plant. There were no chemical or gas leaks because of the fire/explosion either during or after this incident. Given the intensity, prima facie, it appears that the fire may have been caused due to fire/explosion in the solvent which could have been caused due to an electric short circuit. We do not rule out possible foul play, as there was no operation at the plant,” the company statement read. It further added that besides two fatalities and five workers missing “26 workers were injured and received treatment in the hospital, out of which 15 are discharged and 11 are in the hospital. None of them are critical. The company will stand by and compensate the family members of the deceased and affected workers”. The company further stated that they have ordered an internal investigation to ascertain the cause for this fire. “We are extending our full co-operation to the local authorities while they investigate this incident. In addition, we will also have an independent investigation conducted to identify the root cause of the incident,” the statement added. Fire officials said that the deceased were identified as Vanrajsinh Dodiya, a resident of Shuklatirth village of Bharuch and Nehal Mehta, of Avidha village. Police said that the explosion was so intense that it was heard 15km away. Also, glass windows in some houses in Fulvadi and Kamalsadi villages were shattered. People also claimed that the earth beneath them shook after the blast. Several people in the villages woke up and ran out of their houses thinking that it was an earthquake. The labour and employment department later on Tuesday issued a closure notice to UPL’s Jhagadhia unit after the blast. “Following the incident, officers of the Director Industrial Safety and Health (DISH) rushed immediately in the early morning and issued a closure order to United Phosphorus Limited (UPL) company’s plant at Jhagadia unit,” said in an official statement from the state government. “We have issued a closure order to the facility so that more lives are not put at risk. We will review the safety aspects,” stated P M Shah, director of DISH in the statement. Additional chief secretary, labour and employment department, Vipul Mittra, in a statement said that safety is the topmost priority in the industries. He said that UPL Ltd has been directed to pay ex-gratia compensation to the next of kin of the deceased workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/blast-in-jhagadia-chemical-unit-kills-two/articleshow/81177660.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Bareilly||Girl, 4, found brutally murdered in UP’s Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: A four-year-old girl was allegedly found murdered and her eight-year-old cousin lying unconscious 100 metres away in an orchard in Kaant area of UP’s Shahjahanpur on Monday night. Police said the girls — hailing from a minority community — were last seen taking bath at a hand-pump at a primary school in the afternoon, nearly 500 metres from the orchard. The unconscious girl was admitted to the Shahjahanpur district hospital, but given her critical condition, doctors referred her to a higher medical facility in Bareilly. Police said there were abrasions on her private parts and she slipped into a ‘coma’ as the accused tried to strangle her. A member of the autopsy team told TOI, “The younger sister wasn’t assaulted sexually, but she was brutally bludgeoned to death. Her jaw is fractured and she had suffered multiple injuries on the face and internal injuries in the head. She died after slipping into a ‘coma’. It can be said that she died an extremely painful death.” The girls’ parents — both labourers who live in a joint family — said they had no enmity with anyone in the village. They sought the arrest of the accused at the earliest. Police have booked the unidentified accused and started a probe. Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand told TOI, “An FIR was registered against the unidentified accused under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) at the Kaant police station, following a complaint lodged by the girls’ parents. The sections for the attempt to rape and the Pocso Act will be added to the FIR after thorough investigation. We are questioning suspects and have been gathering information through our informers to identify the accused.” Inspector general of police (Bareilly range) Rajesh Kumar Pandey said, “It appears that the accused made a bid to assault the elder sister sexually as a result of which she got abrasions on her private parts. Besides, she was found half-naked below the waist. The accused left the girl suspecting that she had died, but she was alive. She is still in a coma, but her pulse, oxygen saturation and blood pressure are now normal. We have shifted her to a private medical college in Bareilly. According to doctors, the next 72 hours are critical for her. We are praying for her.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-4-found-brutally-murdered-her-8-year-old-cousin-critically-injured-in-ups-shahjahanpur/articleshow/81176282.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 24, 2021||Patna||Patna: Frequent price rise adds to people’s financial woes||PATNA: At a time when middle class people are going through hard times financially due to the Covid-19 pandemic, soaring prices of essential commodities have added to their woes and made it difficult for them to adjust household budgets. Recently, the COMFED increased the prices of available varieties of its ‘Sudha’ milk by about Rs2/litre. Potato and onion prices have also risen sharply. “Be it vegetables, fruits or milk, the skyrocketing prices of essential commodities have derailed my monthly budget, which has increased by over 30% when compared to the previous months,” said Shushma Singh of Kankarbagh. “Adjusting to these sudden price hikes is becoming more and more difficult. Even a slight increase in vegetable prices and LPG cylinders affects the monthly budget a lot. Keeping up with price hikes in essential commodities is the biggest challenge in the present system,” said Meena Singh, a homemaker. The petrol, diesel and LPG prices in Patna have been turning more volatile. While petrol is being sold at Rs93.25/litre, diesel price has climbed up to Rs86.57/litre. In addition, the price of a non-subsidized LPG cylinder in Patna is Rs867.50. The daily life of people already burdened by the pandemic has become more difficult. Anshu Kumar of Buddha Colony said, “The diesel and petrol prices are always on the rise. I own a car but hardly use it because I cannot afford to get a refill so frequently.” Bibha Sinha of Kankarbagh said it’s becoming unbearable now as the prices of every other item are increasing. “More considerate financial decisions from the government are the need of the hour,” she said. Earlier this month, the ministry of civil aviation had announced increase in domestic airfare ranging from 10% (minimum) to 30% (maximum) depending on the distance covered. “Air travel is safer and quicker in comparison to other modes of transport for now. But the government is constantly exploiting people by increasing airfare. As a frequent flyer, it’s frustrating to pay different fare every time you book a similar flight,” said Deshant Arya, an IT professional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/frequent-price-rise-adds-to-peoples-financial-woes/articleshow/81177817.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Patna||Swachh Survekshan survey: Walls, flyovers in Patna get theme paintings for better rankings||PATNA: The state capital is gearing up to perform better in the Swachh Survekshan survey, 2021. Flyovers and public walls are being beautified by paintings, illustrating various themes like awareness on Covid-19, water conservation and cleanliness. The ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) has given weightage to the city’s beautification drive and sustainability in this year’s Swachh Survekshan. Under the direct observation category, MoHUA has allotted 200 marks for wall paintings drawn on flyovers, public walls with the involvement of citizens. Patna municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma said the civic body was undertaking a holistic approach this time, which encompasses beautification, sanitization and segregation of various aspects. “We are monitoring the progress on everyday basis. In order to increase public engagement, PMC is adopting conventional methods to raise awareness about the programme. Wall paintings, street plays, dance, and social media campaigns are being used to reach out to the public under Swachh Survekshan, 2021,” he said. Apart from the beautification drive, the survey is based on parameters like citizen’s feedback, service level progress, garbage-free city certification, segregation of waste and awareness campaigns about cleanliness. Incidentally, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) scored zero in the certification category last year as it was still under process at the time of evaluation. “This time, we have already secured the open-defecation-free certificate and have applied for the garbage-free. So, we are already a few points up in comparison to the previous year,” the municipal commissioner told this newspaper. Appreciating the civic body’s effort at cleaning and painting several areas of the city, residents are also pledging their support in maintaining cleanliness. Pankaj Mishra, an engineer by profession, said, “It’s the responsibility of both the citizens and the authorities to maintain the beauty and cleanliness of our city. We, as citizens, need to be more considerate towards our actions.” Patna was placed at 47th rank, the last among cities with a population of more than 10 lakh, in the last edition of the survey. It’s ranking has been worrisome for the residents. “We know that public urination is a major area of concern and the city administration needs to increase the number of public toilets to fight this menace,” said Priyanshi Singh of Kankarbagh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/walls-flyovers-get-theme-paintings-for-better-rankings/articleshow/81177970.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam police arrest six for property offences||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag city police arrested six persons in three separate incidents for their involvement in property offences and recovered the stolen property from them. DCP (crimes), V Suresh Babu said police arrested four persons on charges of pickpocketing during the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant Parirakshana Yatra by YSRC leader V Vijayasai Reddy on February 20. During the rally, four persons—PD Prasad, I Balaji, K Ravi Kumar and K Srinivas—slit the pockets of participants at the rally and stole over Rs 3 lakh cash. Based on a complaint from the victims, a case was registered and the four persons nabbed. Police recovered Rs 2.8 lakh. In another incident, New Port police nabbed a burglar for stealing machinery items from Gangavaram Port area. The arrested was identified as Y Appalaraju. The police recovered over Rs 1.45 lakh worth of stolen goods from the accused. The police said that one A Gopi, working as a maintenance contractor, had stored the machinery in a room but Appalaraju later broke into the room. Meanwhile, a 30-year-old, L Tirupathi was arrested for stealing an autorickshaw parked near a hotel at Surya Bagh area. Based on CCTV footage, police identified the accused and recovered the vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/six-arrested-for-property-offences/articleshow/81178013.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sufi shrines curb visitors in dargahs||MUMBAI: Iconic Sufi shrines like Haji Ali and Mahim have decided to restrict visitors inside the dargahs to 20—25 at a time in the wake of the government’s new instructions to avoid crowding the public places due to spike in Covid-19 cases. Many mosques have also made masks mandatory and put up boards with “no mask, no entry” slogan outside their gates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sufi-shrines-curb-visitors-in-dargahs/articleshow/81180036.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Vijayawada||SEC seeks HC nod to probe plaints against unanimous elections||Vijayawada: The state election commission on Tuesday urged the high court to allow it to conduct enquiries at places where complaints have been lodged against unanimous elections in the MPTC and ZPTC polls. The SEC said holding an enquiry into the complaints will ensure purity of the election process. The high court had earlier directed the SEC not to conduct enquiries at places where form 10 was issued announcing unanimous election and not to announce the action, if taken any, at places where form 10 was not issued. A batch of petitions have been moved challenging the SEC’s orders to conduct enquiry. N Ashwani Kumar, standing counsel for SEC, told the high court that after the interim order on Friday, everyone got form 10 by Monday at places where single nomination was filed. This leaves no option for the SEC to conduct any enquiry. He requested the court to allow the conduct of enquiries into complaints received irrespective of whether form 10 was issued. Contending the arguments, senior counsel C V Mohan Reddy questioned on what basis the SEC is saying that form 10 was issued after Friday. He argued the SEC does not have any jurisdiction to probe once form 10 was issued. Subjecting all those who have been elected unanimously to be probed by an authority which do not have any authority to do the same should not be allowed, he said. Even if the SEC is allowed to conduct an enquiry, it cannot take any action as any dispute after the elections has to be settled by the election tribunal and not the SEC, he said. On the other hand, the Jana Sena, in its petition, said the SEC wrote to the Union mentioning that large-scale violence took place during the filing of nominations. After hearing all sides, Justice D V S S Somayajulu directed the SEC to file a counter affidavit and posted the matter for further hearing to March 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-seeks-hc-nod-to-probe-plaints-against-unanimous-elections/articleshow/81177834.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 24, 2021||Nashik||NMC gets state govt nod to start city bus service||Nashik: The transport department of the state government has finally given its consent to Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to operate city bus service in the city.” “There has been a rise in Covid patients in the city. Hence, the decision about when to start the city bus service will be taken during meeting of Nashik Mahanagar Parivahan Samiti which is scheduled to be held shortly,” NMC commissioner Kailas Jadhav said. He said that the bus service will be started within 15 days. Earlier, the civic body had announced that it would soon start city bus service from January 26, but the project could not be initiated due to lack of state government’s permission. The NMC is taking over the city bus service from the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) on the directive of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis for the first time. The city bus service will be a huge respite for everyone, including office-goers as well as school and college going children. The NMC plans to operate CNG and diesel buses in the initial phase and will launch electric buses in the later phase. The civic body has already deployed two contractors fpr operating the city bus service and they have altogether purchased 250 buses, including 200 CNG buses and 50 diesel ones. The buses are to be operated, maintained and managed by the contractors concerned. The NMC will pay these contractors on per kilometre basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-gets-state-govt-nod-to-start-city-bus-service/articleshow/81177127.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 24, 2021||Patna||Over 9k beneficiaries get Covid vaccine shots||PATNA: Altogether 9,167 beneficiaries were given Covid-19 shots on Tuesday. The figure includes 2,611 healthcare workers who took their second dose. The rest 6,109 were frontline workers who got their first dose of the vaccine. So far, a total of 1,33,875 have taken their vaccine shot and they account for 49.2% of the registered beneficiaries. Tuesday's vaccination was done at 327 session sites, and as per data released by the state health society, no adverse events following immunization cases were reported, however, so far 90 minor cases have been recorded. Though there are no dedicated sites for left out healthcare workers now, an official said when these registered beneficiaries come to a session site, they are given the shot. On Monday, 447 healthcare workers got their first dose. So far, 5,33,884 beneficiaries have got the first dose in Bihar and this includes 3,99,009 healthcare workers and 1,33,875 frontline workers. Meanwhile, 59 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Tuesday against 2,60,218 samples tested and, the tally has reached 2,62,304. In the same period, 71 people recovered. Officially one death was reported from across the state taking the toll to 1,536. This death was from Patna. AIIMS-Patna reported one more death of a 77-year-old male from Darbhanga district. As of Tuesday, there are 22 patients in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-9k-beneficiaries-get-covid-vaccine-shots/articleshow/81177600.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Patna||Medical teams to test passengers and flyers||PATNA: Health department will depute its teams at railway stations and airport for Covid testing of passengers reaching the state for Holi festival. The decision has been taken in the light of new Covid variants. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh told this newspaper that a list of doctors in this regard was being prepared. “Initially, fewer doctors will be stationed, but we’ll gradually increase their number with the rise in the incoming crowd at the stations or airport around the festival,” she said. “If needed, we will also ask the district magistrate to provide additional police force for proper monitoring. With the vaccination drive underway and proper monitoring at places, we can control the virus transmission,” she added. Passengers arriving at and departing from railway stations and airport will have to undergo compulsory thermal screening and Covid testing by the team of doctors present there. Patna airport director Bhupesh C H Negi said they were waiting for the health department team. “We are strictly adhering to all the Covid prevention protocols and surveillance on our own. We will cooperate with the medical team once it arrives,” he said. Chief public relations officer of East Central Railway, Rajesh Kumar, said they were conducting compulsory thermal screening of all the passengers waiting for the health department teams to reach the railway stations. Recently, with India reporting the presence of Brazil and South Africa variants of coronavirus, Covid safety measures have been ramped up at stations, bus stands and airports in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/medical-teams-to-test-passengers-and-flyers/articleshow/81177564.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Vijayawada||Govt issues order seeking explanation from retd IAS officer||Vijayawada: The state government on Tuesday issued orders seeking explanation from retired IAS officer Preeti Sudan for allegedly influencing subordinate officers to convert her extraordinary leave (EOL) into earned leave/half pay leave in violation of rules. Chief secretary Adityanath Das issued a notice through a GO to Preeti Sudan, a 1983 batch IAS officer, seeking her explanation too. The government said Sudan, while working as vice-chairperson and managing director of AP State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd, secured extraordinary leave from March 1, 2005 to February 28, 2006. She secured this leave to visit her family members in the US. However, she wrote a letter to the state government on June 25, 2005 seeking permission to utilise the EOL to take up a study with the development research unit of World Bank. The department of personnel & training (DoPT) of the central government gave permission to her from March 1 to May 31, 2006, besides continuing her earlier leave (EOL). The DoPT also considered her assignment with the World Bank for the three-month period, and further requested the state government to regularise Preeti’s EOL period as eligible earned leave/half pay leave as per All India Services rules. The government also calculated the pension contribution and communicated the same to her following which she paid her share of Rs 37,164, the state government said. Later, the officer made a request to consider her EOL period as earned leave. The government said Sudan, as secretary of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, influenced her subordinates and got her EOL converted without the permission of competent authority, which is the state government and the DoPT, respectively. The retired IAS officer “violated the provisions of the AIS (Conduct) Rules, 1968 in as much as converting the EOL period as EL/HPL by influencing subordinates under her control, without competency and without concurrence of the cadre controlling authority,” the GO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-issues-order-seeking-explanation-from-retd-ias-officer/articleshow/81177784.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Patna||Tejashwi cites crime figures in Bihar to corner Nitish govt||PATNA: Citing comparative statistics on the state’s crime front during the 15-year Lalu-Rabri rule from 1990 and CM Nitish Kumar’s regime since 2005, leader of the opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday claimed substantial increase in the number of cognisable offences in the state during the NDA rule. Citing the crime figures for Bihar from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Tejashwi said the total cognisable offences reported were 1.24 lakh in 1990, 1.15 lakh in 1995 and 97,850 in 2005 (Lalu-Rabri rule). In contrast, the figures pertaining to cognisable offences were 1.27 lakh during 2005-10, 1.76 lakh during 2010-15 and 1.96 lakh during 2015-18, registering an overall increase by 101.2% over the Lalu-Rabri rule, he claimed. “It is clear that the crime figures went on falling from 1990 to 2005, but kept increasing after that,” Tejashwi said, adding: “Taking recourse to propaganda and misinformation, the period from 1990-2005 was branded as the ‘jungle raj’, which has continued. It was a motivated exercise. If RJD had presided over the jungle raj, then why did Nitish align with it to rule the state under the grand alliance government (2015-17)? Today, more brutal crime incidents have been occurring, like gouging out of the eye, rape, gang rape and unsolved murder cases.” Tejashwi, who had initiated the House debate on the motion of thanks to the governor’s address, said the Congress-led UPA government had given a package of Rs1.44 lakh crore to the state, besides pointing out that the performance of the Nitish government on the education and health fronts, including handling of the coronavirus pandemic, had turned out to be “fissaddi” (nothing), which had been proved by the indicators on education and health prepared by the Niti Aayog. Since former Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary is the education minister, Tejashwi called him as a “good man who used to give protection to me in the House as Speaker, but he was also on the wrong side (with BJP”. One could have expected a sharp and stinging counter from Choudhary, but he merely pointed out that it was due to circumstances. In the same vein, Tejashwi also tried to build a bridge with Nitish whose JD (U), as the observers feel, has been largely playing second fiddle with depleted strength of 44 to the BJP’s 74 members in the 243-member House. “You all say I know only ABCD, but I am in the process of learning and may one day also come to know XYZ. But you (Nitish) are the CM on the ‘anukampa’ (compassion of the BJP). It is like you have become their ‘kathputli’ (puppet) and ‘stepini’,” Tejashwi said, pointing out that Nitish had been unable to appoint MLCs from the governor’s quota and also fill the top posts in the boards and corporations. Incidentally, last week, Nitish had called for holding caste census along with the general census. “Ours has been an old demand regarding the caste census. Even the state assembly had passed a resolution on it,” Tejashwi said, adding that the state government should take the necessary follow-up action on it. That being the backdrop, it was expected that Nitish, while giving the government’s reply, would come hard on Tejashwi, but he was in condoning mood and also played light of whatever the son of RJD president Lalu Prasad had said, so that it came down to the nuanced exchange of remarks, which made observers wonder if there was some thawing of relations between them or if it was in the process? In fact, with respect to one data, Nitish said Tejashwi had fielded it from the period when he used to “play in my lap,” and in fact, “listen to me whatever I am saying to learn new things, because my time is over, and you have long time on your side.” A pleasant distraction during all this was the exchange between the BJP’s first-time MLA and shooter Shreyasi Singh and Tejashwi, when the latter talked about the move to have a sports university at Rajgir and the shooting range. “I have discussed the issue with minister Alok Ranjan. Steps will be taken,” Shreyasi told Tejashwi, who, in turn, said: “We had studied together. The policy with regard to the improvement of the sports facilities the government is taking had first been mulled over by our government in the past.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-cites-crime-figures-in-bihar-to-corner-nitish-govt/articleshow/81177915.cms||Abhay Singh
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||BMC challenge to disprove its claims on bldg approvals dept||Mumbai: BMC claims it has reformed the building approvals department and has thrown an open challenge to anyone to prove otherwise. The challenge remains open till March 31. Several developers and architects TOI spoke to acknowledged things had improved, but they said it wasn’t as significant as is being made out. No one was willing to go on record though. “Seven officers scrutinise every proposal and it is entirely discretionary. There are so many rejections and time lost on account of this is not accounted for,” said an architect. However, another architect said linking of property cards to the BMC’s land use maps has made the task much easier. A developer said there was more transparency now. “One can see all files and reasons for concessions being granted or rejected by the municipal commissioner. “There is a visible change in speed and action, though to say it is perfect would be far-fetched,” Niranjan Hiranandani, national president, NAREDCO, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-challenge-to-disprove-its-claims-on-bldg-approvals-dept/articleshow/81181062.cms||Clara Lewis
February 24, 2021||Business||RIL hives off oil-to-chemicals business||MUMBAI: Reliance Industries (RIL) will transfer its oil-to-chemicals (O2C) operations to a wholly owned subsidiary for a $25-billion loan, besides $12-billion equity. Consideration for the transfer of the O2C assets, which includes the operating team and 12 manufacturing facilities, will be funded by a $25-billion loan from the parent, the company said in a presentation filed with the stock exchanges. The interest-bearing loan from RIL to the O2C company will be an “efficient mechanism to upstream cash, including any potential capital receipts in the unit”, it said. Carving out the O2C operations into an independent entity will make it easier for RIL to bring in external investors. It had earlier explored a different structure, but India’s securities market rules did not permit such a scheme. RIL had said earlier that it, being a listed company, cannot issue shares with differential rights (that is, equity shares with interest linked only to the O2C business) to investors. Therefore, the O2C undertaking has to be transferred into a wholly owned subsidiary of RIL, in which the external investors will invest, it had said. RIL has been in discussions with Saudi Aramco to sell a 20% stake in the O2C unit for more than one and a half years. The deal, if successful, could lead to further deleveraging of RIL. RIL will retain management control of the O2C company. The separation will also not dilute earnings or restrict cash flows for the parent, according to the company’s presentation. The O2C transfer on a slump sale basis — subject to courts, shareholders and creditors approvals — is expected to be concluded before September 30. Slump sale means transfer of an undertaking for a lump sum consideration without values being assigned to individual assets and liabilities. “The income tax law lays down specific computation provisions for a transaction qualifying as a slump sale. This computation mechanism remains the same, irrespective of such transaction carried out through an NCLT scheme or through a private arrangement. Basis of this mechanism, the seller is allowed to offset its tax net worth as on the transfer date from the aggregate sale consideration. If the sale consideration of the transaction equates to or is less than the tax net worth of the transferred undertaking, then no capital gains or associated tax liability would arise. Also, such slump sale transaction entailing the transfer of undertaking as a going concern would not entail GST implications,” said RBSA Advisors MD Ravi Mehta on the Reliance O2C demerger. The O2C unit comprises the refining and petrochemical businesses, the fuel retail joint venture with BP and the butyl rubber joint venture with Sibur of Russia. RIL will have four growth engines after the reorganisation — digital, retail, new materials and new energy, said a Morgan Stanley report. The demerger plan for the O2C business is a step towards monetisation and acceleration of RIL’s new energy and material plans for batteries, hydrogen, renewables and carbon capture, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-hives-off-oil-to-chemicals-biz/articleshow/81180420.cms||Reeba Zachariah
February 24, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Bhagalpur officials gear up for Phase III of vaccination drive||BHAGALPUR: Health department officials in Bhagalpur are gearing up for Phase III of the Covid vaccination drive as part of which people above 50 years of age and those with comorbidities will be inoculated from the third week of March. According to district immunization officer Dr Manoj Kumar Chowdhary, the vaccine shots are being given as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The beneficiaries will get themselves registered online after which they will receive details like the time and location of the hospital where the vaccines will be administered to them. The Covid-19 vaccination drive, which started in January with healthcare workers, was followed by the second phase meant for frontline workers from February 6. While the healthcare workers are already receiving their second dosage, the second phase beneficiaries are likely to get their booster dosage from March 2 after a gap of three to four weeks. “The drive for administering the booster dosage to health workers, who got their first shot of vaccine in Phase I, will end on February 28. On the other hand, the process of giving the second dosage to the frontline workers in Phase II will start on March 2 and end on March 20,” Chowdhary told this reporter on Tuesday and added that Phase III of the immunization drive would focus on people who were most vulnerable to the virus. Two Covid vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — have been granted emergency-use authorization by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-officials-gear-up-for-phase-iii-of-vaccination-drive/articleshow/81177531.cms||Kumar Rajesh
February 24, 2021||Patna||CJI to inaugurate Patna HC’s ‘centenary’ building on February 27||PATNA: Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde will inaugurate the Patna high court’s ‘centenary building’ on February 27.  Justice Navin Sinha of the Supreme Court, Patna HC Chief Justice Sanjay Karol, CM Nitish Kumar, Union minister of law and justice Ravishankar Prasad will attend the function, sources said. The Patna high court’s first modern-era building has 43 new courtrooms. The present main building, having 39 courtrooms against sanctioned posts of 53 judges, was inaugurated by Lord Hardinge on February 3, 1916. The centenary building has been completed after 5 years delay. CM Nitish Kumar had laid the foundation stone for the ‘centenary building’ in the presence of then Chief Justice Rekha M Doshit on February 4, 2014. A building construction department (BCD) source said the new building basement has the parking capacity of 129 cars. He said the building has 43 courtrooms, 57 chambers, two libraries and lounges, six committee rooms and a conference room for 90 persons. It is connected to the old building by a bridge. “Initially, Rs116 crore was approved for its construction in 2011. However, the estimate was revised to Rs169.5 crore in 2017. The final project cost climbed up to Rs203.94 crore, which includes furniture, interior work and campus development,” the officer said. “As per the initial deadline, construction work was to be completed in February, 2016, but it was delayed first due to environmental clearance certificate and then removal of the firm engaged for its construction work. Finally, another was assigned the work after fresh tenders,” he said. Another BCD officer said the building architecture was modified only to save one more than a century old ‘peepal’ tree. “The tree was on the way to the parking lot. The then CJI had suggested to get it relocated,” he said. However, it was the building design which was finally changed instead of tree’s relocation, he added. He also said it is an earthquake-resistant building. “The building has one underground water tank of 1 lakh litres and another overhead tank of 20,000 litres for use in case of fire. The building is also fitted with automatic fire detection and alarm system. State fire services has issued no-objection certificate,” he said. The officer said modern facilities like sewage and water treatment plants, rainwater harvesting and CCTV surveillance are also present in the building. State government standing counsel Arvind Ujjwal said the number of courtrooms in the present building was increased to 39 by internal renovations. “The day all the 53 sanctioned posts get fulfilled, there would be no place to hold courts for hearing,” he said. Chairman of coordination committee of all three lawyers’ associations of the high court, Yogesh Chandra Verma, said the new building would serve future needs as the sanctioned posts of judges would definitely have to be increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cji-to-inaugurate-patna-hcs-centenary-building-on-feb-27/articleshow/81177995.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 24, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Irrigation department goes digital to record progress of projects||AMARAVATI: In a bid to stem corruption, the irrigation department is switching over to the digital mode to record the progress of ongoing projects. Field-level engineering teams have been directed to make all entries of measurements on a dedicated web portal that has been readied by the department. Andhra Pradesh is the first state to introduce the electronic management of measurement books (e-M Book). After the success of the pilot project taken up in Kurnool district, the irrigation department has decided to roll out the system across the state and for all projects. The new system is expected to bring an end to irregularities by field officials. As per the rules, officials should enter all details of the progress of the project in the measurement book in order to make payments to the contractor. The M-Book will be the only basis even when it comes to verification of the quality and progress of a specific work. However, it has become a practice for a number of field-level engineers and contractors to tamper the records in the manual measurement book. In many cases, the engineers make entries in the measurement book only after the contractor has met their demands for a bribe, irrespective of the progress of the work. In some instances, the field-level officers do not even check the quality parameters as per the tender conditions before making entries in the measurement book. Taking such irregularities into consideration, irrigation engineer-in-chief Narayana Reddy has decided to shift all measurement transactions to the digital mode. As a pilot, the system was introduced in Kurnool circle about eight months ago and implemented for all ongoing projects. “This digital mode has been a big success as it is a most transparent system,” said Kurnool circle chief engineer Muralinatha Reddy. He said that the junior engineer would make entries of progress on a daily basis and it would not be possible to make changes once the measurements were entered into the electronic measurement book.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/irrigation-dept-goes-digital-to-record-progress-of-projects/articleshow/81177610.cms||Samdani MN
February 24, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Nominations close for teacher MLC seats||VIJAYAWADA: Nominations for two teacher MLC seats that will go for polls on March 14 closed on Tuesday. The seats will fall vacant on March 29 with the retirement of Ramu Surya Rao for the Godavari districts and A S Rama Krishna for Krishna and Guntur districts. The electoral officials have received eight nominations from the two Godavari districts, while there were 11 nominations for the Krishna-Guntur seat. The Progressive Democratic Front, backed by the Left parties, have fielded Shaik Sabjee for the Godavari districts and Boddu Nageswara Rao for the Krishna and Guntur districts seat. Sitting MLC and associate member of the TDP, A S Rama Krishna, too filed his papers for the second term. Boddu Nageswara Rao of the PDF, who was MLC in 2013 in the graduates’ constituency, is now trying his luck in the teachers’ constituency. Supported by some strong teachers’ unions including AP Teachers Federation and United Teachers’ Federation, both Sabjee and Nageswara Rao have better chances this time. However, A S Rama Krishna, who is backed by the TDP, is also a strong contestant in the Krishna and Guntur teachers’ constituency and is set to give a tough fight. The nominations will be scrutinised on February 24 and the valid nominations will be notified for the elections once withdrawals are completed on February 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nominations-close-for-teacher-mlc-seats/articleshow/81177910.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP panchayat polls: Political party workers from Odisha confront residents of disputed villages||VISAKHAPATNAM: Residents of the disputed Kotia group of villages along the Andhra-Odisha border (AOB) have claimed that local political party leaders from Odisha have been threatening them with cutting off services to the region for voting in the recently concluded gram panchayat elections in Andhra Pradesh. Odisha and Andhra Pradesh have been at loggerheads over the jurisdiction of the Kotia group, which comprises 21 villages, over the past several decades. AP has consistently claimed the villages come under Salur in Vizianagaram district and are under its jurisdiction. G Bisu, a resident of Ganjaibhadra, said, “Some local political party leaders from Odisha visited our villages and expressed their anger at villagers for taking part in the gram panchayat elections in Andhra Pradesh. Though the leaders from Odisha urged us to boycott elections, we actively cast our votes in the recent polls as we have been getting more benefits from the Andhra Pradesh government and will not be scared off by threats.” Speaking to TOI, inspector of Salur, L Appala Naidu said if the threats continue, police with the coordination of revenue and other officials, will take a decision to mitigate such incidents. The issue of jurisdiction over the disputed villages is being heard in the Supreme Court. The apex court recently granted four weeks to Odisha to reply to the Andhra Pradesh government’s affidavit on its contempt plea against senior officials in AP for notifying panchayat elections in disputed areas. Meanwhile, the Koraput district administration has asked its officials to ensure all around development in the disputed areas. The AP government is also chalking out plans for developmental activities in the region. Locals in the disputed Kotia group of villages said they were threatened with services to the region being cut off for having voted in the panchayat elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/political-party-workers-from-odisha-confront-residents-of-disputed-villages/articleshow/81177879.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 24, 2021||Amaravati||Nadu-Nedu phase II launch in April: Andhra Pradesh education minister||AMARAVATI: Education minister Adimulapu Suresh on Tuesday said the second phase of works under Nadu-Nedu, aimed at modernisation of public schools, will be launched in April. The first phase works worth Rs 3,669 crore will be completed by March, he added. Suresh said modernisation works have been completed in about 15,700 schools at a cost of Rs 2,570 crore. “The government saved Rs 245 crore through reverse tendering system. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, through Nadu-Nedu scheme, wants to provide at least 10 basic infrastructure facilities in all 45,000 government schools in the state in a phased manner. The scheme has now become a model for the whole nation,” he said, adding that they were providing furniture including student benches, green chalk boards, fans, lights, drinking water, and toilets with water in all government schools. He said Rs 2,570 crore were spent on the first phase works launched in June last year. “There’s been 100 per cent progress in construction of toilets and fitting fans in classrooms, while it is 89 per cent in case of green boards. Drinking water works have witnessed 39 per cent progress while painting of school buildings is over 46 per cent complete. Smart TVs have also been installed in 50 per cent schools in the first phase,” Suresh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/nadu-nedu-phase-ii-launch-in-april/articleshow/81178005.cms||Samdani MN
February 24, 2021||Business||Is your co’s culture aligned to goals? If not, make a shift||By Prabir JhaBoth as a CXO and now as a strategic adviser, I have been very keen to sense the culture of a workplace. And so you can, palpably everywhere — in the workplace layout, in conversations with leaders, as a fly on the wall in meetings, in the fireside chats with the rank and file, in the policy frameworks and even in the time you take to get a response from an organisation. In many ways, I believe that cultural re-engineering is possibly one of the biggest strategic shifts that many firms need to focus on. Challenges in business in many ways can be traced back to a culture, howsoever ‘nice’, but woefully anachronistic. And sadly, it is left untouched because it can be seen as both blasphemous and too complex. Culture is one of the least understood management expressions in companies. Beyond formal articulation and visual representation, it really is the way members of an organisation think, feel, relate and finally deliver a product or an experience. So, it is both deep and wide, it is palpable yet sublime. It rings loud and yet can be silent. Also, no culture — soft or harsh — is bad. The question really is whether it is strategically aligned to the firm’s plans. It needs to reinforce the playout of your corporate strategy. In many ways, choice of a culture then is hard strategy, not just a soft, fuzzy inheritance. Yet, it does not seemingly deliver quarter-on-quarter and unfortunately is rarely on the board’s agenda. In the process, it can become the biggest enterprise risk. There are some key markers to help you re-engineer your culture strategically: * Honestly critique and acknowledge the gaps in your current culture: One can do this internally or take an independent resource. What really is still enabling your strategy deployment? What is hurting, if not derailing it altogether? Which dimensions have outlived their utility and need to be repudiated? What aspects missing in your culture need to be introduced and nursed? There will be a lot of emotion, resentment and denial as you go through this exercise. Often, the honesty of the doing gets compromised. But done well, we will know what to stop, continue and begin. * Leadership advocacy: In the minimum, the leadership of the firm needs to articulate the culture it seeks to advocate and explain the logic of the change. This dialogue must happen across levels and in a language that people can easily understand, with examples. Don’t be surprised if you get fair support for it as most associates indeed know the need for change is long overdue. Yet, any change is difficult, at times even painful. It is important for all stakeholders to understand the ‘raison d’etre’ of the shift, the non-negotiability of the new cultural archetypes and the support for unequivocally actioning the shifts. And of course, role-modelling the shifts right from the top as that speaks the loudest. * Talent culture: A new culture may need some clear shifts in mindsets, competences and behaviour. Depending on the sharpness of the needed swerve, greater the focus on leadership and talent-coaching support, training, some tough exit calls, some dramatic promotions, a few strong new hires. This will clearly reinforce your commitment to how deep and fast is your intent on cultural re-engineering. I have always favoured more on a talent focus for plurality, or ‘culture plus’, than a sterile and incestuous ‘culture fit’ humdrum that one hears so often. Be that as it may, you cannot re-engineer culture without biting tough talent bullets. * Realign all HR sub-systems to reinforce the re-engineered culture: In my experience, many cultural shifts fall short of what is desired. This is not because of silent dissidence, but because the entire HR ecosystem did not change comprehensively. Maybe the style and substance of your performance & rewards framework needs to measure and reward a very different set of virtues now? Maybe your organisational architecture needs delayering? Possibly the talent definition and your hiring practice needs to change. Maybe accountability and delegation norms have to be reset. Or maybe, your entire leadership framework or career management, needs a change? The entire policy framework, including what you recognise and celebrate, needs to be revamped. There cannot be anything that stays a holy cow. Scrub well and do not worry about implementing the changes fast. Not everyone will like the shifts. That is the collateral damage you must be prepared for in the hiatus. The alternative is going to be far worse. * Stay the course: No other change unleashes emotions and reactions as changing culture. There will be accusations of subverting history, there will be predictions of doomsday. It is natural for constituencies to see cultural re-engineering from the selfish lens of self-survival and self-perpetuation. Continue to allow for healing and psychological support. Track progress. Celebrate the wins. In an odd case, be flexible to adjust the course — in quantum or speed. But playing a half-hearted stroke is worse than not playing one. Remember, these are strategic shifts, not notional eye-wash. Stay strong and positive. If the intent is honest and forward-looking, stay the course. Beyond the hiccup, the hockey stick effect will play out. In a world of such intense disruption, strategy will be about relevance and impact in the future rather than celebrating just the past. If your future needs a shift in culture, bite the tough bullet. It is better to be remembered for saving the life of your enterprise than for silently writing its epitaph. (The writer is the founder & CEO of Prabir Jha People Advisory)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/is-your-cos-culture-aligned-to-goals-if-not-make-a-shift/articleshow/81180472.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Patna||Day after lone MLC joins BJP, Chirag rejigs party setup||PATNA: A day after the lone LJP MLC Nutan Singh left the party to join BJP, LJP chief Chirag Paswan rejigged the party's organisational setup. Chirag on Tuesday appointed two senior leaders--Raju Tiwari and Sanjay Paswan--as the state working president and the principal general secretary, respectively. Both Tiwari, the former MLA from Govinganj, and Paswan, the former state Dalit Sena chief, are considered old warhorses of the party and loyalists of LJP founder and former Union minister late Ram Vilas Paswan. Tiwari, the elder brother of former MLA Rajan Tiwari, is also a member of the parliamentary board of the LJP. He lost to Sunil Mani Tiwari of BJP in the recently held state assembly polls. Prince Raj, the LJP MP from Samastipur, is currently holding the post of state president. Sources, however, said Prince Raj seldom interacts with party workers. With these changes, Chirag has initiated steps to revive the party, which received a setback in the state assembly election. The party could win only one seat in the 243-member assembly. Delighted over the new role assigned to him by the national president, Tiwari said, "I will try my level best to enthuse the workers who were feeling neglected." In Bihar, LJP will more or less play the role of opposition though it has no understanding with the main opposition parties like RJD, Congress and the Left. LJP had severed its ties with NDA constituents, especially with JD(U), ahead of the assembly polls. On the contrary, LJP still considered itself a part of the ruling NDA at the Centre. Both the newly elected functionaries said till any senior leader of BJP doesn't make any statements on ties with LJP, there is no point to raise any question on it. They, however, hastened to add that the issue related to LJP being part of the NDA at the Centre will be decided by the party's central leadership. "Right now, we can say we will leave no stone unturned to fulfil the dreams and ideology of late Ram Vilas Paswan," the two newly elected functionaries said. When asked about the lone LJP MLC Nutan Singh switching sides, the two leaders said, "Yah political party mein aana-jaana laga rahta hai." Moreover, this is applicable to all political parties. Political observers described Paswan's move as an endeavour towards uniting its "Brahmin-Dalit" votes in the state. The development comes days after 208 workers of LJP, including general secretary Keshav Singh, joined the JD(U). Speculation is rife that the party's only MLA Raj Kumar Singh may switch sides soon. He had recently called on Ashok Choudhary, a minister in the Nitish Kumar cabinet. Patna: A day after the lone LJP MLC Nutan Singh left the party and joined the BJP, LJP chief Chirag Paswan brought about changes in the organisational set up of the state unit of the party. Chirag on Tuesday appointed two senior leaders--Raju Tiwari and Sanjay Paswan--as the state working president and the principal general secretary, respectively. Both Tiwari, the former MLA from Govinganj and Paswan, former state Dalit Sena chief and former state vice president of LJP, are considered to be old horses of the party and loyalists to its founder and former union minister late Ram Vilas Paswan. Tiwari, elder brother of former MLA Rajan Tiwari, is also a member of the parliamentary board of the LJP. He lost to Sunil Mani Tiwari of the BJP in the recently held state assembly polls. Prince Raj, the LJP MP from Samastipur, is currently holding the post of state president. Sources, however, said that Prince Raj seldom interected with the workers of the party. With the changes, Chirag has initiated steps to revive the party, which received a major setback in the state assembly elections. The party could win only one seat in the 243-member state assembly. Apparently delighted over the new role assigned by the national president Chirag Paswan, Tiwari said," I will try my level best to enthuse the workers who were feeling neglected." In the state, the LJP will more or less play the role of an opposition though it has no political understanding with the main opposition parties like RJD, Congress and left parties. The LJP had severed its ties with the NDA constituents, especially with the JD(U), ahead of the assembly polls. On the contrary, the LJP still considered it to be a part of the ruling NDA at the centre. Both the newly elected functionaries said that till any senior leader of the BJP didn't make any statement on ties with the LJP, there is no point to raise any question on the issue. They, however, hastened to add that the issue related to the LJP being part of the NDA at the centre has to be decided by the central leadership of the party. "Right now we can say that we will leave no stone unturned to fulfill the dreams and ideology of late Ram Vilas Paswan," the two newly elected functionaries said. When asked about the lone LJP MLC Nutan Singh switching sides and joining the saffron party, the two leaders said, "Yah political party mein aana-jaana laga rahta hai." Moreover, this is applicable to all political parties. Political observers described the move of Chirag Paswan as an endeavour towards uniting "Brahmin- Dalit" votes in the state. The development comes days after 208 workers of the LJP, including general secretary Keshav Singh, joined the JD(U). Speculation is rife that the party's only MLA Raj Kumar Singh may switch sides soon. He had recently called on Ashok Choudhary, a minister in Nitish Kumar cabinet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/day-after-lone-mlc-joins-bjp-chirag-rejigs-party-setup/articleshow/81178841.cms||Ramashankar
February 24, 2021||Patna||Police week sessions focus on de-radicalization, eco offences||PATNA: On the second day of the Bihar Police Week, three crucial sessions on economic offences-legal challenges and provisions, radicalization and deradicalization, and cybercrime were held at the Sardar Patel Bhawan in Patna on Tuesday. Dr Adil Rasheed, a research fellow at the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, professor HV Pant of the Observer Research Foundation, and Kerala police ADG (intelligence) T K Vinod were the speakers at the deradicalization module. They spoke via video-conferencing on the radicalization problem across the world, including in Europe, Singapore and Sri Lanka, and its impact on India. They also highlighted the difference between fundamentalism, extremism, radicalism and terrorism to state police officers, which often get mixed up. State police officers also got to know about what security agencies in other countries are doing at the global level to tackle radicalization. CBI joint director AYV Krishna appeared from Hyderabad and gave a detailed presentation on chit-fund scams and how a police officer can identify that a company is involved in scamming people. He also gave detailed information on how and under what circumstances police can act against a person or a chit-fund firm for duping people. “As of date in the country, there are hardly any collective investment scheme (CIS) company registered with SEBI. Therefore, any chit-fund firm not registered with SEBI and involved in CIS is committing fraud,” he said. Krishna also shared his information about the Centre’s newly formed Banning of Unregulated Deposit Scheme (BUDS) Act, 2019 whose several rules are yet to be enacted, which can be used against Ponzi-schemes or chit-fund scams. “Every SHO is duty-bound to report to the competent authority about any unregulated deposit scheme running under their jurisdiction,” Krishna said in his presentation. He also said the competent authority under the Act is empowered to transfer such a case to CBI if it is going on in multiple states. “The government need not issue a notification. The competent authority’s reference to CBI would be treated as notification under Delhi Special Police Establishment Act which governs the CBI,” he added. Madhya Pradesh Police’s Bhopal zone ADG A Sai Manohar spoke after Krishna and shared a case study on the CBI case against Kingfisher Airlines Limited and Vijay Mallya. DGP SK Singhal, ADG (CID) Vinay Kumar, ADG (special branch) JS Gangwar, ADG (SCRB) Kamal Kishore Singh, IGs, DIGs, SSPs, SPs, DSPs and inspectors from across the state were present in the sessions. Live webcasting of the sessions was also going on across the state to several police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-week-sessions-focus-on-de-radicalization-eco-offences/articleshow/81178804.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 24, 2021||Patna||Efforts still on to trace kidnapped Khagaria man||PATNA: It’s now over two months that Khagaria man Ram Kumar was allegedly kidnapped from an oil drilling site at Changlang district in Arunachal Pradesh along with Assam man Pranab Kumar Gogoi by ULFA-I and NSCN-IM insurgents on December 21, 2020. A ransom of Rs 20 crore was demanded by the insurgents from the New-Delhi based private firm for which the duo worked. On January 20, the insurgents had released an alleged video of Ram requesting Bihar CM to talk to his Assam counterpart for making arrangements for his release. Ram (28) hails from Bahadurpur village under the Alauli police station area of Khagaria district. Soon after release of this video, the state government swung into action and DGP SK Singhal had called his counterpart in Arunachal Pradesh to get the updates. Efforts are still on to rescue Ram. Even the kidnapped man’s wife Bina Kumari on Tuesday said that she has no information about her husband’s whereabouts and the company officials too are not responding to her phone calls. “I am facing a lot of hardships, especially in getting my five-year-old son treated, who is a blood cancer patient. On February 17, I visited AIIMS-Patna for his treatment as he had fallen very ill. I took the help of my other family members for going to Patna,” said Bina, who is now residing with her parents at Rosera in Samastipur. Meanwhile, sources in state government said that some concrete information might surface soon as they have learnt that things are on a positive track for getting the duo released. “We have come to know that both will be released soon. But as the matter is sensitive, nothing official can be stated,” he said. Khagaria DM (incharge) Shatrunjay Mishra said that the last update from Changlang DM was received on February 12. “In a letter he had communicated that raids were going on. The DM had also informed that Ram was last seen on the Indo-Myanmar border on February 2,” Mishra added. A missive has been again sent to Changlang DM two days back for an update, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/efforts-still-on-to-trace-kidnapped-khagaria-man/articleshow/81178949.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 24, 2021||Vijayawada||3 dead after car carrying 25 rams into tree||Vijayawada: Three persons died on the spot while 20 others suffered severe injuries after their Bolero car rammed against a tree on the side of the road in Sivapuram area under Vinukonda mandal in Guntur district on Tuesday. The deceased—N Srinivasulu (7), V Boomaiah (50) and Bonthala Umesh Naidu (23)—are all natives of Kurnool district. According to Vinukonda circle inspector B Chinnamalayya, the incident happened at around 5 am when the overloaded car was transporting the farm labourers to an agricultural field for work. During the wee hours, the vehicle lost control while swerving and rammed against a tree, killing three persons on the spot. Passersby who witnessed the incident rushed the passengers to a local government hospital for treatment. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the driver Umesh Naidu was drowsy and might have lost consciousness, leading the incident. Police also said that the car was carrying 25 persons in the vehicle, of which only two persons escaped unhurt. Police sent the bodies for postmortem. Meanwhile, a case under section 304A of the IPC (causing death due to negligence) was registered at Vinukonda police station and further investigation is still underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-dead-after-car-carrying-25-rams-into-tree/articleshow/81177999.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Vijayawada||HC reserves order on pleas filed against resumption of civic polls||Vijayawada: The high court on Tuesday reserved its order in a batch of petitions filed against the state election commission’s decision to resume municipal election process from where it was stopped in March 2020. Interestingly, the state government and the SEC, which were involved in a series of legal battles over local body elections, came on the same page and opposed the petitions. The petitions were filed seeking directions from the high court for issue of fresh notification for municipal elections. Arguing on behalf of the petitioners, senior counsel P Veera Reddy said as per AP Municipal Act rules, if elections are stalled midway, they should be re-notified instead of resuming the process. “The legislation is clear on the issue and the SEC can only follow the rules framed by the legislature and not tinker with the law,” Veera Reddy said. Vedula Venkata Ramana, another senior counsel, said the SEC cannot take away the right of the petitioners to contest the elections by resuming the process that was stalled 11 months before. The process should be declared infructuous due to efflux of time, he argued. Countering the arguments, advocate general S Sriram told the court that the petitioners cannot challenge the electoral process which has already commenced. N Ashwani Kumar, standing counsel for SEC, said as the decision of the SEC to postpone the elections on March 15, 2020 was upheld by the Supreme Court, it has become impregnable, adding that the orders issued by the SEC on February 16 are consequential to the apex court’s judgement to resume stalled electoral process. Therefore, the present writ petitions cannot challenge the consequential orders which stand confirmed by the SC, Kumar said. Veera Reddy countered him, stating that resumption of electoral process was never part of the subject matter in the Supreme Court. The order dealt with stalling of the election process and did not talk about resumption of elections from where they were stopped, he argued, adding that relying on the apex court’s orders for resumption of electoral process instead of re-notification is an untenable ground. After hearing all sides, Justice D V S S Somayajulu reserved the verdict, while adding that the orders would be given in the shortest possible time given the urgency of the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-reserves-order-on-pleas-filed-against-resumption-of-civic-polls/articleshow/81177964.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 24, 2021||Nashik||Nashik city police to focus on land sharks||Nashik: Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey said that going by the recent murder that took place in the Gangapur area of Nashik city, land sharks could be active and appropriate action will be taken against them. The CP has appealed to the citizens that if they are being pressurized by someone to sell off their land, they should immediately approach the police and lodge a complaint. On February 17, a 75-year-old farmer was stabbed to death by unidentified people in the Anandwali area falling under the jurisdiction of Gangapur police station. While the police has arrested six people on the suspicion of their involvement in the murder, Pandey said that he suspected the involvement of land sharks in the incident. “Such land sharks would not be spared by police. There could be many civil cases in courts over land disputes. However, if someone is pressuring a landlord to sell off his land, then it is a problem. If lands are sold from outside pressure, police will definitely look into the issue,” said Pandey. “Such landlords can approach the police with their problem and necessary action will be taken against the culprits. We would take strict action like arresting land sharks under stringent acts,” the CP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-police-to-focus-on-land-sharks/articleshow/81177143.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 24, 2021||Rajkot||Death of 75 crows: Flutter in North Gujarat||PALANPUR: Death of 75 crows under mysterious circumstances has once again spread bird flu scare in Gujarat – this time in North Gujarat.Health officials went on alert mode on Tuesday after as many as 75 crows died in Kimbuva village on Patan-Deesa highway, nearly 13 km away from Patan. Local veterinarians noticed a large number of crows lying dead under a tree at around 7 am on Sunday. “When news of the suspicious death of such a large number of crows spread on, the district veterinary team rushed to the spot. They collected carcass to ascertain the cause of death,” said Daxesh Patel, a member of village panchayat. Five carcasses have been sent for further investigation at Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, said district animal husbandry officer Dr Amit Joshi. Joshi said that the birds might have died after eating dead birds who might have consumed some toxic feed. “It can also be because of some chemicals sprayed by farmers,” he said.“We are examining all the aspects. We will wait till the report arrives,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/death-of-75-crows-flutter-in-n-gujarat/articleshow/81176844.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||Powerful relief: No hike in tariff likely this year in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: A day after presenting the state budget, the Yogi Adityanath government has decided not to increase power tariff this year, giving lakhs of consumers in the state some reason to cheer about. Energy minister Shrikant Sharma, who chaired a high-powered meeting at his Vidhan Sabha office, indicated his preferences to top officials, including additional chief secretary, energy, Alok Sinha, and UPPCL chairman and MD, M Devraj by asking them to focus on timely billing, collections and cutting down line losses to shore up revenue. Political analysts said the impending three-tiered panchayat elections, scheduled to be held in the next two months, and the ‘mother of all battles’ — the UP assembly polls — due next year may have been in mind while not hiking power tariff. However, the energy minister has been resisting an increase in power tariff for long. Sharma has often strongly said that increasing UPPCL revenue by effecting a hike in power tariff is the easy way out, besides being a burden on the honest bill-paying consumer. “UPPCL should instead focus on timely billing and quality power supply to increase revenue,” he said. The minister had been under tremendous pressure from within UPPCL as well as the power regulatory authority for increasing power tariff, but he made it clear to officials that there would not be any increase this year. The minister also asked the ACS and UPPCL chairman to increase the revenue through proper billing and recovery of dues and to shed the habit of burdening the honest consumers as they were not responsible for line losses. Later on, the energy minister exhorted UPPCL to minimize its losses by curtailing transmission and distribution losses at the earliest as the state government is committed to providing cheap and quality electricity to consumers. In a tweet, Sharma said, “The government is committed to providing cheap electricity. The corporation is running in loss due to financial irregularities of the previous governments. UPPCL chairman should reduce line losses and increase billing and collection efficiency to reduce losses.” However, insiders in the ruling BJP, confirmed that apart from the energy minister’s pro-consumer stand, political compulsions had played an important role in this collective decision of not increasing the power tariff this year. The minister also held a review meeting of UPPCL with top authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/powerful-relief-no-hikein-tariff-likely-this-year/articleshow/81181027.cms||Subhash Mishra
February 24, 2021||Patna||Patna University: PG classes to begin next month||PATNA: All postgraduate (PG) departments of Patna University (PU) are gearing up to conduct an induction meet of the newly admitted students before starting their classes in the first week of March. All Covid safety protocols will be followed in classrooms and 50% attendance of students allowed. PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha told this newspaper that the process of admission to different PG courses was nearing completion and likely to be finalized by the end of February. He also pointed out that the attendance of students in undergraduate programmes of different colleges had improved considerably in the last six days. “When offline classes began on February 18, many of them were reluctant to go to college amid the pandemic. Now, however, more than 60% of the students are attending classes,” Jha added. Meeting held: PU has started an exercise to revise the honorarium and remuneration of teachers for different duties performed by them. A meeting of the committee constituted by the vice-chancellor for the purpose was held on Tuesday where ways to revise the old rates were discussed. “A final decision regarding revision of rates will be taken soon,” said the dean. The guest faculty members of PU welcomed the announcement of education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary regarding revision of their honorarium as per the UGC guidelines. At present, they are being paid Rs 1,000 per class, which will be increased to Rs 1,500. They will be able to earn a maximum of Rs 50,000 a month. The UGC rates had been implemented in other states long back, but not in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-pg-classes-to-begin-next-month/articleshow/81177381.cms||B K Mishra
February 24, 2021||Agra||Priyanka invokes Lord Krishna at kisan panchayat, says Mathura will ‘break ego and arrogance of BJP’||Agra: In the temple town of Mathura, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra invoked Lord Krishna to slam the BJP-led NDA government and said, “Lord Krishna will demolish this government’s ego as it has lost all its wisdom.” Targeting the Prime Minister, Priyanka said, “While Modi has time to reach every nook and corner of the country, he has no time to meet the farmers sitting on Delhi borders for the past 90 days.” Addressing farmers at a kisan panchayat in Mathura, a stronghold of the Jat community, she said, “This government has an inflated ego but this Krishnabhoomi is known for breaking the arrogance of the most powerful.” “Lord Krishna had broken the arrogance of Indra (the god of rain) and had lifted the Govardhan mountain on his fingertip to save the people here. This BJP government has also become arrogant and will not survive the wrath of the farmers who keep the nation alive,” she said, adding that “when ego of a politician becomes more important, they lose touch with people”. Priyanka, who began her speech with chants of “Banke Bihari Maharaj Ki Jai”, “Giriraj Maharaj Ki Jai” and “Yamuna Maiya ki Jai”, quoted a verse from prominent Hindi poet Ramdhari Singh Dinkar to explain the government’s “arrogant stand” on the farm laws. “Jab nash manuj par chhata hai, pehle vivek mar jata hai (when the end of a man is nigh, he loses his conscience first),” she said. Dubbing the PM “arrogant and cowardly”, she said, “He should take the responsibility and accept people’s verdict. He starts accusing the previous governments if anyone raises questions on his decisions or policies.” Taking a jibe at the government’s "pro-private sector stand", Vadra urged the farmers to “keep Govardhan hill safe, otherwise the PM would sell this too”. She alleged that “loans of Rs 8 lakh crore of his millionaire friends had been waived during his tenure". Interacting with the media, after offering puja at the Banke Bihari temple in Vrindavan, Priyanka said that the PM has distanced himself from the public after being in power for seven years. “The PM’s duty is to listen to people's grievances and try to resolve them,” she said, adding that it is a big sin to call farmers terrorists and traitors”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/priyanka-invokes-lord-krishna-at-kisan-panchayat-says-mathura-will-break-ego-and-arrogance-of-bjp/articleshow/81176294.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 24, 2021||Bareilly||Four girls, including three minors, on their way to school go missing in UP’s Kheri||Bareilly: Four girls, including three minors, on their way to school allegedly went missing in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district on Tuesday. Their families searched for them after they didn’t return home by the afternoon. But, fearing for the lives of their daughters — all close friends and students of the same school in Lakhimpur city — the parents lodged a complaint with police. Kheri SSP Vijay Dhull immediately alerted all police outposts and circulated the girls’ photographs in the public as well as on various social media platforms. During the investigation, said police, they came across CCTV footages showing the girls coming out of a building after changing their school uniforms and then boarding a bus to Sitapur. Suspecting the girls had eloped on their own and they were not abducted, police said they had deployed five teams to track the girls. Police, meanwhile, said one of the girls — a student of Class XII and nearly 20-year-old — had left home with Rs 25,000 cash, and then she, along with the three minor students (15-16 years) of Class X, boarded the bus. Police have rushed their teams to Lucknow and Sitapur. The SSP told TOI, “The bus conductor, who identified the girls, said he had dropped them at Sitapur bus stand. It appears from the CCTV clips and the conductor’s account that the girls eloped on their own. We don’t find anybody accompanying them. Besides, they have turned their mobiles off after reaching Sitapur, and are yet to turn them on. We are, meanwhile, gathering information about their friends and their areas of interest for a lead.” “Police have been scanning CCTV footages of the bus stand and railway station thoroughly. The police teams looking out for the girls are in regular touch with me and updating me on every development. A breakthrough is expected soon,” added the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-girls-including-three-minors-on-their-way-to-school-go-missing-in-ups-kheri/articleshow/81176292.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 24, 2021||Goa||Calangute cops’ drive to check drinking on beaches ineffective||Calangute: The drive by police to stop tourists drinking alcohol on the beach has fizzled out, according to stakeholders in the Calangute-Candolim beach belt.  Calangute police had launched the drive soon after the New Year celebrations when a large number of tourists suffered cuts, some severe, after stepping on broken liquor and beer bottles on the beach.  "The drive lasted for around a week. Now tourists are again taking boxes of beer and liquor and sitting and drinking on the beach," John Lobo, general secretary of the Shack Owners Welfare Society told ToI. Calangute Constituency Citizens Forum president Premanand Divkar said this is happening due to the police negligence.  "During our cleanliness drives, we collected so many bottles. The problem was highlighted several times, but it’s recurring. The police have to be strict and issue challan to the tourists drinking in the open,” he said, adding, “the panchayat has put signboards at various places discouraging drinking in the open and on the beach besides the penalty. However, nobody has been fined so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calangute-cops-drive-to-check-drinking-on-beaches-ineffective/articleshow/81179991.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Goa||‘Pregnancies among teenagers on rise, educate adolescents’: Emidio Pinho||PANAJI: The state government’s victim assistance unit (VAU) has said that there are many cases reported of eloping, suicide, teenage pregnancies among adolescents in the state. It has suggested that Goa police needs to conduct awareness programmes in schools to help prevent such cases. In a letter to Goa police, VAU coordinator Emidio Pinho urged that all police stations be mandated to conduct programmes on safety in schools that come within their respective jurisdiction. Pinho also requested that the women’s police station in South Goa be strengthened. He said that women’s police in Panaji had played a very important role, especially in cases of domestic violence. Many families have been united through their intervention, he said. “We request that the women’s police station outpost at Margao be deemed as a police station for South Goa, thereby giving them authority to register offences.” The letter also urged police to set up anti-human trafficking units (AHTUs) for North and South Goa. “The latest directive of the Human Rights Commission is to set up AHTUs in each district. These units should be headed by an officer of the rank of police inspector. The requirements of these units are mentioned in the directive issued by the ministry of home affairs from time to time,” he said. VAU asked police department for allocation of funds at police stations for children and women. “This fund could be used to provide basic food/refreshment for the victim and their families when they visit the police station and also during the process of investigation. As far as I am aware, PIs, PSIs and LPSIs are spending money from their own pocket,” he said in the letter. “We would request for a suitable amount as deemed fit by your office to be allocated to every police station, including the cybercrime cell and crime branch.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pregnancies-among-teenagers-on-rise-educate-adolescents/articleshow/81180009.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Business||Develop products that are built for privacy: Satya Nadella||HYDERABAD: Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said on Tuesday that as technology becomes all pervasive in our lives, privacy will become a fundamental right. He added that tech companies need to build products and services that are built for privacy, security, AI ethics and internet safety. “…these four things are not things we can even wait, quite frankly, for regulation. We have to, from an engineering and design ethos, build it into our core. We can’t afford to say we’ll build it, we’ll see what breaks and then fix it because that attitude is not tolerated in any other industry and it should not be in the tech industry,” he said. Nadella, who was speaking during a virtual fireside chat with Telangana IT & industries minister KT Rama Rao on day two of BioAsia 2021 summit, said privacy regulation, which began with GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) in Europe, is spreading everywhere. “Privacy as a human right is going to be recognised and there will be other regulations – the value exchange around data, its privacy or if it’s being used, who is benefitting, are all things where there are going to be rules that are going to be legislated. The same thing with facial recognition, AI ethics...,” he said. Talking about the Covid-19 pandemic, he said it has accelerated digital transformation and the world will never go back to the way it was. He also pointed out that technology has kept the world going through the unprecedented crisis, by becoming the digital first responder to the first responders in healthcare, critical manufacturing or retail. He said collaboration, learning and wellbeing “are fundamentally the things that are going to transform how we think about work while giving people a lot more flexibility” in the post-Covid world. Nadella also said the intersection of computing and biology is speeding up the pace of innovation and fundamental drug discovery, an area where startups are playing a huge role. “Very early on in the pandemic, we worked with a company called Adaptive Biotech, which was figuring out how does the immune system actually respond to the virus because the understanding of that was going to be critical for drug discovery and vaccines. The idea that you can now use, whether its clinical data for drug discovery and that speed with which that feedback loop works is all been completely transformed."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nadella-pitch-build-ethics-into-products/articleshow/81181084.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
February 24, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand flash floods: Survivors remember two men who alerted several but were themselves swept away||Dehradun: Cousins Anoop and Rajesh Thapliyal, who worked as supervisors at the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydropower project on Dhauliganga, were the first to gauge the danger posed by the swollen river coming their way. They managed to alert dozens of people working at the barrage of the hydropower site to run to safety but in the process, were themselves swept away. They are now listed among the missing. “We heard the supervisors shouting frantically, asking us to leave the site immediately. Before we could understand what’s going on, we saw other people running out and we followed them,” said Sandeep Kumar, a worker at the project, who said the brothers’ prompt warning had saved his life. “Although we managed to save ourselves, both the supervisors were swept away. We can’t thank them enough for saving our life but our hearts are full of sorrow, seeing the pain of their families,” Kumar said. Rajesh has two children while Anoop has an 11-year-old son and his wife is expecting their second child. An emotional Ravindra Thapliyal, Rajesh’s brother, said, “I have been meeting workers who tell me that my brothers saved their life, which makes us feel proud, but our own family is in mourning. Our hope is dying every day as we see bodies being recovered by the rescue teams.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-flash-floods-survivors-remember-two-men-who-alerted-several-but-were-themselves-swept-away/articleshow/81177173.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Vadodara||BJP wins 69 of 76 seats in VMC, Congress reduced to single digit||Vadodara: It was a complete rout for Congress in the cultural capital of Gujarat on Tuesday. The BJP won 69 out of 76 seats in Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) reducing the Congress to a single-digit figure. Having won 14 seats in the 2015 civic polls, it was an embarrassing moment for the Congress party as it bagged just seven seats this time. In opposition for the last two decades, Congress had raised a number of civic issues and tried to corner the BJP during the poll campaign. But the voters, it seems, were not impressed with the opposition party’s poll manifesto and the issues they raised.Interestingly, when the counting began on Tuesday morning, the Congress was leading in five seats while BJP was ahead in three, fuelling speculations that the ruling party may face a setback. But within one hour of counting, BJP cruised ahead and took an unassailable lead. The counting centre reverberated with ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ slogans as BJP’s winning candidates walked out one after another from the counting centre amid a sea of saffron flags.“The hard work done by our workers paid off as our party put up a stellar performance. That we defeated a heavyweight Congress leader like Chirag Zaveri is a testimony to our resounding victory in the VMC. It is for the first time that three candidates of Congress from the same panel lost their deposits,” said Dr Vijay Shah, president of BJP’s city unit. He added that the newly BJP body has a good mix of educated youngsters.The only solace for Congress was that its panel of four councillors including Ami Ravat, Jaha Bharwad, Puspha Vaghela and Harish Patel won from ward number 1. Hours within the result was declared, Congress city unit president, Prashant Patel resigned from his post accepting moral responsibility for his party’s poor performance.“Our workers made sincere efforts to win over the voters and people too showed their support. But we failed to win a good number of seats and hence I decided to offer my resignation. We accept people’s verdict and will continue to work for the city,” Patel told TOI. It was a contrasting picture at the counting centre as the crestfallen Congress workers walked by the BJP leaders who were smiling ear to ear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bjp-wins-69-of-76-seats-in-vmc-congress-reduced-to-single-digit/articleshow/81177192.cms||---
February 24, 2021||India||‘Scanty & sketchy evidence’: Disha Ravi gets bail, leaves Tihar||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to climate activist Disha Ravi, saying that a call for violence in the toolkit for the farmers’ agitation was “conspicuously absent”. In a significant observation, it added that citizens were conscience keepers of the government in any democratic nation and cannot be put behind bars simply because they choose to disagree with the state’s policies. In an 18-page bail order, additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana said: “The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of governments. Difference of opinion, disagreement, divergence, dissent, or for that matter, even disapprobation, are recognised legitimate tools to infuse objectivity in state policies. An aware and assertive citizenry, in contradistinction with an indifferent or docile citizenry, is indisputably a sign of a healthy and vibrant democracy.” The judge said that in view of the “scanty and sketchy evidence available on record”, he found no palpable reason to breach the general rule of bail in the case of a 22-year-old young woman, who had “blemish-free” antecedents and “firm roots in the society”, and send her to jail. The prosecution had alleged “links” between Disha and a “pro-Khalistani secessionist group”, Poetic Justice Foundation, which was associated with the creation of the toolkit document. Watch Toolkit case: Delhi’s Patiala House Court grants bail to Disha Ravi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/scanty-sketchy-evidence-disha-gets-bail-leaves-tihar/articleshow/81181468.cms||Aamir Khan
February 24, 2021||Bareilly||Relatives of dead woman snatch her body from husband, alleging dowry killing||Pilibhit: Parental relatives of a 22-year-old woman, who had died in a private hospital, snatched her body from her husband as he was carrying it home by ambulance, and took it to a police station, alleging dowry killing on Tuesday morning. On the way, they created a mighty ruckus on Pilibhit-Basti NH-730. Police have sent the body for autopsy. Rama Devi, the wife of the elder brother of the deceased and resident of village Chant Firozpur under Puranpur Kotwali police station, told police her husband’s younger sister, Rinki had been married to one Rajiv Kumar in village Piparia under the same police station just eight months ago. Rajiv turned out to be a drunkard and used to beat Rinki under the influence of alcohol, demanding dowry. Four days ago, he had brutally beaten her, following which she was first admitted to the Puranpur community health centre, but later had to be shifted to a private hospital in Pilibhit city in view of her deteriorating condition. Rinki though succumbed to her internal injuries on Tuesday morning, she said. SHO S K Singh said police would wait for the autopsy report before lodging an FIR in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/relatives-of-dead-woman-snatch-her-body-from-husband-alleging-dowry-killing/articleshow/81176303.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 24, 2021||Varanasi||Kushinagar airport UP’s 3rd to operate international flights||LUCKNOW/NEW DELHI: The civil aviation sector in Uttar Pradesh got a shot in the arm with the Kushinagar airport becoming the third international airport of the state after the ones in Lucknow and Varanasi. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Monday granted the licence to Kushinagar airport, 60km from Gorakhpur, to operate international flights. “Kushinagar Airport gets necessary clearances from DGCA to become third licensed international airport of UP. Will boost tourism in the region and facilitate travel on Buddhist circuit by providing direct aviation connectivity to the city where Lord Buddha attained Mahaparinirvana,” Union aviation minister HS Puri tweeted on Tuesday. A UP goverment official said that CM Yogi Adityanath worked hard to get the project operational at the earliest. "Works like runway, approach road, peripheral road, drainage work, boundary wall, ATC tower, fire station, underground tank, etc was completed at the airport as per the prescribed standard ad then the licence was applied for," he added. "Works like runway, approach road, peripheral road, drainage work, boundary wall, ATC tower, fire station, underground tank, etc was completed at the airport as per the prescribed standard ad then the licence was applied for," he added. According to the Union aviation ministry, Kushinagar airport site was handed over for operations to Airports Authority of India (AAI) in October 2019 and a regional connectivity scheme terminal was completed a year later. AAI then applied for aerodrome licence, which it has got now. “Renowned the world over as the holy city where Lord Buddha attained Mahaparinirvana, Kushinagar is a popular pilgrimage destination. The airport will now open new avenues for tourism & economic activities in the region,” the ministry tweeted. UP officials said the state government is aggressively pursuing construction of airports in Jewar and Ayodhya from where international flights are proposed to be operated. This would take the number of international airports in the state to five. The coming of Kushinagar airport is seen as a key development amid the state government’s bid to lend a push to the Buddhist circuit — a route that follows in the footsteps of the Buddha from Lumbini in Nepal where he was born, through Bodh Gaya in Bihar, where he attained enlightenment, to Sarnath and Kushinagar in UP, where he gave his first teaching and attained ‘Parinirvana’. In 2010, the then BSP government had allotted 589.35 acres of land for expansion and development of the airport, which had 1,644 x 23 metre air strip. “However, the project could not take off,” a senior official in the civil aviation department said. The BJP, which came to power in UP in 2017, allocated Rs 199 crore and expedited the project. A government spokesperson said that from just four in 2017, the number of operational airports in UP has jumped to nine and work is going on to complete eight more. The first flight from Bareilly Airport is starting on March 8, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kushinagar-airport-ups-3rd-to-operate-intl-flights/articleshow/81185925.cms||Pankaj Shah
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot to juggle priorities in Rajasthan Budget today||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s jugglery skills would be tested on Wednesday as he presents the Budget for 2021-22 at a time when tax revenues have been declining and the pressure to rein in rising cost of living and revive the industry have been rising. Presented against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Budget will be on digital mode with the chief minister and MLAs using tablets instead of hard copies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-to-jugglepriorities-in-rajbudget-today/articleshow/81180026.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Agra||19 women to drive UP state buses for 1st time, among them BTech, other grads||AGRA: When the Pink Express bus service was launched for women in UP, the state had a strange problem at hand. The service was meant to provide a safe travel option for women, with only women staff on board. But while they got conductors and support staff, there were no certified women bus drivers. Now, two years and a long search on, 19 women have been shortlisted to drive the state’s buses for the first time. “The process to train women bus drivers has been initiated for the first time in UP. The 19 women who have been found eligible will undergo a seven-month basic training, after which they will serve a 17-month probation at depots as part of the the advanced training module,” said SP Singh, principal of the UPSRTC Model Driving Training and Research Institute in Kanpur, the only one in the state to train bus drivers. Shashi Prabha, one of the 19 women on the list, is thrilled. “I always wanted to travel and be independent,” the BTech graduate from Kanpur said. “I was looking for jobs after graduation when I got to know about this. It seemed exciting and I applied. I had no idea I would be chosen.” By March, the first batch will start training. “Girls can fly planes. Why can’t they drive buses?” asked Soniya Sharma from Agra, also among the 19 shortlisted. “I love driving. If that could become my permanent job, I can’t think of anything better.” Under the PM's Skill India Mission, women between the ages of 18 and 34 who have studied up to Class VIII, are at least 160 cm (about 5 foot 3 inch) tall and have a learners’ permit for light motor vehicles can be recruited. The basic training is free of cost. During probation, their food and accommodation will be covered by the state. At the end of the two-year programme, they will get a heavy motor vehicle licence. Once recruited, the women will be drivers on the Pink Express buses. These air-conditioned buses have vehicle tracking systems and CCTV cameras onboard for safety. “UPSRTC has 50 such pink buses that are driven by men as of now. Initially, the newly trained women will be asked to take over these buses,” said Singh. “They will finally run the way they were meant to be, safer and by women.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/19-women-to-drive-up-state-buses-for-1st-time-among-them-btech-other-grads/articleshow/81176309.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||Kushinagar airport UP’s 3rd to operate international flights||LUCKNOW/NEW DELHI: The civil aviation sector in Uttar Pradesh got a shot in the arm with the Kushinagar airport becoming the third international airport of the state after the ones in Lucknow and Varanasi. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Monday granted the licence to Kushinagar airport, 60km from Gorakhpur, to operate international flights. “Kushinagar Airport gets necessary clearances from DGCA to become third licensed international airport of UP. Will boost tourism in the region and facilitate travel on Buddhist circuit by providing direct aviation connectivity to the city where Lord Buddha attained Mahaparinirvana,” Union aviation minister HS Puri tweeted on Tuesday. A UP goverment official said that CM Yogi Adityanath worked hard to get the project operational at the earliest. "Works like runway, approach road, peripheral road, drainage work, boundary wall, ATC tower, fire station, underground tank, etc was completed at the airport as per the prescribed standard ad then the licence was applied for," he added. "Works like runway, approach road, peripheral road, drainage work, boundary wall, ATC tower, fire station, underground tank, etc was completed at the airport as per the prescribed standard ad then the licence was applied for," he added. According to the Union aviation ministry, Kushinagar airport site was handed over for operations to Airports Authority of India (AAI) in October 2019 and a regional connectivity scheme terminal was completed a year later. AAI then applied for aerodrome licence, which it has got now. “Renowned the world over as the holy city where Lord Buddha attained Mahaparinirvana, Kushinagar is a popular pilgrimage destination. The airport will now open new avenues for tourism & economic activities in the region,” the ministry tweeted. UP officials said the state government is aggressively pursuing construction of airports in Jewar and Ayodhya from where international flights are proposed to be operated. This would take the number of international airports in the state to five. The coming of Kushinagar airport is seen as a key development amid the state government’s bid to lend a push to the Buddhist circuit — a route that follows in the footsteps of the Buddha from Lumbini in Nepal where he was born, through Bodh Gaya in Bihar, where he attained enlightenment, to Sarnath and Kushinagar in UP, where he gave his first teaching and attained ‘Parinirvana’. In 2010, the then BSP government had allotted 589.35 acres of land for expansion and development of the airport, which had 1,644 x 23 metre air strip. “However, the project could not take off,” a senior official in the civil aviation department said. The BJP, which came to power in UP in 2017, allocated Rs 199 crore and expedited the project. A government spokesperson said that from just four in 2017, the number of operational airports in UP has jumped to nine and work is going on to complete eight more. The first flight from Bareilly Airport is starting on March 8, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kushinagar-airport-ups-3rd-to-operate-intl-flights/articleshow/81181067.cms||Pankaj Shah
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Maha Congress chief drafts plan to restore party glory||Mumbai: State Congress parliamentary board, led by Nana Patole, on Tuesday drafted an ambitious plan for restoring the party’s glory in a time-bound manner. All-India Congress Committee secretary H K Patil, also in-charge of Maharashtra, circulated a 19-page plan. The highlight of the ‘Sankalp’ is to ensure all party workers who joined BJP on the eve of Lok Sabha and state assembly elections rejoin Congress as early as possible. The meeting was attended by former chief minister Ashok Chavan, Sushilkumar Shinde and Prithviraj Chavan among others. Patil stressed strengthening of the organization at all levels, internal elections, training of party workers at grassroot level and formation of WhatsApp groups at village level comprising sarpanches, panchayat samiti and zilla parishad members so that party workers at the grassroot level are well-connected and there is effective coordination. Patil felt less active NSUI cadre must be activated at all levels. Patil felt Kisan Maha Panchayats should be organized in coordination with farmers’ organizations. “We should strengthen our social media network, involve party workers at all levels and reach out to all,’’ he said. — Prafulla Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-congress-chief-drafts-plan-to-restore-party-glory/articleshow/81181086.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Agra||Army recruitment rally: 5 candidates, tout held for submitting fake papers||Agra: Six people, including five Army aspirants and a tout, were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly submitting fake documents in the ongoing Army recruitment rally in Agra. The tout, a resident of Agra, prepared the fake documents for the aspirants and charged Rs 5 lakh from each of the candidates for getting them an entry for the tests. According to police, the accused submitted fake documents such as Aadhaar card, proof of residence, school certificate, etc -- which have been seized by police now. The candidates who had submitted fake documents have been identified as Praveen (20), Rajendra Singh (19), Vijay Kumar (19), Yogesh (19) from Aligarh and Bulandshahr-resident Vishal Kumar (20). The tout, Praveen Singh (34,) who provided the fake documents, is a resident of Agra, police said. All of them have been booked under sections 420, 467, 468, 471 of the IPC at Sikandra police station, said station house officer Arvind Kumar. Sources said the authorities are now reverifying the documents of each and every aspirant. “Several touts have approached the youths with the promise of getting them recruited in the Army through unfair means,” said a police official. The 19-day recruitment rally, that would conclude on March 6, is being held only for residents of six districts of the state — Kasganj, Hathras, Firozabad, Aligarh, Agra and Mathura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/army-recruitment-rally-5-candidates-tout-held-for-submitting-fake-papers/articleshow/81176316.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Goa||State revives interest subsidy scheme for farmer loans||Panaji: The state government has revived the interest subversion scheme for farmers for a period of five years. Accordingly, agricultural, dairy and fisheries farmers that are Krishi card holders are eligible for loan for interest subversion. Around 4,000 farmers will benefit from this scheme, said agriculture director Nevil Alfonso. Farmers availing agriculture loans of up to Rs 5 lakh, whether crop loan or working capital for animal husbandry and fisheriesactivities or agricultural term loan for investments in agriculture and allied activities, will be getting the benefit of interest subsidy under this scheme. “When farmers obtain a loan of Rs 1.5 lakh, the bank charges them 7% interest and the Central government gives them 3% subsidy on the interest. The Goa government gives 4% subsidy on the interest so when farmers take a loan, they have to pay 0%, thus getting the loan free of interest. For a long-term loan of 5 lakh, we give them a subsidy on the interest of up to 8%,” he said. The subsidy will be available on both short term and long term agricultural loans. The loan can be availed from financial institutions like scheduled commercial banks, small finance banks, Goa State Co-operative Bank and primary agricultural co-operatives. The office of the director of agriculture or director of animal husbandry and veterinary services or director of fisheries, will scrutinise and approve the claims. It will be the responsibility of the bank branch manager to ensure that the funds released towards interest subsidy are credited to borrowers’ accounts. A certificate to this effect has to be submitted by the bank branch to the government. A State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) notified with the secretary of agriculture as chairperson and representatives from the departments concerned will monitor implementation of the scheme on a regular basis. Both – bank and representative of SLMC – will undertake field visits, either jointly or separately, to verify utilisation of loan sanctioned and submit reports to the monitoring committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-revives-interest-subsidy-scheme-for-farmer-loans/articleshow/81180072.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: AIADMK bids to insure poll win with free cover for 55 lakh families||CHENNAI: Battling a pandemic and an empty treasury, the AIAIDMK government sought to give a booster shot to its poll prospects by presenting an interim budget that pegged the state’s economic growth at 2.02%, though the debt increased by Rs 85,000 crore to Rs 5.7 lakh crore. The budget presented by deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam gave a state-funded free life cover to 55.67 lakh families living below the poverty line, allotted Rs 5,000 crore for Rs 12,110.74-crore crop loan waiver scheme, but showed a 17.64% fall in revenue amid a widening fiscal deficit. While TN’s economic growth dazzled against the estimated 7.7% dip in India’s GDP growth, the state’s debt at Rs 5.7 lakh crore was up by Rs 85,000 crore over the past year.  Revenue deficit — where expenditure outgrows income — shot up Rs 65,944 crore in the current year and will remain heightened at Rs 41,417 crore in the coming year. Though the impact of the pandemic left little fiscal room for finance minister O Panneerselvam, he unveiled the Puratchi Thalaivi Amma Comprehensive Accident-cum-Life Insurance scheme in association with LIC and United India Insurance Company and said a Rs 6,683 crore first-phase plan for a 44km metro rail in Coimbatore was under consideration. Subsidies and transfers will remain elevated at Rs 1,01,180 crore next fiscal as against Rs 1,11,229 crore in the pandemic year. Read AlsoTamil Nadu: M K Stalin promises vision document for ‘new dawn’To counter the raft of promises made by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, DMK president M K Stalin has readied a vision document for Tamil Nadu “to usher in a new dawn”. The new administrative framework envisions “massive industrial and infrastructure development and a crime free state thatInterest payments as a percentage of revenue will remain high at 19.67% next year against the revised estimates of current year at 20.8%, clearly showing the state has been living beyond its means and the word thrift is missing in the corridors of power. The brighter side of the state’s resilience was the 5.23% growth of the primary sector, followed by secondary sector at 1.25% and services by 1.64%. The state spent Rs 13,353 crore for Covid-related expenditure, the FM said. “This significantly better than expected growth performance in 2020-21 is due to the expeditious and effective measures taken by the government of Tamil Nadu to tackle the pandemic. I have no doubt that in 2021-22, the growth performance will be even stronger,” the minister said. The spiralling effect of Covid pandemic ravaged the already fragile state finances when its own tax revenues declined sharply by 17.64%, as against the anticipated Rs 1.33 lakh crore in the budget estimates. Even the share of Central taxes indicated in the Union budget eventually reduced by Rs 23,039.46 crore. Read AlsoPM Narendra Modi hints at election dates for four states by March 7PM Narendra Modi on Monday hinted at the possibility of the Election Commission announcing poll dates for four states — Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala — and the Union Territory of Puducherry in the first week of March. “In 2016, assembly poll dates were announced on March 4. This year, it isThe deputy CM said it has been estimated that Rs 84,686 crore will be raised as net debt to finance the overall fiscal deficit in the next fiscal. The state’s overall debt outstanding is estimated to be Rs 5.7 lakh crore by March 31, 2022. Panneerselvam expects the return of normal growth trends soon and there would be automatic improvement in the next fiscal, he said the reform agenda which the government had taken up to improve the Tax: GSDP ratio, to find ways to raise additional revenues to contain losses of large PSUs and to find adequate resources for growth enhancing expenditure would need to continue. “I am confident that we will return (to power) to complete the task,” OPS said, amid loud thumping of desks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-bids-to-insure-poll-win-with-free-cover-for-55l-families/articleshow/81180070.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 24, 2021||Bareilly||Villagers block Bhind-Lipulekh highway after truck turns turtle & buries farmer under its load||Pilibhit: Villagers of Tikari Mafi, under Bisalpur Kotwali police station, blocked the stretch of Bhind-Lipulekh highway passing through the village on Monday night, after the dead body of a marginal farmer, Jhamman Lal (30), was recovered at 10.45pm from under heaps of stone ballast from a dumpster that had turned turtle on the highway at around 5.30pm.The block was lifted only after the intervention of the superintendent of police, Jai Prakash Yadav, who rushed to the spot with heavy police force. Police have sent the dead body for autopsy and lodged an FIR in the matter.Meena Devi, wife of the deceased, stated in her written complaint that her husband had gone to his agricultural field on Tuesday morning, from which he had left on time, but did not reach home.She only found out he was dead after the stone ballast was removed by an earthmover at 10.45pm. She alleged his death was an outcome of the dumpster driver’s carelessness.SHO Kamal Singh Yadav said the driver, who had fled the spot, has been booked under sections 304A (death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving on public way).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/villagers-block-bhind-lipulekh-highway-after-truck-turns-turtle-buries-farmer-under-its-load/articleshow/81176314.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 24, 2021||Goa||Alina asks KRC to expedite nod to extend JICA pipeline||Vasco: Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha on Tuesday pressed the for process of permissions from the Konkan Railway Corporation (KRC) be expedited, so that the 300mm diameter JICA-funded water pipeline can be laid upto Thana in Cortalim. The pipeline has currently been laid from Upasnagar to the Our Lady of Perpetual High School at Cortalim. The pipeline needs to be extended till Thana for the water shortage of the residents to be resolved, but the presence of a KRC rail under bridge (RUB) along the route has resulted in the work coming to a standstill. Saldanha had written to the KRC for its NOC so that the pipeline could be extended further. Accordingly, KRC engineers have inspected the site and will place their report before the higher authority to grant the necessary NOC for the work. “Presently, I have people coming to my office with water issues from the villages of Cortalim and Sancoale. Laying this water pipeline will go a long way to solve the water problems of Cortalim and Sancoale villages. It is therefore essential that this JICA water pipeline work is completed at the earliest,” Saldanha said. On Tuesday, Saldanha, along with PWD engineers Eknath Paste, Mohan Naik, Subodh Shirodkar and KRC officials Amit Kumar Yadav and Abhay Dhuri, inspected the work of extension of the water pipeline upto Thana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/alina-asks-krc-to-expedite-nod-to-extend-jica-pipeline/articleshow/81180182.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Agra||Eight-year-old raped in UP's Kasganj, FIR registered after 20 days||AGRA: An 8-year-old girl was allegedly raped in village Swargdwari under Patiyali police station of Kasganj district. The incident took place on February 2. Police had allegedly turned away family of the victim and didn’t register an FIR initially. However, the FIR was registered against a local resident after the local court ordered the police to file a case in the matter. According to the family members, the girl had gone with her aunt in a field at 7 pm on February 2. When her aunt was away for a while, a local resident Saardev took the girl to a corner of the field and allegedly raped her. Hearing the girl's cry, the aunt rushed to the spot. The accused, who had a gun, threatened the aunt and the girl with dire consequences if they spoke about the incident to anyone. Uncle of the child said, “Police misbehaved with us when we requested to register an FIR. They didn’t take the child for a medical examination. We had to pursue the matter in court to get an FIR registered.” Patiyali station house officer Vijay Pratap Singh said, “Following court orders, an FIR has been registered against Saardev under IPC section 376 (punishment for rape) and sections of POCSO act. Saardev is a distant relative of the victim and resident of same village. He will be arrested soon.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/8-year-old-raped-in-kasganj-fir-registered-after-20-days/articleshow/81177207.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Bhandara district collector aims to revive fortunes of fortune-tellers||NAGPUR: Nathjogis, one of the nomadic tribes in Maharashtra, are known as traditional fortune tellers. Nathjogi men wander across the region, visit houses, read palms of people and predict their fortune. They are considered an important part of Maharashtra’s folk culture. But their own condition back home is pathetic. Bhandara district houses some traditional hamlets of this community. The year 2020 proved to be a killer as they could not travel and neither were they were entertained in households in the city. Their earnings stopped and life went from bad to worse. After learning about their plight, district collector Sandip Kadam visited one of the Nathjogi hamlets in Lakhandur tehsil of Bhandara. The Kodamendhi hamlet saw the district collector, his convoy and officials for the first time. “It was one of the confidence-building measures. We can’t leave such communities out of the mainstream. I asked them to send their wards to schools regularly. Also, they will get permanent houses in the next six months here itself. This will bring stability in their lives,” said Kadam. He interacted with the community members, especially women, and asked them to ensure immunization of their kids. Officials accompanying the collector said that Asha workers regularly visit these hamlets and ensure vaccination of kids. A village Anganwadi has 100-plus kids from this hamlet enrolled, but they hardly continue their school education. Ten years ago, four members from this community were lynched in Kalamna (Nagpur) by an angry mob who suspected them to be thieves. As members recalled this incident, the collector asked them to prepare documents like Aadhaar and ration cards immediately. Sub divisional officers were asked to help out the members for this purpose. Shantabai Chavan, a resident of Kodamendhi, said that women stay at home throughout the year and need some kind of employment. “A permanent house and employment to women will solve most of our problems. Kids too will continue to go to their schools,” she told the collector who sat with the members of the tribe inside their huts and interacted with them in their local dialect. TOI spoke to Nathjogi community members in Nagpur who said that there are more than 15,000 members in Nagpur division. Some of them are educated and settled in cities, but most are still away from the mainstream. “The financial condition of those living in hamlets and indulging in traditional fortunetelling is deteriorating. Very few members of the community are well-educated. We have a community organization working to convince them about the importance of education and also to bring them into the mainstream,” said Bharat Vijaykar, leader of the Nathjogi community in Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fortune-tellers-fortune-in-looms-collector-visits-nathjogi-hamlet/articleshow/81180218.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Water supply in suburbs to be hit today||Water supply will be affected for 11 hours in parts of Andheri west (K-west ward), Jogeshwari (K east) and Goregaon (P south ) on Wednesday (Feb 24) from 5.30 pm till 4.30 pm on Thursday.  This is due to diversion of a water pipeline on account of work on the Metro line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/water-supply-in-suburbs-to-be-hit-today/articleshow/81180135.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid-19: No daily bulletin, only weekly data now in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The state health department on Tuesday announced they will not share daily Covid-19 bulletin and instead only weekly data as no major changes were noticed in the number of cases in Telangana during the last few months. The move comes at a time when neighbouring states and bordering districts were seeing a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. Explaining the reason for not sharing daily bulletins, director of public health and family welfare, Dr G Srinivas Rao, said, “In the last few months, we have noticed no major changes in cases of Covid-19 in Telangana and have realised that instead of dedicating exclusive human resources to this effect, it might be a good idea to utilise and immerse them in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive in Telangana.” However, the officials said in case of any significant development, they would make the information public. Meanwhile, NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul during a press conference in Delhi on Tuesday said two variants of Covid-19 (N440K, E484) have been detected in Maharashtra, Kerala and Telangana, but the surge in cases can’t be linked to these variants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-no-daily-bulletin-only-weekly-data/articleshow/81181088.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Dehradun||NGT upholds Uttarakhand Pollution Control Board's order, directs NTPC to pay Rs 57.96 lakh for damaging environment in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Tuesday rejected a plea by National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) seeking review of an order passed by the Uttarakhand Environment Protection & Pollution Control Board (UEPPCB) and slapped a fine of Rs 57.96 lakh on the power major for damaging the environment. The company was found to have violated muck disposal site maintenance norms at its Tapovan-Vishnugad hydropower project in Chamoli, which resulted in damage to the environment. Incidentally, the 520 MW Tapovan-Vishnugad project was severely damaged in the February 7 flash-floods that resulted in over 100 personnel who were associated with the project being reported missing. A bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted that “slope of the muck dumped at the hydropower project was dangerously double the standards with potential for erosion” and dismissed NTPC’s plea against the state pollution control board’s order. "Erosion was already seen in terms of gully formation in downstreams of the muck dumps. Thus, it is clear that the operative muck disposal sites were not being maintained as per the norms laid down by the ministry of environment and forests,” the bench said. “In view of the above, there is no merit in the appeal as ‘polluter pays’ principle has been rightly invoked for damage to the environment. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed. The amount of compensation which may be recovered by the state pollution control board may be utilised for restoration of the environment,” the tribunal said. The UEPPCB had found deficiencies in two of the muck disposal dumping sites that were set up NTPC at the project site. Following this, the board had passed orders under Section 33 A of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (Water Act) asking NTPC to pay compensation of Rs 57,96,000 on the ‘polluter pays’ principle for restoration of the environment. TOI tried to reach out to the power major’s representatives in Uttarakhand but did not receive a response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ngt-upholds-uttarakhand-pollution-control-boards-order-directs-ntpc-to-pay-rs-57-96-lakh-for-damaging-environment-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/81177223.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||Govt hikes funds for edu infra,Abhyudaya students to get tabs||Lucknow: Days after launching free coaching for aspirants appearing in competitive exams, the state government on Monday announced it would provide tablet computers to some students selected under Abhyudaya Scheme so that they can use digital resources to prepare well. The government will fix the eligibility parameters to shortlist the students and has made a provision of Rs 20 crore in the budget for the purchase of tablets. Besides, in a bid to increase access to education, the government has decided to set up one state university in each division lacking good institutions, an official said. Opening a state university will serve dual purpose; it will curb the ever increasing number of students seeking enrolment in higher education institutions, and will also correct regional imbalance by helping students to get education in their area, thus stopping mass exodus to cities. The government has also earmarked Rs 200 crore for construction of buildings and strengthening infrastructure of model government colleges set up in 26 districts having low gross enrolment ratio. Over the years, these model colleges have already been set up under the Rashtriya Uchchtar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA). In addition, the government has said it will provide free hostel and food as in Gurukul system to poor students studying in Sanskrit schools. Officials of secondary education department said formation of a directorate for sanskrit education and strengthening the UP Sanskrit Education Board will promote Sanskrit education in the state. “Usually, 96% of the secondary education budget is for salaries. In departure from the past, Rs 300 crore have been earmarked for infrastructure which is a big hike over Rs 60 crore earlier,” said a senior official. The budget also proposes to establish a Sainik School in Gorakhpur and the department is awaiting a detailed project report (DPR) from the public works department. In basic education, the government has earmarked Rs 40 crore for free uniforms, Rs 300 crore for shoes, socks and sweater and Rs 110 crore for school bags for students of classes I to VIII in government schools. For mid-day meal, Rs 3,406 crore has been allocated. A total of Rs 18,172 crore is being provided under basic education’s Samagra Shiksha campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-hikes-funds-for-edu-infraabhyudaya-students-to-get-tabs/articleshow/81162045.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Bareilly||Irked over fights between wife and mother, man jumps off fifth floor, dies||Bareilly: In a shocking incident, a 37-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by jumping off the fifth floor of a residential building where he lived in Pakhwara area of Moradabad on Monday. The man’s wife and his mother were allegedly having an argument at the time when the incident took place, police said. The deceased has been identified as Sachin Sainy, a resident of Supertech Apartment in Pakhwara, Moradabad. Moradabad police said that soon after the incident was reported, police teams rushed to the spot. The man, who was lying in a pool of blood, was rushed to a private hospital on Delhi road from where he was referred to a higher facility in Delhi. SHO Pakhwara, Rajni Deivedi said, “The man succumbed while on the way to Delhi. Prima facie, it appears that the man took the extreme step in a fit of rage as he was upset over frequent fights in the family. The body has been sent for post mortem. Further investigation is underway.” The deceased, who owned a crockery shop in Pakwara area, is survived by mother, wife and son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/irked-over-fights-between-wife-and-mother-man-jumps-off-fifth-floor-dies/articleshow/81176333.cms||Maria Khan
February 24, 2021||Kolkata||New Mkt invasion: Heritage activists write to police chief||Kolkata: City’s leading heritage activists have written to Kolkata Police commissioner Soumen Mitra, pleading for help to save New Market from hawker encroachment. Citing reports published in TOI on the streets around New Market being encroached upon by hawkers, writer and founder of Calcutta Architectural Legacy, Amit Chaudhuri, heritage experience curator and freelance writer Anthony Khatchaturian, NGO People United for Better Living in Calcutta (PUBLIC) founder Bonani Kakkar and Indian National Trust for Art & Cultural Heritage (INTACH) Kolkata chapter convenor G M Kapur have urged the police commissioner to intervene. “The fact that the New Market is under threat has been evident from the repeated representations made by the legitimate occupants to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation. Their business has suffered as this prized asset of the city has been allowed to get infested with illegal hawkers,” the letter read. “But what is new is the brazen escalation of the scale of the encroachment. The fact that hawkers now have invaded the parking area meant for visitors to New Market shows that the city authorities like the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s parking and markets departments have completely abdicated their responsibilities. That is why, we are seeking the help of the Kolkata Police,” they wrote. The heritage activists pointed out that the New Market is not just any other market but a prized heritage asset of the city, a source of pride, a part of our history, a destination for tourists and a symbol of Kolkata’s resilience. As a market, it has over generations met a range of shopping needs. “The parking areas need to be cleared completely of hawkers while hawking needs to be restricted in a manner that doesn’t interfere with visitors, and the area needs a visible and long-term police presence. We need to demonstrate that while this city has a heart, it also has the rule of law,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-mkt-invasion-heritage-activists-write-to-police-chief/articleshow/81178504.cms||Saikat Ray
February 24, 2021||Vadodara||Covid-19 rules drown in celebration din||Vadodara: Covid-19 fears seems to have disappeared among citizens on Tuesday. At least, that is what it seemed at the poll counting centre in Polytechnic college in Vadodara. The social distancing norms were blatantly flouted not just by the party workers but also by the candidates of all the parties. Most of the candidates removed their masks frequently at the centre and were seen standing in groups while waiting for the results. Whenever any ward’s result was announced, the winning candidates hugged each other and the party workers. They then walked out in big groups while shouting slogans. Senior BJP leaders camping outside the counting centre too didn’t bother to wear face masks. The matters only got worst when the winning candidates came on the roads for victory rally. Interestingly, the police officials, who regularly fine citizens for not wearing face masks in public places, watched the netas flout all Covid-19 guidelines from a distance. “What can we do in such circumstances? So many people have turned up here and it would be difficult to implement the Covid-19 norms,” a policeman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-rules-drown-in-celebration-din/articleshow/81177266.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: M K Stalin promises vision document for ‘new dawn’||CHENNAI: To counter the raft of promises made by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, DMK president M K Stalin has readied a vision document for Tamil Nadu “to usher in a new dawn”. The new administrative framework envisions “massive industrial and infrastructure development and a crime-free state that ensures protection to women, children and the elderly”. In an interview with TOI, Stalin said he would release the document soon after the election notification is issued.  Blaming the AIADMK government for Tamil Nadu’s ‘stunted growth’, Stalin promises a dream state that would hasten the pace of development. Over the last decade, he said, Tamil Nadu’s industrial growth under the AIADMK government had become stunted.  “The state’s finances are in shambles and its economy on a cliff edge. The youth have been pushed into despair as the rate of unemployment has reached historical levels and the law and order situation is fast deteriorating,” said Stalin. Alleging that crimes against women, children and the elderly have risen, Stalin said rowdyism was at a peak. There has been no new large scale infrastructure project for the state in the last 10 years, he said. “The youth have been deprived of their employment opportunities. Tamil language has not been given due importance and the spirit of federalism has been surrendered to the Centre by this slavish state government,” said Stalin. “As a solution to all these problems and to usher in a new dawn, we will release a vision document,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalin-promises-vision-document-for-new-dawn/articleshow/81180152.cms||Jaya Menon
February 24, 2021||Dehradun||ITBP, SDRF teams remove obstructions to ensure smooth flow of newly-formed lake||Dehradun: A team of ITBP and SDRF personnel on Tuesday removed wooden logs from the mouth of the artificial lake which has formed after the February 7 natural disaster at Chamoli in Muranda, 5 km upstream of Tapovan. “The logs were removed to ensure smooth and speedy discharge of water from the lake. Navy divers who dropped into the lake from IAF helicopters on Monday have estimated its depth to be between 6 to 9 meters,” said Vivek Pandey, spokesperson, ITBP. “Large trunks of trees which were uprooted in the flash floods were blocking the flow of lake water. The ITBP and SDRF personnel removed the logs to ensure that the lake water is discharged without any hindrances and that there is no rise in water level at the lake," said a SDRF official. Ever since the lake was noticed by geologists, apprehensions of it leading to a second flood have been there. Teams of experts have reached the site and inspected the water body. Earlier on Monday, the Union home ministry was informed by the state government that there is no imminent danger from the lake at present. Meanwhile, with two bodies retrieved from Chauras, Srinagar, the death toll of the tragedy reached 70 on Tuesday. Search and rescue operations around the Tapovan-Vishnugad project and affected areas in Raini village continued throughout the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/itbp-sdrf-teams-remove-obstructions-to-ensure-smooth-flow-of-newly-formed-lake/articleshow/81177240.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||No masks: Nearly 23k people fined Rs 45 lakh in 1 day in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Despite several appeals to Mumbaikars to wear a mask in public places, the number of violators and the fine collected surged in one day. On Monday, the police, BMC, Western Railway and Central Railway collected nearly Rs 45 lakh in fines from 22,976 ‘mask-less’ people. On Sunday, 14,100 people were fined a total of Rs 28 lakh, and on Saturday, Rs 32 lakh was collected from 16,154 offenders. Over the weekend, the BMC alone collected Rs 60 lakh in fines. Since March 2020, over 15 lakh ‘mask-less’ Mumbaikars have been caught and Rs 30.5 crore collected in fines, so far. Civic officials said they also make violators perform community services, like sweeping the road, if they can’t pay the penalty. With the rise in Covid-19 cases in the city and several citizens lowering their guard, the BMC has once again intensified its drive to impose a fine of Rs 200 on those caught not wearing a mask. From Monday, even the police started issuing challans to those not wearing masks. Now, Mumbai Metro One, which operates the 12-km Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar corridor, will also start imposing a Rs 200 penalty on commuters found without masks. “Any commuter found flouting mask norms is first counselled. If the commuter still refuses to fall in line and doesn’t wear a mask, then they are fined under Section 59 of the Metro Railways Operations and Maintenance Act,” said a Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd official. (Inputs: Manthan K Mehta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-masks-nearly-23k-people-fined-rs-45-lakh-in-1-day/articleshow/81180206.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 24, 2021||Bhopal||After a fabulous start in February, Madhya Pradesh sees 30% rise in cases in past week||BHOPAL: After touching the lowest number of weekly increase in Covid-19 cases last week, an upward trajectory of increase in daily cases has been noticed in Madhya Pradesh. In second week of February, 1,258 infection cases were reported in MP. It was one of the lowest in recent past. It led to drop in active cases to just under 1,900. The active cases load has increased to little over 2,100 in the past week, with weekly cases increasing to 1,872, as of February 21. Follow TOI's live blog for all the latest updates on coronavirus“Increase in cases is a sign that importance of social distancing and avoiding unnecessary travel is still relevant. It can only be achieved with public support. Public health education guidelines should be followed by all during the pandemic. Vaccination for a large population would still take time,” said a consultant at AIIMS Bhopal. Read AlsoMaharashtra apart, spurt in Covid-19 cases in 7 other statesWhile the major resurgence of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra has hogged headlines, several other states have been showing smaller spikes in infections in recent days. As many as 16 of the 36 states and UTs in India registered a rise in cases last week, although the increase was marginal in aroundA recent health department review cited that increase in Covid-19 compared to January is still low. Around second week of January, MP had more than 7500 active cases with weekly increase of about 4500 new cases. The seven-day moving average of daily new cases, is an important indicator of the overall trend in infection cases. It had dropped to 163 on February 12. The lowest in increase in daily new cases reported in 328 days. Spike in cases has been highest in Indore, where seven day positivity rate is 5.83%. The average for MP is 1.86%, as of February 21. Eight districts have a higher ‘7 day moving average positivity rate’. It includes Bhopal, Ujjain, Betul, Khargone, Barwani, Sidhi and Ratlam. 45 districts have reported less 5 cases per day, on a seven day moving average. As of February 21, five districts with zero cases in last 7 days were Alirajpur, Chattarpur, Niwari, Bhind, Morena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-a-fabulous-start-in-february-mp-sees-30-rise-in-cases-in-past-week/articleshow/81178503.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 24, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal ‘unmasked’ on Covid norms||BHOPAL: There appeared to be some impact of newspaper reports on Tuesday, talking about increase in cases of coronavirus mainly due to people giving up caution — not wearing mask and not observing social distancing — and hinting that the administration may again get tough with the violators of Covid-19 norms. The impact was palpable in the new Bhopal areas, where more people were in masks than usual, particularly since the Coronavirus cases receded in the city and Corona was back among topics of discussion among them, but beyond New Market, the situation was more or less the same. On Lake View road, there were only a few people wearing masks. Youngsters appeared to be in a relaxed mode, not bothering about any caution or protocol. When asked why youngsters of his age group are not wearing masks, Rohit, who was one of the few persons wearing a mask, said, “I never go out to a public place without a mask. For a year, this has become a habit with me. Others would also have become habitual to wearing masks, if they were regularly wearing masks. But, they were in a hurry to throw it off. And, as soon as vaccination began, they thought corona was gone and many among those, even those who were wearing masks in the past, have also given it up.” Chowk market, the main market in old Bhopal, sported the usual scene. A scene, which has been there more or less, throughout the corona pandemic period -- mask-wearing people a rarity and social distancing, simply not in the minds of the people. “We can't help it. Somehow, the majority of people in old Bhopal localities seldom wore masks, even when corona was at its peak and police was also penalising people for not wearing masks,” said Kailash Khandelwal, a shopkeeper in Chowk, who himself was wearing a mask, which had slid to the chin. In Trilanga market, a superstore, which has a card put up outside the store saying “Sirf mask pahnane par hi pravesh” (entry only to masked persons), had some of its customers without mask and the owner was not in a position to stop them from entering the store for obvious reasons. CMHO, Bhopal, Dr Prabhakar Tiwari, when asked what is the coronavirus situation in Bhopal, said, “It's under control, but there is need for caution. If we lower the guard, the situation may deteriorate.” When he was asked if people have given up on wearing masks, he said, “It's their overconfidence. As the coronavirus cases receded, people seem to have developed the belief that Covid-19 is gone and given up on the protocol. This overconfidence is dangerous,” he said. The Crisis Management Group for Bhopal, which met on Tuesday morning, has decided to start imposing a penalty of Rs 100 on persons not wearing masks once again as the practice had virtually been given up by the administration, police and the BMC of late. “Government and administration are also responsible for sending conflicting signals to people. As the coronavirus situation improved in the city, police stopped checking masks and once again started the helmet drive. I understand, it was Road Safety Week and helmet drive is also important, but when you are penalising people for not wearing helmet, you at the same time can fine them for not wearing masks,” said Santosh Singh, an accountant in a private firm, who lost his father to coronavirus infection and is very particular about following the Covid-19 protocol. Meanwhile, district collector, Avinash Lavania, on Tuesday appealed to people again to stick to corona guidelines. He said Coronavirus has not gone anywhere and in the past few days, there has been an increase in positive cases in the district. He further said that very simple precautions can save people from coronavirus- they should wear masks whenever they step out of the house, maintain social distancing, not touch anything unnecessarily and don't get into a crowded place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-unmasked-on-covid-norms/articleshow/81178507.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||‘India needs policies to move up value chain’||Hyderabad: Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, India was viewed as a low-cost manufacturer of drugs but with Bharat Biotech’s indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, and the country’s initiative to link Aadhaar with vaccination has showcased India’s prowess in this sector, said Sanat Chattopadhyay, executive vice-president and president, Merck manufacturing division. He pointed out that going ahead, India should look at formulating policies that boost innovations as well as encourage partnerships with global players. “The world is now realizing that India can do much more than just be a low-cost generics player. Therefore, India should keep pivoting to innovate and develop vaccines along with the low-cost manufacturing capabilities. India should also facilitate more foreign investments,” he said while delivering the keynote address on the day-2 of BioAsia 2021. He said pharma and life sciences players must keep accelerating the pace of digitization, assess risk management programmes, evaluate reliance on suppliers, equip workforce and forge more global partnerships for growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/india-needs-policies-to-move-up-value-chain/articleshow/81181123.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Dehradun||CM Rawat meets PM Modi, updates him on rescue, relief ops in Chamoli||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Tuesday and updated him on the ongoing rescue and relief operations in Chamoli district, which was devastated by flash floods on February 7. The CM also met a few Union ministers during the day. Lauding the immediate response by the Centre to the disaster, CM Rawat said that the water and power supply to 13 villages affected by the disaster have been restored. He also pointed out that a terrestrial survey was carried out by scientists of Isro, DRDO, IIRS, SASE, Wadia Institute, GSI and Central Water Commission soon after the Rishiganga disaster. The lake, which was formed at the mouth of Rishiganga, is constantly being monitored by the scientists and the water was flowing out naturally., the CM said. Earlier in the day, Rawat met Union minister of road, transport and highways Nitin Gadkari who said that the Centre has cleared Rs 225 crore for a tunnel in Rudraprayag. The Rudraprayag tunnel will cut short the travel time for pilgrims going to Kedarnath. The Centre has also given approval for Dehradun ISBT road construction plan which is worth Rs 48 crore. Along with this, Rs 69 crore has been sanctioned for the strengthening of old roads included in the new national highway routes in the state.  The CM also requested the Union minister for a speedy approval of proposals worth Rs 219 crore under the Central Road and Infrastructure Fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-rawat-meets-pm-modi-updates-him-on-rescue-relief-ops-in-chamoli/articleshow/81177283.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 24, 2021||Bhopal||Covid cases in Madhya Pradesh inch towards 2.60 lakh as 238 new cases reported||BHOPAL: As many as 238 new cases of Covid-19 infection were reported in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday. Positivity rate in the state dropped by 0.5 points in a day to 1.7%. On Tuesday, 1,148 more Covid-19 tests were conducted across MP and 14,137 people were tested for the infection, according to health department’s daily bulletin. Since the pandemic began, 2,59,969 people have been diagnosed with the infection. One death was attributed to Covid-19 on Tuesday in MP. 70 patients died in Rajgarh due to Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the Covid-19 death toll in MP to 3,855. A total 200 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the count of recoveries in Madhya Pradesh to 2,53,960. With 102 new cases, Indore’s tally went up to 58,962 while that of Bhopal rose to 43,733 with the addition of 40 new Covid-19 cases. Indore has so far reported 931 deaths and Bhopal 618. Bhopal is now left with 499 active coronavirus cases while Indore has 665 such cases. With 14,137 new tests, the total number of samples tested for coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh has crossed 57.04 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-cases-in-state-inch-towards-2-60l-as-238-new-cases-reported/articleshow/81178536.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Pharma, life sciences seek tax sops||HYDERABAD: To help the pharma and life sciences sector boost its innovation quotient, the Centre must consider providing taxation incentives, funding avenues as well as ease regulatory bottlenecks to create an enabling ecosystem for the sector to thrive, said experts. “We have to move from a volume play to a value play and that has to happen through research and innovation… we also need to look at why a lot of IP is migrating to the US when it comes to capital? Why can’t we increase our R&D investments from 6% to 16%? I think that is where the whole impetus (from government) is required,” Kiran Majumdar Shaw, CMD, Biocon said, while participating in the BioAsia 2021 CEO Conclave. She said many Indian players are developing molecules outside India because it is not just quicker to do so but there is also better access to funding avenues. The sector has been ruing the cut in weighted deduction on expenditure incurred on R&D. Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog, pointed out that certain studies revealed that that the R&D tax incentive was being misused. “There is a need for greater innovation and R&D in this sector and I think the private sector really has to take a lead…,” he said. Nilesh Gupta, managing director, Lupin, too pointed out that India needs to step up its game by focusing on biosimilars as well as complex generics. Swati Piramal, vice-chairperson, Piramal Group, said that unlike other countries, where certain vaccine development projects are publicly funded, in India, it is the private companies that have been pumping in investments to develop vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pharma-life-sciences-seek-tax-sops/articleshow/81181133.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Move to hand over city bus service to MahaMetro draws opposition ire||NAGPUR: BJP-ruled Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s plans to hand over city service to MahaMetro is being opposed by Congress and BSP. While ruling party corporators welcomed the proposal, corporators from opposition asked if MahaMetro was such an efficient agency why not transfer the entire NMC operations to it. NMC transport department’s proposal to give city bus operations to MahaMetro will come up before transport committee on February 25. According to BJP corporators, the move will save Rs 100 crore of taxpayers’ money every year. “This amount can be used for development works,” said standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke. NMC incurs approximately Rs 7 crore loss every month since it started the city bus service through three red bus operators. The combination of Metro Rail and Aapli Bus will definitely work wonders, said former transport committee chairman Bunty Kukde. Apart from feeder buses, MahaMetro may operate shuttle buses across the city. MahaMetro can run the service along with Metro well, he said. The civic body will also provide its depots to MahaMetro. He also added all city buses should be converted into CNG or electric. The city will set an example of operating eco-friendly public transport system, he added. “The move will definitely promote public transport in the city. Usage of private vehicles will come down and there will be less traffic on city roads,” Zalke said. Senior Congress corporator Praful Gudadhe said it exposes the ruling BJP’s inability to run the civic body. First they privatized door-to-door garbage collection service, then water supply, and are now planning to hand over public transport. A few BJP netas in the city want all NMC departments to be privatized for their vested interests, he alleged. “Actually, public transport should never be compared with any profit-making service. Across the world, it makes losses,” he pointed out. “If MahaMetro is so capable, why do not the BJP netas hand over the entire civic body to them,” asked Gudadhe. Congress corporator Nitin Sathawne, who is also member of transport committee, claimed the move was to help MahaMetro, which was already incurring loss. “I will oppose the proposal during the meeting,” he claimed. BSP corporator Mohammed Jamal said Metro Rail was already in loss. “If run properly, the civic body could generate profit from the city bus operation,” he said pointing out the NMC is yet to finalise advertisements for 360-odd red buses and also pay and park scheme that could help it to run the public transport system smoothly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/move-to-hand-over-city-bus-service-to-mahametro-draws-oppn-ire/articleshow/81180261.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 24, 2021||Goa||(330 + gfx) State revives interest subsidy scheme for farmer loans||Panaji: The state government has revived the interest subversion scheme for farmers for a period of five years. Accordingly, agricultural, dairy and fisheries farmers that are Krishi card holders are eligible for loan for interest subversion. Around 4,000 farmers will benefit from this scheme, said agriculture director Nevil Alfonso. Farmers availing agriculture loans of up to Rs 5 lakh, whether crop loan or working capital for animal husbandry and fisheries activities or agricultural term loan for investments in agriculture and allied activities, will be getting the benefit of interest subsidy under this scheme. “When farmers obtain a loan of Rs 1.5 lakh, the bank charges them 7% interest and the Central government gives them 3% subsidy on the interest. The Goa government gives 4% subsidy on the interest so when farmers take a loan, they have to pay 0%, thus getting the loan free of interest. For a long-term loan of 5 lakh, we give them a subsidy on the interest of up to 8%,” he said. The subsidy will be available on both short term and long term agricultural loans. The loan can be availed from financial institutions like scheduled commercial banks, small finance banks, Goa State Co-operative Bank and primary agricultural co-operatives. The office of the director of agriculture or director of animal husbandry and veterinary services or director of fisheries, will scrutinise and approve the claims. It will be the responsibility of the bank branch manager to ensure that the funds released towards interest subsidy are credited to borrowers’ accounts. A certificate to this effect has to be submitted by the bank branch to the government. A State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) notified with the secretary of agriculture as chairperson and representatives from the departments concerned will monitor implementation of the scheme on a regular basis. Both – bank and representative of SLMC – will undertake field visits, either jointly or separately, to verify utilisation of loan sanctioned and submit reports to the monitoring committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/330-gfx-state-revives-interest-subsidy-scheme-for-farmer-loans/articleshow/81180293.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: No power subsidy for Vidarbha units since January||NAGPUR: The previous BJP-Shiv Sena government had introduced subsidy in power tariff for industries in Vidarbha, Marathwada and Khandesh. The government used to pay MSEDCL Rs 1,200 crore per year to reduce the tariff by between Rs 1 and Rs 1.80 per unit. However, this amount is getting exhausted before the end of the financial year and industries in backward regions have to pay full tariff for three to four months. The problem started when the previous government decided to provide an additional incentive of 75 paise per unit to new industries and those which go for expansion from the Rs 1,200 crore amount. In spite of a dip in industrial power consumption due to Covid, Rs 1,200 crore in subsidy got exhausted in December 2020 and units in backward areas have been paying bills at full rate since January. The Vidarbha Industries’ Association (VIA) and other industrial associations have urged the state government to increase the subsidy. With the state’s financial condition bad, a hike does not seem possible. In early 2020, before Covid struck, energy minister Nitin Raut had urged finance minister Ajit Pawar to provide an additional Rs300 crore to MSEDCL for 2019-20 but the latter did not comply. This year, too, Raut has sought Rs 300 crore but there is little hope of getting it. RB Goenka, former director of MSEB Holding Company, has demanded a ceiling on consumption of the incentive amount for bigger consumers until the state government is in a position to increase the subsidy. “Under this scheme, many big industries get subsidy between Rs 3 and Rs 5 crore per month. As a result, the Rs 1,200 crore gets exhausted before March. The incentive for captive power users and bulk consumers should be limited to Rs 50 lakh so that smaller industries get subsidy throughout the year,” said Goenka. He has prepared a proposal for Raut in which he has stated that consumers should consume 100% power from MSEDCL and his captive power plant (embedded or through open access but without sale to any third party). CPP may include renewable and solar generation also but incentive should be only on consumption from MSEDCL, excluding captive generated units. Goenka said that unless a cap was put on subsidy availed by industries, the Rs 1,200 crore amount may get exhausted in six months in 2021-22, rendering the scheme meaningless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-power-subsidy-for-vidarbha-units-since-january/articleshow/81180273.cms||Ashish Roy
February 24, 2021||Pune||Pune: Man tries to catch car thieves in Narhe housing society, stabbed||PUNE: A Narhe resident was stabbed thrice in the stomach by one of the four men trying to steal his car from the premises of Siddhi Sankalp society near Bhumkar bridge early on Monday. Pramod Ghare (33), an accountant with a city realty firm, was admitted to a private hospital at Katraj with deep cuts. “He is out of danger and has recorded his statement,” an officer from the Sinhagad Road police said. His wife, Komal (29), has lodged an FIR. “The incident came to light around 5pm when the watchman’s teenage son noticed Ghare lying unconscious and injured. He raised an alarm drawing the attention of his mother. A cement paver block with two words, ‘chaar chor’ (four thieves), written by Ghare with his blood before falling unconscious was found nearby. Other society members and police were later alerted,” the officer said. Inspector Pramod Waghmare of the Sinhagad Road police cited Ghare’s statement and preliminary probe and said, “The couple and their one-and-a-half-year-old daughter were asleep in their first-floor flat when Ghare woke up to a commotion near his car parked under their balcony. He noticed a man trying to open his car and shouted at him before rushing down.” He said, “When Ghare reached near his car, the man told him to go back to his flat. Ghare tried to catch him and a scuffle broke out. Three other men then came out of their hiding and all four started assaulting Ghare. One of them repeatedly stabbed him in the stomach with a sharp weapon. The four men then scaled the society’s compound wall and ran away to an open area towards the Katraj bypass.” Ghare’s father, Kisan, who came from their village in Purandar on learning about the incident, told TOI, “My son and his wife are staying here for five years. He recently bought the car.” Aniruddha Deshmukh, a ‘B’ wing resident, said, “We came to know about the incident when the watchman raised an alarm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-tries-to-catch-car-thieves-in-narhe-housing-society-stabbed/articleshow/81178558.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||HC slams SBI for ‘illegal, high-handed’ evictions||Mumbai: The Bombay high court has slammed the State Bank of India (SBI), describing its move to forcibly evict all occupants, including tenants protected under the rent Act, and seal a commercial building at Mazagaon with the help of the police on October 26, 2020, as “high-handed” and “entirely illegal”. A bench of Justices A A Sayed and Madhav Jamdar said SBI gave the tenants no notice and had made “false statements in their application before the recovery officer that the building was occupied by illegal occupants”. It noted that SBI was entitled to take over only 3,777 sq ft, not the entire ground-plus-five-storey building. “We are unable to turn a blind eye and allow the illegality on the part of SBI to perpetuate,” said the court in its order on February 16, after hearing counsel R J Singh for SBI and M M Chunawala for the court receiver. It directed the Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) receiver to identify and seal only 3,777 sq ft in the building and restore possession of the remaining area to the tenants. The landlord of Amar Chambers at Masjid Bunder Street had mortgaged the building as collateral while taking a loan of Rs 24 crore from SBI. When he defaulted, the bank initiated proceedings before DRT to recover over Rs 16 crore. After the sealing, a recovery officer of the DRT on October 29 issued a public notice to e-auction the building. The tenants objected, but their plea to stay the auction was rejected in November and December. Advocate Siddhesh Bhole, counsel for tenant Sanjay Shah and 14 others, sought quashing of an October order by the DRT recovery officer for appointment of a court receiver to forcibly evict residents and take possession of the building. The tenants also sought an order to restore physical possession of their rooms. The HC said considering the “gross facts and fraud’’, its intervention was necessary in its writ jurisdiction. It set aside orders passed last November and December by the recovery officer and directed him to hear afresh applications filed by the tenants who questioned the mortgaging of the tenanted property. The bench added: “We are of the view that the DRT ought to have realised the seriousness of the matter --- that tenants who are protected under the law have been overnight thrown out of their respective units in such a high-handed manner by …SBI. The DRT has granted adjournments in the appeal without considering the urgency and injustice meted out and hardships being faced by the tenants for no fault of theirs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-slams-sbi-for-illegal-high-handed-evictions/articleshow/81180283.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Cops arrest prime accused in Awadhpuri bomb attacks case||BHOPAL: Awadhpuri police investigating three petrol bomb attacks carried out at a doctor’s clinic and home a few days ago, nabbed the prime accused in the wee hours of Tuesday; his accomplice was arrested four days ago. Both the accused had planned to run away to Nepal after the attacks. Police found that attacks were made to intimidate and scare the victim doctor and his family from deposing in his father DSP GL Ahirwal’s murder case. DIG Irshad Wali had declared an reward of Rs 20000 on the arrest of the accused. Police found that family member of the prime accused in DSP Ahirwal’s murder case had paid a ‘Supari’ to the accused to carry out the attacks to intimidate the doctor and his wife, just a couple of days before they had to record their statements before the court.  Eight police teams tracked the accused using the footage of 177 CCTV cameras and finally nabbed him. ASP Rajesh Singh Bhadouria said, the nabbed accused has been identified as Ravi Vishwakarma alias Vicky, 26, who is a habitual offender of TT Nagar and Habibganj area and was earlier arrested in a loot case. Ravi has cases against him on charges of murder, attempt to murder and loot registered at Sagar. His hideouts are located in Sagar, Aishbagh and Chhola; his accomplice Raj Thapa was arrested four days ago. Bhadouria said, that during investigation it was revealed that the accused had carried out a recce of the victim doctor’s clinic and home by a car 15 days before the attacks. The car had Indore registration number on it. Police scanned 177 CCTV and ITMS cameras and to track the accused.  After Thapa was arrested, Ravi switched off his mobile phone and stayed at Rahatgarh forest area for four days. When police team raided there, he fled to Vidisha and then to Raisen. He had come to Bhopal late on Monday night for some work when he was nabbed by police.  The accused are being interrogated and on basis of their statements, the person, who had hired them to carry out the attacks, will be made accused in the case. ASP said, victim Dr Santosh Kumar Choudhary, 44, a resident of Sangam Garden in Awadhpuri, runs a clinic and medical store at Balaji Nagar on Khajuri Kalan Road. Unidentified bike-borne accused attacked three times at his clinic and house between February 13 and 15. His car and SUV were burnt in the first attack while in the second attack his wife Rekha narrowly escaped. In the third attack outside his clinic at night, an employee Sachin Yadav suffered severe burns injuries in his leg as the petrol bomb exploded near him. Awadhpuri police registered three FIRs in the attacks and were searching for the accused. He said that Dr Choudhary’s father DSP GL Ahirwal was shot from point blank range and murdered by accused Himanshu Singh. He was arrested and presently lodged in jail. Himanshu’s mother is a head constable, posted in CID. The trial of the case started two months ago and the recording of witness statements started last week. The accused Himanshu and his family feared that if statements of witnesses were recorded before the court, he would be convicted. So Himanshu along with his family member planned the attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cops-arrest-prime-accused-in-awadhpuri-bomb-attacks-case/articleshow/81178552.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||Plaint against BJP corporator over Covid-19 norms violation||Pune: The Khadak police on Tuesday booked a woman corporator of BJP on the charge of violating the Covid-19 norms and organising a Haldi-Kum Kum function late on Monday evening in the Ganj Peth area, barely a day after the Hadapsar police filed a case against the BJP’s state vice-president. Senior inspector Shrihari Bahirat of the Khadak police said, “We have registered the case against BJP corporator Vijaylaxmi Harihar, her husband Vishnuappa and son Nirmal.”Bahirat said, “About 1,800 to 2,000 people, mostly women, attended the event. Some office-bearers of the BJP also attended the function.”TOI on Tuesday evening made several calls to Vishnuappa Harihar, a former corporator, but he did not answer the phone. He did not reply to the text message sent to him either.The police said the corporator organised the function of Haldi-Kum Kum on Monday evening at an open space near Mahatma Phulewada in Ganj Peth in the heart of the city. Many women from the area attended the function, where Til Gul and other sweets were distributed by the organisers. A police team visited the function and found that many women were not wearing masks. They did not follow the social distancing norms also, Bahirat said. The police registered the case under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, and which s/he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. The police also invoked provisions of the Maharashtra Covid Rule.On Monday, state BJP vice-president and former Kolhapur MP Dhananjay Mahadik and two others were booked on the charge of disobedience and violation of coronavirus safety norms at his son’s wedding reception held on Sunday evening at the Laxmi Lawns in Magarpatta City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plaint-against-bjp-corporator-over-covid-19-norms-violation/articleshow/81178575.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Cycle rally to create awareness about new farm laws||MAHARASHTRA: Social activist and owner of a newspaper publication house in Akola, Prakash Pohre, said the farmers in Vidarbha continue to remain indifferent to the protests against the three laws. To create awareness in the region, a cycle rally has been organized by Kisan Brigade, a farmers’ outfit. Pohre who is among leaders of the Kisan Brigade said he will be taking part in the rally too. Addressing a press conference, Pohre said the 15-day rally starting from March 3 will cover 900 kms reaching villages in Western Vidarbha “I admit that there is not much awareness about the new farm laws and its impact among the local farmers. Maybe because it will not affect the farmers here so soon as against their counterparts in the northern states. However, attempts need to be made for sensitizing them over the issue. The cycle rally is part of it,” he said . Starting from March 3 the fifteen-day rally will cover 900 kms touring villages of western Vidarbha. Pohre also hit out at chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for indirectly supporting the new laws. “Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait’s visit to Yavatmal and Akola was stopped in the name of Covid. The state government is using Covid as a means to avoid opposition by creating a hype,” he said. On restrictions, he said if political events could happen then why should there be any curbs on the common man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cycle-rally-to-create-awareness-about-new-farm-laws/articleshow/81180318.cms||Shishir Arya
February 24, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: BJP to keep deputy speaker’s post; Congress cries foul||BHOPAL: Even as Girish Gautam was elected as the speaker of the state assembly on Monday without a contest, ruling BJP is unlikely to gift the deputy speaker’s post to Congress despite the party’s demand to maintain the tradition of giving the second chair to the opposition. BJP has declared to keep the deputy speaker’s post with the party and it has clearly indicated that an election is imminent for the coveted seat in the coming days. BJP being in majority in the House, is mulling to field a Scheduled Caste (SC) or a Scheduled Tribe (ST) candidate for the coveted post, though Congress is all set to field former deputy speaker Hina Kaware. Home and legislative affairs minister Narottam Mishra made it clear that the second seat will remain with the BJP and it was Congress that made a big mistake by breaking the tradition. “It was Congress who had started the tradition of keeping the deputy speaker’s post with the ruling party. We will follow the same tradition,” said Mishra. Congress said that BJP should offer the post to the opposition but it is trying to break the tradition. “There was a tradition to offer the post of deputy speaker to the opposition party. BJP should surrender the post to Congress. It was BJP who had fielded a candidate during 2019 elections for the post of deputy speaker and lost it. The allegations that Congress began the tradition are false,” said leader of opposition Kamal Nath. “We follow and honour the parliamentary traditions. We do not want to copy BJP who neither cares nor follows any principle. This is why we decided to conduct the election of speaker unanimously,” Nath said. Sources in BJP disclosed that a few names have been doing rounds for the post of deputy speaker with senior MLA Nandini Maravi as a frontrunner. Nandini, a three term BJP legislator from Sihora assembly seat in Jabalpur district, is a prominent tribal face from the Mahakaushal region. BJP will also prefer to consolidate its strength with soft politics to control the internal rumblings on alleged neglect of Mahakaushal region. There are some more claimants for the post such as Nina Verma from Dhar, Mahendra Hardia from Indore and Pradip Lariya from Sagar but, Nandini is the most suitable choice for BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-to-keep-dy-speakers-post-congress-cries-foul/articleshow/81178581.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Goa||Homes on St Jacinto missing in draft CZMP||Vasco: The draft Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) for Goa has now upset residents of St Jacinto island in Chicalim panchayat. At a public meeting on Tuesday, the fishing community said that their houses find no mention in the plans. The locals claimed that showing the island under the limits of the Mormugao Port Trust (MPTs) was being done with an ulterior motive to evict the islanders under the guise of CZMP. The villagers gathered to express their anger against the government, which, they said, had assured the islanders in 2019 that their houses would reflect in the final draft. The residents said they were in for a shock when the draft CZMP was put up at the Chicalim panchayat as there was no mention of their houses in the plan. During the gram sabha held in 2019 to prepare the CZMP, villagers had unanimously passed a resolution to incorporate the island, this stretch of the coast, the existing houses, the residents in the plan, including the rich marine biodiversity, the window pane oysters, clams and various other species of fish. Ashton Vaz, a senior citizen living on the island, said that six generations of his family have lived there and they will not leave the place under any circumstances. “On March 7, a public hearing has been called by the government at Ravindra Bhavan, Baina, and we will raise our objections there. The further course of action will depend on the circumstances,” Vaz said. The villagers held the government responsible for passing the Major Ports Authority Bill 2020 and giving excessive powers to the MPT, by not making them responsible to any local body or to the state. The villagers claimed that the government was creating a state within a state. “The government is eyeing this beautiful island. MPT is just a tool to take the island and then privatise it by selling it to casinos and the private sector. Heritage structures including the chapel built in 1731, a Portuguese tunnel connecting St Jacinto to Siridao still exists and there is no mention of it in the plan. They have even not mentioned the houses and shown the island as an isolated one,” said activist Capt Viriato Fernandes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/homes-on-st-jacinto-missing-in-draft-czmp/articleshow/81180324.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Goa||State revives interest subsidy scheme for farmer loans||Panaji: The state government has revived the interest subversion scheme for farmers for a period of five years. Accordingly, agricultural, dairy and fisheries farmers that are Krishi card holders are eligible for loan for interest subversion. Around 4,000 farmers will benefit from this scheme, said agriculture director Nevil Alfonso. Farmers availing agriculture loans of up to Rs 5 lakh, whether crop loan or working capital for animal husbandry and fisheriesactivities or agricultural term loan for investments in agriculture and allied activities, will be getting the benefit of interest subsidy under this scheme. “When farmers obtain a loan of Rs 1.5 lakh, the bank charges them 7% interest and the Central government gives them 3% subsidy on the interest. The Goa government gives 4% subsidy on the interest so when farmers take a loan, they have to pay 0%, thus getting the loan free of interest. For a long-term loan of 5 lakh, we give them a subsidy on the interest of up to 8%,” he said. The subsidy will be available on both short term and long term agricultural loans. The loan can be availed from financial institutions like scheduled commercial banks, small finance banks, Goa State Co-operative Bank and primary agricultural co-operatives. The office of the director of agriculture or director of animal husbandry and veterinary services or director of fisheries, will scrutinise and approve the claims. It will be the responsibility of the bank branch manager to ensure that the funds released towards interest subsidy are credited to borrowers’ accounts. A certificate to this effect has to be submitted by the bank branch to the government. A State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) notified with the secretary of agriculture as chairperson and representatives from the departments concerned will monitor implementation of the scheme on a regular basis. Both – bank and representative of SLMC – will undertake field visits, either jointly or separately, to verify utilisation of loan sanctioned and submit reports to the monitoring committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-revives-interest-subsidy-scheme-for-farmer-loans/articleshow/81180342.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ludhiana||Driver charred to death as 2 trucks collide, catch fire||LUDHIANA: A driver was charred to death after two trucks collided head-on and caught fire at Raikot Road in Jagraon late on Monday night. Onlookers said the trucks ran into each other while avoiding a collision with a car. Sadar police station SHO sub-inspector Parwinder Singh said, “One truck was loaded with bricks and the other with sand. They were coming from opposite directions on a single-lane road. Onlookers said as a car came in front of the trucks, they ran into each other which avoiding hitting it. After the collision, the trucks caught fire. The driver of one of the trucks got stuck inside.” On being informed, police and fire brigade reached the spot.  The cops, with the help of firemen and commuters, brought the driver out and took him to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead. The firemen took about two hours to douse the blaze. “The deceased driver is yet to be identified, as everything was gutted in the fire, including his cellphone, ID card and other documents. We are trying to trace his employer or the transporter to identify him. The driver of the second truck fled from the spot. We are trying to trace him too. No FIR has been lodged yet,” the SHO added. The accident caused traffic chaos on the road till early morning hours. The traffic movement was regularised after both the vehicles were removed from the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/driver-charred-to-death-as-2-trucks-collide-catch-fire/articleshow/81177345.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||PMPML to install automatic boom barriers on BRTS lanes by April||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited will soon affix automated boom barriers on functional Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) corridors in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The move is aimed at preventing private vehicles from illegally entering the lane. This comes a day after a motorcyclist died in a collision with a bus on the Yerawada-Wagholi BRTS corridor. Four days earlier, four men suffered serious injuries after the autorickshaw they were travelling in collided head-on with a bus on the Katraj-Swargate corridor. PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap said they had been testing these barriers at the Swargate depot for the past two months. “We have been using one barrier on a trial basis at this depot and works fine. We need a proper system in place as private vehicles frequently enter the corridors. Such boom barriers are a common feature at toll plazas and parking lots,” Jagtap said. He said they would first hold trials of the barriers in March and begin installing them in April. He added they would soon release details of how many barriers would be installed and on which corridors. “We are also gathering data from such corridors in other cities like Ahmedabad,” Jagtap said. Jagtap said the barriers would open only for PMPML buses. “This should solve the problem. Once BRTS services stop for the day, the gates will remain closed to ensure no vehicles stray into the corridor,” he said. Seven BRTS corridors are currently operational in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. “While some are full-fledged BRTS lanes, others are hybrid routes to accommodate the construction of the Metro route,” a PMPML official said. The official said posting traffic wardens at the corridors hasn’t really helped. “No one complies with them. In fact, they start quarrelling with the wardens, requiring police help to contain the situation,” the official said, adding they wouldn’t need financial aid from the civic bodies for this project. “The wardens can then ensure no damage is caused to the barriers,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-install-automatic-boom-barriers-on-brts-lanes-by-april/articleshow/81178587.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 24, 2021||Pune||13 micro-containment zones come up in rural parts of dist||Pune: The zilla parishad has identified 13 micro-containment zones in the rural areas of the district following the recent rise in Covid-19 cases.Ayush Prasad, the chief executive officer of the ZP, told TOI on Tuesday that the micro-containment zones were created in Shirur, Haveli, Daund, Maval, Junnar, Khed, and Mulshi talukas.“We are not entirely sealing an affected area. We are declaring the houses where Covid-19 cases have been reported in the past few days as the micro-containment zones. Family members of those houses will not be allowed to venture outside. The gram panchayats will take care of the daily requirements of such families in terms of groceries and other items,” he said.“This is not a new practice. The restrictions will be withdrawn once we are sure that members of the families are free from the contagion. Besides, the administration has resumed the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ survey. The door-to-door survey will keep a check on the health of the comorbid people identified in the past. Tests will be conducted on citizens showing symptoms akin to Covid-19,” Prasad said. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation commissioner Rajesh Patil said they have not marked any containment zone so far in the civic limits. The Pune Municipal Corporation has also not declared any micro-containment zone till the time of going to the press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/13-micro-containment-zones-come-up-in-rural-parts-of-dist/articleshow/81178592.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 24, 2021||Bhopal||Deck up your wardrobe with Khajuraho sarees||BHOPAL: Governor Anandiben Patel, on Monday, launched handmade Khajuraho print saree at Raj Bhavan. The sarees flaunt prints of Khajuraho temples and have been prepared by the weavers of MP Handicrafts Development Corporation under the Khajuraho World Heritage Series. Managing director of Handicrafts Development Corporation Rajiv Sharma and General Manager Mahesh Gulati were present on the occasion. Patel appreciated the Kandariya Mahadev Temple engraved on Sarees by the weavers and said that it is a wonderful piece of craftsmanship and result of the hard work of artisans. The Governor was informed that the weavers of Chanderi and Maheshwar carved the temples of Khajuraho on sarees. Officials said the work on sarees was going on for the past eight months. The top line fabric of Chanderi and Maheshwar famous in the world has been used in sarees to promote the state's rich archeology. Officials said UNESCO world heritage site, Khajuraho sees a number of foreign tourists every year. Its print on dress materials would give business to weavers of the state and make the state handicraft and the site further popular. Official said designs other than the erotic sculptures have been printed on the sarees. The sarees cost around Rs 20,000. It will be available in all Mrignayanee stores in the country.It is the third big initiative of the government in the handlooms sector. In September last year designer textile based on the world heritage Bhimbetka mural of the state was launched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/deck-up-your-wardrobe-with-khajuraho-sarees/articleshow/81178591.cms||Ankur Sirothia
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Goons who stole cop’s bike after court hearing nabbed||NAGPUR: Tehsil police have arrested two hard-core goons, who had stolen bike of a cop from a place near police control room in Civil Lines, while on their way back home after attending a court hearing and also several other motorcycles and other valuables. The cops have recovered five stolen bikes, eight mobiles, 24 TV remote cells and other material worth over Rs 1.91 lakh after arresting the goons, identified as Shubham Neware alias Shooter and Swapnil Naik on February 21. The recoveries were made by the cops despite repeated attempts by the goons to evade interrogation by pretending illness in a bid to get hospitalized. Neware, having several offences including murder against him, was earlier slapped with Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act (MPDA) and had stepped out of jail after a year in 2020. Ganging up with Naik, a notorious bike thief, Neware had started stealing two-wheelers and also committing thefts including bag-lifting in the city before being trapped at Mominpura by Tehsil police team comprising head constable Sameer Shaikh, naik police constable Nazeer Shaikh, constable Hemant Parate and others under sub-inspector Swapnil Wagh and senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar. The cops were enforcing Covid norms when they spotted Neware and Naik under suspicious circumstances. The two had gone to Mominpura to have dinner when they were rounded up.  During interrogation, Neware and Naik confessed to have stolen bikes from Sitabuldi, Sadar and Pachpaoli but they weren’t sure about the dates and timing as most of the time they had been under the influence of alcohol. It’s learnt the goons could not clearly reveal the date and timing when they had stolen the cop’s bike, which was later recovered from the residence of Neware. Zonal DCP Lohit Matani is supervising further investigation into the network of the bike thieves and their other aides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/goons-who-stole-cops-bike-after-court-hearing-nabbed/articleshow/81180359.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 24, 2021||Pune||Pune & Dehu Road cantonment boards receive grant from Centre||Pune: The central government has released Rs11.23 crore and Rs2 crore non-recurring grant-in-aid for the cash-strapped Pune and Dehu Road cantonments, respectively, to enable them to overcome their immediate financial troubles. The grant forms part of an overall Rs50 crore grant-in-aid released by the defence ministry’s Director General of Defence Estates (DGDE) to 22 of the total 62 cantonments across the country that have been going through a financial crisis.“The Central grant, along with our own revenue source from vehicle entry and property taxes, will enable us to take care of our salary and pending bills expenses for the next five months,” Pune Cantonment Board’s (PCB) chief executive officer (CEO) Amit Kumar told TOI on Tuesday. Kumar’s Dehu Road counterpart R Harital, however, said the Rs2 crore grant was not sufficient for them. “In fact, it is less than our one month expenditure on salaries, pensions and contractors’ bills,” he said. “Our monthly expenditure is Rs3.5 crore. We had demanded Rs27 crore grant from the ministry a few months ago. Only then can we run the Cantonment smoothly.” He said they were trying their best to generate revenue from different sources in the jurisdiction, but there wasn’t an immediate solution. “We expect more grants from the ministry in the days to come,” he said. A senior official from the defence estate office (DEO) said the ministry of defence had earlier sought data from all the Cantonments regarding their financial condition and 22 of these were identified for immediate release of the grant-in-aid. “Some of these Cantonments have not been able to pay salaries of their employees from November 2020, while there was even an agitation at the Deolali Cantonment in Nashik,” the officer said.“There is a possibility of allocation of more funds to the remaining Cantonments. Barring five to six Cantonments including in Delhi, all others across the country are facing a financial crunch,” another senior DEO official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-dehu-road-cantonment-boards-receive-grant-from-centre/articleshow/81178598.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 24, 2021||Goa||Youth from Bihar held for kidnapping three kids||Bicholim: Bicholim police have registered a case of kidnapping against a 19-year-old youth from Bihar, after he was found to have kidnapped three minor children from Bordem, Bicholim. The minor victims included two girls aged 14 and 10, and a 15-year-old boy. Police managed to trace all three missing children at Mapusa within 24 hours of the case being reported. The complaint was lodged about the missing children by a resident of Bordem, who is a native of Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh. The complainant had said that accused Gautam Kumar Mahesh Mukhiya, who was temporarily residing at Lakherem, Bordem, had kidnapped his two daughters and the son of a neighbour on Monday evening. Following the kidnapping complainant, police swung into action and started a search operation to trace the whereabouts of the children. The police followed the location of the children based on their mobile phone signal right from the Tillari canal situated at Bordem to Nanora and later to Assonora. However, they could not trace them beyond that point as their mobile phones were then switched off. Finally police formed four teams and started a search. The minors were then found in Mapusa. All three kidnapped children were later handed over into the custody of their parents and offence has been registered against the accused under Section 363 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 8(2) of the Goa Children’s Act. Bicholim PSI Prasad Palni is investigating the case under the guidance of PI Mahesh Gadekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/youth-from-bihar-held-for-kidnapping-three-kids/articleshow/81180357.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Cases rise but Covid testing slumps in Punjab||Chandigarh: Punjab has recorded a notable slump in daily testing done to identify people infected with coronavirus in February, a month during which the state is witnessing a resurgence of the pandemic. In February so far, 17,771 tests on average a day were conducted, the lowest since August when the daily average was 15,170. Before this, Punjab conducted 18,086 tests a day on an average in January, 22,331 in December, 19,079 in November, 23,663 in October and 25,342 in September. Data of the health department reveals the state crossed the mark of 20,000 tests on seven occasions in the past 21 days, while the figure for testing remained below 15,000 on five days. During this period, the highest testing figure of 21,490 was recorded on February 10 and the lowest of 9,580 on February 2. Though the state’s overall average of test per million population of 1,56,289 is higher than the national average of 1,53,586, many districts of the state are lagging behind and are testing less than even the national average. The worst performing districts are: Ferozepur, Fazilka, Moga, Muktsar and Faridkot. In the first three weeks of the month, there has been a substantial rise in weekly cases, making it important for the health authorities to ramp up testing as it is considered as the key measure to control the spread of the virus by identifying infected people early and isolating them. From February 1 to 7, 1,176 cases were reported. The caseload further swelled to 1,458 during the seven-day period from February 8 to 14, and 1,939 from February 15 to 21. Taking serious note of the rise in cases, the central government has asked the Punjab government to increase testing with more reliance on RT-PCR tests. Those tested negative by using rapid antigen test are again to be tested using the conventional RT-PCR test, which is considered as a gold standard in the diagnosis of Covid‐19. Punjab has also been asked to step up surveillance. The health department held a review meeting and asked the districts to increase testing. Punjab director health services Dr G B Singh said all the required steps were being taken to keep the spread of the virus under control. “Instructions have been issued to districts where testing is below the desirable level. Regular monitoring is being done and necessary actions are being taken,” said Dr G B Singh. LOWEST TESTING COUNT DATE | NUMBER OF TESTS Feb 2 | 9,580 Feb 16 | 12,826 Feb 8 | 13,665 Feb 9 | 14,579 Feb 3 | 14,785||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cases-rise-but-covid-testing-slumps-in-punjab/articleshow/81161188.cms||Vinod Kumar
February 24, 2021||Dehradun||Door-to-door garbage collection system missing in Doon’s new wards||Dehradun: With Swachh Surverkshan Survey 2021 around the corner and residents’ opinions carrying 80% weightage in Swachh rankings, door-to-door garbage collection in the new wards is a major challenge for the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC). Most of the 31 new wards in Dehradun don’t have a proper door-to-door garbage collection in place yet. DMC officials meanwhile say that they are looking at ways to regularise the collection and disposal of garbage in these areas at the earliest. SP Sharma, a resident of Johri village near Rajpur road, said, “Lack of a door-to-door garbage collection system has been a major bone of contention among the residents in our ward. We have repeatedly raised this issue with authorities. Recently, a team had visited our area to record the number of residences, including flats and independent houses. We hope the services will start soon.” Senior municipal health officer Kailash Joshi said, “Out of the 31 new wards, door-to-door garbage collection has started in eight wards on a trial basis. By the end of this month, the work should get streamlined in all remaining wards.” Mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama had recently held a meeting with sanitation inspectors of all 100 wards to discuss problem areas and their timely redressal. The concern raised by residents comes even as the DMC aims to achieve a star rating at the Swachh Survekshan, for which good ratings on parameters like door-to-door garbage collection and segregation, ban on use of plastic and cleanliness of water sources will be crucial. Apart from the ratings submitted by residents, an inspection by authorities carries 20% weightage in a state’s ranking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/door-to-door-garbage-collection-system-missing-in-doons-new-wards/articleshow/81177369.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 24, 2021||Pune||Twins held on charge of assaulting traffic cop||Pune: The Sinhgad Road police on Monday arrested 20-year-old twins on the charge of slapping as well as abusing a traffic constable (35) at the Anandnagar signal crossing on Sunday night. Constable Suresh Ganpat Markat was manning the junction when the two brothers — Sumit and Amit Ganesh Nagpure of Kasba Peth — reached the spot on a bike. They were waiting for the signal to turn green. Markat told the rider to show his licence, but the latter said he was not carrying a hard copy of the license and showed him an image of the same on his cellphone. Markat then started clicking photographs of their bike. This riled the two brothers and they started abusing and slapping the constable, an officer from Sinhagad Road police said, adding that a video of the incident was distributed widely on social media. “Both, Sumit and Amit, work in private companies. They started abusing the policeman as soon as he started taking photographs of their vehicle to note down the registration number,” inspector Pramod Waghmare of Sinhagad Road police station said. Markat had neither fined them nor had he issued a challan, the officer said The two were produced before a court on Tuesday. The court remanded them in police custody for a day, the officer said. Police invoked sections offences under Section 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 294 (Obscene acts and songs), and 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/twins-held-on-charge-of-assaulting-traffic-cop/articleshow/81178595.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Follow SOPs, CM appeals to people||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday appealed to people to follow Covid safety protocols as cases have surged in some states. He said although the pandemic was under control in the Rajasthan, people needed to be cautious. “Covid cases are rapidly increasing in Maharashtra, Kerala and MP,” CM tweeted. “Cases of new strains from South Africa and Brazil have also been found in the country apart from the UK strain .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/follow-sops-cm-appeals-to-people/articleshow/81180356.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Dehradun||Kumbh authorities to ask Centre for 2 lakh vaccines for Haridwar seers||Dehradun/Haridwar: The Kumbh Mela authorities are planning to write to the central government for an additional supply of vaccines -- estimated to be around two lakh -- to be administered to over one lakh seers staying in and around Haridwar. Visitors and seers from other states will be required to bring Covid negative RT-PCR test report for taking a dip in the holy Ganga. The authorities have also made it mandatory for mediapersons covering the festival to get vaccinated, for which the process has already started. The Kumbh Mela was earlier planned to be held for a duration of four months but now it has been cut short to 28 days – commencing on April 1 – in wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The authorities are also contemplating to put a cap on the number of devotees on important bathing days. According to the SOP issued by the Centre and the state government, RT-PCR positive report issued within 72 hours before arrival has been made mandatory for pilgrims. Kumbh Mela health officer Dr AK Senger told TOI, “The vaccination process is going on for all frontline workers, including media persons, on mela duty. Now, we are planing to send a proposal to the Union government for providing two lakh vaccines for the seer community.” Additional mela officer Harbeer Singh said, “RT-PCR negative test report is mandatory for pilgrims and the seer community who want to take a dip in the Ganga on bathing festivals.” During the reduced Kumbh Mela, there will be four ‘shahi snans’ — March 11 (Mahashivratri), April 12 (Somwati Amavasya), April 14 (Baisakhi Kumbh) and April 27 (Chaitra Poornima). Besides, there are six ‘parv snan’, which commenced with Makar Sankranti (January 14). The other five ‘parv snan’ dates are – February 11 (Mauni Amawasya), February 16 (Basant Panchami), February 27 (Magh Poornima), April 13 (Navsamvratsar) and April 21 (Ramnavmi).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-authorities-to-ask-centre-for-2-lakh-vaccines-for-haridwar-seers/articleshow/81177398.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 24, 2021||Goa||Pending dole deposited in accounts of welfare beneficiaries: Govt to HC||Panaji: The government informed the high court of Bombay at Goa that the monthly assistance from Dayanand Social Security Scheme for the months of October, November and December to the tune of Rs 83 crore has been credited into the accounts of beneficiaries, including persons with disabilities, this month After assurances from the director of social welfare and the director of accounts that payments would be regularly made, the high court disposed of the petition filed by the Disability Rights Association of Goa (DRAG). The association petitioned the court seeking release of funds under the scheme to beneficiaries who are needy and with disabilities. The division bench comprising Justices Mahesh Sonak and Bharati H Dangre took cognisance of a letter to the court written by the association. The amount for the month of January is yet to be released, the social welfare department has stated. The directorate of social welfare has attributed the late release of payments to the delay on the part of directorate of accounts in releasing the money. Director Umeshchandra Joshi has stated that there are 1,37,488 beneficiaries under the scheme of which 11,480 are persons with disabilities. An amount of approx. Rs 27 crore is released every month by the directorate of accounts towards financial assistance under the scheme. “I say that the bill seeking release of financial assistance under the DSS scheme is duly prepared and inwarded by this Respondent in the Directorate of Accounts, State of Goa, and upon due approval and clearance of the same by the Directorate of Account, money towards the same is credited with this Respondent to be thereafter released tothe beneficiaries,” Joshi stated. Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic amounts pertaining to DSS scheme were credited in a timely manner each month, the social welfare department submitted to the high court. “Persons with disability who are beneficiaries of the scheme are facing a hard time due to non receipt of the amount for five months, and besides their daily living expenses, they have to pay for other expenses like physiotherapy and occupational therapy, and other medical expenses,” president of the association Avelino de Sa stated in his letter. The non-release of funds is “denying them their only source of livelihood”, he said, requesting the court’s intervention to prevent any eventuality of deaths or suicides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pending-dole-deposited-in-accounts-of-welfare-beneficiaries-govt-to-hc/articleshow/81180372.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Goa||Sewerage work in Vasco to affect traffic till March||Vasco: Traffic flow in the Vasco town area has been severely affected due to the ongoing sewerage line work. From last weekend, one lane of roads across the town has been shut off for vehicular use. This led to huge jams, pushing the traffic flow into the outskirts. PWD officials said the work of replacing the existing sewerage line with a new one is expected to go on beyond March. Vasco traffic cell officials said they have approached the sewerage works section of the PWD and have asked them to expedite the ongoing work as it will cause inconvenience to the road users. The work includes connecting the pipeline from Chicalim to the tail-end at Sada. To carry out the sewerage line work, cavities have been dug into the ground at two places - one near the Royal petrol pump and the second near the Vaddem lake. From Saturday, one lane near the Vaddem lake area was blocked for traffic and vehicles are being diverted through a single lane. This led to heavy vehicles and buses causing the jam as it was difficult for them to negotiate through the narrow stretch. The traffic cell has raised concerns about how the fire brigade and ambulances will reach their destination in case of emergencies. The traffic coming into Vasco town and going out was seen moving from the outskirts via the Mangor Hill towards Chicalim. Stating that the old pipeline is almost 45-years-old, Assistant engineer of PWD’s sewerage section, Thomas Landez said, “The work near Vaddem lake will be complete by March end and near the Royal petrol pump before the monsoon begins.” The pipeline is expected to meet the requirement of the town area for the next ten years, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sewerage-work-in-vasco-to-affect-traffic-till-march/articleshow/81180381.cms||Ruvina Khan
February 24, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Simplify GST’: All businesses to remain closed on Feb 26||Ludhiana: Cancel your shopping plans for February 26 as thousands of shopkeepers and traders in the city will remain on strike on a call given by the Confederation of All-India Traders (CAIT) to protest complications in the GST laws. According to the office-bearers of CAIT, support has been pouring in for them from industry and shopkeepers’ associations of markets like Ghumar Mandi, Sabun Bazaar and Kesar Ganj, among others. The shopkeepers will keep their shops closed and businessmen associated with bicycles, furnaces, sewing machines and other sectors will also support the bandh. Harkesh Mittal, CAIT, Punjab state president, said, “Due to wrong inputs being given by some officials to the Centre on rules and regulations governing GST, this tax system has become a headache for businessmen despite authorities claiming it has become simpler now. There are so many flaws in GST that for even a slightest human error, the consequences for the taxpayers are serious and it can even lead to permanent deactivation of the GST number. Keeping in view all these factors, our association, which has lakhs of members across the country, has decided to hold a nationwide bandh on February 26. Punjab businessmen, a big percentage of whom are located in Ludhiana, will keep their businesses shut. We are happy that market and industry associations are supporting the bandh.”Vishal Nayyar, CAIT, Punjab, joint secretary, said, “There are hundreds of shortcomings in GST, like harsh provisions under Section 83(1), which are aimed at punishing those who indulge in malpractices like bogus billing or other tax evasion practices. This section can be used against innocent businessmen too. With all such provisions it is becoming impossible for the small traders and businessmen to work. Therefore, there was a need for a nationwide protest.” Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal is also supporting the bandh call. Sunil Mehra, state general secretary of the mandal, said, “We have asked all our members in Ludhiana and elsewhere to participate in this protest by keeping their shops, offices and businesses closed. I know this will hit the businesses, but it will also hit government’s tax collections for a day and maybe it will bring Centre’s attention towards our serious problem. They are making tax compliance more complicated by the day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/simplify-gst-all-businesses-to-remain-closed-on-feb-26/articleshow/81177376.cms||Mohit Behl
February 24, 2021||Ludhiana||In city, 70% of social media plaints involve youngsters||Ludhiana: About 70% of the social media-related complaints pending with the cyber cell of Ludhiana Police are related to youngsters, who are either victims or the accused. Among these, more complaints are related to Facebook and include making fake profiles, sending abusive or threatening messages, cyber bullying and uploading morphed pictures. The cyber cell has about 2,400 pending complaints, into which investigations are on. Among these, 627 are related to social media and 70% cases involve youngsters between 14 and 22 years of age.Assistant commissioner of police (cybercrime) Vaibhav Sehgal said, “Among the 627 pending complaints, the maximum (485) are related to Facebook. These include fake profiles, sending abusive or threatening messages and uploading morphed pictures. There are 127 complaints related to Instagram and 18 to Gmail. The Instagram complaints are also of fake profiles and vulgar messages. The complaints related to Gmail are of fake IDs, which are used to make forged profiles and commit frauds.”The ACP said, “Recently, we had received a complaint that photos of a minor girl were morphed and a fake ID was created on Instagram. The user of the fake profile was sending vulgar and abusive messages. During investigation, the police identified that the accused was also a minor, who, after befriending the girl, got her pictures and morphed them. The accused had made the Instagram account using a fake email ID. Some youngsters do not know that making an email ID or social media account in someone else’s name is a crime. They do it for fun or to harass someone, not realising that they can be booked and also arrested.” Stressing the need for awareness, ACP Sehgal said, “The Ludhiana Police had been organising interactive sessions with the school and college students. However, these were discontinued due to Covid-19 outbreak. Under the Cyber Surakhya Campaign, the police are creating awareness via social media. Besides, in the next academic session, more programmes will be organised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-city-70-of-social-media-plaints-involve-youngsters/articleshow/81177393.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Firms de-risk supply chains to reduce China dependence||Hyderabad: While India has been evaluating its dependence on China on the active pharmaceuticals ingredients (API) front, post Covid, Indian API manufacturers as well as global players are seeing a good opportunity in API manufacturing in India, said experts. Besides, companies are also working on de-risking their supply chains by way of backward integration. Gaurav Suchak, head of supply chain, Zydus Cadila, pointed out that because of the anti-China sentiment, most of the companies, be it API suppliers and buyers or KSM manufacturers, are working on de-risking themselves and making sure that their supply chain linkages to China are limited. “For companies, as far as critical API molecules are concerned, they are looking at backward integration. And they are also making sure that the entire value chain is secure…,” he said while participating in a panel discussion on the day 2 of BioAsia. He added that companies need to scout for reliable local vendors. Even Sreenivas Rao, global head supply chain, Sun Pharma, said that the company has been working on reducing dependence on China for the last three to four years. Ditto for Biocon. “By last quarter, around 50-60% of our revenues were independent of China. it does not mean that we do not source from China, but we are not dependent on them,” said Prasad Deshpande, global head (supply chain), Biocon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/firms-de-risk-supply-chains-to-reduce-china-dependence/articleshow/81181181.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Empty lift shoots up 18 floors in Thane bldg||Thane: An empty elevator installed at an 18-storey Khopat residential complex developed a snag, suddenly sped upwards and rammed into the top of the shaft with a thud early on Tuesday. An initial probe by civic officials revealed the pulley chain may have snapped, leading to the lift cage on the ground floor suddenly shooting up. Some residents heard a shrill screeching sound as the lift grazed through the shaft sides before coming to a halt, metres away from the ceiling. “It is rare. We conducted a preliminary investigation in the morning and found the pulley damaged. We alerted technicians, who attended to the snag,” said Vinod Gupta, in-charge of electrical department, Thane municipal corporation. The highrise with nearly 200 tenements is used as a rental accommodation for project-affected people and has been in the news for repeated instances of poor management by the administration. Manoj Badgeri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/empty-lift-shoots-up-18-floors-in-thane-bldg/articleshow/81180367.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||DSK’s niece gets bail in multi-crore fraud case||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Monday granted bail to developer D S Kulkarni’s niece Sai Vanjape in the alleged multi-crore economic fraud. Justice Nitin Sambre observed that the submission that Vanjape’s bank account was misused for a land transaction by DSK’s sister-in-law under power-of-attorney, casts “doubt” on her direct involvement in the crime. Further, four co-accused who face similar accusations were granted pre-arrest or regular bails, said the judge. Opposing her bail plea, special public prosecutor Pravin Chavan argued that it was a large and serious case of economic offence with specific allegations against her. The prosecution, he said, moved for cancellation of bail to other the co-accused and that the application was pending before the law and judiciary department. Sambre also directed that it would be “open for prosecution to move for cancellation of bail” if bail granted to other co-accused is cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dsks-niece-gets-bail-in-multi-crore-fraud-case/articleshow/81178601.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 24, 2021||Ludhiana||2 die; students, teachers are among 81 new cases||Ludhiana: Two residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 81, including students and teachers, tested positive on Tuesday.Chief medical officer Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the district casualties included a 57-year-old man of Dhandra Road and a 57-year-old man of Bujarg village. With this, the district toll has reached 1,023. Of the 81 new cases, two were from OPD, 32 from flu corner, 18 cops, two healthcare workers, two DMCH staffers, one severe acute respiratory infection case, 12 through tracing process. Five students and seven teachers have also contracted the virus.The affected teachers are from government schools in Model Town, Dhandari Khurd, Chaunta, Punjab Public School, Samrala, Government High School, Kot Mangal Singh, and GHG Khalsa School, Ahemadgarh. The students are from government school, Chaunta, GMT College, Government School, Kailpur, Punjab Public School, Samrala, and ITI, Samrala. The district case count has increased to 26,782, of which 25,314 (94.51%) have recovered. On the day, 1,828 samples were collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-die-students-teachers-are-among-81-new-cases/articleshow/81177384.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Dehradun||Elephant tramples man to death in Rishikesh||Dehradun: A man, 23, was crushed to death by an elephant in Phoolchatti, Rishikesh, on Sunday night, days after a forest guard on duty in Rajaji Tiger Reserve was trampled to death by a wild elephant. Sources said the elephant went on a rampage and razed a few shops in the area before turning on the man, identified as Kapil Kumar, a resident of Bijnor, UP. A police team from Lakshman Jhula reached the spot and recovered the mutilated body. Gauhari range officer Dhir Singh said that the elephant had attacked a loader vehicle parked on the roadside in Phoolchatti and later attacked its driver, Kumar. “Kumar was sleeping inside the vehicle when the elephant attacked. He locked himself inside as the animal went on a rampage. He came out when the elephant left but as he tried to escape, the jumbo found and killed him,” Singh said. Investigation revealed that the man was roaming in the forest after dark. His family has been given a compensation of Rs 3 lakh by the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/elephant-tramples-man-to-death-in-rishikesh/articleshow/81177388.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 24, 2021||Pune||Crime branch books Marne, accomplices||Pune: The Bund Garden police on Tuesday booked gangster Gajanan (alias Gaja) Marne and others on charges of criminal conspiracy and creating a public nuisance. The case was registered after the suspects posted photos and video clips of Marne’s recent release from Taloja jail online on February 15. Case against followers The Samarth police on Tuesday booked Rupesh Marne and other aides of Marne on the charge of disobedience, rioting and violating Covid-19 norms while cutting a birthday cake in in Rasta Peth. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crime-branch-books-marne-accomplices/articleshow/81178618.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Premium petrol crosses Rs 100 in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Premium petrol prices in Jaipur breached Rs 100 for the first time while the cost of regular fuel also hit new highs. With an increase of 37 paisa, cost of normal petrol inched up to Rs 97.47 on Tuesday. Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh are the two districts where prices of regular petrol have already crossed Rs 100. But rest of the districts are not far from the 100 mark with petrol prices well above Rs 97 per litre. On January, the state government had reduced VAT on both the auto fuels by 2%, bringing down the state tax on petrol and diesel to 36% and 26% respectively. But the Centre, which levies a bigger portion of the taxes, has decided not to reduce it. Sunit Bagai, president of Rajasthan Petrol Diesel Association said, “Keeping in mind the pandemic and suffering of the people, the state government should reduce VAT, which is still the highest in the country.” “We want the Centre to reduce the burden on the consumer by reducing taxes on the fuels,” said an industry representative. Prices in Bikaner and Churu are over Rs 99 per litre of petrol. But if the trend continues for a few more days, prices in most districts will cross Rs 100 mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/premium-petrol-crosses-rs-100-in-city/articleshow/81180362.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Bengaluru||PU leak: SC stays Karnataka HC order, cites Vyapam||BENGALURU: Staying a Karnataka high court order discharging a bureaucrat, Oblaraju, in a case related to alleged procurement of PU question paper for his son in 2016, the Supreme Court on Tuesday said leaks and mass cheating have “distorted and perverted” the exam system. Even before Karnataka’s counsel VN Raghupathy began his argument, a bench of CJI SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian remarked, “These people are ruining the education system.” The court drew a parallel, recalling the huge scam in MP Professional Examination Board (kno- wn by its Hindi acronym ‘Vyapam’), which was unearthed in 2011. Education system getting distorted, perverted: SCIt involved 13 different exams conducted by Vyapam for selection of medical students and state government employees. Leak of the question paper had resulted in cancellation of the chemistry exam. The re-test too had to be cancelled as the same modus operandi was allegedly used by the accused, including physical education teachers in various schools, in collusion with the bureaucrat. The CJI-led bench said, “We know of the Vyapam case in Madhya Pradesh. What happened there? The education system is getting distorted and perverted.” It issued notice to the accused in the Karnataka case and stayed the HC order discharging them. In 2016, the SC ordered a CBI probe into the Vyapam scam, which involved legislators, bureaucrats and businessmen and it was alleged that bribes were paid for securing high ranks in recruitment exams to get government jobs and seats in medical colleges. Indicating no leniency to those who pollute the examination system at the cost of meritorious students, the bench said, “We want to send a message.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pu-leak-sc-stays-hc-order-cites-vyapam/articleshow/81181632.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 24, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Six killed in blast while hiding explosives in Chikkaballapur forest||BENGALURU: Six men were killed while transporting explosives in a forest near Hirenagavalli village of Chikkaballapur taluk, 80km from Bengaluru, on Tuesday. The men were suspected to be ferrying explosives from a quarry and crusher unit fearing police raids and were stashing them away when the blast took place. Police said the deceased, in their late 20s — engineer Uma Mahesh, computer operator Gangadhar, weigher Murali, security guards Ramu, Mahaboob Singh Bora and accountant Abhi Naik — were employees of Sri Sai Shiradi Aggregate Quarry near Hirenagavalli village. On January 21, six men died while ferrying quarry explosives in Shivamogga. Locals rushed to the spotThe driver of the mini goods truck, Riyaz, hired for transporting the explosives, was the lone survivor. “I didn’t know they were transporting explosives in the two sacks loaded onto my vehicle. I was told to stop in a jungle. The six men took out the sacks and carried them into the forest. I was closing the luggage compartment door of my vehicle when the explosion occurred,” he told police. While villagers rushed to the spot on hearing the explosion, the injured Riyaz called up some friends after a while. Health minister K Sudhakar, who is from the nearby Peresandra village, was among the early visitors at the blast site. A local resident alleged that the quarry was allowed to operate at the behest of local politicians. Sudhakar’s men countered the allegation, saying members of opposition parties were making baseless charges. CID to probe caseTerming the blast a tragic incident, home minister Basavaraj Bommai said the case would be handed over to the Criminal Investigation Department. “I am shocked by the incident,” the minister added. On January 21 this year, six workers were killed while transporting quarry explosives in Shivamogga district. Though police arrested nine persons, including quarry owners, no action has been initiated against government officials who had turned a blind eye to illegalities by the quarry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/6-killed-in-blast-while-hiding-explosives-in-chikkaballapur-forest/articleshow/81181640.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mysuru||Karnataka: Forced to clean manhole with bare hands, sweeper kills self||MANDYA: A sweeper with the Maddur town municipality hanged himself on Tuesday, three months after he was allegedly forced to get into a manhole and clean it with his hands. In a note he left behind, Narayana, 37, blamed top officials for harassing him to declare that he had voluntarily gone without safety gear. Sources said on November 2, Narayana was forced to clean a manhole and he was being hounded since as the incident made headlines. Mandya sweeper’s pay was withheld, say colleaguesSources said municipal officials forced Narayana to clean a manhole without gloves, mask or any cleaning equipment. The incident made media headlines and an inquiry was ordered against the officials and CMC president Sureshkumar. As word of the manual scavenging got around, the officials came under flak and reportedly harassed Narayana to own up the lapse, and say that he voluntarily got into the manhole without any protection. Narayana’s colleagues said his salary was withheld since and he was placed under suspension for petty reasons as he refused to take the blame. Narayana is survived by his wife and three children. After postmortem, Narayana’s body was brought before the city municipal council office where sweepers held a protest against the alleged ill-treatment by civic officials. Karnataka Urban Local Bodies’ Outsource Employees Union (KULBOEU) state president MB Nagannagowda said Narayana was being hounded by “rogue officials” and suspended for flimsy reasons. “Had the authorities taken swift legal action against those erring officers and the CMC president, Narayana would have been alive,” he said. Besides Sureshkumar, Narayana named chief officer Murugesh and health inspector Ghasim Khan in his note. Maddur police have registered a case under provisions of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and for abetment of suicide. The union said sweepers in Mandya will go on strike on February 26 to demand justice for Narayana. “If police don’t conduct proper investigation, we may be forced to go on an indefinite strike. The authorities concerned should be held responsible,” Nagannagowda said. The protesters also demanded compensation for Narayana’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/civic-staff-kills-self-over-manual-scavenging-row/articleshow/81181647.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Spike in other states prompts Raj to take Covid safety steps||Jaipur: Though the state is not witnessing any jump in daily Covid cases, there are apprehensions that infections may rise as a lot of people are not taking precautions and not following safety protocols. Citing it, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has appealed to people for the second time in 10 days to follow Covid SoPs. Geographically, the state is located at a critical place where its neighbouring states like MP, Haryana, Gujarat and Punjab have shown moderate spike in cases. Taking note of it, the state has extended implementation of CrPC section 144 for a month and is continuing collecting more than 1 lakh samples per week for surveillance.Though an alert has been sounded, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) gave the state a sigh of relief as it has claimed that the recent surge in Maharasthra was not due to any mutation. ICMR on Tuesday clarified that there is no direct relation between the recent surge in cases in Maharashtra and some other states with the mutant virus strains N440Kand E484Q of Covid-19. Also, the mutated strain has not been found in Rajasthan. ICMR stated that of the two strains, E484Q was earlier detected in four sequences in Maharashtra as early as March and July 2020. The N440K mutation has been reported on 13 different occasions between May and September 2020 in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Assam.In Jaipur, the number of active cases have dropped to 284, which is a good sign, which remained worst Covid-hit districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/spike-in-other-states-prompts-raj-to-take-covid-safety-steps/articleshow/81180382.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||6-yr-old girl found in Hadapsar reunited with her parents||Pune: The city police reunited a six-year-old girl with her parents with the help of their counterparts in Satara, hours after she was found at a PMPML bus stop in Hadapsar on Monday morning.Sub-inspector Sachin Gadekar from the Hadapsar police said on Tuesday, “Social activist Praveen Pradhan spotted the minor girl and brought her to the Hadapsar police chowkey.”Pradhan told TOI, “I rushed to the bus stop after receiving a phone call from Supriya Nalawade of Save the Child Foundation, an NGO, to provide legal assistance to a girl found in distress. The girl told us that two unknown boys lured her to accompany them from Lonand in Satara district to Pune for sightseeing on Sunday, abandoned her and fled. The girl slept at the bus stop.”Pradhan said, “When we inquired in Lonand through a friend, we learnt that the girl was neglected by her parents because of poverty among other reasons. With the help of the police there, we counselled the girl’s parents at the time of reuniting her with them.”Gadekar said, “The girl, a Standard I student, shared with us details of herself and her parents as well as her address in Lonand. When we contacted the Lonand police, we came to know that her parents had not registered a missing person’s complaint there but confirmed that the girl was indeed staying at the given address. Her parents could not travel to Pune to collect their daughter because of financial constraints. We then transferred Vaishali’s custody to the Lonand police, who reunited her with her parents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/6-yr-old-girl-found-in-hadapsar-reunited-with-her-parents/articleshow/81178639.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||Ex-Union MoS for home affairs Hansraj Ahir seeks probe into death of worker in Siddhabali Ispat Ltd||CHANDRAPUR: Accidental death of a labourer in Siddhabali Ispat Ltd, a sponge iron plant in Tadali MIDC, has sparked a controversy. Former Union minister of state for home affairs Hansraj Ahir visited the company and demanded for registering offence against the company owner and management for trying to hush up the incident. Labourer Shailendra Namdev had died after he was crushed under an iron pillar that fell on him on Monday evening. Ahir charged that the labourer, hailing from Madhya Pradesh, had died on the spot. However, the company management rushed the body to Nagpur even before informing the local police, said Ahir. “While Chandrapur is just 15km from the factory, what was the intent behind taking the body to Nagpur. The move was aimed at hushing up the incident. Post mortem of the deceased was carried out in Nagpur and the body was shifted to Madhya Pradesh, even before Padoli police, having jurisdiction over the factory, took action,” Ahir charged. The former minister claimed that Namdev had died on the spot and it was mandatory to inform local police and carry out panchnama. Ahir produced photograph of the worker lying dead with part of his brain spilt out, and charged that the factory management shifted the body to Nagpur on the pretext of the labourer being injured. Ahir alleged that on earlier occasion also, the company management had hushed up a case of death of a worker in similar manner. He demanded immediate compensation and job for the kin of the deceased worker. He also demanded priority to local workers in the industry, police verification of the labourers from other state working in the plant and curbs on the high level of pollution from the company that is damaging crops in the surroundings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ahir-seeks-probe-into-death-of-worker-in-siddhabali-ispat/articleshow/81180399.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 24, 2021||Dehradun||Police begin probe into Sunday’s fight, falsely claimed as communal||Roorkee: Police have registered cases against both parties involved in a fight reportedly over ownership of a local house on Sunday, whose videos had been circulated on social media by “anti-social elements” as a communal incident. Police said investigation is underway and the guilty will not be spared. According to reports, a group of around two dozen people led by one Sabir Rehman of Shekhpuri locality allegedly entered the house of one Shubham Karanwal, a Dalit, and thrashed the latter and his family after ransacking their house. Unidentified people made videos of the fight go viral on social media, alleging the incident to be a communal fight. Soon, local right wing groups gheraoed the local police station, alleging atrocities on Karanwal on communal lines. Prima facie, police though found that Rehman had purchased Karanwal’s house, but Karanwal was refusing to hand over its possession after receiving Rs 1.35 crore as payment. A frustrated Rehman had brought his aides on that day to forcibly occupy the house he had already bought. Based on the complaint of Karanwal’s wife, cops booked Rehman and around two dozen unidentified people under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with deadly weapon), 452 (house trespass), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 427(committing mischief), 354 (unwelcome physical contact for sexual favours), 504 (intentional insults), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC, along with relevant sections of the SC/ST Act. They also registered Rehman’s complaint as a non-cognizable report (NCR) under Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the IPC, against three members of the Karanwal family. “The matter is being investigated by a police circle officer. We are also keeping a watch on those who viral videos on social media and call it a communal dispute. A stern action will be taken against them,” said SP (rural) Pramendra Singh Dobal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-begin-probe-into-sundays-fight-falsely-claimed-as-communal/articleshow/81177403.cms||Tapan Susheel
February 24, 2021||Dehradun||Women help desk in each police station to be made first point of contact, complainants to get compulsory receipt||Dehradun: In order to make police stations more people friendly, Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said that he has passed an order where anyone going to a police station with a complaint will get a compulsory receiving. "In some cases, staff at police stations hesitate to give the receipt of the complaint thinking they might have to file an FIR. However, from now onwards, everyone going with a complaint will get a receipt," said DGP Kumar. Kumar added that normally the police personnel show reluctance in handing over receiving to the complainants thinking they will have to file an FIR and investigate. "However, it's not true and I have issued directions that they can receive the complaint, then hold a preliminary investigation to ascertain whether the complaint requires an FIR or not," the DGP said. Moreover, DGP Kumar also issued an order to all district police chiefs to make women help desk, functioning in every police station in the state, to make it a first point of contact for the complainants. "The women help desk will function like a reception desk at each police station and will entertain the complainants who come with grievances. All staff members at the women help desk are soft-skill trained and will help make the place people friendly," Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/women-help-desk-in-each-police-station-to-be-made-first-point-of-contact-complainants-to-get-compulsory-receipt/articleshow/81177422.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 24, 2021||Goa||Goa cricket coach Ganesh resigns||Panaji: Citing health issues, former India pacer Dodda Ganesh has resigned as coach of the Goa cricket team with immediate effect on Thursday (February 4). With just a few days left for the Vijay Hazare one-day tournament, the Goa Cricket Association (GCA) has asked Prakash Mayekar, director of coaching and cricket operations, to take up the interim coach’s job. Two days ago, Goa received a jolt as Ashkoe Dinda, their third professional player after captain Amit Verma and wicket-keeper batsman Eknath Kerkar, called it a day following an injury in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament in Indore. “Ganesh has written to GCA regarding his unavailability following health issues. We have accepted his resignation,” said GCA secretary Vipul Phadke. This was Ganesh’s third stint with Goa. During the 2018-19 season, Goa lost seven out of nine matches, two draws and not a single victory in the Elite Group, finishing at the bottom. Goa were relegated to Plate division and the association opted for Ganesh to get the team back in the Elite group. The 47-year-old formed a strong Goa team along with captain Amit Verma which reversed the results. With seven victories, two draws and no losses, Goa topped the Plate Group with 50 points. Ganesh’s strategies helped Goa earn a quarterfinal berth against mighty Gujarat. Earlier during his maiden stint, Ganesh took Goa to the semifinals of the Ranji Trophy against Sourav Ganguly-led Bengal in 2008. Ganesh played one ODI against Zimbabwe and four Test matches against South Africa and West Indies in 1997.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-cricket-coach-ganesh-resigns/articleshow/81198977.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ludhiana||Association shots off letter to PM on Buddha Nullah project||Ludhiana: City-based business association Bahadurke Road Textile and Knitwear Association, which has been up in arms against the state government and municipal corporation on the Buddah Nallah rejuvenation project, has now shot off a complaint letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to stop the execution of the project as there are many flaws in it. Notably, the association has been claiming that the project for which the tender has been allotted for Rs 519 crore can be completed at Rs 325 crore only and there are many other shortcomings in the project. Meanwhile, in the letter sent to PM on Tuesday, Tarun Jain Bawa, president of Bahadurke Road Textile and Knitwear Association, said, “Punjab government with the help of the Union government has finalised the much talked about rejuvenation project of Buddah Nullah passing through the city and ultimately meeting the Sutlej and polluting its water. Since the already installed STP (special treatment plants) to clean the water of Buddah Nullah are outdated and are much below the required capacity and practically of no use at all. This project has been finalised at a cost of Rs 519 crore for water volume of approx. 700MLD of water. This is based upon the study report of flow rate of water prepared by the PMIDC, government of Punjab.” The letter further says, “The industry and people of Ludhiana are not satisfied with this project because it has not been conceived and finalised based upon the actual quantity of flow of water and even the future increase of water has not been taken into account. The industry on its own got a study conducted by Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, which gave the the flow at 80MLD per hour if calculated by peak and low discharge, which comes to approx 1,200 to 1,300 MLD average water flow (report attached). This is much higher than the capacity of the project being undertaken by government of Punjab at a cost of Rs 519 crore, for which the tender has been already allotted.” The letter further says, “It is pertinent to highlight the fact that the allotted project is much below the required capacity and future enhancement of water flow has not been taken into consideration in the project. This will be an absolute wastage of taxpayers’ money without serving the desperately needed public demand and purpose. It is therefore requested that the government of Punjab is retrained from executing this project. The Union government should actually restudy the actual flow of water to ascertain the actual volume of flow of water, keeping the future expansion capacity in the plan to make the project useful for the industry and residents of Ludhiana, an immediate action in this regard is required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/association-shots-off-letter-to-pm-on-buddha-nullah-project/articleshow/81178663.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||Six-month-old baby abandoned in dargah on Ahmednagar Rd||Pune: The Chandannagar police on Monday evening found a six-month-old girl abandoned on the Janak Baba dargah premises on Ahmednagar Road. “Devotees visiting the dargah alerted the police about the child around 7.30pm on Monday. Some of them said the girl was abandoned by her mother because she was unable to look after the child,” assistant inspector Annasaheb Tapare said on Tuesday. Tapare said, “Our beat marshals, including a woman, visited the spot and brought the baby to the police station. We took her photographs and showed it to the residents in Kharadi and its adjoining localities to establish the girl’s identity and reunite her with the parents. But nobody could identify her.” The baby has been admitted to the Sassoon hospital’s child care centre. “We have also shared information of the incident with the child welfare committee. An FIR was registered against unidentified parents under Section 313 of the Indian Penal Code on the charge of abandoning the baby ,” he said.The police said the baby was in a healthy condition. The police have also shared her photographs on various social networking platforms, appealing to people to identity the girl.A few days ago, a two-day old infant was found abandoned in some buses in the old Katraj ghat section. The Bharati Vidyapeeth police said the boy was healthy and admitted to Sassoon General Hospital for further care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-month-old-baby-abandoned-in-dargah-on-ahmednagar-rd/articleshow/81178652.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ludhiana||All schoolteachers will have to get themselves tested for Covid||Ludhiana: The education department has directed all private, aided, unaided and government schools to get their teachers tested for Covid-19. The directions were issued on Monday in the wake of increasing novel coronavirus cases, especially in schools. Besides, the department has asked them to appoint a teacher as a nodal officer in every school and a student monitor in each class to ensure compliance of pandemic guidelines. The department has issued a letter to all the district education officers, principals, heads and block primary education officers to abide by the orders. The letter states, “Sensing the situation of Covid-19, it is directed to ensure compliance of standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued to schools. To ensure the compliance of the guidelines, each school has to appoint one teacher as the nodal officer and one student from each class as monitor to ensure all rules like wearing masks, maintaining physical distance, among others, are followed. Schools are also directed to provide masks to students if needed. Besides, all schools are directed to get all teachers tested for Covid-19.” Secretary, education, Krishan Kumar said, “The health of teachers and students is the utmost priority of the department. Therefore, schools have been directed to strictly follow the guidelines and get tests of all teachers conducted. Exams are also approaching and so, everyone has to be more cautious.” Kumar urged all teachers and parents of students to not come to school if they notice any symptom of Covid-19 and immediately get themselves tested. “All district education officers have been directed to conduct regular checking of all private, aided and government schools to ensure SOPs are followed,” Kumar added. Over the past some days, 90 students and 40 teachers have tested positive in Ludhiana. Kundan Vidya Mandir, Civil Lines, principal Navita Puri said, “The guidelines issued by the CBSE and the government are already being followed. We are making only 10 to 12 children sit in one classroom. Besides, they are made to wear masks and use sanitizer regularly. Also, the school is sending regular messages of awareness to all teachers, students and their parents. The parents are also told to make sure children follow the guidelines at home, too, as it requires teamwork to ensure complete safety from the virus.”“Teachers and other staff members have been instructed to stay home if they get any symptom and get themselves tested,” Puri added. Government Senior Secondary School, Ayali Khurd, principal Kanwaljot Kaur said, “We have already got the tests of all teachers conducted in January. We had approached the senior medical officer, who sent a team of health officials to conduct testing. If anyone gets a symptom, (s)he will be tested. On Tuesday, we appointed a nodal officer and also selected class monitors. Besides, teachers come to school early and remain at all the entry points to ensure when students come, they are wearing masks, have sanitizers and own water bottles with them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/all-schoolteachers-will-have-to-get-themselves-tested-for-covid/articleshow/81177401.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 24, 2021||Ludhiana||City bizmen give thumbs up to govt nod to amend industrial policy||Ludhiana: City businessmen are upbeat over Punjab cabinet’s approval to amend the Industrial and Business Development Policy, 2017, for extension of GST formula for availing the incentives. The decision has been taken by the cabinet, based upon the feedback received from the industry associations for extending the last date of claiming the GST incentive. The fiscal incentive under the present policy was only applicable for investment proposals received till March 31, 2020, on the Invest Punjab Business First portal, but now with the Cabinet decision, the GST formula notified on October 17, 2018, shall be extended for availing incentive under the Industrial & Business Development Policy, 2017, till October 17, 2022. Meanwhile, businessmen are of the view that the GST-based incentives should be rolled out for the existing industrial units too. Commenting on the issue, Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, said, “The extension of the GST incentive for investment proposals in Punjab by more than two years is a great development and it will help in not only encouraging the investors, but will also bring more investment in the state. We are thankful to the state government, specially chief minister Amarinder Singh, for approving this formula. But at the same time we request him to consider bringing some GST linked incentive scheme for the existing industrial units as well.” According to Dinesh Kalra, president of Ludhiana Business Forums, “We welcome the decision taken by the cabinet and it will go a long way in benefiting the economy of the state by attracting more investors and will also benefit the industrial units. At the same time, given the current circumstances, there is a dire need of rolling out incentives and subsidies for the old industrial units in the state, so that they get financial support in these turbulent times.” Elaborating more about the development, a spokesperson of the state government, said, “To promote post-Covid industrial revival and attract greater investment, the Punjab cabinet on Friday gave approval to amend the Industrial & Business Development Policy, 2017, for extension of GST formula for availing incentives under the said policy till October 17, 2022. The move is also prompted by feedback/suggestions from certain industry associations for extending the last date of claiming the GST incentive, given in the notification dated October 17, 2018, and make this last date as coterminous till the expiry of the industrial policy of the state. The fiscal incentive under the present policy was only applicable for investment proposals received by March 31, 2020, on the Invest Punjab Business First portal. With the cabinet decision, the GST formula notified vide notification no. 4888 dated October 17, 2018, shall be extended for availing incentive under the Industrial & Business Development Policy, 2017 till October 17, 2022 (i.e. till the applicability of Industrial & Business Development Policy, 2017).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-bizmen-give-thumbs-up-to-govt-nod-to-amend-industrial-policy/articleshow/81178649.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Vadodara||MP, MLA stopped||Vadodara: Once again Vadodara MP, Ranjan Bhatt, came under the scanner for entering the counting centre without a pass. Bhatt along with MLA Manisha Vakil and former state general secretary were stopped by police after they got through the gates of Polytechnic college. After a minor argument, they returned to the tent set up by the party across the road outside the counting centre. On the day of election, too, Bhatt was asked by election officials to leave as she entered the polling centre at Nutan Vidyalaya on Sama-Savli Road without a pass. The atmosphere outside the counting centre at Polytechnic college was all saffron, as one after the other victorious BJP panels emerged from inside. Hundreds of BJP supporters had gathered outside the polling centre and every time BJP’s victory was announced on the loudspeaker, it was greeted with loud cheers of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’. Supporters of winning candidates brought them out to the road on their shoulders only to be welcomed by hundreds of others with garlands, firecrackers and dhol beats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mp-mla-stopped/articleshow/81177280.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Goa||Teen’s body found in Seraulim||Colva: A case of unnatural death has been booked by the police after the dead body of an 18-year-old was found lying in the fields at Seraulim. Police said that they received a call regarding a person found lying in the fields along the Betalbatim-Margao road. Upon investigation, the police managed to identify the deceased and contacted his father, a resident of Nessai. The deceased was said to be a rickshaw driver. Police informed that a couple of injuries have been found on the victim’s head. Police, however, ruled out any foul play, claiming that the area where the corpse was found is a busy road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teens-body-found-in-seraulim/articleshow/81180377.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan government sets target to vaccinate 1.63 crore people aged over 50 years in March||JAIPUR: The health department is launching a massive vaccination campaign targeting 1.63 crore people aged over 50 years in March which will be completed in 28 days. A meeting through video conferencing of health department officials across the state was held on Tuesday in which directions have been issued to each district to step up preparations for vaccination of above 50-year population. ”As per the electoral roll, the number of above 50 population is 1.63crore. We have planned the third phase under which above 50 population will be vaccinated in such as way that we complete the process o first dose in 28 days and so that after 28 days we start giving the second dose to those who have completed 28 days of getting the first dose. So in this way, it will go on until all the above 50 population get the two doses at a gap of 28 days. But, it is our planning. A lot will depend on the Centre, who will provide us the vaccines for vaccinating 1.63crore. population. It was our first video conferencing in which all districts participated,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health), health department. In Jaipur, more than 15 lakh people, who are above 50, will be included in the drive. “We will start identification of 400 vaccination sites in Jaipur for vaccination of above 50,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur). Besides, a mop-up round for the left out registered healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers will be organized on February 25. Across the state, there are more than 1.1 lakh HCWs who are left out and registered for vaccination. Moreover, a lot many healthcare workers, who did not get themselves registered for vaccination prior to the launch of the drive, are approaching the health department asking the officials to register them for vaccination. Acting on their demand, the health department has decided to collect the details of such healthcare workers. The demand of registration of new HCWs will be send to the Centre for the approval. Earlier, these HCWs were apprehensive, but now that no serious adverse events have been reported, they are showing willingness for vaccination. “We have initiated the process of collecting the details of such HCWs who have not got registered for vaccination. After that, we will send the request to the Centre to include them under the Covid-19 inoculation drive after registering them,” said a senior health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/govt-sets-target-to-vaccinate-1-63cr-people-aged-over-50-years-in-march/articleshow/81184547.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan government sets target to vaccinate 1.63 crore people aged over 50 years in March||JAIPUR: The health department is launching a massive vaccination campaign targeting 1.63 crore people aged over 50 years in March which will be completed in 28 days. A meeting through video conferencing of health department officials across the state was held on Tuesday in which directions have been issued to each district to step up preparations for vaccination of above 50-year population. ”As per the electoral roll, the number of above 50 population is 1.63crore. We have planned the third phase under which above 50 population will be vaccinated in such as way that we complete the process o first dose in 28 days and so that after 28 days we start giving the second dose to those who have completed 28 days of getting the first dose. So in this way, it will go on until all the above 50 population get the two doses at a gap of 28 days. But, it is our planning. A lot will depend on the Centre, who will provide us the vaccines for vaccinating 1.63crore. population. It was our first video conferencing in which all districts participated,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health), health department. In Jaipur, more than 15 lakh people, who are above 50, will be included in the drive. “We will start identification of 400 vaccination sites in Jaipur for vaccination of above 50,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur). Besides, a mop-up round for the left out registered healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers will be organized on February 25. Across the state, there are more than 1.1 lakh HCWs who are left out and registered for vaccination. Moreover, a lot many healthcare workers, who did not get themselves registered for vaccination prior to the launch of the drive, are approaching the health department asking the officials to register them for vaccination. Acting on their demand, the health department has decided to collect the details of such healthcare workers. The demand of registration of new HCWs will be send to the Centre for the approval. Earlier, these HCWs were apprehensive, but now that no serious adverse events have been reported, they are showing willingness for vaccination. “We have initiated the process of collecting the details of such HCWs who have not got registered for vaccination. After that, we will send the request to the Centre to include them under the Covid-19 inoculation drive after registering them,” said a senior health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/govt-sets-target-to-vaccinate-1-63cr-people-aged-over-50-years-in-march/articleshow/81184545.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||‘Fuel stns for govt cars not updated’||Jaipur: The petrol pump dealers claimed that the fuel pumps that cater to government vehicles have not been automated in accordance with the central government directions because of which they reflect old fuel prices.The private dealers conceded that while the government does pay the current fuel prices, the lack of automation gives the impression that the government is getting a huge discount. Even as this is not the case, it does take a fortnight to get the government’s pending bills over the difference in cost cleared.Sunit Bagai, president, Rajasthan Petroleum Dealers Association, said, “It is not the case that government pays the old fuel price reflected on the pumps catering to them but it is true that these fuel pumps are not automated like the rest of the private ones which is wrong. The Union government had given directions that all the fuel pumps must be automated so that current prices are updated and when majority of the pumps have been done so then why not these? It gives the impression to the common man that the government vehicles are filled fuel at a far lesser price.”According to sources, these pumps have not been automated for past few years and the government officials did not specify as to when it would be done.Moreover, after the fuel is filled, the bills are cleared around 15 days after that on the same price as to the day when petrol/diesel was filled in the government vehicles. Elaborating on this, Bagai added, “As the clearance of bill takes place, they are charged the same price of fuel as it was filled 15 days back in which case they do benefit slightly from it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fuel-stns-for-govt-cars-not-updated/articleshow/81180424.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Goa||23 Nisser_Blood sample mix-up gets murder accused acquittal||Colva: The additional sessions court at Margao has acquitted accused Rahul Sharma of the charge of murdering Pramod Soni, as the blood detected on the body of the deceased did not match with the blood group of either the deceased or the accused. “The existence of blood with blood group ‘O’ on the deceased, which is not the blood group of either the deceased or the accused, raises a very serious question whether any person other than the accused was involved in the stabbing and consequently, affects the truth of the said oral and written dying declarations,” additional sessions judge Edgar Fernandes observed. The prosecution case was that on December 12, 2004, accused Rahul Sharma stabbed Soni with a knife in the stomach, while the victim was sleeping, causing his death. Dr. Madhu Godkirekar, in his evidence, stated that the blood sample of the deceased showed that his blood group was ‘B’ negative. Dr. Clare D’Mello deposed that she examined the blood sample of the accused and it was found to be ‘B’ positive. Defense submitted that the CFSL report proves that blood with group ‘O’ was detected on the sample taken from the deceased at the time of the post mortem. Police constable Sanjay K Naik, in his deposition during the trial, stated that on February 13, 2004, he was deployed on duty at Hospicio Hospital. He had other duties to perform at the Hospital and when he returned to collect the injured person’s clothes, he found them missing. He also deposed that he searched for the clothes but could not find them. Judge Fernandes observed that casual explanation by the state witness in such a serious matter is of no assistance to the prosecution. Consequently the judge observed, “considering this fact with the fact that the deceased was sleeping at the time of the assault, the dying declarations cannot be considered as a circumstance against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/23-nisser_blood-sample-mix-up-gets-murder-accused-acquittal/articleshow/81180411.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan government sets target to vaccinate 1.63 crore people aged over 50 years in March||JAIPUR: The health department is launching a massive vaccination campaign targeting 1.63 crore people aged over 50 years in March which will be completed in 28 days. A meeting through video conferencing of health department officials across the state was held on Tuesday in which directions have been issued to each district to step up preparations for vaccination of above 50-year population. ”As per the electoral roll, the number of above 50 population is 1.63crore. We have planned the third phase under which above 50 population will be vaccinated in such as way that we complete the process o first dose in 28 days and so that after 28 days we start giving the second dose to those who have completed 28 days of getting the first dose. So in this way, it will go on until all the above 50 population get the two doses at a gap of 28 days. But, it is our planning. A lot will depend on the Centre, who will provide us the vaccines for vaccinating 1.63crore. population. It was our first video conferencing in which all districts participated,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health), health department. In Jaipur, more than 15 lakh people, who are above 50, will be included in the drive. “We will start identification of 400 vaccination sites in Jaipur for vaccination of above 50,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur). Besides, a mop-up round for the left out registered healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers will be organized on February 25. Across the state, there are more than 1.1 lakh HCWs who are left out and registered for vaccination. Moreover, a lot many healthcare workers, who did not get themselves registered for vaccination prior to the launch of the drive, are approaching the health department asking the officials to register them for vaccination. Acting on their demand, the health department has decided to collect the details of such healthcare workers. The demand of registration of new HCWs will be send to the Centre for the approval. Earlier, these HCWs were apprehensive, but now that no serious adverse events have been reported, they are showing willingness for vaccination. “We have initiated the process of collecting the details of such HCWs who have not got registered for vaccination. After that, we will send the request to the Centre to include them under the Covid-19 inoculation drive after registering them,” said a senior health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/govt-sets-target-to-vaccinate-1-63cr-people-aged-over-50-years-in-march/articleshow/81184543.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan government sets target to vaccinate 1.63 crore people aged over 50 years in March||JAIPUR: The health department is launching a massive vaccination campaign targeting 1.63 crore people aged over 50 years in March which will be completed in 28 days. A meeting through video conferencing of health department officials across the state was held on Tuesday in which directions have been issued to each district to step up preparations for vaccination of above 50-year population. ”As per the electoral roll, the number of above 50 population is 1.63crore. We have planned the third phase under which above 50 population will be vaccinated in such as way that we complete the process o first dose in 28 days and so that after 28 days we start giving the second dose to those who have completed 28 days of getting the first dose. So in this way, it will go on until all the above 50 population get the two doses at a gap of 28 days. But, it is our planning. A lot will depend on the Centre, who will provide us the vaccines for vaccinating 1.63crore. population. It was our first video conferencing in which all districts participated,” said Siddharth Mahajan, secretary (health), health department. In Jaipur, more than 15 lakh people, who are above 50, will be included in the drive. “We will start identification of 400 vaccination sites in Jaipur for vaccination of above 50,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur). Besides, a mop-up round for the left out registered healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers will be organized on February 25. Across the state, there are more than 1.1 lakh HCWs who are left out and registered for vaccination. Moreover, a lot many healthcare workers, who did not get themselves registered for vaccination prior to the launch of the drive, are approaching the health department asking the officials to register them for vaccination. Acting on their demand, the health department has decided to collect the details of such healthcare workers. The demand of registration of new HCWs will be send to the Centre for the approval. Earlier, these HCWs were apprehensive, but now that no serious adverse events have been reported, they are showing willingness for vaccination. “We have initiated the process of collecting the details of such HCWs who have not got registered for vaccination. After that, we will send the request to the Centre to include them under the Covid-19 inoculation drive after registering them,” said a senior health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-sets-target-to-vaccinate-1-63cr-people-aged-over-50-years-in-march/articleshow/81180412.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Dehradun||People coming to Doon from 5 states with Covid surge to be tested randomly||Dehradun: After a spike in Covid-19 cases in states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, the Dehradun district administration has decided to conduct random testing at the airport, railway stations and at other entry points in the state capital. Following the decision, 13 people were randomly tested at Asharodi check post on Tuesday. Speaking to TOI, Narottam Bisht, SHO Clement Town, informed that the decision of random testing of passengers was taken by the district administration after spurt in Covid-19 cases was witnessed in these states. “We have been asked to randomly test passengers coming from Maharashtra, Gujarat, MP, Chhattisgarh and Kerala. A team of cops and doctors will remain at the Asharodi check post from morning till evening to test people entering Dehradun,” Bisht added. Jolly Grant airport director DK Gautam said that the airport administration has received orders to test passengers coming from Gujarat, Maharashtra and Kerala. “The orders we received have no mention of MP and Chhattisgarh,” Gautam said adding that a team of the health department outside the airport is taking samples of passengers. “We have been told that the passengers from the identified areas should either have a Covid-negative report of test that has been done within 72 hours or they will have to undergo screening and rapid antigen tests,” added Gautam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/people-coming-to-doon-from-5-states-with-covid-surge-to-be-tested-randomly/articleshow/81177442.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 24, 2021||Dehradun||Woman dies after giving birth in Almora||Almora: A woman died after giving birth at Almora’s women's hospital. One Kailash Singh, a resident of Khirakot village in Someshwar tehsil of Almora district, took his wife Durga Bhakuni (25) who was expecting a baby to a hospital in Someshwar. Seeing her condition, the doctors referred her to Women's Hospital, Almora. After giving birth to a healthy baby girl at around 10 pm on Monday, the mother’s condition suddenly worsened. Durga died within half an hour of delivering her baby. The victim’s family refused to conduct a post mortem and her body was handed over to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-dies-after-giving-birth-in-almora/articleshow/81177448.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Sale of tablet which ‘helps combat Covid’ banned in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: State home minister Anil Deshmukh has said that sale of Patanjali Ayurveda’s Coronil tablets will not be allowed in Maharashtra without proper certification from competent health organisations. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) expressed shock over the “blatant lie of World Health Organisation (WHO) certification” for Coronil tablets which Patanjali claims is an evidence-based medicine to fight Covid-19. Yoga guru Ramdev’s Patanjali Ayurved had on February 19 said that the Coronil tablet had received certification from the Ayush ministry as a medicine supporting Covid-19 treatment according to the World Health Organisation’s certification scheme. “The #IMA has questioned the said ‘clinical trials’ of #Coronil & WHO refuted the false claims made by #Patanjali Ayurveda for giving any certificate regarding its effectiveness for #Covid19 treatment,” Deshmukh further said in his tweet. Deshmukh said in a tweet. “Launching such a drug hurriedly and being endorsed by two senior Central Union ministers is highly deplorable. Selling of #Coronil without proper certification from competent health organizations like #WHO, #IMA and others will not be allowed in Maharashtra.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sale-of-tablet-which-helps-combat-covid-banned-in-state/articleshow/81176505.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports 54 new Covid cases, 1 death||DEHRADUN: With 54 new Covid-19 cases reported on Tuesday, the coronavirus tally reached 96,773 in the state. One patient died of the infection in the last 24 hours while 38 new recoveries were also reported taking the recovery tally to 93,268. According to the report released by the health department, 8,476 samples tested negative on Tuesday. Among 54 positive cases, maximum (30) were reported from Dehradun followed by 7 in Haridwar, 3 each in Pauri and Nainital, 10 in Udham Singh Nagar and 1 in Tehri. “Not a single Covid-infected case has been reported from Almora, Bageshwar, Chamoli, Champawat, Pithoragarh, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi. The total Covid-19 deaths in the state reached 1,690. The recovery rate is 96.3% and active cases declined to 423,” said Abhishek Tripathi from the Covid control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-54-new-covid-cases-1-death/articleshow/81177458.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 24, 2021||Aurangabad||Three rob youth of cellphone, arrested||Aurangabad: A 25-year-old youth was robbed by three unidentified men who approached him on the pretext of taking him to the hospital after he met with an accident on the busy Jalna road on Saturday night. As per the complaint lodged by Akhilesh Kharat with MIDC Cidco police, he was returning from a friend’s birthday party. His moped skid after some miscreants overtook him on the service road from Hotel Lemon Tree to Harsul road. Kharat sustained injuries on his face, shoulder and legs and was profusely bleeding. The suspects returned and offered to help him reach hospital. The gullible youth fell prey to their trap and went with them. After a while thesuspects stopped the bike and asked him to call his family and inform about the accident. Soon after he took his cellphone, the suspects robbed his cellphone. They even snatched his moped keys and fled with the vehicle. The youth somehow contacted his family members and later got treated at a local hospital, before reachingout to the police station on Sunday and lodging a complaint. Inspector Vitthal Pote said, “On the basis of the registration number mentioned in the complaint, we checked the records only to find that a forged registration number plate was used by the the suspects. We are going to track them down using CCTV footages.” Police said that theyare also checking if any offences using a similar modus operandi have been committed in other parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/three-rob-youth-of-cellphone-arrested/articleshow/81160354.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Goa||Dudha falar: Exhibition of mini milk treats||Panaji: Super addictive and a slightly labour-intensive milk treat, ‘dudha falar’, that is moulded into shapes of flora and fauna, are on display at the Goa State Museum at the Adil Shah Palace in Panaji. The display of these tasty miniature treats has caught many a curious eye at the museum. “It is a tradition in Goa to prepare items out of milk during weddings and baby showers. These are in various shapes including flowers, fruits and toys,” museum director, Radha Bhave said. Despite being a part of traditional cuisine, the art of preparing ‘dudha falar’ is a unique skill that only the hands of few women hold. “It takes a special skill to prepare the items. This is why it makes it important to document this cuisine and its art. We therefore have displayed information about the ‘dudha falar’ besides pictures at the exhibition,” Bhave said. The exhibition has been put up as a part of the Museum Week celebrations. The images have been contributed by women who included the ‘dudha falar’ in the spread for their respective wedding or baby shower. It will be on display till February 26 at the Goa State Museum. “While Goans are familiar with the art of ‘dudha falar’, tourists that visit the museum have been very curious about it. They ask us several questions right from its significance to the recipe,” Bhave added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dudha-falar-exhibition-of-mini-milk-treats/articleshow/81180471.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC cites right to speedy trial, gives youth ‘with IS links’ bail||MUMBAI: Observing that there was a likelihood of the trial being delayed for a “considerable period”, the Bombay high court on Tuesday upheld the bail granted by a special trial court to Kalyan youth Areeb Majeed, accused by the NIA of Islamic state terror group (IS) links and travelling to Iraq and Syria to take up jihadi terrorism in 2014. A bench of Justice S S Shinde and Justice Manish Pitale invoked the fundamental right to life in the context of right to speedy trial. The HC said though bail parameters are stringent for special laws like the UAPA, courts are “required to perform a balancing act … between rights of an individual and society at large”. The “rigours” under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act that makes grant of bail difficult in terror cases, would “melt down when there is no likelihood of trial being completed in a reasonable time”, said the bench and stressed that this was a significant aspect in Majeed’s case given the time spent behind bars. The HC said the process of examining 51 prosecution witnesses had taken more than five years and there were 107 more witnesses to be examined by the NIA. The bail is for Rs1 lakh with two sureties. The HC partly allowed an appeal filed by the NIA against the bail order passed last March by a special trial court in the city. It set aside the findings on the merits of the case but upheld the bail only on the grounds of pendency of trial and Majeed’s incarceration since his 2014, arrest. Majeed is facing trial for going to Syria to commit terror acts. He is accused of having indulged in terrorist activities in Iraq between May and November 2014 by joining IS. The NIA said when he returned, it was “with an intention to carry out terror activities in India, including blowing up of police headquarters in Mumbai”. He was arrested the moment he landed and no deaths were caused by any alleged plans, said the HC. If convicted, Majeed faces a sentence of five years in prison to life imprisonment and he has already spent over six years behind bars, said the HC. Majeed had argued that he was brought back to India with all necessary help by the NIA officers, and that those officers were also present at the airport at the time of arrival. The HC said the findings rendered in two previous orders of rejection of his bail on merit were justified and the NIA court could not have revisited it “merely because some prosecution witness’’ was examined who Majeed said did not support the NIA case. The HC said “Majeed categorically stated before us that as a 21-year-old, he was carried away and that he had committed a serious mistake, for which he had already spent more than six years behind bars’’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/areeb-majeeds-already-spent-6-years-in-jail-hc/articleshow/81180453.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||One grading formula for higher edu admission in all state universities||MUMBAI: Universities in the state will soon follow a uniform gradation formula to reduce disparities in students’ scores. Since eligibility of students for admissions to various higher education courses is based on actual marks, not CGPAs (cumulative grade point average), the higher and technical education department has formed a panel to study the grading pattern of state varsities and bring it on par with each other. A CGPA of 10, when converted into actual scores would mean 83.5% for a student from Mumbai University, the corresponding score for the same CGPA in Pune University is 88%, said professor Haribhau Bhapkar of MIT School of Engineering, Pune. “Not just state universities, institutes across the country follow different conversion formulae and so, actual scores vary by 5-19%. In the course of my study, I found that at least nine formulae are currently in use across universities in the country. It is unfair,” said Bhapkar, who sent a proposal, recommending an easier formula, to the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the higher and technical education minister Uday Samant. While he plans to follow it up with UGC, the state is likely to bring uniformity soon. TimesViewBy trying to bring in uniformity in the grading system, the state has taken a step in the right direction. This should have been done earlier, when the credit system was introduced. With the disparities in grading system, admission season is riddled with confusion and chaos. The government must soon act on the panel’s report and implement a uniform system.Bhapkar is a member of the panel formed by the department under the chairmanship of the state’s CET Cell commissioner, Chintamani Joshi. An official from the CET cell said such discrepancies create a problem in deciding eligibility scores. “Also, if there is a tie, the CET cell relies on graduation score, where there is no parity, if students are of different universities,” said the official. The higher and technical education department issued a government resolution (GR), forming the nine-member panel, including vice-chancellors of Nagpur and Shivaji universities, exam controllers. The panel is expected to submit a report in a month. It mentions that the state had instructed all non-agricultural universities to follow Union government directives to implement choice-based grading system in 2015 (though Mumbai University started it almost three years before). The GR goes on to add that ‘the grades given by the university according to CGPA, however, it was observed that there was a difference in the formula for converting the grade into marks for every university’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/one-grading-formula-for-higher-edu-admission-in-all-state-univs/articleshow/81180465.cms||Yogita Rao
February 24, 2021||Goa||23 Nisser_Blood sample mix-up gets murder accused acquittal||Colva: The additional sessions court at Margao has acquitted accused Rahul Sharma of the charge of murdering Pramod Soni, as the blood detected on the body of the deceased did not match with the blood group of either the deceased or the accused. “The existence of blood with blood group ‘O’ on the deceased, which is not the blood group of either the deceased or the accused, raises a very serious question whether any person other than the accused was involved in the stabbing and consequently, affects the truth of the said oral and written dying declarations,” additional sessions judge Edgar Fernandes observed. The prosecution case was that on December 12, 2004, accused Rahul Sharma stabbed Soni with a knife in the stomach, while the victim was sleeping, causing his death. Dr. Madhu Godkirekar, in his evidence, stated that the blood sample of the deceased showed that his blood group was ‘B’ negative. Dr. Clare D’Mello deposed that she examined the blood sample of the accused and it was found to be ‘B’ positive. Defense submitted that the CFSL report proves that blood with group ‘O’ was detected on the sample taken from the deceased at the time of the post mortem. Police constable Sanjay K Naik, in his deposition during the trial, stated that on February 13, 2004, he was deployed on duty at Hospicio Hospital. He had other duties to perform at the Hospital and when he returned to collect the injured person’s clothes, he found them missing. He also deposed that he searched for the clothes but could not find them. Judge Fernandes observed that casual explanation by the state witness in such a serious matter is of no assistance to the prosecution. Consequently the judge observed, “considering this fact with the fact that the deceased was sleeping at the time of the assault, the dying declarations cannot be considered as a circumstance against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/23-nisser_blood-sample-mix-up-gets-murder-accused-acquittal/articleshow/81180435.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||BJP Raj in-charge downplays letter by party MLAs to Poonia||Jaipur: Three days have passed since 20 BJP MLAs shot a letter to their state chief sparking a storm, party’s state in-charge Arun Singh stunned everyone on Tuesday by admitting that he hadn’t seen the entire letter and someone had told him of it on social media. He repeatedly ignored the contents and tried to downplay the issue by calling it an internal matter. At a press conference at BJP headquarters after the core committee meeting, Singh downplayed the issue. “It appears that letter is an issue for the media not for our party,” said Singh, expressing ignorance on the contents of it. He, however, clarified that no one from the organisation should do anything which hurts the party. “Everyone should work to strengthen the party and work on the principle of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vishwas,” advised Singh. The letter, which surfaced on social media, was signed by 20 MLAs, mostly supporters of former CM Vasundhara Raje’s camp, alleging that they were not allowed to raise issues of public importance in the ongoing budget session of the state assembly. It invited sharp reactions from the party leaders including the deputy leader of the opposition, Rajendra Singh Rathore, who called the move challenging the party and said to raise the issue in the core committee meeting held on Tuesday.Despite the contents floating on the social media and half of the 20 MLAs have accepted to have written the letter, Singh said, “I don’t think letter has anything against anyone. If the letter is true, it is against the working style of our party. Such issues should have been raised and solved individually,” said Singh. Responding to a question on whether there was a communication gap in the party, Singh replied, “Such matters reach must faster. If this is true, I will see to it.” Continuing his denial mode, he questioned the authenticity of the letter. “I will see if at all it was written or not. I will see the content and find out who has written it. It is the party’s internal matter and I will talk.” Replying to a question on Raje’s proposed religious yatra in Bharatpur on March 8, Singh said, “I don’t know of any such yatra.......it (yatras) is done by sadhus and saints.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-raj-in-charge-downplays-letter-by-party-mlas-to-poonia/articleshow/81180434.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||Sale of tablet which ‘helps combat Covid’ banned in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: State home minister Anil Deshmukh has said that sale of Patanjali Ayurveda’s Coronil tablets will not be allowed in Maharashtra without proper certification from competent health organisations. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) expressed shock over the “blatant lie of World Health Organisation (WHO) certification” for Coronil tablets which Patanjali claims is an evidence-based medicine to fight Covid-19. Yoga guru Ramdev’s Patanjali Ayurved had on February 19 said that the Coronil tablet had received certification from the Ayush ministry as a medicine supporting Covid-19 treatment according to the World Health Organisation’s certification scheme. “The #IMA has questioned the said ‘clinical trials’ of #Coronil & WHO refuted the false claims made by #Patanjali Ayurveda for giving any certificate regarding its effectiveness for #Covid19 treatment,” Deshmukh further said in his tweet. Deshmukh said in a tweet. “Launching such a drug hurriedly and being endorsed by two senior Central Union ministers is highly deplorable. Selling of #Coronil without proper certification from competent health organizations like #WHO, #IMA and others will not be allowed in Maharashtra.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sale-of-tablet-which-helps-combat-covid-banned-in-state/articleshow/81182273.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Goa||Goa: Blood sample goof leads to murder accused’s acquital||COLVA: The additional sessions court at Margao has acquitted accused Rahul Sharma of the charge of murdering Pramod Soni, as the blood detected on the body of the deceased did not match with the blood group of either the deceased nor the accused. “The existence of blood with blood group ‘O’ on the deceased, which is not the blood group of either the deceased nor the accused, raises a very serious question whether any person other than the accused was involved in the stabbing and consequently, affects the truth of the said oral and written dying declarations,” additional sessions judge Edgar Fernandes observed.The prosecution case was that on December 12, 2004, Sharma stabbed Soni with a knife in the stomach, while the victim was sleeping, causing his death. Dr Madhu Godkirekar, in his evidence, stated that the blood sample of the deceased showed that his blood group was ‘B’ negative. Dr Clare D’Mello deposed that she examined the blood sample of the accused and it was found to be ‘B’ positive. Defense submitted that the Central Forensic Science Laboratory report proves that blood with group ‘O’ was detected on the sample taken from the deceased at the time of the post mortem. Police constable Sanjay K Naik, in his deposition during the trial, stated that on February 13, 2004, he was deployed on duty at Hospicio Hospital. He had other duties to perform at the hospital and when he returned to collect the injured person’s clothes, he found them missing. He also deposed that he searched for the clothes but could not find them. Judge Fernandes observed that casual explanation by the state witness in such a serious matter is of no assistance to the prosecution. Consequently, the judge observed, “Considering this fact with the fact that the deceased was sleeping at the time of the assault, the dying declarations cannot be considered as a circumstance against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/blood-sample-goof-leads-to-murder-accuseds-acquital/articleshow/81180448.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Dehradun||RT-PCR report mandatory for MLAs attending assembly session||Dehradun: Speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal on Tuesday reiterated that Covid test report was necessary for the MLAs attending the 10-day budget session starting from March 1 in Gairsain. Aggarwal said, “We have made arrangements for RT-PCR test for the legislators at different locations, including Srinagar and Gairsain.” He said that Gairsain had ample seating arrangements. The Speaker further added that people will be requested to not be seated in the visitors’ gallery. "We will try that only a limited number of people enter the main building," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rt-pcr-report-mandatory-for-mlas-attending-assembly-session/articleshow/81177456.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||HC seeks health status of Frontier Gandhi’s ailing kin||Mumbai: Bombay high court on Tuesday directed a court official to visit the ailing granddaughter of “Frontier Gandhi” Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan at her Breach Candy residence to ascertain the condition of her health. The order, by a bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Madhav Jamdar, was on her 40-year-old nephew Mashal Khan’s petition that he be appointed her legal guardian so that he can take her to Pakistan. India-born Zarin Ghani Walsh (76) is a Canadian national who has resided in India since 1983.  Walsh is the daughter of Ghaffar Khan’s eldest son. Mashal Khan, a resident of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (NWFP), is the son of her late brother. The direction followed the judges’ enquiry about Walsh’s condition. Khan’s advocate, Mayur Khandeparkar, told the judges that “she's virtually in a vegetative state but can talk”. Khandeparkar further said, “She has Alzheimer’s (disease) and dementia.” Justice Sayed asked, “Is she in a position to move about?” Khandeparkar replied, “She is bedridden and looked after by a nurse.” Earlier, government pleader Poornima Kantharia and Khandeparkar had sparred on the issue. “The only family she has is in Pakistan. She needs to be brought to Pakistan, so that in the last days of her life she can live with her family,” said Khandeparkar. Kantharia, though, questioned which law was being invoked as both Khan and his aunt are foreign nationals. “These two persons are not Indian nationals. Can the Indian government allow her to be taken out of its territory?” she asked. Khandeparkar said his client is not seeking recourse of the Indian government but is before the high court whose writ jurisdiction is also open to foreign nationals. “Ultimately, it is for the welfare of the lady. The situation is such that I (Khan) will not be in a position to frequent India,” Khandeparkar said, adding Khan comes to Mumbai via Dubai. Seeking time to reply, the Centre’s advocate, Advait Sethna, said the Canadian consulate must be joined as a party. The judges granted it two weeks. They directed the prothonotary to nominate an officer to visit Walsh, who will also “find out whether she wants to go to Pakistan and if she is able to understand the consequences of the petition and the prayers made in it”. They directed a report be submitted at the next hearing on March 10, 2021. At the previous hearing in August 2020, the court had sought a list of Walsh’s properties and family tree. Khandeparkar submitted details of two bank accounts and her family tree. He informed the Breach Candy flat is a tenanted property. The judges directed the bank to be added as a party to the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-seeks-health-status-of-frontier-gandhis-ailing-kin/articleshow/81178767.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 24, 2021||Aurangabad||Three rob youth of cellphone, booked||Aurangabad: A 25-year-old youth was robbed by three unidentified men who approached him on the pretext of taking him to the hospital after he met with an accident on the busy Jalna road on Saturday night. As per the complaint lodged by Akhilesh Kharat with MIDC Cidco police, he was returning from a friend’s birthday party. His moped skid after some miscreants overtook him on the service road from Hotel Lemon Tree to Harsul road. Kharat sustained injuries on his face, shoulder and legs and was profusely bleeding. The suspects returned and offered to help him reach hospital. The gullible youth fell prey to their trap and went with them. After a while thesuspects stopped the bike and asked him to call his family and inform about the accident. Soon after he took his cellphone, the suspects robbed his cellphone. They even snatched his moped keys and fled with the vehicle. The youth somehow contacted his family members and later got treated at a local hospital, before reachingout to the police station on Sunday and lodging a complaint. Inspector Vitthal Pote said, “On the basis of the registration number mentioned in the complaint, we checked the records only to find that a forged registration number plate was used by the the suspects. We are going to track them down using CCTV footages.” Police said that theyare also checking if any offences using a similar modus operandi have been committed in other parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/three-rob-youth-of-cellphone-booked/articleshow/81171647.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Goa||‘Beautiful girls’ blackmail men in new cyber scam in Goa||PANAJI: Goa Police are finding themselves dealing with a new type of online crime, one of cyber entrapment and extortion. Middle-aged and elderly men, many of whom are prominent citizens, are becoming prey of unknown “beautiful girls” who first send them friend requests and then trap them by getting them to expose themselves on video calls. “Goa Police’s cyber crime police (CCC) station has received several such complaints from Facebook and WhatsApp users,” CCC PI Vishwesh Karpe told TOI. He, however, said that no cases are registered because the victims don’t want to due to the stigma attached. Goa police is advising citizens not to fall prey to such friend requests. “Victims receive a random friend request from an unknown girl. Once that is accepted, conversation is initialised and slowly the victim’s confidence is won. Then the video calls begin during which the victim is induced to get nude and expose his private parts. During these calls, unknown to them, they have been recorded by the other party and then the blackmailing begins,” Karpe said. The CCC PI said that the victims believe that they are talking to a woman, but in reality it is a man using a software to pretend to be a woman. “During the video call the victim will see the so-called woman exposing herself, but it is a software that is making it look like it is a woman,” Karpe said. It is the shame factor that sees victims succumbing to blackmail. “Initially the accused demands something like Rs 5,000, but then it goes up to lakhs,” he said. Karpe said that in some cases people, while complaining, state that their social media account was hacked and now obscene videos and photographs of theirs are being circulated and posted. “Based on the complaint we write to the social media company to block the account,” he said. “Many well-known and renowned people have become victims of such Facebook fraudsters. The victims are in the age group of 45 to 60,” Karpe said. Earlier, the modus operandi was slightly different in that the target was women and the lure was the offer of marriage. The online predator would then ask the victim woman to transfer them money. Police said that in this manner crores of rupees have been siphoned from women in Goa. If it was not marriage, then the victim would be told that she has been sent an expensive gift. The women would even receive a fake call from a “customs officer” stating they have to pay a huge sum of money, which is still less than the total cost of the gift, to clear the consignment lying at the custom’s warehouse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/beautiful-girls-blackmail-men-in-new-cyber-scam/articleshow/81180469.cms||Murari Shetye
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||MVA in no hurry to elect new Speaker||Mumbai: With the state legislature budget session set to be curtailed to two weeks following a rise in Covid-19 cases, Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government may not elect a new Speaker this session. A Shiv Sena minister said deputy Speaker, NCP’s Narhari Zirwal, may preside over the session. While Congress’s Sangrap Thopte was said to be a frontrunner after Nana Patole quit to become state Congress chief, MVA is unlikely to elect the Speaker in this session to avoid giving BJP a chance to “play tricks”. “There is no urgency to elect a Speaker. The Deputy Speaker can convene legislative assembly proceedings and business can go on. Girish Goutam was elected Speaker of MP assembly on Monday. The post was vacant since March last year, when N P Prajapati quit following collapse of the Congress-led government,” pointed out a Sena minister. The minister said a meeting on possibility of electing a new Speaker would be held between Sena, Congress and NCP leaders on Thursday, where a call will be taken. Patole was appointed state Congress president in place of Balasaheb Thorat, who offered to quit a month back. His decision led to a rift among MVA partners on who will be Speaker. Thorat felt a Congress nominee should be the Speaker, while NCP chief Sharad Pawar said it was essential to discuss the matter. Earlier this month, Sena’s mouthpiece, Saamna, had agreed with NCP that the post was given to Congress for five years. “Things are going smoothly for MVA. There is no need to disturb arrangements. MVA enjoys a majority in assembly, so why give BJP a chance to play tricks?” the editorial said. Chaitanya Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mva-in-no-hurry-to-elect-new-speaker/articleshow/81180475.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 24, 2021||Kochi||Councillors’ division funds hiked by corp||Kochi: City corporation authorities have decided to increase the funds allotted for development works in each division to Rs 1 crore. The more than 200% increase in the allocation is expected to ensure that adequate number of development projects are taken up by councillors in their respective areas. The councillors had been demanding that the fund allocation to each division should be increased in the wake of ever-rising requirements. They have been pointing out that there has been a decline in MP Local Area Development (MPLAD) funds and there was a scarcity of funds available for the development of various parts of the city. Speaking at a council meeting, mayor M Anil Kumar said with the increase in allocation, the corporation will have to earmark a total of Rs 74 crore for all the divisions in the civic body. Though the division fund was Rs 50 lakh in 2016-17, later it was slashed to Rs 40 lakh. In an effort to ensure transparency in the spending of the funds in the divisions, the authorities have decided to introduce a rider for allotting the funds. As per new norm, the works to be included in the division fund projects should get a prior approval from the works standing committee of the corporation. Such a condition has been introduced in the wake of allegations that some of the councillors had compromised on the quality of the work done using the funds. Allegations were also raised against a few councillors for using the funds for namesake projects. The corporation authorities have also decided to write to the state government briefing the difficulties in implementing the new method of property tax assessment. As per the state government’s order, the tax should be assessed on the basis of the floor area ratio of a structure. In the wake of difficulties faced by the business fraternity post Covid period, the corporation authorities have decided to give them some tax reliefs. As per norms, the dangerous and offensive (D and O) licence of a firm, which is the basic permit given by local body allowing an entrepreneur to run a shop or firm, can be renewed only after clearing property tax dues. Considering the recession post Covid, the local body authorities will allow the entrepreneurs or shop owners to renew the D and O licence by paying the property tax arrears in four equal instalments. The penal interest for the first instalment will be completely waived off. The corporation authorities have also decided to design special projects for setting up public toilets and bus bays in the city. The local body authorities hadn’t included the projects in the budget presented on February 20. Mayor Anil Kumar said that the corporation will fix the guidelines of public toilet management after exploring the viabilities of various models.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/councillors-division-funds-hiked-by-corp/articleshow/81178751.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Duo held for doc’s blackmail||Mumbai: Two persons were arrested by Parksite police in Vikhroli for demanding extortion money from a doctor who was booked for negligence after his patient died during an operation recently. Police arrested Bhaskar Dubey and Madaram Purohit for extortion and remanded them to police custody. In 2016, a woman had died allegedly due to the negligence of a Kanjur Marg doctor. Her husband had lodged a negligence complaint against the doctor. The doctor recently approached police and alleged that two persons were blackmailing and threatening to defame him for the 2016 negligence case. The doctor complained that they demanded Rs 10 lakh to settle the matter. Police arrested them after verifying the complaint, said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/duo-held-for-docs-blackmail/articleshow/81180484.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 24, 2021||Patna||Plan to modernise 4 other railway stations under ECR||PATNA: The Railway Board has shortlisted four other stations in addition to Gaya Junction falling under the jurisdiction of East Central Railway (ECR) to bring them at par with global standards. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Muzaffarpur, Begusarai and Singrauli are other stations of the ECR, which will be redeveloped as world class stations. Railways has assigned the task to Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) to implement the ambitious project under public-private partnership (PPP) mode. “The railways intends to redevelop these stations from commercial point of view. Restaurants, shopping complex, food court and other amenities including games zone for children and special facility for senior citizens have been worked out in the blueprint,” the CPRO said. Other advantages include escalators, lifts and ATMs on each platform of these stations while exit and entry points have been marked separately to avoid passengers’ rush on the pattern of European stations. “Passengers will visit the stations not only for the purpose of journey but also for shopping,” the CPRO said adding cashless transactions will be other highlights at these world-class category stations. Under the new plan, railways has also proposed to curb movement of luggage trolleys on platforms. The parking areas are likely to be connected to platforms so that passengers could reach the platform directly without facing any hassle. Lounges and internet facilities will be available on each station like any airport. According to sources, railways has shortlisted altogether 123 stations across the country to redevelop them as world-class stations phase-wise under the PPP mode at an estimated cost of Rs 50,000 crore . RLDA is likely to begin the process for awarding tenders to the firms in March 2021 to start station redevelopment plan, sources said According to a senior railway official, “Rajendra Nagar Terminal, which has already got appreciation from the Railway Board as a well maintained and clean station, has an advantage of having a vast open space in the front. Railways has proposed to develop a mall, food court, mini theatre and walkway under multi-storied complex plan at the terminal. This terminal is likely to get a metro rail connectivity in the years to come . Thus, passengers will have better advantage to reach this terminal either to board trains or shop hop in near future,” he said adding, “Footfall of passengers has increased at the Rajendra Nagar Terminal which is next to Patna Junction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/plan-to-modernise-4-other-railway-stations-under-ecr/articleshow/81178776.cms||Kumod Verma
February 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Umranangal pressuring witnessing? SIT seeks CCTV footage of court appearance||Bathinda: The special investigation team (SIT) probing Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan cases, on Tuesday moved an application in the court of Faridkot district and session judge Sumeet Malhotra praying to collect the CCTV footage from around the court of February 19 when suspended inspector general of police (IG) Paramraj Singh Umranangal and other accused had appeared in the court for hearing. It was stated in the application, moved through the district attorney, that many unidentified persons had accompanied Umranangal that day aiming to put pressure on witnesses and the SIT members. The SIT had demanded to collect the footage between 11 to 12 noon on February 19 when these persons came and returned while accompanying Umranangal. The court listed the matter for Wednesday and issued notice to Umranangal and other accused in the cases to appear in the court on Wednesday. Both the cases were listed in the court on February 19 but as the challan of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini had not reached the session court, the hearing was adjourned. Sources said as some unidentified persons had come to court SIT felt they came to check the witnesses and team members to put pressure and the team wanted to identify those persons. Faridkot district attorney Rajnish Goyal confirmed the developement. Meanwhile, the hearing on the anticipatory bail application of Sumedh Singh Saini in Kotkapura case was adjourned to March 2 by the Faridkot district and session court after the counsels of the former DGP sought time stating due to certain reasons they could not argue the matter. Earlier, the court had dismissed anticipatory bail application of Saini and Umranangal in Behbal Kalan case on February 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/umranangal-pressuring-witnessing-sit-seeks-cctv-footage-of-court-appearance/articleshow/81178770.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Raje attends party meet after gap of six months||Jaipur: Former CM Vasundhara Raje attended the party’s core committee meeting held at the BJP headquarters here on Tuesday amid speculation of missing the meeting since she joined it 1.30 hours late. The meeting started at 4 pm lasted till 6:30 pm. Raje came at 5:30 pm. Her supporters, who were waiting in the office and outside, raised slogans Kesariya Raje’ and garlanded her while the meeting was in progress. She attended any party meeting after a gap of six months. During the marathon meeting, the committee members decided to run a statewide campaign from March 6 to 14 highlighting the failures of Gehlot government—law and order, failure in granting loan waiver, unemployment allowance and rise in power tariffs. “The campaign will be held from block and tehsil to the districts and district headquarters. The detailed road map of the campaign has been discussed and approved by the committee members,” said a core committee member who attended the meeting. The members deliberated on by-olls slated in four assembly segments—Rajsamand, Vallabhgarh, Sahara and Sujangarh. “They discussed the campaign strategy and star campaigners who will be brought in the poll-bound segments. Instructions have been given to highlight the beneficiaries of the social welfare schemes of the Union government in order to make PM NarendraModi a face of the elections” added the committee members. BJP in-charge in the state Arun Singh asked the members to reach out to the farmers and convince them of how the Congress is anti-farmer and is blocking the development of farmers. At the meeting, Singh praised the functioning of the state team during the recently held elections. Watch Jaipur: Former CM Vasundhara Raje attends BJP meeting after gap of 6 months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raje-attends-party-meet-after-gap-of-six-months/articleshow/81180477.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Caught between warring bulls, man dies in Balotra||JAISALMER: An elderly man lost his life after being caught in a fight between two stray bulls at a market in Balotra town of Barmer district late on Monday. Following the incident, family members and people from the community staged a protest at the SDM office with the body. They agreed to take the body for funeral only after an assurance from the administration. Narsingh Das (60), a resident of Nimbdi, left his home at 6.30pm on Monday and was heading towards the market. Suddenly, two bulls, which were fighting, came running and hit the person with its horns below his back. The person fell down and started bleeding in a serious condition. Shopkeepers came running and took him to Nahata Hospital where he died undergoing treatment. Around 11.30 am on Tuesday, family members and people of Sindhi community took the body to SDM office and lodged a protest. Chairperson Sumitra Jain reached the spot and after administrative assurance, the family agreed to take the body. On Sunday morning, a tanker entered a no entry zone and hit an elderly woman claiming her life. SDO Naresh Soni said the commissioner has been directed to catch stray cattle and stop heavy vehicles from enering no entry zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/caught-between-warring-bulls-man-dies-in-balotra/articleshow/81180499.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Kochi||Firefighters get new equipment worth Rs 52L||Kochi: To strengthen rescue operations during disasters like floods which struck the state in 2018, fire and rescue department in Ernakulam has been provided with modern safety equipment worth Rs 52 lakh. The equipment ranging from first-aid kit to parachute signal rockets were handed over to the department by collector S Suhas on Tuesday. The equipment were supplied by BPCL and Petronet LNG Ltd using their Corporate Social responsibility fund.  Following the floods in 2018 and 2019, the department had approached the district administration demanding fire safety apparatus to be used for rescue operation during emergency situations. Most of the lifebuoys and life jackets supplied will be given to fire stations situated in coastal areas and near water bodies. The rest of the equipment will be divided equally between other stations. Seven more dinghies were also supplied, which are essential for rescue operations during floods. Now, all major fire stations have at least one each dinghy each. Parachute signal rockets are distress signals used by stranded fire safety rescue team during rescue operations. The rocket launches flares up to the skies and burns for some time before falling to the ground. Another equipment supplied were a self-contained breathing apparatus, hydrostatic release units for life rafts, imported self-igniting lights for lifebuoys, fire axes with insulated rubber handles, inflatable rescue boats, rubber gloves, gum boots, rechargeable torches, reflective- rain coats, search lights, helmets, head lights, orange smoke float signals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/firefighters-get-new-equipment-worth-rs-52l/articleshow/81178796.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Goa||Broken wall at Mapusa bus stand disturbing vehicles||Saligao: The remains of a wall are standing in a dangerous state for buses at the entrance at the old Kadamba bus stand at Mapusa. Although officials of the Kadamba Transport Corporation had promised to demolish the wall a year ago, it continues to stand at the spot without any action having been initiated until now. Commuters also fear that minor accidents could occur at the spot due to the wall. An inspection by a joint team of officials from various government departments was carried out on February 10, to assess the different issues being faced at this bus stand. The officials at the time had promised action over the remains of the wall standing in poor condition. In addition to the remains, garbage is found dumped at the entrance of bus stand, with stray dogs and cattle found gathered at most times to rummage through the waste for scraps of food. “The iron gates at the entrance need to be removed so that the buses can easily enter the bus stand. Also, the Kadamba Transport Corporation officials have completely ignored the suggestions on easing the entry to the bus stand by breaking the stone wall,” Goacan coordinator Roland Martins said. Some inspectors of the Mapusa traffic police department also agree that having the fencing, the wall and other obstructions removed will also curb the nuisance of dumping of garbage at the site. “Even the board where the rates for parking were to be originally listed is still missing. However, fees continues to be collected from motorists nevertheless,” Lorna Fernandes, a local, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/broken-wall-at-mapusa-bus-stand-disturbing-vehicles/articleshow/81180498.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ludhiana||Punjab: Sunil Jakhar surprises with Captain as CM face quip||JALANDHAR: Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar’s announcement of the “Captain for 2022” campaign, which is seen as tantamount to declaring Captain Amarinder Singh as CM candidate in the next assembly elections, is unprecedented in many ways. Announcing the chief ministerial candidate has been seen as the prerogative of the Congress high command. Silence of the party high command on this is also unprecedented. According to a senior Congress leader, never has the party leadership in any state made the announcement about the CM face in the next elections. “Perhaps they don’t have the capacity to take any exception to this announcement and Amarinder’s camp would finally project this silence as endorsement,” said a senior party leader. Another senior leader said, “This is in contrast to the earlier situation when no state leader would dare to make any big announcement without approval from the high command.” Jakhar however, said he only stated the obvious. When asked whether such an announcement would be construed as a challenge to the high command, Jakhar said, “I know my limits and have only reiterated the choice of the high command. Captain is the only leader in the history of Congress who was declared CM candidate twice before elections and now also we don’t have any alternative to him. He is already the choice of the high command and he has already said that he will contest in 2022. Moreover, Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat has already gone on record saying that Captain Amarinder is no ordinary CM and very much a part and parcel of the Congress high command.” When asked if the party high command had asked him to make such an announcement, Jakhar replied in the negative. As for the possible perception of the remark being a challenge to the high command, Jakhar argued that only disgruntled elements were trying to create such an impression. “Such elements are furthering their own ambitions at the cost of the party. It is appropriate time to drive home the advantage when AAP is shopping around for a CM face. BJP has been routed and SAD is discredited,” he said, but refused to name the “disgruntled elements.” “I have conveyed the mood of the people, which has become obvious from municipal elections. Moreover, we have no time to experiment in such troubled times, especially when the Central government is playing games with the state and the situation is volatile. My announcement is subject to endorsement by the party high command and I said what is in the interest of the party and state,” Jakhar maintained. Punjab Congress affairs in-charge Harish Rawat also sought to downplay the incident. “The prevailing practice is that the incumbent CM leads the party in the next elections and that is what Jakhar would have had in mind when he made the announcement to start the campaign. It is natural that the outgoing CM lead the party in the elections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jakhars-announcement-of-amarinder-as-cm-face-a-trail-off-beaten-track/articleshow/81178777.cms||IP Singh
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Chittor court orders to attach property of collector, SP office||Udaipur: An additional civil and judicial magistrate (ACJM) court in Chittorgarh issued warrants for attachment of chairs, cars and quarters of the district collector, superintendent of police and tehsildar on Tuesday. The order was issued in connection with a case pertaining to not having adhered to the court’s order to hand over possession of a valuable property to its owner, situated on one of the prime locations in Chittorgarh city. The order is related to a 1994 case wherein the erstwhile collector RS Gathala handed over the possession of a property located in front of the Municipal Corporation office, to the police department terming it as a disputed land. The property owner Asha Devi challenged the collector's order in a competent court and won the case in 2004. The court ordered the authorities to hand over the land's possession back to the woman. The administration filed an appeal, however, it was dismissed in 2018 but even after two years, the possession was not granted to the petitioner. Asha Devi's counsel filed an application before the ACJM court for adherence of court order and the collector and SP were given ample chances for appearances and proper representation of their sides. However, the officers didn't turn up before the court and hence, the magistrate issued warrants to attach movable and immovable properties including chairs, vehicles and quarters. The public prosecutor filed an application apprising the court that a civil writ petition is pending for hearing before high court at Jodhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chittor-court-orders-to-attach-property-of-collector-sp-office/articleshow/81180515.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Vaccination drive needs shot in the arm: Just over a half of frontline workers have taken jab in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Nearly 53% of the targeted healthcare workers and around the same percent of frontline workers have so far received the Covid-19 vaccination in Delhi. According to Delhi government’s health department, 1,37,635 healthcare workers and 1,86,255 frontline workers have been given the shot till now. The number of healthcare workers listed is 2.6 lakh and of frontline workers, 3.5 lakh. Delhi has an estimated number of 6 lakh frontline workers, and their registration for the Covid jab is still going on. Meanwhile, the turnout for vaccination dipped on Tuesday with only 20,466 individuals turning up at the vaccination centres to get the shots. A day earlier, a total of 27,219 healthcare workers and frontline workers had received the protective injection. Those vaccinated on Tuesday included 18,492 individuals who received the first dose, while 1,947 took the mandatory second shot. Since February 13, when the vaccination of frontline workers began, their turnout has been higher than that of healthcare workers, who began receiving the jab on January 16. While 15,789 frontline workers rolled up their sleeves on Tuesday, only 4,677 health-care workers did so. According to a health department report, 52.9% healthcare workers and 53.2% frontline workers have so far been vaccinated. Over 20,000 healthcare workers have been given the second dose and have, thus, completed the vaccination cycle. Delhi government clarified on Tuesday that there was no shortage of Covid vaccines and it was ready to scale up the vaccination coverage. The government did not disclose the number of vaccines currently available in Delhi. The vaccines are stored at a specially created cold storage facility in Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, from where it is sent to the government and private hospitals where vaccination centres are located. Two vaccines, both made in India, the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, are being injected. Dr Suneela Garg, director-professor of community medicine, Maulana Azad Medical College, also Covid-19 task force member for the Delhi vaccination programme, said there was no demand-supply gap in the city. “The Co-WIN app has a module that shows the vaccines in stock and this is used by the state government to make a requisition,” said Garg. An official said the requisition for vaccines is made when there are stocks for 15 days in storage. “The state determines the number of vaccines based on the response from the beneficiaries and the requisition is accordingly placed. The central government procures the vaccines and gives it to the states,” explained the official. Currently, vaccination is being administered at 313 centres, but Delhi government wants to expand the network of vaccination centres significantly to cater to individuals aged above 50 and those below 50 but with comorbidity. Since over 3.2 lakh people have received the shots and only a negligible number has reported adverse events, that too of minor nature usual with all vaccines, confidence about the Covid vaccines is growing. Only three minor adverse events were reported on Tuesday. Nine of the 11 districts did not report a single adverse event. Therefore, the turnout for vaccination is likely to be high when it is opened for individuals aged above 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vax-drive-needs-shot-in-the-arm-just-over-a-half-of-frontline-workers-have-taken-jab/articleshow/81178845.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||New tariff card to list revised and current fare from March 1||All autorickshaw and taxi drivers will charge revised fares from March 1. The transport department will release the new tariff card in a few days, a senior RTO official said on Tuesday. “So, even if the meter is not recalibrated, the driver can refer to the tariff card and charge the fare equivalent to the old or the existing fare in the card,” a senior official said. For example, the autorickshaw fare for a 3km distance will be displayed in the tariff card as Rs 36 and corresponding to it will be the revised fare of Rs 42. The meters of autos and taxis will be recalibrated eventually. It will take 45 days to three months for all vehicles to display the new fares on the electronic meters, the official said. Auto and taxi drivers demanded “reasonable” costs for recalibrating meters. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-tariff-card-to-list-revised-and-current-fare-from-march-1/articleshow/81179104.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||‘Rs 3 auto & taxi fare hike a tariff shock to consumers’||Mumbai: Mumbai Grahak Panchayat (MGP) wrote a letter on Tuesday to state transport minister Anil Parab, saying the Rs 3 hike in auto and taxi fares has come as a “tariff shock” to lakhs of consumers in the city. The consumer rights group has appealed to the government to reconsider the fare hike and defer it for six months or ensure a “reasonable” increase. “Although we have demanded that the fare hike be deferred for six months, we have also given them two other options. They can either give just a rupee hike in the first flag and a 75 paise hike for the subsequent km or a Rs 2 hike in the first flag and no increase per km for a year. The Rs 3 hike is really a tariff shock,” said Shirish Deshpande from MGP. “I agree there has been no hike for the past five years but it has to be moderate and tapered. Consumers are in great difficulty due to Covid-19.” Parab said the hike was given after considering several criteria. “The lockdown had hit taxi and auto drivers hard and this decision will help them recover. As a transport department, we have tried to extend relief to most sectors, including a rebate in road tax for commercial vehicles, but taxi and auto drivers did not get any relief. The hike is after five years and justified. And since taxi and auto drivers are also a part of our workforce, we have to extend relief to them,” the minister said. Auto union leader Shashank Rao said there have been huge operational costs for drivers such as fuel price hikes, increase in taxes and insurance costs. The minimum fare of autos will go up from Rs 18 to Rs 21 and for kaal- peeli from Rs 22 to Rs 25.  Atul Bhatkalkar, BJP MLA from Kandivli (East), said, “Transport minister Anil Parab has claimed the hike is on account of the rise in petrol and diesel prices but this is not true as the state government had already decided to accept the recommendations of Khatua Committee to raise the fares and this was informed to the state assembly during the 2020 budget session. It has chosen to implement the decision now. It will only benefit the aggregate taxi services.” (With inputs from Bhavika Jain & Clara Lewis)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-3-auto-taxi-fare-hike-a-tariff-shock-to-consumers/articleshow/81178851.cms||Somit Sen
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||JLF online gets good response||Jaipur: The Jaipur Literature Festival (JLF) that started online from February 19 has received overwhelming response, claimed the organisers.The JLF is being held online due to the pandemic. It has had prominent speakers, including Prasoon Joshi and Shashi Tharoor, in the first five days. The festival will end on February 28.The organisers claimed that they expect that by the end of the festival, they would have seen 10 times more footfall as compared to the past editions.Sanjay Roy, MD, Teamwork Arts, organiser of JLF, said “What we have seen is that the accessibility of the festival has increased manifolds and since it started on February 19, we have had an average of 34,000 to 35,000 people viewing the session on a daily basis. The interesting fact has been that now the people who are registering are those who really want to be part of the ‘literature festival’ and not because of the food or shopping. Previously, we did not have any data as to many persons actually attended the sessions but now we do.”The 14th edition of JLF which is the first ever virtual edition, saw Noam Chomsky, celebrated American linguist, philosopher, cognitive scientist, historian, social critic and political activist in conversation with journalist Sreenivasan Jain on third day of the festival.The conversation saw Professor Chomsky discuss the global ‘drift into authoritarianism’, post-Trump America, and the factors that make social reform possible.The session opened with Professor Chomsky speaking of the recent storming of the United States Capitol, and how it was a turning point for the country. He shared what it was like to wake up in America in the ‘aftermath’ of Donald Trump.During a session, Tharoor spoke of two broad concepts of nationalism - one which is anchored in an identity defined by place of birth, ethnicity, language and religion or ‘identity nationalism’. The second which is linked to Constitutions and institutions – ‘a civic nationalism’. He mentioned how civic nationalism was first enshrined in the Indian Constitution after three years of debate and dialogue.Past speakers have ranged from Nobel Laureates Man Booker Prize winners Sahitya Akademi winners.An annual event, the festival has also hosted Amartya Sen, Amitabh Bachchan, the late A P J Abdul Kalam and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jlf-online-gets-good-response/articleshow/81180534.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Green ministry okays plan for rejuvenation of Luni river in Raj||Jodhpur: The ministry of environment, forest & climate change has approved the DPR for rejuvenation of Luni river, known as Maruganga. The river is one of 13 rivers in the country, which has been chosen for rejuvenation through forestry initiatives in pursuance of instructions from the ministry.An amount of Rs 534.29 crore has been earmarked for the project, which will be executed by the forest department of Rajasthan with technical support from Arid Forest Research Institute (Afri) after financial sanction.Afro director MR Baloch said the task of drafting the DPR had been given to Afri by the Indian Council for Forestry Research & Education (ICFRE), Dehradun.“Afri completed the task after holding 20 local-level and 3 state-level consultative meetings with different stakeholders in a year like forest, agriculture, horticulture and soil conservation department apart from the entrepreneurs, farmers and NGOs etc”, said Baloch.The 511-km long Luni river originating from Ajmer district with its 1,168 km long tributaries, has a total basin area spanning 41,000 square-kilometers. This rejuvenation programme aims at development of forest on both sides of the river as well as increase in ground water recharge and check on soil erosion, thereby improving the livelihood prospects of the people in the region.According to project coordinator G Singh, a total of 21 models have been proposed in this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/green-ministry-okays-plan-for-rejuvenation-of-luni-river-in-raj/articleshow/81180552.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||New LSGD order may deny corp right to fix basic tax rate||Thiruvananthapuram: With the local self-government department issuing an order, which links property tax to fair value of the land and determining basic tax rates unilaterally, the civic body will have no say in fixing basic tax rate. The order regarding tax assessment based on fair value is also being perceived as an infringement upon rights and powers of local bodies. As per Kerala Municipality Act, the municipal councils reserve the right to fix the basic tax rate and the government can fix minimum and maximum values for basic tax rates.  For instance, government had fixed minimum rate of Rs 8 per sq ft and maximum of Rs 20 per sq ft for residential buildings in corporation areas. Trivandrum corporation had fixed basic rate at Rs 16 per sq ft and Kochi corporation had fixed the rate at Rs 18 per sq ft for residential buildings. The new order has unilaterally fixed basic rates corresponding to fair value of the land and in a way deprives urban local bodies of their right to pick between minimum and maximum value. While the government issued the new order as part of urban utility reforms to enable additional borrowing of 2% of gross state domestic product ( GSDP) for the state, the order is vague about how revised tax will enable urban reforms. The state doesn’t even have an urban policy and has failed to implement a proper online system for tax collection all these years. It remains to be seen if the additional tax burden borne by the public in urban local bodies would eventually come to their own benefit in terms of upgraded urban services. The corporation has suffered from the lack of a well-managed online payment system for property tax aswell as a web-based system for building permits. It is also pointed out that the local self -government department may have repeated a decade-old mistake while issuing the latest order linking fair value of the land to property tax. In 2009, the local self-government department was forced to put on hold five orders regarding tax revision which were issued between 2007 and 2009. The executive orders issued by the then government on tax revision met with legal objections in the assembly. It was cited that any tax revision shall be introduced only after making mandatory amendments in act and formulating corresponding rules. The government conceded the mistake and withdrew all orders regarding tax revision. Later tax rules were passed in 2011 for the implementation of a new kind of tax assessment. The recent order from LSGD may face similar legal hurdles since tax is being assessed and collected by urban local bodies as per Kerala Municipality Act and in accordance with Kerala Municipality Tax Rules, 201,1 and subsequent amendments. Without making amendments in the act and drafting new rules, an executive order may not prevail. The order also calls for revision of tax every year which would result in significant hike in certain areas since fair value will be the deciding factor. The order also fails to mention whether access, age of building will have an impact on final assessment. Going by the order, an area with a high fair value would fix higher tax for two buildings which may differ in terms of facilities, access and time of construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/new-lsgd-order-may-deny-corp-right-to-fix-basic-tax-rate/articleshow/81181210.cms||Aswin J Kumar
February 24, 2021||Pune||Surge in Maharashtra not linked to mutant strains: ICMR chief||MUMBAI: The two mutant Covid-19 strains found in Amravati and Yavatmal districts this past week are not responsible for the outbreak in Vidarbha region, said central government officials on Tuesday. There is “no direct relation” between the surge in Maharashtra—with cases ballooning to three times in 10 days —and the presence of mutant strains N440K and E484Q, said ICMR director-general Dr Balram Bhargava. These strains, he further clarified, were detected in India on previous occasions as well. “Mutants are present in India, but based on our understanding of epidemiological science, these are not causing the outbreak in Maharashtra right now,” Vinod K Paul, a member of the Niti Aayog, told TOI. It is estimated that roughly 280 mutations are in circulation in India. The E484Q strain was detected in four genome sequences from the Amravati district as early as March 2020 and July 2020. The N440K mutation, which was found in four samples from Yavatmal, has been reported on 13 different occasions between May and September 2020 in Telangana, AP and Assam.  A statement issued by the Centre on Tuesday evening, though, said the situation is being closely monitored. “As further scientific evidence emerges, it shall be duly shared,” it added. A report published in TOI on February 19 highlighted how genome sequencing of eight Covid-19-positive samples from Amravati and Yavatmal had found E484Q and N440K mutations. The tests were done in B J Medical College and Sassoon Hospital in Pune. State public health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas had told TOI “over 5,000 types of mutations have been recorded worldwide”. Reacting to the Centre’s statement on Tuesday, Dr Subhash Salunkhe, an advisor to the state government, said the Centre should explain why only limited districts in Maharashtra are witnessing a surge and not the entire state. “If a mutation is not responsible for the exponential rise, the ICMR should tell us what is then. They should have an explanation for what is causing such rapid transmission. People have become lax in following Covid-appropriate behaviour in every other state, then why should cases rise only in the Vidarbha and Marathwada region,” he asked. In Vidarbha particularly, he said, cases have tripled in a span of weeks. The state is carrying out genomic sequencing of random samples from the hotspots, including Mumbai, to ascertain if any mutation, whether foreign or local, is responsible for the present surge in cases. “We should be able to get some reports later this week,’’ said a state government official. Genome sequencing carried out in laboratories across the country have detected around 280 mutations in the Covid-19-causing SARS-CoV-2 virus in circulation in India. A research paper by the CSIR’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in Delhi in January 2021 said 86 of the 120 genetic variants associated with “immune escapes” were found in a total of 26,917 genomes from 63 countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/surge-in-maha-not-linked-to-mutant-strains-icmr-chief/articleshow/81182270.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Surge in Maharashtra not linked to mutant strains: ICMR chief||MUMBAI: The two mutant Covid-19 strains found in Amravati and Yavatmal districts this past week are not responsible for the outbreak in Vidarbha region, said central government officials on Tuesday. There is “no direct relation” between the surge in Maharashtra—with cases ballooning to three times in 10 days —and the presence of mutant strains N440K and E484Q, said ICMR director-general Dr Balram Bhargava. These strains, he further clarified, were detected in India on previous occasions as well. “Mutants are present in India, but based on our understanding of epidemiological science, these are not causing the outbreak in Maharashtra right now,” Vinod K Paul, a member of the Niti Aayog, told TOI. It is estimated that roughly 280 mutations are in circulation in India. The E484Q strain was detected in four genome sequences from the Amravati district as early as March 2020 and July 2020. The N440K mutation, which was found in four samples from Yavatmal, has been reported on 13 different occasions between May and September 2020 in Telangana, AP and Assam.  A statement issued by the Centre on Tuesday evening, though, said the situation is being closely monitored. “As further scientific evidence emerges, it shall be duly shared,” it added. A report published in TOI on February 19 highlighted how genome sequencing of eight Covid-19-positive samples from Amravati and Yavatmal had found E484Q and N440K mutations. The tests were done in B J Medical College and Sassoon Hospital in Pune. State public health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas had told TOI “over 5,000 types of mutations have been recorded worldwide”. Reacting to the Centre’s statement on Tuesday, Dr Subhash Salunkhe, an advisor to the state government, said the Centre should explain why only limited districts in Maharashtra are witnessing a surge and not the entire state. “If a mutation is not responsible for the exponential rise, the ICMR should tell us what is then. They should have an explanation for what is causing such rapid transmission. People have become lax in following Covid-appropriate behaviour in every other state, then why should cases rise only in the Vidarbha and Marathwada region,” he asked. In Vidarbha particularly, he said, cases have tripled in a span of weeks. The state is carrying out genomic sequencing of random samples from the hotspots, including Mumbai, to ascertain if any mutation, whether foreign or local, is responsible for the present surge in cases. “We should be able to get some reports later this week,’’ said a state government official. Genome sequencing carried out in laboratories across the country have detected around 280 mutations in the Covid-19-causing SARS-CoV-2 virus in circulation in India. A research paper by the CSIR’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in Delhi in January 2021 said 86 of the 120 genetic variants associated with “immune escapes” were found in a total of 26,917 genomes from 63 countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/surge-in-maha-not-linked-to-mutant-strains-icmr-chief/articleshow/81181213.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Girl, father crushed to death by truck in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A 29-year-old man and his 5-year-old daughter were crushed to the death on Tuesday evening at Lalwas under Amber police station area after their bike was hit by a truck. After hitting the bike, the truck ran over the duo. According to police, the incident took place at 4.30pm when Mohsin Khan (29) along with his daughter Sofia (5) were on the bike. Khan had gone to pick up his daughter from his in-laws house and was returning to Bhatta Basti. “The rashly driven truck hit the bike and after which both the father and daughter got run over. Both died on the spot. The driver fled from the scene,” said a senior police officer. Soon after the accident, a large number of people gathered at the spot and blocked the road. On receiving information about the incident, senior police officers rushed to the spot. “We have sent the bodies for post mortem,” the officer added. Khan was identified through his Aadhaar card. A case of causing death due to negligence has been registered against the driver of the truck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/girl-father-crushed-to-death-by-truck-in-city/articleshow/81180555.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid cases up 23% in two days in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: For the second consecutive day, Gujarat recorded 300-plus new Covid cases, at 348. This was the highest daily tally for the state in 27 days, with the total so far reaching 2.67 lakh cases. The state now has 1,786 active cases of which 68% are in the four cities of Gujarat. Gujarat recorded a 23% increase in daily cases - from 283 on February 21 to 348 on February 23.Analysis of the four cities shows that in the past 24 hours, an 11% increase in cases was recorded, from 216 on Monday to 241 on Tuesday. The share of the four cities remained stable at 69% on Monday and Tuesday. “For the past three days, daily new cases have been more than the number of discharged patients, increasing the number of active patients. While the rise in past two days is alarming, the full impact of the surge will be apparent after seven days. The worry of the medical fraternity is major public events, the civic polls across the state, celebrations over the recently-concluded elections, and general disregard for safety rules,” said a city-based critical care specialist. Experts have already pointed to the rise increase in the test positivity rate in the past couple of days. On February 18, for every 10,000 tests there were 84 cases, which rose to 103 on February 22 and 23. Concentration of cases is still in urban areas, with eight districts of Gujarat recording zero cases on Tuesday. “Steps such as deploying more Dhanvantari Raths, ensuring on-demand tests for Covid-19, and re-energizing the 104 and 108 helplines are already planned,” said a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-cases-up-23-in-two-days-in-gujarat/articleshow/81178858.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Aspiring actor held for cheating and raping ‘wife’||MUMBAI: A vastu consultant and aspiring actor has been arrested from Ujjain by the Samta Nagar police for cheating a Kandivli-based woman and raping her. In August 2020, the woman had complained that the 42-year-old accused whom she had met in a suburban gym married her but the relationship did not stand legal in the court of law as he had married three women and never divorced them. As he kept changing his location, he could not be traced until now, said the police. The police said that he had divorced his first wife before his multiple illegal marriages. An official said, “He claims he did not marry the victim and the wedding images were part of a shoot for a web series.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/aspiring-actor-held-for-cheating-and-raping-wife/articleshow/81180558.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Vadodara||Covid cases up 23% in two days in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: For the second consecutive day, Gujarat recorded 300-plus new Covid cases, at 348. This was the highest daily tally for the state in 27 days, with the total so far reaching 2.67 lakh cases. The state now has 1,786 active cases of which 68% are in the four cities of Gujarat. Gujarat recorded a 23% increase in daily cases - from 283 on February 21 to 348 on February 23.Analysis of the four cities shows that in the past 24 hours, an 11% increase in cases was recorded, from 216 on Monday to 241 on Tuesday. The share of the four cities remained stable at 69% on Monday and Tuesday. “For the past three days, daily new cases have been more than the number of discharged patients, increasing the number of active patients. While the rise in past two days is alarming, the full impact of the surge will be apparent after seven days. The worry of the medical fraternity is major public events, the civic polls across the state, celebrations over the recently-concluded elections, and general disregard for safety rules,” said a city-based critical care specialist. Experts have already pointed to the rise increase in the test positivity rate in the past couple of days. On February 18, for every 10,000 tests there were 84 cases, which rose to 103 on February 22 and 23. Concentration of cases is still in urban areas, with eight districts of Gujarat recording zero cases on Tuesday. “Steps such as deploying more Dhanvantari Raths, ensuring on-demand tests for Covid-19, and re-energizing the 104 and 108 helplines are already planned,” said a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-cases-up-23-in-two-days-in-gujarat/articleshow/81185291.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Firing at market in Alwar town, one injured||ALWAR: Panic prevailed at the market area of Majra village under Bansur police station area of Alwar when six bike borne assailants opened fire and attacked a person on Tuesday afternoon. The victim has sustained some pallets injuries and is undergoing treatment. Police stated the primary reason behind the assault on the man could be some old rivalry by the goons. According to the police, the victim identified as Hari Om Gujjar was in the market area with his father at 1 pm . “While his father was walking little away, at least six bike borne assailants came and hit Gujjar with iron rods and sticks. They had also opened fire by country made pistols as the victim has also sustained some pallet injuries,” said a senior police officer. Gujjar saved his life by hiding inside a shop. Soonafter the incident the traders of the market intimated the police control room. A team of senior police officers rushed to the spot to take a stock of the incident. Deputy superintendent of police, Behror Deshraj Gujjar stated that teams have been constituted to nab the assailants. “We have got some CCTV footage of the incident and hopefully we will arrest them. Also the victim has also given a named FIR against the assailants,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/firing-at-market-in-alwar-town-one-injured/articleshow/81180560.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Surat||Covid cases up 23% in two days in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: For the second consecutive day, Gujarat recorded 300-plus new Covid cases, at 348. This was the highest daily tally for the state in 27 days, with the total so far reaching 2.67 lakh cases. The state now has 1,786 active cases of which 68% are in the four cities of Gujarat. Gujarat recorded a 23% increase in daily cases - from 283 on February 21 to 348 on February 23.Analysis of the four cities shows that in the past 24 hours, an 11% increase in cases was recorded, from 216 on Monday to 241 on Tuesday. The share of the four cities remained stable at 69% on Monday and Tuesday. “For the past three days, daily new cases have been more than the number of discharged patients, increasing the number of active patients. While the rise in past two days is alarming, the full impact of the surge will be apparent after seven days. The worry of the medical fraternity is major public events, the civic polls across the state, celebrations over the recently-concluded elections, and general disregard for safety rules,” said a city-based critical care specialist. Experts have already pointed to the rise increase in the test positivity rate in the past couple of days. On February 18, for every 10,000 tests there were 84 cases, which rose to 103 on February 22 and 23. Concentration of cases is still in urban areas, with eight districts of Gujarat recording zero cases on Tuesday. “Steps such as deploying more Dhanvantari Raths, ensuring on-demand tests for Covid-19, and re-energizing the 104 and 108 helplines are already planned,” said a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-cases-up-23-in-two-days-in-gujarat/articleshow/81185293.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Rajkot||Covid cases up 23% in two days in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: For the second consecutive day, Gujarat recorded 300-plus new Covid cases, at 348. This was the highest daily tally for the state in 27 days, with the total so far reaching 2.67 lakh cases. The state now has 1,786 active cases of which 68% are in the four cities of Gujarat. Gujarat recorded a 23% increase in daily cases - from 283 on February 21 to 348 on February 23.Analysis of the four cities shows that in the past 24 hours, an 11% increase in cases was recorded, from 216 on Monday to 241 on Tuesday. The share of the four cities remained stable at 69% on Monday and Tuesday. “For the past three days, daily new cases have been more than the number of discharged patients, increasing the number of active patients. While the rise in past two days is alarming, the full impact of the surge will be apparent after seven days. The worry of the medical fraternity is major public events, the civic polls across the state, celebrations over the recently-concluded elections, and general disregard for safety rules,” said a city-based critical care specialist. Experts have already pointed to the rise increase in the test positivity rate in the past couple of days. On February 18, for every 10,000 tests there were 84 cases, which rose to 103 on February 22 and 23. Concentration of cases is still in urban areas, with eight districts of Gujarat recording zero cases on Tuesday. “Steps such as deploying more Dhanvantari Raths, ensuring on-demand tests for Covid-19, and re-energizing the 104 and 108 helplines are already planned,” said a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-cases-up-23-in-two-days-in-gujarat/articleshow/81185292.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Youth gets 20 year jail for rape of minor||KOTA: A POCSO court in Kota on Monday convicted a 23-year-old man for abducting and repeatedly raping a 13-year-old girl around two years ago. The court also imposed a penalty of Rs 30,000 on the convict. Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court -3 of the city convicted Monu Mahawar, a resident of the city, to 20 years of imprisonment, public prosecutor, POCSO court-3, Lalit Sharma said. The convict had on March 27, 2019 abducted the minor while she was returning home from a madrassa and kept her at a relative’s house in Kota where he repeatedly raped her, Sharma said. Police rescued the minor after nearly 19 days and arrested Monu Mahawar while registering a case of rape and abduction under Section 363, 366, 376 and sections of POCSO Act against him, the public prosecutor said. Mahawar had been under judicial custody since his arrest in April 2019, he added. The court held Mahawar guilty under sections of IPC and POCSO Act and convicted him 20 years of imprisonment. Statements of at least 22 witnesses were recorded during the trial of the case, the PP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-gets-20yr-jail-for-rape-of-minor/articleshow/81180554.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Chennai||Encroachment on MGR canal removed||Chennai: Six houses and 18 shops built illegally on the MGR canal along Ramsamy Salai at K K Nagar were removed by Greater Chennai Corporation officials on Tuesday freeing about 200sqm space. The encroachments had been causing flooding at R K Shanmugham Salai, PV Rajamannar Salai and other areas at K K Nagar every monsoon for the past four decades. The canal that is 1.6km long and 5.5m wide has been reduced to 1.5m at this stretch. In 2018, TOI had carried a report on how under the JNNURM scheme, Rs 22 crore was spent for the restoration of the canal. But no wall was constructed for a stretch of 105m and encroachments were not removed for 500m along the water body. Now the encroachments removed, the civic body now plans to construct stormwater drains wherever needed in the area and widen the canal to ensure rainwater drains faster. “We couldn’t construct drain in this stretch and desilt the canal because of the encroachments. These houses were located exactly where the canal begins and storm water drains connected to it,” said a senior zonal officer. The civic body issued notices to the squatters 20 days ahead of the demolition. “We will provide them with houses in the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board if they are willing to shift. Most of them already have houses in other locations,” said another official. The corporation also plans to demolish a private hospital encroaching on the canal this week. “Now water will drain faster and there will not be any inundation in the nearby areas,” said the official. The civic body will construct fences, a concrete wall and widen the canal. A missing link stormwater drain will also be constructed in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/encroachment-on-mgr-canal-removed/articleshow/81178866.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||7 held for beating 4 persons over rickshaw theft in Alwar||ALWAR: A day after some people brutally assaulted four persons including a woman on suspicion of their involvement in a cycle rickshaw theft at Shyolalpura locality in Alwar, Kotwali police on Tuesday arrested seven persons including a woman in this connection. On Monday, some people tied a woman and three men with an electric pole at Shyolalpura locality and thrashed them. Sources claimed that the four persons had stolen a cycle rickshaw. “They claimed that they had approached the police on Sunday, however in the absence of any police action, they nabbed the four of them and started thrashing them after tying them with an electric pole,” said a senior police officer of Kotwali police station “We arrested seven persons in this connection including Bharat Koli (30), Chiranji Lal (50), Jagdish Kumawat (58), Pushpa Dev (42), Ravi Kumawat and Raju Kuli (35) for the assault,” said Kotwali SHO Rajesh Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-held-for-beating-4-persons-over-rickshaw-theft-in-alwar/articleshow/81180561.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||NHAI drops plan to set up temporary toll plaza||Thiruvananthapuram: The national highways authority of India (NHAI) has finally dropped the plan to set up a temporary toll plaza at Thiruvallom. The decision was taken after NHAI authorities in the state received a directive in this regard from their higher-ups in Delhi. TOI had earlier reported about NHAI officials here writing to their higher-ups informing them that it would not be financially viable to go ahead with the construction of the temporary toll plaza after its works failed to take off on time. In the letter forwarded to their higher-ups, NHAI officials here pointed out that the works of the permanent toll plaza will be completed by April or May. This means, even if the temporary plaza was erected now, it would not serve its purpose. It would take an approximate budget of Rs 2 crore to set up the toll plaza by erecting canopies and installing electronic scanners for FASTag. But, with barely three months remaining for the completion of the permanent toll plaza, an estimated amount of only Rs 90 lakh could be collected as toll if the temporary toll plaza is set up now. The works of both the toll plazas commenced soon after the inauguration of the first reach of Kazhakkoottam–Karode National Highway 66 stretch, which is from Kazhakkoottam to Kovalam, in October last year. The temporary toll plaza was planned so that NHAI could start collecting toll as the works of the permanent toll plaza progresses. But this plan did not materialize as they could not find contractors to manage the temporary toll plaza. Tenders floated repeatedly ended up not getting any response from bidders. The presumed reason for the lack of interest from potential bidders is the presence of byroads in the proximity of the toll plaza, which the motorists could use to avoid paying the toll, which would in turn cause huge losses for them. This problem was pointed out by Natpac in a feasibility study they conducted in 2016. NHAI officials here could not offer an effective solution to this problem. Even though their original plan was to set up the toll plaza at Akkulam, the location was shifted to Thiruvallom following the special request by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nhai-drops-plan-to-set-up-temporary-toll-plaza/articleshow/81181216.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Plasma therapy offers mortality benefits in seniors: Study||NEW DELHI: Does plasma therapy help reduce the risk of death in Covid-19 patients? There have been multiple studies on the subject, but the jury is still out. A recently conducted study at three hospitals run by Max Healthcare — a private hospital chain — has claimed that plasma therapy reduces the risk of death in elderly patients with Covid-19, especially those requiring ICU care. The result of the study has been published in the journal — Blood Cells, Molecules and Diseases. According to Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, group medical director of Max Healthcare, the three hospitals run by the group — Max Super Specialty and Max Smart in south Delhi and Max Shalimar Bagh in northwest Delhi — admitted 1,249 Covid patients between May 1 and August 31, last year. Of them, he added, 1,079 were included in the final analysis. At the end of 28 days, 241 people died due to the infection. “Of the total 1,079 patients on oxygen, the overall mortality was 22.4% in the plasma group, and 18.5% in the non-plasma group. This difference was not statistically significant,” the research stated. It claimed that 694 patients (64% of the total patients included in the study) required transfer to ICU. Of them, 333 (48%) received convalescent plasma, in addition to the best supportive care, while the remaining 361 (52%) were on best supportive care only. Here, the difference in mortality risk between the two groups was significant; mortality was 26% vs 33% in the plasma vs non-plasma group, the study showed. “Reduced mortality in the plasma group was particularly seen in patients aged 60-74 years, driven mostly by women of the research group,” the Max Healthcare study found. Twenty six out of 333 (8%) patients received a second unit of convalescent plasma, because their condition did not improve after the first round. Of them, 10 (38%) died. The researchers said the infusion of convalescent plasma was largely safe and no major adverse effects were observed in any of the patients. The study results are, however, quite different from that of the only other large-scale study from India — a multi-centric prospective study conducted by Indian Council of Medical Research, that included 464 Covid-19 patients admitted to 39 tertiary care hospitals (29 teaching and 10 private hospitals) across the country. It did not find any difference in mortality between plasma vs non-plasma group (14.5% vs 13.5%). The ICMR study did not include severe life threatening Covid-19 patients. In the Max Healthcare research, doctors claimed, the overall cohort did not have significant mortality benefit. The benefit emerged only in more critically ill patients of Covid-19, who were in ICU, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plasma-therapy-offers-mortality-benefits-in-seniors-study/articleshow/81178872.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Guard against the risk from badly hit states, says AIIMS director Randeep Guleria||NEW DELHI: The capital needs to be on high alert to detect the emergence of any new cluster of Covid-19 and act promptly to prevent the spread of the disease, All India Institute of Medical Sciences director Dr Randeep Guleria said on Tuesday. Dr Guleria told TOI that the spurt in cases in states such as Maharashtra and Kerala called for strict surveillance. “With trains and flights operating in near-full capacity, public movement has increased across states. Therefore, there is heightened risk of the disease spreading again in the national capital from affected regions,” he said. The AIIMS director added that it might not be prudent to limit public movement at this stage but the health authorities must step up surveillance to identify new clusters, if any. “We do not know if the increase in cases in states such as Maharashtra is due to a new variant of novel coronavirus. But that possibility cannot be ruled out. So if there is any cluster, it will be worthwhile to randomly put some of the samples through genetic testing.” After reporting the first Covid case on March 2 last year, the capital had seen a sharp spike in cases, and even more deaths, in June and November. However, over the past two months, there has been a steady decline in both. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 145 fresh cases and two fatalities, while the positivity rate stood at 0.25%. Maharashtra and Kerala, on the other hand, reported 6,218 and 4,034 new Covid cases in the last 24 hours. “Next few weeks are going to be crucial for Delhi. If the data suggests an increase in the positivity rate, it will reaffirm the apprehension of newer strains causing a surge once again. Increased public movement and lack of adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour could be the culprits too,” said another senior doctor. Since February 1, there has been relaxation in social, religious, sports, entertainment and educational activities in the capital. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at Indian Council of Medical Research, said fewer people were following Covid-appropriate behaviour, i.e, wearing a mask, washing hands and maintaining physical distance. “A significant percentage of our population remains vulnerable to the infection. Also, we have new strains in circulation. If we let our guards down, there is a possibility of increase in cases once again,” he told TOI recently. Dr Kant stressed on the need to keep up the testing numbers. “We need to go back to where we began. The daily testing has to be ramped up. Contact tracing and containment of areas most affected by the outbreak have to be pursued effectively. There is no scope at all to become complacent because the pandemic hasn’t ended yet,” Dr S K Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/guard-against-the-risk-from-badly-hit-states-says-guleria/articleshow/81178865.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||No new vax registration of healthcare workers: Officials||Ahmedabad: With five days to go before the end of the first and second phases of the Covid-19 vaccination programme for healthcare workers (HCW) and frontline workers (FLW), Gujarat recorded 8.14 lakh vaccinations – amounting to about 72.5% of the registered 11.23 lakh beneficiaries. On Tuesday, top health department officials said there will be no new registration of HCWs. The state is likely to start the third phase of its vaccination programme, covering people older than 50 years, from the first week of March, along with the rest of the country. Union government data on Tuesday put Gujarat at fourth among Indian states with 80% of HCWs getting their first dose of the vaccine. Vaccination of HCWs began in Gujarat on January 16. Dr Nayan Jani, state immunization officer, confirmed the news. “HCWs were given ample time for registration. Walk-in registrations and the option of getting vaccinated anywhere in the state was also extended,” he said. “Those who have not been able to get the vaccine had medical or other reasons, and we are happy with the response.” He added that for the second shot, compliance is about 85%. Till 5pm on Tuesday, 72,713 HCWs had got their second dose. Health department officials denied allegations of glitches in the CoWIN application which will record the vaccination drive. Earlier, HCWs claimed that several beneficiaries had not got messages informing them about the time and location for their second shot. At certain centres, names were omitted, whereas at some places, duplication was also reported. Dr Jani said that registration for the vaccination programme is going smoothly on the application and there were no issues as on Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-new-vax-registration-of-healthcare-workers-officials/articleshow/81178871.cms||Parth Shastri
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Pilot conned of Rs 90,000 in online fraud||Mumbai: An airline pilot was conned of Rs 90,000 in an online scam in Powai last year. However, the victim, Jhanvi Sawant, lodged a complaint only on February 19. The accused had called up Sawant on March 31, 2020. He posed as an employee from an e-wallet company. He then told her that he needed her KYC details as it had to be updated. Without smelling a rat, she downloaded an app which was provided by the accused and keyed in all her bank details. She was then asked to transfer Rs 1. In doing that, the accused got access to her bank details and siphoned off Rs 90,000, a police official said. She had lodged a written complaint on March 31, last year. However, an FIR was lodged only on February 19. — V Narayan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pilot-conned-of-rs-90000-in-online-fraud/articleshow/81180564.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Rakbar case: Don’t give final order, Rajasthan HC tells trial court||JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court had restrained the trial court from giving the final order in the Rakbar Khan mob lynching case in Alwar. The trail court could however continue to hear the case, but the high court in an interim measure directed it not to pronounce its final order till further orders. The final hearing in the trial court is scheduled to be held on March 6. The single bench of Justice N S Dhadda issued the order after Rakber’s wife filed a petition in the high court under Section 319 CrPC to proceed against “other persons appearing to be guilty of offence” who were not part of the initial list of the accused. Rakbar’s mother Habiban had recently moved an application in the Alwar district and sessions court seeking the transfer of the case to another court saying she had no hope from the ADJ court which is hearing the case. She had claimed that the case has been ‘managed’ by the accused. The four accused in the case are Dharmendra Yadav (27), Naresh Kumar (28), Paramjit Singh (31) and Vijay Kumar (36), all residents of Lalawandi village under the Ramgarh police station in Alwar district. Rakbar, a.k.a Akbar, and his friend Aslam were beaten up severely by a group of people on suspicion of cow smuggling in Alwar's Ramgarh police station area on July 20, 2018. Rakbar and Aslam had allegedly purchased the cows from Ladpura village and were taking them to their village in Haryana through a forested area near Lalawandi village when they were attacked by the accused. While Rakbar died of injury, Aslam managed to escape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rakbar-case-dont-give-final-order-raj-hc-tells-trial-court/articleshow/81180562.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 4 beat neighbour for refusing to dance at DJ party in Bapunagar||AHMEDABAD: A Bapunagar resident has accused four neighbours for assaulting him after he refused to dance at a DJ party they had organised in the locality. Vinod Sahani, a 33-year-old shopkeeper who resides in Indira Garibnagar in Bapunagar, in his FIR stated that the incident occurred around 9pm on Sunday evening when he had parked his scooter outside his brother-in-law’s shop as usual and was walking home. A DJ party had been organised in the society as part of resident Visarjeet’s birthday celebrations. When he was passing the spot, resident Deepak Lalchand pulled him close to the DJ and asked him to dance. When he refused, Lalchand slapped him. According to the FIR, other residents — Bablu, Sanjay Kanojia, and Amarjit Thakor — began fighting with him and abusing him. Lalchand then grabbed a stick from somewhere and hit him on the back. He was rescued from further assault by others attending the DJ party and was taken to Civil Hospital the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-beat-neighbour-for-refusing-to-dance-at-dj-party-in-bapunagar/articleshow/81178922.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||Cops crack Pimpri chit fund businessman’s murder case||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Tuesday claimed to have cracked the abduction and murder case of chit fund businessman Anand Unawane (42) following the arrest of seven suspects. “A head recovery agent, whom Unawane had fired from service a year ago, plotted the crime and is still on the run. We are searching for the kingpin and have arrested his four aides, who participated in the crime. Three others were also arrested for purchasing the gold ornaments the suspects had extorted from the victim,” Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash told reporters. He said, “We have seized cash and gold worth Rs39 lakh, which is a part of the total Rs64 lakh worth of extorted cash and ornaments.” Unawane was kidnapped on February 3 from the parking lot of his residential apartment at Morwadi in Pimpri. His body was found in Savitri river near Mahad in Konkan, about 130km from the city, on February 6. Unawane’s brother on February 5 had filed a missing person’s complaint with the Pimpri police. The Raigad police had lodged an offence of murder, which was later transferred to the Pimpri police. The police identified the four arrested aides of Unawane as Umesh More (28), Tulashiram Pokale (30), both of Kalewadi, Deepak Chandaliya (34) of Ravet and Sagar Patange (28) of Baramati. The other three arrested persons are Rakesh Hemnani (27) of Pimpri, Kapil Haswani (30) of Pimple Saudar and Pravin Sonawane (22) of Indapur. Krishna Prakash said Unawane’s ex-employee was planning the latter’s kidnapping since he was removed from the job about a year ago. “He identified his aides, who had a kidnapping case against them,” the police commissioner said. After the kidnapping, the suspects did not make any demands for money but forced Unawane to contact his manager. He was compelled to tell her to withdraw Rs40 lakh and keep it in the boot of his car. They also forced Unawane to go to his woman friend’s flat while she was not there and take all cash and gold ornaments. “To divert the probe, they threw Unawane’s phone in a truck heading towards Karnataka,” he said. Assistant commissioner of police Sagar Kawade told TOI, “Suspects More and Patange were pursuing diploma in engineering course. Patange was running a furniture business in Baramati, while More was working with a private firm. Chandaliya ran a sugar cane juice stall and Pokale, too, was working in a private firm.” Krishna Prakash said, “When the suspects were forcing Unawane in the car, a society resident had seen it. But he thought that they were giving birthday bumps to someone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-crack-pimpri-chit-fund-businessmans-murder-case/articleshow/81178892.cms||Mihir Tanksale
February 24, 2021||Kolkata||Hawkers arrested, dalas seized after surprise raid in central Kolkata||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Kolkata Police on Tuesday jointly conducted a surprise raid in and around New Market, picked up hawkers who were illegally blocking streets and seized ‘dalas’ of a section of hawkers occupying car parking lots. Both KMC and police have indicated that the raids will persist till hawkers fall in line and adhere to rules. The joint raid was conducted throughout the day in areas like Bertram Street, Humayun Place, J L Nehru Road, Lindsay Street, Corporation Street and Finwick Bazar Street. A police officer said more surprise drives would be held in the weeks ahead and if any hawker is found to be blocking motorists from parking their vehicles in the designated space or misbehaving with them, stringent action would be taken. The drive comes ahead of a stir threat by 5,000 traders in and around New Market where hawkers have not only encroached on the pavement and blocked market gates, they have even gobbled up parking lots, forcing shoppers to abandon the area and shop elsewhere. Facing a belligerent Joint Traders’ Forum, the KMC and police finally swung into action on Tuesday and removed encroachment from Lindsay Street-Jawaharlal Nehru Road intersection. “Two hawkers have been arrested under IPC 283,” said an officer from the south traffic guard. Similarly, New Market police took action against a hawker from Giridih in Jharkhand selling ear-rings and cosmetic jewellery on Lindsay Street. He was allegedly encroaching the main carriageway and obstructed traffic movement. However, scores of other hawkers continued to get away with the same offence, obstructing streets and pavements. A KMC senior official said the civic body would hand over a list of hawkers who had been registered during a survey to police for drives in future. “We will tally the list with hawkers doing business in and around New Market. Hawkers who have recently occupied carriageways or taken over pavements and car parking lots will be summarily removed,” the civic official said. Hawkers in the vicinity of New Market decided not to confront the civic or police force when the drive was underway and quietly slipped away. At the nearby Grand Arcade, hawkers decided to wind up trading early to attend an urgent meeting called by a hawker union. The police crackdown followed an appeal to the Kolkata Police commissioner to save New Market, a century-old heritage market from hawker invasion. Though senior officials at Lalbazar did not comment on the appeal, they said police from the central division would now keep a regular vigil over intrusion of hawkers in the New Market area. Incidentally, CP Soumen Mitra is sensitive about the heritage matters and has been instrumental in restoring heritage buildings like Limelight and Government House in Barrackpore. After taking over as CP, he had talked about the need to preserve heritage structures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hawkers-arrested-dalas-seized-after-surprise-raid-in-central-kol/articleshow/81178912.cms||Saikat Ray
February 24, 2021||Delhi||AAP expansion plans get a boost with Gujarat win||NEW DELHI: Breaching BJP’s fortress in Gujarat by winning 27 seats in the municipal polls, AAP has rejuvenated its national expansion plans. In Surat, AAP displaced Congress to grab the second position after BJP, a performance that has pleasantly surprised its senior functionaries. An elated AAP chief and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “Heartfelt congratulations to the people of Gujarat for introducing new politics.” He further stated that the people of Gujarat had voted for politics of work as they were fed up with the politics of BJP and Congress and wanted an alternative. Now, the upcoming assembly election will only be a contest between AAP and BJP. Kejriwal is likely to visit Surat on February 26 and hold a roadshow to celebrate AAP’s entry into Gujarat. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said people were seeking change and looking at AAP as the key alternative. “The dirty politics in Gujarat has come to an end. Now, the issues of the public will be discussed on the streets as well as in the House. People of Gujarat are upset with BJP and do not trust Congress,” he added. AAP MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj said the party had breached PM Narendra Modi’s citadel even though it had contested for the first time. “The people of Gujarat were looking for an alternative to BJP and AAP emerged as their first choice. The Congress rule is ending across the country. BJP governments continue to be formed because Congress is their oxygen. AAP is also in the second position in Rajkot with 13 seats and with 16 seats in Ahmedabad,” he added. Bharadwaj said AAP was winning several seats in the grassroots-level elections across the country. “Earlier, this trend was noticed in Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Goa and other states. We all know that Gujarat has been a model of BJP’s development. But the people who want change are choosing AAP as the key alternative. I had gone to Surat and Vadodara to campaign. I noticed that Congress was nowhere on the streets,” he added. Aam Aadmi Party is working to expand its presence in other states, particularly Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Goa that are poll-bound next year. In the recently concluded gram panchayat elections in Maharashtra, AAP won 145 out of 300 seats. In the panchayat elections in Himachal Pradesh, AAP fielded 40 candidates and 36 won. The party won one seat of the district development council in Jammu & Kashmir. It also won one seat in panchayat elections in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-expansion-plans-get-a-boost-with-gujarat-win/articleshow/81178908.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 24, 2021||Chennai||From hackathons to open house, Shaastra goes virtual||CHENNAI: Shaastra 2021, an annual tech festival of IIT Madras and one of the largest student-run events goes virtual this year. From hackathons to open house, everything will be held online from February 25 to 28. To provide close to real-life experience, IIT-M students created virtual rendering of the important sites of the institute campus where a viewer can virtually walk through these locations. With the overall theme for Shaastra 2021 being ‘Schrödinger’s Realms,’ students plan to host events showcasing infinite possibilities through fascinating workshops, hackathons, competitions and spotlight lectures. This year's "Spotlight Lecture" brings eminent people from diverse fields ranging from businessmen to Nobel laureates. Dr Soumya Swaminathan, WHO chief scientist, Nobel Laureates Muhammad Yunus, founder of Grameen Bank and Barry Barish, American experimental physicist, and former Isro chairman K Radhakrishnan are among the speakers. Nilesh J Vasa, dean (students), IIT-M, said, “The novel edition of technical festival Shaastra will certainly be an important step forward towards realizing student participation from anywhere in India.” With this year's Shaastra Summit theme being Archi-Tech, the students aim to highlight the growing opportunities that technology possesses in the field of architecture and design. The total prize money for the contests will be worth around Rs 17lakh. The fest features various competitions such as the Boeing National Aeromodelling Competition, The Drone Applications Hackathon 2021, exclusive All-Women's Hackathon called ‘She Hacks’ in collaboration with Wells Fargo, an American multinational financial services company, and the MTX HackOlympics to flaunt the participants' skills in cloud computing. Student projects will be on display as part of Centre for Innovation (CFI) Open House.  TOI is the media partner of IIT-M Shaastra and title sponsor for muisc/EDM night Harmony by Sonic Snares on February 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/from-hackathons-to-open-house-shaastra-goes-virtual/articleshow/81178913.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Kozhikode||K’taka temporarily eases entry curbs at checkposts||Kozhikode/T’puram: The Karnataka government authorities have temporarily relaxed entry curbs which mandated that all travellers from Kerala should produce Covid negative RT-PCR certificates at the interstate checkposts. Though the Karnataka officials had on Monday said that they will allow only those with Covid negative RT-PCR tests done 72 hours before the journey to enter the state from Tuesday onwards, they did not insist on screening at the checkposts bordering Kasaragod and Wayanad districts on Tuesday. Dakshina Kannada district deputy commissioner K V Rajendra said that they have decided not to go for full-scale inspections for the next two-three days following complaints that there was not enough RT-PCR testing facility in Kasaragod. “We are allowing people to get themselves tested so that they get the results on the borders. For the time being, students and those who are commuting on a daily basis and commercial vehicles and emergency vehicles are not being stopped,” he said. Kasaragod district authorities said they have not received any official information on the temporary easing of curbs and don’t know how long they will last. Meanwhile, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar in a tweet on Tuesday evening said that Karnataka has not prohibited interstate travel between Karnataka and Kerala but reiterated that as a precautionary measure, guidelines have been issued that travellers entering Karnataka from Kerala must possess a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours. Based on the order by the Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner, Karnataka had on Monday shut 13 roads that connect the state to Kasaragod and imposed severe restrictions on four more routes citing the spread of Covid-19 in Kerala as the reason. CM writes to PM Meanwhile, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his immediate intervention in the travel restrictions imposed by Karnataka on the citizens from the state, citing Covid-19 spread. In his letter, the chief minister said that many people, including students, trucks carrying essential commodities and patients travelling for medical purposes, have been put to hardships at the state borders because of the restrictions. He said that imposing interstate travel restrictions are in contrast to the Centre’s instructions. He further requested the Prime Minister to intervene at the earliest, so as to avoid difficulties caused to the people of the state. Upon the chief minister’s instructions, state police chief Loknath Behera had requested Karnataka not to insist on RT-PCR test for regular commuters across the state borders. He contacted Karnataka state police chief Praveen Sood and requested him that the test should not be made mandatory for those travelling to Karnataka for essential services. The Karnataka police chief replied that he would take up the matter with the Karnataka health minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/ktaka-temporarily-eases-entry-curbs-at-checkposts/articleshow/81178945.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||4,164 polling booths in dist||Thiruvananthapuram: District collector Navjot Khosa has appealed to all political parties to strictly comply with Covid-19 protocol during state assembly election campaign. As many as 4,164 polling booths will be arranged in the district for polls. Postal ballot facility will be available for voters aged above 80, disabled voters, Covid-19 positive voters and those under observation. Covid protocol shall be followed at the time of submission of nomination papers,  campaign and postal ballot distribution. Only two people shall be allowed apart from candidates for submission of nomination. More than two vehicles will not be allowed when candidates arrive to submit nomination papers. Adequate space shall be arranged in the rooms of returning officers to ensure adherence to Covid-19 protocol. Those accompanying candidates shall wear masks, gloves and face shields. More than five people will not be allowed for house campaigns. Maximum of five vehicles will be allowed for road shows and vehicle processions. Road shows will be allowed at an interval of 30 minutes. The location for public conventions shall be communicated to the election officer in advance. In order to ensure protocol, markings shall be done for exit, entrance and to ensure that social-distancing norms are followed. All those who participate in public conventions and gatherings shall use masks, sanitizers and thermal scanning facility. Compliance with Covid-19 prevention protocol in gatherings will be strictly monitored. A special team will be constituted to monitor social distancing. The team will have district medical officer, deputy medical officer, technical assistant, and district drug warehouse managers in addition to district election officer. Special teams will be constituted at assembly constituency level under the leadership of returning officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/4164-polling-booths-in-dist/articleshow/81181217.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Remarks against Harsh Vardhan baseless: Delhi medical body||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Medical Association (DMA) on Tuesday slammed the Indian Medical Association for defaming and making baseless comments about Union health minister Harsh Vardhan for launching Patanjali’s ‘Coronil’ as a cure for Covid-19. “Dr Vardhan attended a programme by Patanjali Research Institute to launch their new drug Coronil, which they claim has a role in the prevention and treatment of Covid-19. As per the promoter of the drug, Coronil has received Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product (COPP) from the Drug Controller General of India,” DMA said in a statement. According to DMA, Dr Vardhan did not promote the drug but only focussed on making ayurveda a scientific, evidence-based medical system that can complement the other systems of medicine including the modern system of medicine. The Delhi Medical Association said IMA, which stands against mixopathy, has no business to question the methodology of a trial of an ayurvedic drug. “How was it conducted? Where was it conducted? How many patients were involved is to be seen by the certifying authority and not the IMA,” DMA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/remarks-against-vardhan-baseless-delhi-med-body/articleshow/81178941.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||Pune: Trash troubles continue for Wagholi residents; no word on garbage plant||PUNE: Piles of garbage accumulating across the Wagholi area due to improper trash collection and disposal have forced its residents to live with the stink 24x7. A garbage plant was set up in Wagholi in December 2018 to resolve the issue. It was to start functioning in April last year. But due to the Covid-19 pandemic and resultant lockdown, it was indefinitely postponed. Even now, there has been no word from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) or the gram panchayat regarding it. A more immediate problem is that garbage is not being properly collected from and disposed by housing societies, private homes and commercial facilities in the area — which collectively produce almost 16 tonnes of waste daily. Nitin Kumar Jain, director of Wagholi Housing Societies Association, said, “There has been no change in the garbage situation in the area even after the lockdown was lifted. The situation is worse now. The internal roads and open grounds in Wagholi village have become dumping grounds. Private land owners are collecting garbage and illegally dumping it on their property, which are open grounds near housing societies, and the residents need to keep their windows shut to block out the pungent smell.” Kanchan Lonkar of Chrrysalis housing society said, “I raise concerns with a local ward member about trucks dumping garbage right outside my house on a daily basis. Now they are camouflaging the garbage pile with soil.” Residents have alleged that the garbage collected by gram panchayat trucks is being burned or it’s merely being dumped at another location. Anil Kumar, gram sevak adhikari, denied the allegations. Prashant Waghmare, city engineer at the PMC, said, “The government has put out a suggestion-objection notice, after which they will have a hearing and take a decision regarding including Wagholi into PMC limits. Till then, we cannot do anything.” With little support from authorities, housing societies are either composting their wet garbage or have sought the help of SWaCH, Pune. Harshad Barde, director, SWaCH Pune, said, “We have informally appointed wastepickers living in the area to collect and segregate garbage from housing societies and houses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trash-troubles-continue-for-wagholi-residents-no-word-on-garbage-plant/articleshow/81178942.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Amritsar||Pagdi Sambhal Jatta 2.0 in Punjab and Haryana||ROHTAK/JIND/HISAR/BATHINDA: A farmers’ protest against the British dating to 1907 — better known as the ‘Pagdi Sambhal Jatta’ movement — took the centre stage at protest sites on the borders of Delhi, and across Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday. Farmers in the two states who have been protesting against three contentious agro-market laws introduced by the Centre last year, on Tuesday celebrated the 140th birth anniversary of Ajit Singh, an uncle of revolutionary Bhagat Singh and who led the Pagdi Sambhal Jatta movement of 1907. Even the descendants of Bhagat Singh and Ajit Singh participated in protests which were organised across the two agrarian states. Surjeet Kaur, niece of Bhagat Singh, spoke at an event organised on a call by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a grouping of farm organisations which is spearheading the ongoing agitation. "First, I want to make it clear that Bhagat Singh had said that those who walk the path told by him were his inheritors. By this yardstick, those of you who are fighting the battle against the three laws are his real inheritors," said Surjeet, while speaking at a gathering in Kishanpura, Rohtak, Haryana. She drew a parallel between the protests led by Ajit Singh and the ongoing ones. "Back then, the movement by farmers was against three laws introduced by the British. Even now, the protest is against three laws. That time, farmers won after a long unrest; this time too, they will win," she added. In Rohtak, the meeting was attended by retired professors, teachers, activists and students. A few descendants of Bhagat Singh’s extended family visited Singhu border between Haryana and Delhi where farmers have been protesting since November 27. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said Ajit Singh made farmers fight against the high-handedness of the then British government. "The situation is the same again. Taking inspiration from the revolt which took place 113 years ago, we remember him fondly. We want to ensure that farmers come out victorious against this highhandedness of our ‘own’ government," he said. Farm leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Darshan Pal said Bhagat Singh, like his uncle Ajit Singh, was one of the biggest heroes of farmers, who pledged to fight for their rights as shown by Ajit Singh. In Hisar, the event was celebrated at all four toll plazas where farmers have been protesting. In Jind, farmers celebrated the event at Khatkar and Baddowal toll plazas. Wearing different types of turbans, farmers reached the spot and paid tributes to Ajit Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pagdi-sambhal-jatta-2-0-in-pb-hry/articleshow/81186257.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Kolkata||Greta org members hit the streets, lift stir after Disha bail||Kolkata: Some hundred-odd young environmental and social activists took out a rally in Kolkata on Tuesday afternoon demanding immediate release of climate activist Disha Ravi on the farmers’ toolkit case, held a sit in demonstration at College Street-MG Road crossing for an hour and lifted the protest soon after they got to know that Ravi was granted bail by a Delhi court in the late afternoon. The rally was organised by the Bengal chapter of Fridays for Future — a youth-led grassroot movement to protect the environment, initiated by Swedish climate campaigner Greta Thunberg — demanding immediate release of Disha Ravi and withdrawal of charges from other environmental activists. Ravi was the founding member of the movement’s India chapter. “We are elated that the cause we had been championing for was addressed and Ravi has finally got bail. But we would still not call it a win until and unless charges against all social and environmental activists are dropped,” said Brishti Chanda, one of the founding members of the Bengal chapter of Fridays for Future and the convenor of Tuesday’s rally. The rally started from Sealdah around 2pm and they had plans to submit a memorandum before Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. However, less than 40 minutes into the rally with a banner — “We all are Disha Ravi. Arrest us all” — they were stopped by a team of policemen at MG Road-College Street crossing following which a four-member team walked till Raj Bhavan but couldn’t meet the Governor. They, however, submitted a memorandum at the Governor’s office. While the team was at the Governor’s office, information reached the demonstrating students on College Street — representatives of multiple students unions and environmental rights activists — about Ravi being granted bail by a Sessions Court in Delhi on the condition of two sureties of Rs 1 lakh each. Following Disha’s release, the group lifted the demonstration but vowed to continue their fight against atrocities on environmental activists in the future. “We are elated to announce that Disha Ravi has been granted bail. However, we will continue to raise our voice for every other heard and unheard names of environmental, social and political activists who are still behind the bars just for exercising their constitutional right to freedom of speech and expression. Let Disha Ravi’s instance always remind us how the state terrorises its own citizens. Let us not be demoralised, instead let us raise our voice louder,” Fridays for Future, West Bengal said in a statement with hashtag #istandwithdisharavi shortly after her release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/greta-org-members-hit-the-streets-lift-stir-after-disha-bail/articleshow/81178946.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Varavara now granted bail in 2016 arson case||Mumbai: A day after Bombay High Court granted P V Varavara Rao bail in the Elgar Parishad case, the HC bench in Nagpur too granted him bail on health grounds in a case registered against him in 2016 by Etapalli police station in Gadchiroli. The case is for offences including attempt to murder, arson, criminal conspiracy, under sections of the Arms Act and also under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. On December 25, 2016, Naxalites allegedly set ablaze 74 vehicles engaged in transporting iron ore from Surjagarh mines in Etapalli tehsil of Gadchiroli. The bail order now will ensure there is no legal impediment to his release from jail, said his lawyer. Rao’s petition said that while, on Monday, he was granted bail and directed to be discharged from Nanavati hospital, “owing to pendency of this case, applicant would not be released from Taloja prison, which will frustrate the very purpose of the grant of bail on medical grounds.” The octogenarian undertrial had moved the Nagpur bench a day after the HC principal bench granted him medical bail invoking a “humanitarian approach” and invoking his right to life in what it said was a “genuine and fit case.” In the 2018 Elgar Parishad case filed in Pune, Rao has been accused of Maoist links and charged for offences under UAPA. The Pune case is being prosecuted since January 2020 by National Investigation Agency. Rao’s lawyers Firdaus Mirza and Nihalsing Rathod pointed out the temporary six-month bail granted in Mumbai on Monday. They sought bail in the Nagpur case on similar grounds citing the detailed 92-page judgment of a bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale. Justice Swapna Joshi of the Nagpur bench, applying and relying on the HC order of Justices Shinde and Pitale, granted Rao bail for Rs 50,000. The HC had said on Monday that Rao can stay in Mumbai and imposed several other strict conditions for bail. Rao had applied for bail in the Gadchiroli case before the sessions court there on medical grounds. However, it was dismissed on June 8, 2020. Rao and advocate Surendra Gadling were arrested by Gadchiroli police on January 30, 2019 in connection with the 2016 case. He said he has been in custody since his arrest in the Elgar Parishad case on August 28, 2018. He stands chargesheeted in two cases in Maharashtra. The NIA took his custody in February 2020 in the Pune case, and till date, no charges have been framed and his trial is likely to take years, his lawyers had argued. There is a third case, in Bangalore, where he is out on bail, said his lawyer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/varavara-now-granted-bail-in-2016-arson-case/articleshow/81180631.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi readies for new strain with special ward at Lok Nayak Hospital||NEW DELHI: With states like Maharashtra and Kerala not only witnessing a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases but also two variants of the coronavirus being detected there, the Delhi government is not taking any chances and has started making preparations to counter any eventuality. “Delhi government’s health department has chalked out initial plans to deal with the mutant strains and a special ward at Lok Nayak Hospital (LNJP) is being created for treatment of patients in case anyone is found infected with one of the new strains,” said sources. Despite repeated attempts, LNJP’s medical director Dr Suresh Kumar couldn’t be contacted for comments on the arrangements being made at the hospital, which is the biggest Covid-19 facility in the capital. When samples of a total 33 UK returnees who arrived in Delhi in December, 2020 tested positive for a new strain of the coronavirus detected in that country, most of them were isolated in a special ward at LNJP. Sources claimed that the ward would be now used in case any patient is found infected with the new strains, which originated in South Africa and Brazil. On Monday, LG Anil Baijal had also stressed upon the adoption of cluster-based surveillance, testing and genome sequencing strategy during a meeting of DDMA, which he chaired. Cluster-based genome sequence testing and surveillance help in identifying any mutation of the virus. Despite a significant dip in coronavirus cases in recent days, the authority asked the Delhi government to remain vigilant for at least two more weeks. Baijal emphasised the need to continue to be vigilant without lowering the guard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-readies-for-new-strain-with-special-ward-at-lnjp/articleshow/81178948.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Pagdi Sambhal Jatta 2.0 in Punjab and Haryana||ROHTAK/JIND/HISAR/BATHINDA: A farmers’ protest against the British dating to 1907 — better known as the ‘Pagdi Sambhal Jatta’ movement — took the centre stage at protest sites on the borders of Delhi, and across Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday. Farmers in the two states who have been protesting against three contentious agro-market laws introduced by the Centre last year, on Tuesday celebrated the 140th birth anniversary of Ajit Singh, an uncle of revolutionary Bhagat Singh and who led the Pagdi Sambhal Jatta movement of 1907. Even the descendants of Bhagat Singh and Ajit Singh participated in protests which were organised across the two agrarian states. Surjeet Kaur, niece of Bhagat Singh, spoke at an event organised on a call by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a grouping of farm organisations which is spearheading the ongoing agitation. "First, I want to make it clear that Bhagat Singh had said that those who walk the path told by him were his inheritors. By this yardstick, those of you who are fighting the battle against the three laws are his real inheritors," said Surjeet, while speaking at a gathering in Kishanpura, Rohtak, Haryana. She drew a parallel between the protests led by Ajit Singh and the ongoing ones. "Back then, the movement by farmers was against three laws introduced by the British. Even now, the protest is against three laws. That time, farmers won after a long unrest; this time too, they will win," she added. In Rohtak, the meeting was attended by retired professors, teachers, activists and students. A few descendants of Bhagat Singh’s extended family visited Singhu border between Haryana and Delhi where farmers have been protesting since November 27. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said Ajit Singh made farmers fight against the high-handedness of the then British government. "The situation is the same again. Taking inspiration from the revolt which took place 113 years ago, we remember him fondly. We want to ensure that farmers come out victorious against this highhandedness of our ‘own’ government," he said. Farm leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Darshan Pal said Bhagat Singh, like his uncle Ajit Singh, was one of the biggest heroes of farmers, who pledged to fight for their rights as shown by Ajit Singh. In Hisar, the event was celebrated at all four toll plazas where farmers have been protesting. In Jind, farmers celebrated the event at Khatkar and Baddowal toll plazas. Wearing different types of turbans, farmers reached the spot and paid tributes to Ajit Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pagdi-sambhal-jatta-2-0-in-pb-hry/articleshow/81180596.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Akalis using Sikh discontent on Saka to regain political turf?||Amritsar: Are the Akalis trying to politicise the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee’s discontent over being stopped from leading a Sikh jatha into Pakistan to observe the centenary of Saka Nankana Sahib? The rival Sikh leaders say so. Speaking with TOI on Monday, BJP’s senior Sikh leader Harjit Singh Grewal accused the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) of using the pilgrimage issue as a communal card. He alleged: “The Akalis were hunting for a political issue since losing their vote bank due to the farmers’ agitation and now they got a chance to use the largest Sikh representative body and the institution of Akal Takht for their political motives.” Replying to a question, he defended the travel embargo, saying: “Security and health were important and the central government keeps these in mind whenever its citizens visit another country. The decision is not against any community but for the safety of Indian citizens.” On February 17, the central home ministry had stopped the SGPC-led jatha from going to Pakistan over security threat and the Covid-19 situation in the neighbouring country. It evoked sharp criticism from the SAD, the SGPC, and the Akal Takht jathedar. The jatha was to leave on February 18, for the anniversary of the Saka on February 21. Reiterating that the denial was akin to an attack on Sikh sentiments, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the Sikh community was known for ‘sewa’ and ‘shahadat’ (service and sacrifice) and had made the most sacrifices for Independence. Reacting to the emerging situation, Congress Sikh leader and Amritsar mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said: “|The divisive Akali politics can destroy the state’s hard-earned peace. The Congress eradicated terrorism from Punjab, so we advise the Akali’s to desist from making communal issue of a religious matter, even though in my opinion, the Centre could have requested Pakistan to follow the Covid-19 protocol and give security to the pilgrims.” Claiming that the Akalis were trying to regain their lost political ground, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Sikh spokesperson Gurbhej Singh said: “The desecration of Guru Granth Sahib in Punjab and the farmers’ agitation dented the Akali vote bank, so now they provoke the religious sentiments of a community to win its confidence.” Citing the statement of Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh that Sikhs were discriminated against, he said: “The Akali’s are trying to give communal colour to a religious issue, even though the jatha could have gone to Pakistan with SOPs.” Box Pak tractor rally on Pakistan’s Khalistan supporter Gopal Singh Chawla on Monday announced to take out a tractor rally in support of the Indian farmers’ agitation. In a video message, he claimed that Pakistani Sikhs will participate with more than a thousand tractors. Earlier also, he had announced the rally but given no date Box Jathedar’s orders Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has asked members of the SGPC to hold five Saka functions a month in their constituencies, while the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee members must hold two, and the Takhts in Amritsar, Patna, and Nanded, one each. All Sikh organisations, colleges, institutes, societies and Nihang groups have orders to “mention how the Centre prevented Sikhs from going to Pakistan”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/akalis-using-sikh-discontent-on-saka-to-regain-political-turf/articleshow/81178935.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||MP’s postmortem report confirms suicide: Police||Mumbai: The postmortem examination report of Mohan Delkar, a seven-term MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli who was found hanging from the ceiling fan at a Marine Drive hotel on Monday, has confirmed suicide. Delkar (58) had used his official letterhead to write the suicide note, said a senior IPS officer. “Delkar’s body has been handed over to his family. They said they will give their statement later,” the officer added. The 15-page note, written in Gujarati with the words ‘Suicide Note’ on top, was recovered from Delkar’s hotel room. Senior officials refused to share the contents of the note. They will send a report to Parliament. The police are going through the CCTV footage of the hotel to find out if anyone met Delkar after he checked in. His body was found by his driver, Ashok Patel, who was in the adjacent room. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mps-postmortem-report-confirms-suicide-police/articleshow/81180613.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Bhagat’s nephew: Will go on hunger strike if laws stay||Bathinda: Members of noted freedom fighter Bhagat Singh’s extended family have come out in support of the farm struggle, asking the Central government to repeal the farm laws. Bhagat Singh’s nephew Abhay Singh Sandhu asked the government to repeal the laws within a month or else he will sit on a hunger strike on March 23, the martyrdom day of Bhagat Singh. Abhay Sandhu along with other family members Teji Sandhu, Anuspriya Sandhu and Gurjeet Kaur attended the farmers’ protest at Singhu border on the occasion of 140th birth anniversary of their grandfather Ajit Singh, which was also observed as Pagri Sambhal Jatta day. Speaking to TOI, Abhay said, “We are completely with farmers over the laws. We want the government to repeal laws at the earliest. And if these are not repealed by March 23, I will sit on a hunger strike against the government. We salute the courage of the farmers,” said Abhay. Farm leaders honoured the family members with turbans and photos of Bhagat Singh. Meanwhile, Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said the farmers observed the day at protests by wearing traditional turbans and singing songs of the peasant movement. Kisan Morcha leaders stated at the time of Pagdi Sambhal Lehar of 1906, the government had passed three anti-farmer laws and the same has been done now. A batch of farmers from Karnataka and Telangana reached the Tikri border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bhagats-nephew-will-go-on-hunger-strike-if-laws-stay/articleshow/81180611.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Three-time MLA Raghavan passes away||Kollam: CPM state committee member and SC, ST development corporation chairman B Raghavan passed away on Tuesday. He was 69. Raghavan of Raghi, Thamarakkudy, Kottarakkara, a three-time MLA representing Neduvathur constituency in the assembly, was a former state president of KSKTU. After testing Covid positive, he underwent treatment at Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital. Raghavan was admitted to Parippally medical college hospital along with family members two weeks ago as they too tested positive. While undergoing treatment, he contracted pneumonia. As his condition got worsened, he was shifted to Medical College Hospital ,Thiruvannathapuram . Though he was later tested negative for Covid, he developed a kidney ailment and he breathed his the last at 4.45am. His mortal remains were cremated on his house premises at Thamarakudy by adhering to Covid protocol. He leaves behind wife Renuka and children Rakesh Raghavan and Rakhi Raghavan. CM Pinarayi Vijayan and CPM politburo member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan condoled the death of Raghavan. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/three-time-mla-raghavan-passes-away/articleshow/81178954.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Consumers, staff being ignored in finalising of Electricity Bill 2021’||Kurukshetra: Power consumers, electricity department employees and engineers are being ignored in the process of finalising the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021, V K Gupta, spokesman, All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF), said on Tuesday. Shailender Dubey, chairman AIPEF wrote a letter to Union power minister saying that the ministry has circulated the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021 to a limited group of state and UT power secretaries for their comments in two weeks. He said the Bill proposes to replace the process of distribution license with distribution registration. In the recent virtual meeting with Union power minister R K Singh on February 17, a number of states, including BJP-ruled states (especially hill states), opposed many clauses of the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021, AIPEF office-bearers claimed. “It seems only bureaucrats and big industrial houses are the only stakeholders for the ministry of power,” said V K Gupta. “The Telangana government has ruled out implementing a franchisee system in the power sector, proposed as part of a larger privatisation move in distribution companies (Discoms). The state government is against the privatisation of power distribution. Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have taken the stand that it is not possible to privatise due to geographical difficulties. Moreover, districts where industrial belts are located will be taken over by the private sector. With the remaining areas, revenue of discoms will be hit adversely and they will not be able to pay salary and pension benefits to their employees,” said Gupta. Padamjit Singh, chief patron, AIPEF said the venture has had adverse results. “The study carried out by Prayas (energy) group, Pune shows that the results of operationalisation of parallel licensing in Mumbai has been contrary to expectations, as it has taken place with a series of unnecessary litigations, skyrocketing expenses, steep consumer tariffs and regulatory failure. This exposes how competition has failed in Mumbai and how consumers have suffered,” he said. Pramod Deo, ex-chairman, Central Electricity Regulation Commission (CERC), recently stated that the provision of consumer choice has failed in Mumbai and that the proposed amendment of Electricity Bill 2021 will not achieve the goal of consumer choice, resulting in lower tariffs. Padamjit said, “When the experiment has failed in Mumbai, it cannot be expected to succeed anywhere else in India. There is a strong case to roll back the privatisation process in Mumbai as well as other areas like Odisha, Delhi, and others.” AIPEF demands that the bill be put on the power ministry website and thereafter, comments of all stakeholders, including electricity consumers, electricity employees, workers and engineers be considered before finalising the draft bill, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/consumers-staff-being-ignored-in-finalising-of-electricity-bill-2021/articleshow/81178950.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Kolkata||For three days in a row, max temperature breaches 30°C||Kolkata: The maximum temperature on the Celsius scale is already on the rise, indicating the end of winter. After several cold spells this winter, the day temperature went up a notch higher than the normal mark for the first time on Monday. The Met office expects a gradual rise and by the weekend, the city could start feeling the heat, when the maximum temperature could go as high as four degrees above the normal mark. Till last Saturday, the maximum temperature at 27.4 degrees Celsius was three degrees below the normal mark. But it started rising from Sunday and stood at 30.3. By Monday it shot past normal at 31.5 degrees Celsius and further rose to 32.1 degrees on Tuesday. “From now on the mercury will start rising gradually. By weekend it could hit around 34 degrees Celsius. Winter has come to an end. The good thing is that the transition is smooth,” said GK Das, director (weather) at Regional Meteorological Centre Kolkata. Currently the city is getting the cold bearing north-westerly wind and the humid south-westerly wind. Despite the moisture the dry north-westerly wind is preventing the mercury from shooting up abruptly. But once the hot and humid wind system starts dominating it will propel the temperature to rise.  “We are at the end of February, so it is climatologically natural for the mercury to start rising above normal. Currently, there is a little bit of clouding, which will add insulation,” added Das. Though the 32.1 degrees Celsius on Tuesday has crossed the highest February temperate for 2020 which was 30.8 degrees, it is lower than the highest February temperature for the previous four years. The temperature at night is also expected to rise. On Tuesday, at 18.6 degrees, it did not deviate from normal, but in the next few days it will go up to the 21-22 degree mark. According to Met officials from now on occasional thundershowers can only put a brake on the mercury from scaling up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-three-days-in-a-row-max-temperature-breaches-30c/articleshow/81178953.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||2 thieves hit woman, steal mobile, held||Mumbai: Two men who had assaulted a woman when she tried to resist their attempt to rob her were arrested by the Samta Nagar police. One of them is a juvenile and has been sent to the Dongri home. The other accused, Sonu Verma, 19, is a history sheeter. The incident took place on February 19. Rupali Phanse, 35, was walking down a road in Kandivali(E) when two men on a scooter came from behind and the pillion rider tried to snatch her phone. The man started hitting her after she resisted, snatched her phone and escaped. Based on CCTV grabs from the vicinity, the cops zoomed in on the two who were picked up at a paan stall in Borivali (E). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-thieves-hit-woman-steal-mobile-held/articleshow/81180641.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Train cops to perform duty in dispassionate manner: Gujarat HC to Police||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has recommended the State Police Academy to train future cops not to get carried away in sentiments and to perform their duty in dispassionate manner and strictly adhere to the law. The high court recommended so after it came to know that the Karanj police inspector was blamed for separating an interfaith couple last month. PI D V Tadvi justified the breach of norm on his part on the ground that the Hindu woman, who had eloped with her Muslim boyfriend and later got married after HC provided protection to them, was summoned to the police station after sunset on January 7 because her mother had made an emotional pitch and he did it to resolve the dispute. He had summoned the couple and not the woman alone. He, however, tendered unconditional apology and assured the court that it would not receive such a complaint in future. Upon receiving the apology and assurance, the bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice Sangeeta Vishen put an end to the habeas corpus proceedings. But the bench wrote, “We also recommend and expect the State Police Academy to indicate the need of strict adherence to law and the principles established under the law, as also inculcate sensitivity with dispassionate actions, to give fillip to the constituted ethos.” The high court had called for explanation from the cop because the woman, who is a Lok Rakshak Dal (LRD) trainee, complained that she was summoned after sunset and allowed to go at 3am. She went to her training at Gomtipur and then sought transfer to Junagadh. The court noticed that the police inspector was swayed by the emotional outburst and the health condition of the mother, who was seeking custody of the young woman. The judges said, “We are of the opinion that these are the moments which every officer faces routinely and that is where his training, his conviction and his adherence to the law would be required to govern him and the system.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/train-cops-to-perform-duty-in-dispassionate-manner-hc-to-police/articleshow/81178961.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||Now, Pak farmers to hold tractor rally for MSP at home||Nagpur: After India, farmers in Pakistan, under the banner of Pakistan Kisan Ittehad (PKI), are also planning a tractor rally from Lahore to Islamabad on March 31 demanding minimum support price (MSP). The PKI, a farmers outfit, has already expressed its solidarity with Indian farmers. Two months ago, a demonstration supporting the protests in India were also held at the Liberty Chowk in Lahore. It was attended by women farmers also, said PKI president Khalid Mahmood Khokhar, while talking to TOI on the phone. He said, “We stand for farmers’ cause world over including those in India. Farmers in Pakistan are worse off than their Indian counterparts when it comes to MSP.” Khokhar, who hopes for a huge support for the rally, said there is no MSP in Pakistan for any crop except wheat. “No government procurement has happened in last 10 years at least. So, we demand an MSP of Rs2,000 PKR (Pakistani rupee) per 40kg for wheat. The outfit has also called for declaring MSP for other corps like cotton, paddy and Maize,” he said. Talking about the pitiable condition of farmers in Pakistan, Khokhar said rising cost of production has left the Pakistani farmers stressed. “Diammonium phosphate (DAP) fertilizer costs Rs5,200 (PKR) a bag, power and diesel rates are also exorbitant. The government should increase its spending on agriculture research to at least 2% of the budget as against 0.18%,” he said. The PKI president said the cotton grower is the worse hit due to declining output in Pakistan. “In 1992, it was at 1.28 crore bales which has come down to 56 lakh at present. India on the other hand has touched 4 crore bales,” he said. Khokhar further said as against general perception that the farmers lobby consists of landlords, as much as 97% of Pakistani cultivators have small holdings. On free trade in farm items between the two countries, Khokhar said the PKI has been opposing it. “The Pakistani farmers first need to have a level playing field as against his India counterpart. The cost of production is much higher in Pakistan. For example a bag of urea costs Rs1,800 in Indian rupees, which is Rs550 in India,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-pak-farmers-to-hold-tractor-rally-for-msp-at-home/articleshow/81197385.cms||Shishir Arya
February 24, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: In online exam season, colleges make professors attendance mandatory||KOLKATA: Several colleges across the city have made attendance mandatory for professors either on all working days or few days a week in order to prepare for online examinations next month, conducting online practical classes and for meetings related to academic workings of the college. Some colleges have even installed strong routers for better wi-fi for online classes while in other colleges teachers are using classrooms to teach the students who attend form home. Teachers teaching science subjects take pictures and shoot videos in the college laboratories and then share with the students. Odd-semester examinations in most colleges will begin in the second week of March. “Since the second half of last week, all the teachers have been coming to the college. Henceforth, they will be conducting online classes from the college while students will keep attending them from home,” said Deepali Singhee, principal of J D Birla Institute. The college affiliated to Jadavpur University was one of the first institutions to commence online classes for the first semester students from October last year itself while in most Calcutta University-affiliated colleges, online classes began only in the third week of December. In Lady Brabourne College, when teachers come to the campus to attend the meetings, they conduct online classes from the college itself. Some colleges like Bethune in north Kolkata have made it mandatory for teachers to attend college two days a week. “There are lot of meetings now pertaining to various matters. It is important for all the teachers to be present,” said a senior teacher of Bethune College. Several professors in Jadavpur University and Calcutta University have been going to the campus on a regular basis even though it is not mandatory for them. “Sometimes we need to use the laboratory or take reference from other books in the library. In these circumstances it is convenient for us to be on the campus,” said an associate professor of the Department of Zoology in Calcutta University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-online-exam-season-colleges-make-prof-attendance-mandatory/articleshow/81178967.cms||Zeeshan Javed
February 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Budget lays thrust on projects for women, welfare schemes||Thiruvananthapuram: The first budget of the new committee of district panchayat for 2021-22 fiscal proposes to continue with many of the initiatives of the previous team, which had centred around agriculture, water conservation, environment and animal husbandry. District panchayat vice-president A Shylaja Beegam, in her budget speech on Monday, said that the innovative and people-friendly schemes of the panchayat have earned national and state honours and that it is essential to continue such projects. The surplus budget estimates revenue of Rs 716.36 crore, expenditure of Rs 699.13 crore and reserve of Rs 17.23 crore. Shylaja Beegum said that the budget lays its thrust on self-sufficiency in food production, development of dairy sector, empowerment of women and children, protection of destitute, tourism development rooted in ecological conservation, development of traditional handicrafts and creation of more man days to ensure income for the workers.  Shylaja Beegum stuck with ‘gender budget’ proposing a slew of schemes for women’s welfare in different sectors. Rest centres for women, sports training for girls, awareness programmes for women, training in disaster management for women hailing from hilly and coastal regions, live fish stall scheme for women from coastal hamlets and skill development centre for women have been included in the budget for 2021-22. In addition to these projects an amount of Rs 50 lakh have been allocated for rehabilitation of disabled women. A project called Snehitha aims at appointing women counsellors for adolescent girls and the project will be implemented at a cost of Rs 20 lakh. The panchayat, which reaped success through marketing of milk from its dairy farms, plans to purchase 100 cows for Vithura farm. Revolving fund of Rs 52 lakh has been proposed for dairy development societies and an amount of Rs 6.15 crore has been proposed as subsidy for Ksheera Samridhi milk subsidy for women and general sectors. More than Rs 3 crore will be spent on upgradation of facilities at Vithura and Chettachal farms. A sizable chunk has been allocated for Life Housing Mission with the panchayat setting aside Rs 14.8 crore for the scheme in the budget. Popular projects like Patheyam, which aims to distribute food for the needy, will be continued. Another welfare scheme, Ashwas, which provides financial aid for dialysis patients coming from poor background, has been allotted Rs 1.5 crore. Shylaja Beegam also presented the labour budget for 2021-22. It aims to create 1.5 crore man days. A budget discussion was also held on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/budget-lays-thrust-on-projects-for-women-welfare-schemes/articleshow/81181220.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Surat||Surat city reports 61 Covid-19 cases||SURAT: Surat city witnessed a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases over the last few days. On Tuesday, the city reported 61 Covid-19 cases, the highest since the civic poll campaigning began. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, the highest number of cases, 20, were reported from Athwa zone, followed by 17 in Rander. A total of 40,315 cases have been reported so far from the city and 850 people have succumbed to the virus. Sources say that as many as seven employees of Life Corporation of India (LIC)’s Randerthe branch were tested positive for Covid-19. The office has been shut down as part of precautionary measures. A Class XI student from Bhulka Bhavan school in Adajan area also tested positive for Covid-19. The classes have been suspended for 14 days. Surat civic body chief Banchhanidhi Pani on Tuesday held meetings with industrialists from diamond and textile sectors in view of the rising cases and appealed them to ensure that they follow Covid-19 guidelines at their workplace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-city-reports-61-covid-19-cases/articleshow/81177719.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Business||Copper prices on fire; India import bill could rise by 35%||CHENNAI: A combination of factors record high copper prices coupled with aggressive buying by China and the largest copper smelter in India remaining shut for the second year in a row will make copper imports 35% more costly in 2021. “LME copper prices touched nine years high in January to average $7,961 per tonne. Prices have touched the highest level since 2012 due to supply crunch of copper concentrates caused by disruptions in mining operations due to Covid-19 challenges amidst rising demand, “ wrote Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care, in a research report. “The on-going concentrate supply issues and strong demand, particularly from China, is expected to keep copper prices elevated over the next quarter before the supply issues get resolved in 2021.” The report said that refined copper production fell by a sharp 24.4% to 231.7 thousand tonnes during April-December FY21 compared with April-December FY20 as the Covid-induced lockdown that brought business activities to a sudden halt. Overall domestic refined copper production fell sharply by 39.5% y-o-y in Q1FY21 Refined copper prices are expected to average $6,500-6,800 per tonne in FY21 vs $5,923 in FY20, thereby impacting import dependent countries, analysts said. “India could spend up to 30-35% more just to import the same level of refined copper it does today,” said Pankaj Kumar, CEO of Sterlite Copper. He said that the consequential effects on forex will be significant. The domestic copper industry is operating at almost half of its capacity since the last two financial years due to closure of Vedanta four lakh tonnes a year copper smelter at Tuticorin. “India will continue to be a net importer of copper in FY21, pending the resumption of Vedanta’s copper smelting facility. However, imports are likely to be lower in FY21 vs FY20 due to fall in domestic demand in first half of FY21,” Sabnavis’ note said. As per ministry of mines, the share of electrical and telecommunication industry in total consumption of copper is 56%, followed by transport (8%), consumer durables (7%), building & construction (7%), general Engineering goods (6%) and other industries including process industries (16%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/copper-prices-on-fire-india-import-bill-could-rise-by-35/articleshow/81179004.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
February 24, 2021||Rajkot||Handsome victory to BJP in CM’s home town||Rajkot: Chief minister Vijay Rupani’s home town Rajkot handed BJP one its most spectacular victory in municipal corporation elections with the saffron party winning 68 seats of the total 72 in the polls that were held under the shadow of Covid 19 global pandemic. The Congress was reduced to just four seats, the same number that it had fallen short of majority (37 seats) in 2015 election when the party’s 33 candidates had emerged victorious. The election then was held in the backdrop of a bellicose Patidar quota agitation led by Hardik Patel. The main opposition party, Congress, was completely routed as the party was nowhere close to even the double-digit mark, drastically down from the 33 seats it had won in the 2015 election that was held in the backdrop of an aggressive Patidar quota agitation. BJP leaders attributed the resounding victory to the implementation of some key infrastructure projects, including the city’s choice for establishing the prestigious All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) which is taking shape on the outskirts and perennial flow of water in Aji River due to SAUNI Yojna. When the polling remained low compared to 2015 elections, it was feared that the resentment over heavy mask penalties, worsening traffic issues coupled with lack of any burning issue, would cause some dent in the party's fortunes. But the results have belied those fears. Rupani himself flew down to vote immediately after testing negative for Covid1-9 at Ahmedabad’s UN Mehta Hospital where he was admitted after fainting in an election rally in Vadodara last week. His wife Anajali had taken charge of the campaigning and sources said the BJP may have also got some sympathy votes. In fact, the BJP itself was prepared for some reverses in ward 2, 3 and 16 but the results came as a surprise for many. BJP candidates also emerged victorious in minority community areas like Jangleshwar, the first cluster containment zone that was declared when Covid started spreading in the city. Kirit Pathak, former deputy register of Saurashtra University and a BJP member said “Vijaybhai’s health deteriorated in the last week of campaign and he could not come to Rajkot for campaigning. Anjaliben shouldered the onus of reaching out to people and was seen campaigning aggressively. This left an impact on the minds of common people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/handsome-victory-to-bjp-in-cms-home-town/articleshow/81176917.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Mercury crosses 35°C, Ahmedabad welcomes summer||AHMEDABAD: The city recorded a maximum temperature of 35.4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, 3.7 degrees higher than normal. The minimum temperature was 14.8 degrees, which was 0.3 degrees lower than the average. 'No large change in minimum temperature during next 4 to 5 days is very likely over the region,' mentioned India Meteorology Department (IMD) forecast. Almost all the weather stations recorded temperature around 35 degrees, whereas minimum temperature also went above 17 degrees at several of the weather stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mercury-crosses-35c-city-welcomes-summer/articleshow/81179000.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Jobs ‘reserved’ for LDF workers: Rahul; slams govt||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday targeted the state government on backdoor appointments, saying it is sad that the unemployed youths in the state are unable to find a job since they are not supporters of the left front. "If you carry their flag, you can even smuggle gold sitting in the chief minister’s office. There is only one way to fight nepotism, go on a hunger strike. But the chief minister is not going to come to you and talk. He will not be interested in talking to you since you are not an LDF worker. Only LDF workers will get jobs though they don’t deserve them," he said. Rahul alleged a nexus between the LDF and BJP, and said that was why the cases against the LDF are going at a snail’s pace. “I always wonder why the CBI and ED are not attacking the LDF when the BJP is very fast to attack us when we criticize them,” he said. Rahul was addressing a mammoth rally held as part of the conclusion of the UDF's 'Aishwarya Yatra' at Sanghumugham in Thiruvananthapuram. "You can figure out the reasons why the BJP is going slow on cases against LDF," he said. On the recent controversy over MoUs signed with a US-based company for promoting deep sea fishing, he said the LDF government had betrayed the fishing community. The AICC leader slammed both the Centre and the state government for the fuel price hike. "The fuel price is coming down in the international market but in India it is skyrocketing. Neither the Centre nor the state government is worried about it. The common man is being taxed. Every single rupee they pay for fuel is going to the richest of the rich in the country," he said. Rahul said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was terming those farmers who are on a strike to protect their livelihood as terrorists. "The new farm laws ensure neither fair price nor natural justice to them. They can't even fight for fair price in the court of law as per the new law," he said. The Congress MP said the UDF would bring out a people’s manifesto after hearing the people. "It will be a document of the voices of the concerned and deprived. I assure you that an UDF government will address all your voices raised in our manifesto," he said. The leader, who reached the capital in the evening, also attended meetings of the UDF and KPCC election committee. He urged all UDF constituents to field candidates with the ability to win. Merit alone should be the criteria for candidates, he said. The UDF constituent leaders, meanwhile, wanted him to spearhead the election campaign in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/jobs-reserved-for-ldf-workers-rahul-slams-govt/articleshow/81182708.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Kochi||Jobs ‘reserved’ for LDF workers: Rahul; slams govt||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday targeted the state government on backdoor appointments, saying it is sad that the unemployed youths in the state are unable to find a job since they are not supporters of the left front. "If you carry their flag, you can even smuggle gold sitting in the chief minister’s office. There is only one way to fight nepotism, go on a hunger strike. But the chief minister is not going to come to you and talk. He will not be interested in talking to you since you are not an LDF worker. Only LDF workers will get jobs though they don’t deserve them," he said. Rahul alleged a nexus between the LDF and BJP, and said that was why the cases against the LDF are going at a snail’s pace. “I always wonder why the CBI and ED are not attacking the LDF when the BJP is very fast to attack us when we criticize them,” he said. Rahul was addressing a mammoth rally held as part of the conclusion of the UDF's 'Aishwarya Yatra' at Sanghumugham in Thiruvananthapuram. "You can figure out the reasons why the BJP is going slow on cases against LDF," he said. On the recent controversy over MoUs signed with a US-based company for promoting deep sea fishing, he said the LDF government had betrayed the fishing community. The AICC leader slammed both the Centre and the state government for the fuel price hike. "The fuel price is coming down in the international market but in India it is skyrocketing. Neither the Centre nor the state government is worried about it. The common man is being taxed. Every single rupee they pay for fuel is going to the richest of the rich in the country," he said. Rahul said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was terming those farmers who are on a strike to protect their livelihood as terrorists. "The new farm laws ensure neither fair price nor natural justice to them. They can't even fight for fair price in the court of law as per the new law," he said. The Congress MP said the UDF would bring out a people’s manifesto after hearing the people. "It will be a document of the voices of the concerned and deprived. I assure you that an UDF government will address all your voices raised in our manifesto," he said. The leader, who reached the capital in the evening, also attended meetings of the UDF and KPCC election committee. He urged all UDF constituents to field candidates with the ability to win. Merit alone should be the criteria for candidates, he said. The UDF constituent leaders, meanwhile, wanted him to spearhead the election campaign in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jobs-reserved-for-ldf-workers-rahul-slams-govt/articleshow/81178989.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Out on parole, Dhaula Kuan gang-rape convict held for ATM thefts||NEW DELHI: One of the convicts of the infamous Dhaula Kuan gangrape case of 2010 is back in the news. Mohammad Shamshad, alias Rahul, has been arrested by Delhi Police’s Special Cell for being involved in as many as 12 incidents of break-ins at city ATMs. Shamshad was granted parole on April 20 last year as part of an exercise to decongest jails due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Once out of jail, Shamshad took to crime again and joined the gang of a notorious robber, Liyaqat. His parole was extended again due to the pandemic till February 20. However, he never went back to jail. On February 22, a team comprising inspector Ishwar Singh and ACP Attar Singh arrested him from near Gokalpuri Metro station near Wazirabad after an informer tipped the cops off. Shamshad and his accomplices used to spray black paint at CCTV cameras after entering ATM booths. They would then cut open the ATMs with the help of gas cutters and remove the cash cabins. After removing cash, they threw away parts of the machine. At times, they would use their SUVs to uproot the ATM kiosk. Shamshad was previously involved in 16 cases, including those of attempt to murder, abduction, rape, assault on police, hurt, criminal intimidation, arms act, cattle smuggling act, burglary, theft, etc., in Delhi and Haryana, police said. On the night of November 23 -24, 2010, five men had kidnapped a BPO employee near Sharma Automobiles in south Delhi’s Moti Bagh, took her in a pick-up van and raped her in the moving vehicle. The incident had taken place when the woman, along with a friend, was returning home from their office in Gurgaon. The convicts then took the woman to Mangolpuri, gang-raped her and left her at an isolated stretch. The court had termed Shamshad and the other accused in the case as “psychopaths” who were on the prowl and said that they should be kept away from the society for as long as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/out-on-parole-dk-gang-rape-convict-held-for-atm-thefts/articleshow/81179027.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||August-like case numbers but fewer hospitalizations now||Nagpur: Vidarbha region had about 17,000 under-treatment Covid-19 patients on February 22, about the same as on August 22, exactly six months back. Back then, it preceded a massive surge in cases and September saw a peak of Covid-19. This time, too, the numbers are on the rise but the rate of hospitalization is significantly less than in August 2020.In August last year, 16,518 patients were under treatment. More than 11,000 of them were hospitalized. This means, about 67% were admitted in hospitals and Covid Care Centres and only 33% were in home isolation.On February 22, total of 16,815 patients were under treatment. Of them, just 4,156 were admitted in hospitals and CCCs. This is less than 25% of the total patients. All others are recovering in home isolation, according to government data.In Nagpur, 33% of total patients were admitted in August while only 17% are admitted at present. Amravati, which is worst-hit in this surge, was having 70% patients admitted in August 2020. At present, less than 25% patients there are hospitalized. Akola, another hotspot, has 28% patients hospitalized at present. Six months ago, more than 80% needed hospitalization.Officials in Akola and Amravati specifically mentioned the hospitalization rate could have been even less. “We are not taking any chances and admitting every senior citizen with co-morbid condition. Similarly, those who don’t have proper home isolation facilities are also being admitted despite them being asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic,” said Dr Shyamsundar Nikam, civil surgeon of Amravati.Doctors said very few patients, especially senior citizens, are in need of hospitalization this time while earlier severe disease was seen even among younger population. “It’s good in a way that fewer patients are in need of hospitalization. Such surges will continue to come and if the similar trend of falling hospitalization rate continues, Covid-19 will become a new normal of our annual disease calendar,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde. According to him, the present mutation of the virus is more infectious but disease is less severe.“We conduct CT scans of some patients who need hospitalization. My experience is that most of them are recovering faster than last time,” he added.Hospitals in Nagpur city are again reporting surge in admissions, but it is due to the fact that hospital cater to patients from across the region and adjacent states too.“Beds are full in most private hospitals as we receive patients from across the region. Many critical patients are referred to Nagpur from other cities,” said Dr Nirmal Jaiswal, critical care specialist and in-charge of Wockhardt’s Covid Hospital.Why fewer are being hospitalized- Less severe: More people are getting infected, but severity of disease is less- Protocol clear: Treatment protocols are clear now compared to August 2020- Rules clear: Home isolation criteria are also clear, people more aware about distancing rules- Less fear: Fear, stigma of Covid-19 has reduced, people don’t bother if +ve patient is in neighbourhoodTake aways–- No panic: The virus is now infecting more people, but fewer needing hospitalization- Test yourself: Even if you test positive, you have high chance of recovering at home- No crisis: Even if you need hospitalization, there are enough beds, facilities available - On August 22, 2020RegionTotal patients under treatmentTotal patients hospitalizedOn August 22, 2020 NAGPUR86932832 (32.57%)AMRAVATI1065738 (70%)AKOLA357298 (83%)VIDARBHA TOTAL1651811030 (66.77%)On February 22, 2021NAGPUR62621099 (17.55%)AMRAVATI4051997 (24.6%)AKOLA2155600 (28%)VIDARBHA TOTAL168154156 (24.7%)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/august-like-case-numbers-but-fewer-hospitalizations-now/articleshow/81178995.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 24, 2021||Vadodara||Ruckus erupts between party agents||Vadodara: A minor ruckus took place between party agents and police at the gates of Polytechnic college on Tuesday morning. A large number of party agents had turned up the counting centre at the same time. Since cops did not allow them to enter the centre at the same time to maintain social distancing norms. It was an embarrassing moment for some cops who were posted on the gates of the counting centre. To avoid confusion about entry for party supporters, they were asked to hang posters mentioning the ward number around their neck. Fortunately, the posters were removed after some time. Congress candidates from ward 6 created ruckus and demanded re-counting of votes at the counting centre in evening. The candidates and their supporters cried foul play and said that they were winning by small margin but the poll officials didn’t allow the recounting. Nikitin Contractor, a good Samaritan, distributed 76 ‘maska buns’ to the poor families on Tuesday to mark the election of 76 councillors. Contractor said that he celebrated the festival of democracy and hoped that all the councillors work together for the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ruckus-erupts-between-party-agents/articleshow/81177294.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Chennai||Chennai city partnership gets nod||CHENNAI: The ambitious Chennai city partnership programme got official nod in deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam’s budget speech on Tuesday. The first phase of this project will be implemented with an outlay of Rs 3,140 crore, of which World Bank will provide Rs 2,175 crore (US$300 million). The project aims to foster better coordination among Chennai’s service agencies such as Greater Chennai Corporation, Chennai Metrowater Supply and Sewerage Board, TN Slum Clearance Board, Metropolitan Transport Corporation and the state highways department in providing better service and also push them towards greater self-sustenance. Among key areas of focus under the project will be women’s safety in public places, solid waste management, public health and and improving the city’s resilience to disasters such as floods. “We’ve secured the Centre’s approval for the programme and loan negotiations with the World Bank will be held shortly. In the first phase, the focus will be on strengthening governance, policies and institutions,” Panneerselvam said. The programme will be implemented in three phases over seven years. Sources said World Bank wants the agencies to focus more on working towards results rather than just building infrastructure assets. For instance, reducing accidents on Chennai’s streets, less leakage in water supply and better non-motorised transport policy initiatives like the pedestrian plaza. According to official documents, objectives of the first phase will include operationalising the Chennai Unified Metropolitan Urban Transport Authority (CUMTA), strengthening the human resource capacity of the civic agencies. Under this programme, GCC has submitted proposals for funding of bio-mining at Perungudi and Kodungaiyur dumpyard, construction of 17 flyovers and bridges, and area-based development of Shollinganallur, Velachery, Thiruvanmiyur, Mylapore, Anna Nagar, Tiruvottiyur and Purasawalkam on the lines of smart city works carried out in T Nagar. Some of these projects, like mega streets and bio-mining are already underway. A senior official in GCC told TOI that the World Bank representatives, during meetings, indicated that they want a more seamless administration and governance for Chennai. “Currently, its in a bits and pieces as many focus areas such as water, sanitation, health, transport are governed by different service agencies,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-city-partnership-gets-nod/articleshow/81179028.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bandra, Chembur, Mulund lead rise in Covid growth rate||MUMBAI: As the city sees a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases again, the average growth rate of the diseases has increased from 0.12% on February 1 to 0.22% now. Wards which cover parts of Bandra, Chembur and Mulund have the highest growth rate, much above the overall city growth rate. H-West ward, which covers parts of Bandra, Khar and Santacruz, has a growth rate of 0.36%, followed by M-West ward, which covers Chembur and has a growth rate of 0.35%. ‘T’ ward, which covers parts of Mulund, has the third highest growth rate at 0.34%. Senior officials said that looking at the trend, municipal staff in these wards had already been instructed activate Covid care centres, send instructions to housing societies to follow Covid rules and penalise those not wearing a mask in public. Citizen activists said they were not happy with the BMC effort. Madhu Poplai, secretary, Pali Hill Residents Association, said very little was being done by the civic staff to control the virus. “There was a positive case in our premises itself and I had to repeatedly pursue the authorities to get him isolated as the person lived in a hutment which is located inside our society. After much back and forth, the ward staff finally sent an ambulance. Ideally, they should have themselves acted proactively if they are keen on breaking the chain of the virus. It was a huge concern watching the positive case move all around the area without isolating himself,” she said. Civic representatives say the rise is also because of people having become lax. Mulund corporator Prakash Gangadhare of the BJP said: “In case of T ward, the cases were much in control, however as unlock began people started moving around. I represent the ward, which covers the railway station area as well and the crowds there were once again the same as pre-Covid times with people roaming around without putting on their face masks as well. We cannot drop our guard so soon.” In M-West, Kala Suresh, who lives near Diamond Garden, said that Chembur market was buzzing despite Covid. “Thankfully I reside in a building which has been following all the Covid-appropriate norms,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bandra-chembur-mulund-lead-rise-in-covid-growth-rate/articleshow/81179061.cms||Richa Pinto
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Late withdrawal of monsoon to blame for extreme pollution||New Delhi: A recent study by Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) has mentioned that stagnant weather conditions, including low wind speed, descending air and compressed boundary layer, triggered by the late withdrawal of monsoon, favoured particulate matter formation, thereby resulting in extreme levels of pollution. The analysis of air pollution data of five years (2014-2018) revealed that 2016 and 2017, which were marked by a delayed withdrawal of monsoon, witnessed PM2.5 particles touching a peak level of 640 and 760 micrograms per cubic metre (24-hour average), respectively, on a single day immediately after the monsoon retreat. However, the years in which monsoon withdrawal was normal did not show such extreme levels of pollution. After the daily 24-hour average of PM2.5 from October 18 to November 14 for five consecutive years (2014–2018) was analysed, it showed two unusual record-breaking prolonged extreme pollution events, one in 2016 (October 28 to November 12) and another in 2017 (November 6 to November 15). During this period, PM2.5 levels surpassed 250 micrograms per cubic metre, considered “severe plus” level as per Indian standards. PM2.5 levels generally remain high during winter and such extended extremely elevated levels were not observed in other years. “In 2017, the PM2.5 level touched a peak of 760 micrograms per cubic metre(24-hour average), surpassing World Health Organisation standards by 30 times and Indian national standards by 12 times, jeopardising the lives of citizens. Though the sources of high emissions were different in 2016 and 2017, the underlying mechanism that triggered the emergency episodes with longevity was related to the late withdrawal of monsoon-induced stagnation conditions,” said the study. The study, which was done by Gufran Beig, Aditi Rathod, Suvarna Tikle, Sujit Maji and SB Sobhana from IITM, suggested that such unusual monsoon patterns spurred extreme pollution events. If monsoon withdrawal is normal, the associated anticyclone occurs at a higher altitude because the temperature is still warmer and it is unlikely to lead to a stagnation condition. Monsoon withdrawal occurred by October 28 in 2016 and October 25 in 2017, which was considered late. In both these cases, winter had already set in and the temperature was cooler. These unusual conditions impacted the total circulation system and, hence, easterlies could not enter the Delhi region. The delayed monsoon withdrawal and associated anticyclonic circulation resulted in trapping externally generated pollutants ceaselessly under colder conditions, leading to historic air quality crisis in 2016 and 2017 in Delhi, the study stated. The analysis, which was published in Journal of Environmental Sciences, concluded, “Stagnant weather conditions triggered by late withdrawal of monsoon favoured formation of particulate matter and made the situation extremely explosive, thereby causing an air quality crisis. The changing circulation patterns were likely one of many factors leading to stagnation conditions. It would be premature at this stage to link extreme pollution events with climate change as more data is needed through future work. Prolonged high pollution exposure leads to cause-specific morbidity and mortality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/late-withdrawal-of-monsoon-to-blame-for-extreme-pollution/articleshow/81197459.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Normalcy diagnosed: Recruiters back to IIM-Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The biggest worry for any institute during the pandemic is the placement of its students. But if the trend of premier institutes such as IIM-Ahmedabad (IIM-A) is anything to go by, companies are back on the campus with confidence. As the final placement for the premier B-school’s flagship PGP-MBA course will start from March 2, sources aware of developments said that over 130 firms are likely to participate in the three clusters. Prof Amit Karna, chair of the placement committee at IIM-A, said that the institute is likely to witness the same number of recruiters. “It shows the industry’s faith in our pedagogy and is also an indicator of the post-Covid normalcy where the industry plans for its future,” he said. “The roles, however are likely to be different with more emphasis on the requirements of emerging sectors.” This year, the placement process will be completely online with recruiters and students meeting through video calls. Will the pandemic affect the hiring pattern for the major regular recruiters? Experts said that premier institutes generally get three major segments — top-tier consulting firms and MNCs, family-run business houses with legacy and several home-grown industries, and new-age ventures flush with new investments. “Given the current situation, it’s likely that firms in health technology and finance technology space will hire a good number of students,” said an official associated with the placement process. “Online services is also a major sector that is likely to witness a good run. The top firms are likely to hire more from the top institutes.” The official added: “But it’s likely that the segment of production-based industries might reduce its intake for the year or wait for the signs of recovery before going bullish with hiring.” IIM-A officials said that they had tasted the things to come with a good run during summer placements. The pandemic will surely affect the mid- and long-term plans of firms, but the availability of vaccination, good chances of favourable immigration policy, and impetus to some key areas globally can turn the tide, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/normalcy-diagnosed-recruiters-back-to-iim-a/articleshow/81179065.cms||Parth Shastri
February 24, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata's New Town residents get pay-and-use toilets made of recycled cargo containers||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has set up pay-and-use toilets made out of recycled cargo containers at nine places across New Town. The containerized toilets are approximately 8ft high, 8ft wide and 20ft long and have been aesthetically designed keeping in mind the green surroundings. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen inaugurated the toilets on Monday along with other officials present on the ocassion. The toilets with smart signage to indicate men’s and women’s sections have solar panels on top to generate renewable energy for the sensor-based lights inside. The sensors allow the lights to get dimmed when the toilet is not in use and to light up whenever anyone enters, thereby saving energy, officials said. The toilets have been set up at New Town smart plaza, inside NKDA bus terminus near Pride Hotel, near PHE tank No. 1, Sonar Kella park, Chittaranjan Cancer Hospital, behind Central Mall, in front of Candor Tech Space, near NBCC Complex and near Restello Building and the facilities (charging Rs 2 and Rs 5) will remain open from 9am to 10pm everyday. The New Town residents said that such pay-and-use toilets were much needed in the area. “These would be very useful keeping in mind that there were not many such facilities in the township. Moreover, the solar panels would help in developing renewable energy which would be environment friendly,” said Kaustav De, a local resident. NKDA has also been working to recycle and re-use waste and discarded items as part of its waste disposal system. The authorities have already set up a bio gas generation plant which is expected to start working from mid March onwards. Also,the authorities have set up the zero-waste shop where old discarded cloths and other wastes could be handed out for recycling into useful products. Earlier Hidco also recycled abandoned pier cap pillars into architectural installations with the help of artist Rupchand Kundu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-residents-get-pay-and-use-toilets-made-of-recycled-cargo-containers/articleshow/81179032.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Traffic to be diverted for Kazhakkoottam flyover work||Thiruvananthapuram: The traffic on the service roads on NH-66 at Kazhakkoottam Junction will be diverted soon to facilitate the speedy completion of the works on the elevated stretch of the highway. Commissioner Balramkumar Upadhyay who visited the work site on Tuesday said he has directed assistant Commissioner (city traffic) to prepare a list of possible alternative routes through which the traffic can be diverted. Once, the diversion is put in place, the vehicular movement along the service roads from Kazhakootam Junction to CSI Mission Hospital will be blocked. “Since it is a national highway, the diversion may have adverse effects on the alternative routes chosen. Hence, I have also directed the traffic assistant commissioner to study the impacts of the diversion on the roads chosen for diversion,” Upadhyay said. He added that the diversion will be enforced when the engineering firm carrying out the road works requests them to do so. According to Colonel M R Nair, vice president of RDS Project Limited, the engineering firm that is carrying out the works, the traffic diversion needs to be possibly put in place after 20 days. “Currently, we are carrying out the works on laying of the service roads. In around 20 days, these works will be over. We will then start the works on the super-structure of the elevated highway, for which the traffic has to be diverted,” M R Nair said. He said the entire road is 45 metres wide. The super-structure of the elevated highway has a width of 21 metres. With the heavy machinery needed for the works to be stationed on the road, it would be inconvenient if the vehicles are allowed to pass through the service roads on either sides,” Nair said. The commissioner’s site visit was prompted after a dispute broke out between local police and the workers of RDS Project Limited. The workers had demolished the periphery wall of Kazhakootam Police Station, which also houses the office of Kazhakootam cyber city assistant commissioner, as part of the project two months ago. The new officers who took charge of the police station early this month following transfer of senior officers in connection with the upcoming assembly elections figured that the compound wall’s demolition compromised the safety of the station. They even confiscated the trucks and concrete mixers of the firm citing that they caused traffic obstruction and had fined them over Rs 15,000 on Friday. A year ago, former district collector K Gopalakrishnan had directed the police to enforce traffic diversion to facilitate the works. The police, allegedly giving in to the pressure from local traders, did not comply to the order. The traders had complained that diverting the traffic would affect their business badly. Though the road traffic was open, the works rendered the service roads unsafe for motorists, inviting criticism from the public, prompting minister Kadakampally Surendran to visit the spot. He directed the National Highway Authority of India officials to finish the works of the service roads first. But this was delayed owing to the delay in land acquisition as well as shifting of utility cables and a drainage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/traffic-to-be-diverted-for-kazhakkoottam-flyover-work/articleshow/81181223.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
February 24, 2021||Chennai||Feasibility study for two metro lines linking city, suburbs on||Chennai: If all goes according to plan, in a few years, residents of Chennai’s neighbourhoods and beyond could reach the heart of the city without traffic snarls. On Tuesday, deputy chief minister O Paneerselvam announced in the state budget that the detailed project report and the detailed feasibility report for two metro lines – Airport to Kilambakkam and Tambaram to Velachery — are under preparation. The deputy CM added that 54.1km of metro rail line is now operational and work to construct another 118.9km under phase-2, at an estimated cost of Rs 61,843 crore, has commenced. “I am happy to note that the Union finance minister in her Budget speech, made a commitment for partial funding of phase-2. With this, the entire financing of the project is tied up,” he added. In January 2020, governor Banwarilal Purohit had said in his customary address on the assembly floor, that the government will establish a rail-based transit system to ease traffic on Tambaram-Velachery corridor and extension of airport metro till Kilambakkam. Sources said the line may come up along Velachery main road, which was one of the routes proposed to be linked by monorail between Velachery and Vandalur. Feasibility report will have extensive data on public transport users and private vehicles on the route. The line from Chennai Airport to Kilambakkam, where the proposed new mofussil bus terminus could open soon, may be an elevated line over GST Road with 13 stations linking Pallaravam, Chromepet, Tambaram, Perungalathur, Vandalur and Kilambakkam. Dayanand Krishnan, a Chitlapakkam resident said both the lines are crucial for IT employees residing in localities beyond Airport to reach their workplace in OMR. “Our wish is that these two lines should also be completed within the six years phase-2 completion will take,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/feasibility-study-for-two-metro-lines-linking-city-suburbs-on/articleshow/81179059.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||GM’s ‘deadline’ expires, employees’ union adamant||Pune: The main employees’ union at the now-shuttered General Motors plant in Talegaon is adamant that it would not accept the severance package offered, even as a “deadline” set by GM for the workers expired on Tuesday. The deadline was posted as part of a wider communication from GM to the workers at the Talegaon plant, with GM India’s Asif Khatri, vice-president of manufacturing, stating that non-acceptance of the severance deal would set the workers on a “path of confrontation and litigation”. GM has also reviewed the state government’s refusal to allow the firm to formally close the plant, with the employees successfully arguing to the labour department that layoffs and severances were unnecessary given the plant’s impending sale — with working assets — to China’s Great Wall Motors. “We have always made it clear that we do not want any severance package from GM. We want to be employed, and since GM is selling the legal entity to Great Wall, we should get jobs when the new owners take over. Our workers are under pressure from various quarters, but we will wait for the labour minister’s order,”GMEU treasurer Dhanaraj Hare said. A GM India spokesperson declined to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gms-deadline-expires-employees-union-adamant/articleshow/81179056.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
February 24, 2021||Patna||Man arrested for daughter’s murder hangs self in lock-up in Bihar||PATNA: One Shailesh Pandey (35), who was arrested for killing his 3-month-old daughter, allegedly hanged self in the Avatar Nagar police station lock-up in Saran district around 6pm on Tuesday. SHO Ramchandra Tiwari said Shailesh was a drug and liquor addict and he had disposed of his daughter’s body after throttling her to death on Monday. The SHO said Shailesh’s wife Renu Devi approached the police on Tuesday after which he was arrested from his village Maujanpur. The SHO said Renu told the police that the accused had snatched the child from her lap and killed her. He said Renu had fled out of fear after the incident. The SHO said Pandey had been jailed twice in the past for consuming liquor and thrashing his wife and parents. Tiwari said Pandey tore the thin strip of cloth sewn around a blanket, which is given to persons in lock-up. He used it as a noose to hang himself from the ventilator rod. “He was brought to the police station hardly two hours before the incident. Some constables and home guards rushed to the lock-up after hearing coughing noise and saw him hanging. He was alive when brought down, but died later,” he said, adding that senior police officers were immediately informed about the incident. “As per the FIR lodged by Renu, Pandey had snatched the infant from her lap on Monday evening and throttled her to death. When Renu fled out of fear, Pandey disposed of his daughter’s body,” Tiwari said. “He was a liquor and drug addict. Renu and other villagers told the police that he used to thrash her and his parents in an inebriated condition,” he said. Tiwari said Pandey’s parents had died hardly a month back. “The villagers told the police that Pandey had thrashed his parents several times,” he said. The SHO said the police had tried to quiz Shailendra after his arrest to know where he had disposed of the minor’s body, but he did not reveal anything.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-arrested-for-daughters-murder-hangs-self-in-lock-up/articleshow/81179131.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Victim should get car bought from stolen money: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: In a unique case, the Gujarat high court on Tuesday ordered that the victim of a theft was entitled to custody of the car bought from money stolen from his house. The HC also ordered the transfer of the car to his name on RTO records after the alleged thief bought the car and registered it in his son’s name. In 2018, a lower court had granted custody of the car to the son of the alleged accused, who had committed theft and purchased the vehicle in his son’s name. The lower court granted car’s custody to the accused person’s son on the ground that the vehicle was registered in his name. The high court reversed this decision and ruled that the car should be handed over to the complainant, from whose stolen money the car was purchased. The high court also ordered the trial court to expedite the process of handing over the car and to “perform all required legal procedure to transfer the name of the applicant (victim of the offence) in RTO record”. The case involved a resident of the Satellite area, Sharadchandra Shah, from whose house cash and jewellery worth Rs 19.5 lakh was stolen in early 2018. He had filed an FIR with Anandnagar police station. A few months later, city crime branch arrested one Suresh Makwana on suspicion of involvement in four thefts in the city. Makwana admitted to having committed the thefts at various places including Shah’s house. When cops questioned him about the stolen money, Makwana revealed that he bought a car worth Rs 11 lakh from the money for his son Sanjay’s wedding. The vehicle was registered in Sanjay’s name. Cops seized the car along with other articles from Makwana. When Shah sought custody of the car and stolen valuables, the lower court rejected his application. However, the lower court gave custody of the car to Makwana’s son because the vehicle was registered in his name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/victim-should-get-car-bought-from-stolen-money-hc/articleshow/81179115.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||Private hospitals in PMC areas told to reserve 2,000 beds||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation on Tuesday asked all private hospitals in its jurisdiction to reserve a total of 2,000 beds for Covid-19 patients. The civic body also told the facilities that no patient should be denied admission. “Each hospital should ensure it has adequate number of Covid beds,” said Ashish Bharati, chief of the PMC’s health department. He added that all types of beds, including those for intensive care and oxygen support, are available at the private hospitals. Officials from the PMC said reservation of hospital beds is only part of a backup plan to deal with the rising number of cases. A senior official from thehealth department said, “A majority of patients coming in don’t have any symptoms. The number of patients in home-quarantine is higher than those hospitalised.” During the peak phase last year, the PMC had set aside nearly 5,000 beds. That was brought down to 4,000 following a drop in cases. “But now every hospital has been asked to provide details on the number of beds. This data will soon be uploaded on the bed dashboard for the region,” the health department staffer said..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-hospitals-in-pmc-areas-told-to-reserve-2000-beds/articleshow/81179100.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||Karnataka rule a blow to cab, bus operators’ business||PUNE: Yogi Alva, a working professional in the city, had to postpone his scheduled visit to hometown Bengaluru on Thursday with the Karnataka government making a Covid-19 negative report mandatory for all from Maharashtra to enter the southern state. “I was informed about the development by a private operator, whose bus I was supposed to board on Thursday. I have postponed my trip to next week. In the meantime, I plan to get my RT-PCR test done,” Alva said. Many people are either cancelling road trips or postponing the plans following the requirement of the RT-PCR report and strict checking in the border areas of Maharashtra and Karnataka. The checks are being conducted by the Karnataka health department and the police there. Anupam Agarwal, superintendent of Vijaypura district in Karnataka, told TOI that strict checks were on. “The health department is conducting the checks and the police are assisting them. No one is being allowed into Karnataka without an RT-PCR negative report. The directions have come from the state government for people travelling from Maharashtra and Kerala,” he said. Karnataka districts such as Vijaypura, Bidar, Belagavi, Bagalkot and Kalaburagi share borders with Maharashtra. Bus operators in Pune said travel to Belgaum (Belagavi), a city in Karnataka, has also been affected. “The traffic to Belgaum has decreased by around 20%,” a bus operator said. Baba Shinde, president of the Maharashtra Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna, said many private buses going to Karnataka from cities such as Mumbai and Pune were facing problems. “Passengers from Maharashtra travelling to Belgaum, Hubli and several places in Karnataka are facing problems. The administration there is asking for a negative RT-PCR report, failing which passengers are being told to return. This has impacted travel to Karnataka and also Goa. Goods carrying vehicles are being allowed,” Shinde said. People travelling from Pune and other western Maharashtra cities to Goa have to take routes that pass through Karnataka. Pune resident Pranav Pawar, who drove to Goa from Pune via Karnataka, said, “There were border checkpoints and police were stopping many vehicles. But they didn’t stop my car. I reached Goa on Monday.” A representative of Pune-based VRL Travels, which runs 40 buses to Karnataka, said that business has gone down by 30%. “Since the requirement of the RT-PCR report came in, we have been contacting passengers and informing them about the development. This has led to most people cancelling their tickets,” the representative said. A senior police officer in Kolhapur, which is also close to Karnataka, said the Maharashtra government has not imposed any travel curbs on people coming from Karnataka. “The checks are happening only in Karnataka,” Kolhapur SP Shailesh Balkawadi told TOI. Bus operators in Kolhapur said they had received notice from the Belagavi police station asking for negative RT-PCR test reports of passengers. Satishchandra Kamble, owner of Kolhapur-based Shefali Travels, said, "The Belagavi police have threatened to send our passengers back from Wednesday if they arrive without a negative Covid test report.” Private cab drivers said many trips were being cancelled because of the rule. “In the past few days, four of my trips to Karnataka got cancelled. It is disappointing, as our business was just looking up after a prolonged lockdown,” Raghav Kobte, owner of Pune-based Laxmi Tours and Travels, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ktaka-rule-a-blow-to-cab-bus-operators-biz/articleshow/81179073.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 24, 2021||Delhi||RTI activist credits honour by US admin to all those linked with transparency movement||NEW DELHI: Right to information activist and anti-corruption crusader Anjali Bhardwaj, 47, described the International Anti-corruption Champions Award bestowed on her by the US as a “recognition of the collective effort of the many, many people associated with the transparency movement across the country”. She said nearly 6 million people filed RTI applications every year, holding the government accountable. Based in New Delhi, Bhardwaj has been a strong voice upholding the right to transparency for nearly two decades. She is a co-convener of the National Campaign for People’s Right to Information (NCPRI) and a founding member of Satark Nagrik Sangathan that she set up in 2003 to steer work at the grassroots. Speaking to TOI on her journey and what the award means to her, Bhardwaj said, “I was informed by the US administration in the evening that I have been selected for the award. Such awards not only highlight the work being done by those working in difficult circumstances on transparency and anti-corruption but also bring into focus the challenges faced. “Showing truth to power always has a backlash. The path is tough as is evident in the fact that nearly 80 transparency activists have lost their lives over the last 15 years while they tried to bring out the truth. Hence, this award is a recognition of the commitment that activists have shown to transparency.” One of the prime movers in the RTI campaign since 2000, she was always at the forefront demanding an RTI law. After the central legislation was enacted in 2005, she remains one of the strongest advocates for proper implementation of the law, highlighting the gaps and constantly emphasising the need to protect the power of the RTI Act that empowers common people. Bhardwaj has also joined forces with parallel campaigns to check leaks in systems disbursing social security entitlements, rations under the public distribution system and pensions to the poor and marginalised. Bhardwaj’s journey has been marked by many milestones. The RTI Act was the beginning of securing people’s right to transparency in governance followed by campaigns that played a major role in bringing about the Whistle Blowers Protection Act, 2011, the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013, and the Grievance Redress Bill among other legislations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rti-activist-credits-honour-by-us-admin-to-all-those-linked-with-transparency-movement/articleshow/81179186.cms||Ambika Pandit
February 24, 2021||Chennai||Rs 165 crore set aside for facelift of city’s only marshland||Chennai: In its interim budget, the state has earmarked Rs 165.68 crore for the redevelopment of Pallikaranai marshland, the last surviving marshland in the city. Projects planned include removal of encroachments, clearing debris, formation of bund, planting saplings, extending the perimeter wall and removal of prosopis trees. A senior forest official said the amount mentioned in the budget is the total allocation and that the government has been releasing around Rs 33 crore every year since 2018 for the redevelopment work. However, due to the pandemic last year, the government withheld funds and the project was halted. Work will be taken up in full swing once fund is released again, he added. Despite a 2018 Madras high court order on removing squatters, there are still 550 families in Kamakshi Amman Nagar, 230 in K P Kandhan Nagar, 115 in Quaid-E-Millath Nagar, 110 in Ambedkar Nagar and 70 in Mahalakshmi Nagar encroaching on the marshland. Poor cooperation from revenue authorities and Parliament elections in 2019 hit the eviction drive. After the polls, the Covid-19 pandemic proved another obstacle. The forest department has planned to restart the drive after March. After clearing ecroachments and extending the perimeter wall, the department will lay footpaths and plant saplings on either sides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rs-165-crore-set-aside-for-facelift-of-citys-only-marshland/articleshow/81179101.cms||P Oppili
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Allot land to poor instead of homes: HC||Ahmedabad: In an important order on poor people’s rights to housing and the government’s responsibility, the Gujarat high court on Monday asked the state government to change its approach to the issue of housing and said it is the government’s constitutional duty to provide housing sites for the poor.The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala said, “The state government must shift its focus from construction of houses to the provision of allotment of land, from housing targets to housing justice and from market-based interventions to a human rights-based approach. A rights-based approach will ensure that housing is affordable, accessible to all, habitable, and culturally appropriate. It will guarantee access to basic services and infrastructure and provide tenure security and freedom from dispossession.”The judges observed so while rejecting an appeal filed by people from Gandhinagar, who have been evicted from government land. Since they were evicted, the court said it could not do much about it but made it clear that if people are illegal occupants of public land, they cannot say no to eviction. “Mere long possession even with documents like voter card, ration card, electricity bill, over any public land by way of encroachment, by itself, is not sufficient to say that the encroachers are not liable to be evicted, as they have a right to shelter,” it said and made it clear that such litigations are “painful” for it to decide.However, the HC appeared concerned to avoid a situation in which people should encroach on public land and they should face problems related to shelter.The high court opined that the right to shelter is a fundamental right emerging from constitutional provisions. “It is a constitutional duty of the state to provide house sites to the poor,” it said and added, “It is the duty of the state to construct houses at reasonable cost and make them easily accessible to the poor.”The court also noticed that many such petitioners want rights over the land on which they live and access to housing finance and technical assistance to build their homes. “The government should consider promulgating a right to housing legislation and investing in adequate, low-cost housing, including through provisions of rental housing,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/allot-land-to-poor-instead-of-homes-hc/articleshow/81160104.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||NCP defeats BJP in Sangli and Kupwad mayoral polls||Mumbai: In a major setback for BJP, particularly state president Chandrakant Patil, Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) on Tuesday wrested Sangli-Kupwad municipal corporation from BJP, which was ruling it for two-and-a-half years. Mayoral elections were necessitated after the two-and-a-half year reservation for a woman mayor ended a week back. State NCP president and water resources minister Jayant took a lead in mobilizing Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena for the elections. “We joined hands to ensure BJP is kept out of power in Sangli-Kupwad. We succeeded,’’ Patil said. Digvijay Suryawanshi (NCP) defeated Dhiraj Suryaswanshi (BJP) by a margin of three votes. Digvijay polled 39 against 36 by Dhiraj. There were reports of cross-voting. In the deputy mayor’s election, Umesh Patil (Congress) won. State Congress president Nana Patole said it was the beginning of the downfall of BJP in local body elections. In elections to come, MVA will defeat BJP nominees across the state. In recent legislative council elections too, BJP nominees were defeated by huge margins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncp-defeats-bjp-in-sangli-and-kupwad-mayoral-polls/articleshow/81180704.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Chennai||Chennai’s annual book fair back for its 44th edition||Chennai: The 44th edition of the annual Chennai book fair will begin on Wednesday, much to the delight of publishers and booklovers as there was an initial speculation that the event will be called off this year due to the pandemic. The book fair is usually held in the second week of January, over the Pongal holidays. Organized by Book Publishers and Sellers Association of India (BAPASI), the venue for this year is YMCA grounds in Nandanam. According to the organizers, the fair will feature 700 stalls and six lakh titles. Literary events too have been planned for each day until March 9. “We have taken measures to ensure that all Covid-19 protocols are in place. We request every visitor to wear a mask properly and those who come without masks will be given one at the fair. Sanitisers will be placed across most stalls,” said R S Shanmugam, president of BAPASI. The organisers said rent of the stalls have been cut by at least 20% this year to help publishers affected by the pandemic. For publishers who cannot afford to rent stalls, a rack system where they can get a rack and display their books will be provided, Shanmugam said. The book fair also provides a platform for readers to interact with their favorite authors as every year, some of them turn up for reading sessions. Film director Pa Ranjith’s Neelam Publications, actor-politician Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam too have set up stalls, the organisers said. MNM has rented two stalls where books including those recommended by Kamal Haasan in the reality show Bigg Boss will be on display. The actor is also expected to tweet out his favourite titles throughout the course of the fair, the organisers said. BAPASI president Shanmugam said the fair getting postponed to February can turn out to be a blessing in disguise as people from other districts usually travel back to their natives during Pongal holidays. This time, the organizers expect a good footfall despite the pandemic restrictions. The fair will go on from 11am to 8pm. To avoid crowding at counters, BAPASI is also issuing entry passes online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennais-annual-book-fair-back-for-its-44th-edition/articleshow/81179130.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Four flights cancelled, four delayed||Ahmedabad: The departure of four flights was delayed on Tuesday from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad. These were flights to Delhi, Lucknow, Varanasi, and Bengaluru which were delayed due to operational constraints. Flights to Varanasi, Chennai, Mumbai, and Bengaluru were cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/four-flights-cancelled-four-delayed/articleshow/81179146.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Corporations likely to restart dedicated facilities, war rooms||PUNE: Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations are now planning to restart the Covid Care centres and war rooms at their ward offices. Officials said three care centres — with a total capacity of 550 beds — may be restarted within PMC limits to quarantine those with mild symptoms. One centre would be set up in Swargate and two in the Ahmednagar Road area. Ashish Bharti, head of the PMC’s health department, said the centres will be activated as per requirement. Currently, new patients from PMC areas are being admitted to hospitals in Sinhagad Road, Bopodi, the Baner facility and Naidu. As for the war rooms, PMC officials said plans are on to activate these sites at every ward office — to track positive patients and organise contact tracing. Santosh Warule, head of the Warje-Karvenagar ward office said, “Teams in war rooms will be in regular contact with patients for health updates. We will also check if patients have been admitted to a hospital or have preferred home isolation.” In Pimpri Chinchwad, officials said they are mobilising personnel for war rooms and contact tracing. Rajesh Patil, PCMC commissioner, said the civic body’s health department has intensified daily testing and tracing. “Marshalls will be deployed at busy areas to fine those found without masks or spitting. Also, civic hospitals have enough beds for Covid patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corporations-likely-to-restart-dedicated-facilities-war-rooms/articleshow/81179124.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Fugitive lands in police net||Thiruvananthapuram: A convict in a twin-murder case, who had been involved in ganja peddling after getting out of prison on parole, has been arrested by the city police on Tuesday. The police identified the accused as Hashim, 46, of Valiyathura. He was taken into custody from Myladikkadavu near Valiyasalai. Hashim had been kept in the high-security prison at Viyyur. In August last year he was released on parole. But, even after his parole period of one month expired, he did not return to the prison. Following this, Viyyur prison authorities had alerted the police. Ever since, the police had been searching for him. His arrest was recorded at Thampanoor police station on Tuesday. The police said that Hashim is a convicted prisoner serving life sentence for the murder of a journalist, Binulal, and a police flying squad officer, Vijayan, during an armed robbery attempt near Overbridge in the city in the year 1996. He was part of a robbery gang. He was later arrested and convicted for life. City narcotic cell assistant commissioner T R Pradeep Kumar, whose team caught Hashim, said that the fugitive landed in custody during an operation to nab members of a gang that was involved in ganja peddling. “It was after we caught him, we realized that he was a fugitive,” the assistant commissioner said. He added that the the Viyyur central prison authorities had issued three lookout notices in Hashim’s name so far. Meanwhile, a probe is also on to find his accomplices who had been helping him do ganja business and survive outside the prison, said Pradeep Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fugitive-lands-in-police-net/articleshow/81181225.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||Aryan’s fifer guides Panther Academy to win||Lucknow: Aided by the brilliant bowling spell by Aryan Kshitij (five wickets) and Rishabh Sharma (three wickets), Panther Academy defeated Indian Sports Club by one wicket in the ongoing Gaurav Mehra Memorial Cricket Tournament on Tuesday. In another match, RBN Global Club defeated Gear Club by 73 runs. Batting first, Indian Sports were all out for 96 runs in 27.2 overs. Satyendra Pal scored highest 18 runs. Panther's Aryan Kshitij claimed five wickets while Rishabh took three. In reply, Panther also lost early wickets but Roshan (25) and Rishabh (20) took their team to victory. Anurag Singh took four scalps and Luvpreet Singh claimed three wickets. Rishabh was named the man of the match. In the second match, RBN Global Club's Rajat Kannaujia took four wickets to help his team defeat Gear Club by 73 runs. RBN Club set the target of 194 runs (eight wickets). Rohan Jain scored 57 (five boundaries) while Arpit Yadav contributed 39 runs. Gear Club's Harsh Pal took four wickets. Gear Club were all out at 120 runs in 23 overs. Jitendra and Raj Sonkar scored 22 and 20 runs. RBN's Rajat took four wickets while Mohd Danish and Ankit Singh took two wickets each. Rajat was declared the man of the match. ASCA beat Youth Club Abhijeet Sinha Cricket Academy(ASCA) defeated Youth Club by four wickets in the BBD Prize Money Super League on Tuesday. Dheeraj Yadav of ASCA was adjudged the man of the match. Brief score: Youth Club: 102 (30.4 overs) (Mubassir 28, Vinayak 18; Dheeraj 4-18, Vikas 4-22); ASCA: 105/6 (21.5 overs) (Sumit S 18, Sumit Kannaujia 18; Satyam and Shakti three wickets each).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aryans-fifer-guides-panther-academy-to-win/articleshow/81180705.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Chennai||Govt assures NGT to renovate polluted Putheri Lake at Rs 2,000cr||Chennai: During a recent National Green Tribunal (NGT) southern zone hearing of sewage, waste disposal at Putheri Lake in Pallavaram, the state government promised to renovate the water body at the cost of Rs 2,000 crore. The NGT had taken suo motu cognizance of the issue after locals made a noise. Admitting the government’s submission, the tribunal on February 18 directed the Pallavaram municipality to clear garbage dumped at the lake and address the sewage issues. The city police had on January 21 arrested an earthmover operator and a truck driver for dumping waste illegally at the lake, a recent reply to a Right To Information (RTI) petition filed by residents has revealed. The reply added that a chargesheet will be filed and the duo will be presented before the court soon. The residents, however, wondered why the accused were booked under Section 277 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) (Fouling water of public reservoir), which attracts a fine of only Rs 500. Civic activist V Santhanam said, “Polluting a water body is a grave offence and must carry severe punishment to send a strong message to other violators. Not just police, even Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) did not act on this complaint. Namesake follow-ups are an insult to people like us who fight against the odds,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-assures-ngt-to-renovate-polluted-putheri-lake-at-rs-2000cr/articleshow/81179135.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||2,660 out of 3,526 deaths in 51+ agegroup; no restrictions, vaccine yet||Nagpur: Among the 3,526 Covid-19 deaths in the district, 2,660 (75.44%) were in the age group of 51 years and above. Despite this age group being vulnerable to the disease, there are no restrictions on movement in the list of decisions taken a day ago. The Central government too is yet to provide vaccines despite the launch 39 days ago. According to the state’s public health department’s data, 1,957 (75.91%) deceased were from the 51-plus age group out of the total fatalities (2,579) between March 11 and February 19. The district had witnessed the peak of the pandemic for six weeks in August and September. The percentage of this group reduced to 69.52% in October and 67.43% in November. There was a decline in the number of positive cases from December till the first week of February. The ratio of deaths in the 51-plus age group increased from December and is on the rise. Among the 160 deaths, 129 (80.62%) were from this group in December. Similarly, 114 (84.44%) of 135 fatalities were from this particular group in January and 50 (86.21%) out of the total 58 in 19 days of February. The number of deceased are residents of the city and rural areas of the district. The list does not include deceased from other districts or states who died in hospitals here. The district had registered 1,41,782 positive cases from March 11 to February 19 of which 1,13,092 were from the city, 27,770 from rural for a total of 1,40,862 from the district and 920 from other districts and states. The state’s public health department could not get the age record of 397 patients. Among the 1,41,385 positive cases, 43,031 (30.44%) were from the 51-plus age group and second highest among four age groups. But when it came to deaths, this group contributed 75.44%. The figures clearly indicate that the fatality rate (deaths against cases) is very high in this group. The highest 54,855 (38.8%) cases were from the 31-50 age group. In the age group of 16-30, there were 34,602 (24.47%) cases and 8,897 (6.29%) from the 0-15 age bracket. Sadly, the ratio of the 51-plus age group is on the rise in the total number of positive cases in the last three months. From March 11 to November, 32,442 (29.1%) out of the total 1,11,525 positive cases were from this particular group. It increased to 34.95% (4,176 out of 11,950) in December last year, 35.67% (3,727 out of 10,448) in January and 36% (2,686 out of 7,462) in February. “The case fatality rate in the 51-plus age group is high mainly due to late detection and treatment. Majority of them contract the disease from the other age groups in the family and hesitate to get tested for Covid. Comorbidities are also high in this age group,” said infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde. Activist Narayan Ahuja said the government should have included the 51-plus age group in the vaccination programme since its rollout. “There should be no more delay in vaccination this group and even those below 50 years with comorbidities,” he said. During total lockdown, the government had imposed restrictions on public movement for those above the age of 60 years for non-emergency work. Guardian minister Nitin Raut announced various restrictions on Monday following spike in cases and threat of a second wave. But there was no restrictions or measures for this particular group. The cases in the 16-30 and 31-50 age groups have declined in the last three months. There is rise in positive cases in the age group of 0-15 in February compared to the last two months. Approximately, 659 (5.51%) out of 11,950 cases were from this particular age group which declined to 4.67% (488 out of 10,448) in January and swelled to 6.14% (458 out of 7,462) in February. Schools and tuition classes for students from standard 5-8 reopened in the district last month along with sports and other cultural activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2660-out-of-3526-deaths-in-51-agegroup-no-restrictions-vaccine-yet/articleshow/81179137.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||7 Maoist militia held in Mulugu||Mulugu: Security forces seized a huge quantity of explosives from Maoist militia committee members in the forest, reports Shiva Kumar Pinna. They also arrested a CPI (ML) Maoist militia commander, deputy commander and five members during the combing operation in Mulugu district on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-maoist-militia-held-in-mulugu/articleshow/81179142.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Man in Telangana dies after rooster knife pierces groin||HYDERABAD: An illegal cockfighting event turned fatal, not just for the cocks, but for a man in Telangana, who bled to death after a knife attached to the leg of his rooster accidentally cut into his groin. After being grievously injured by the ‘kodi kathi’, as the knife is called locally, he was rushed to the hospital but was pronounced dead on arrival, making it the first such death in many years. The ‘kodi kathi’, which is usually three inches long, sometimes has the provision for extending it by another three inches. Though cockfights are banned, a group of people organised a secret one in Lothunur village in Jagtial district. They gathered near the premises of the Yellamma temple in the village on Monday evening. Witnesses said Thanugulla Satish of Kondapur village tied a three-inch 'kodi kathi’ to the foot of the cock, he owned. “As he was leaving it for the fight, the cock jumped and the knife pierced him in the groin region. It was a severe injury and the person lost a lot of blood. Initially, people around him took him in an auto to reach the hospital but subsequently when the 108 ambulance arrived, he was shifted into it. When they reached the hospital in Jagtial, he was declared brought dead,” Jeevan, station house officer (SHO) of Gollapalli police station told TOI on Tuesday. Gollapalli SHO said those who organized and participated in the cockfight would also be held responsible for Satish’s death. A kodi kathi that was used to attack YSR Congress chief YS Jagan Mohan Reddy at the Visakhapatnam airport in October 2018, six months before he won a landmark election and become the Andhra Pradesh CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-dies-after-rooster-knife-pierces-groin/articleshow/81179174.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 24, 2021||Chennai||‘The battle is between DMK and AIADMK, there is no room for any other force in Tamil Nadu’||CHENNAI: After launching an aggressive ‘people’s outreach’ campaign well ahead of his rivals, DMK president M K Stalin hopes to script a new chapter in Dravidian history following the assembly poll. Stating that C N Annadurai’s heart and his father M Karunanidhi’s hard work were showing him the path to success, Stalin in an interview to Jaya Menon and D Govardan, said, "I may not be on a par with my father, but a cub born to a tiger cannot be a kitten." Q: After the ‘Makkal Grama Sabhas’, you launched the ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin’. Do you see a difference in people’s response to you now than during the ‘Namakku Naame’ campaign in 2016?As an organisation, the DMK has stayed connected with the people and fought for their problems. Hence, it has retained people’s trust. During ‘Makkal Grama Sabha meetings’, I heard the issues of the people, through ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin’ I am running a camp to solve those problems. The participation of people in large numbers indicates the failure of the 10-year AIADMK rule in the state. The surging crowds with petitions are proof of the success of the campaign. Q: How do you see the DMK’s prospects in the election ahead?The response from people is huge. Wherever I go people explain to me the shortcomings of the AIADMK rule. Educated youth are not getting jobs. Jobs for Tamil youths are being given away to those from the north. It is the case in medical education too. Revenues that are due to Tamil Nadu are being distributed to states in the north. The state has been losing its rights on several fronts and it is the northern states that are benefiting from it. The AIADMK government has remained a silent spectator. Since Edappadi K Palaniswami was not directly chosen chief minister by the people, he is happy to show his loyalty to the BJP, which has allowed him to continue in that chair. He has not been loyal to the people of Tamil Nadu. Hence, they are ready to overthrow this government by giving a verdict much bigger than what they gave in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Q: Is your political strategy, ideology and style of leadership different from Kalaignar?Kalaignar carried the ideology of the Dravidian political movement on his shoulders. He was a strong votary of federalism. When in power, he ensured that the Dravidian ideologies are implemented as government schemes. I am the son of Kalaignar. I learned under his guidance. While I do not claim I am on a par with him, will a cub born to a tiger be a kitten? I am following the path of Kalaignar’s ideology and working hard to sustain the Dravidian movement and the DMK. Q: Do you think the absence of Kalaignar and J Jayalalithaa would impact politics in TN?I don’t consider the AIADMK to be a challenge to the DMK. That said, in the election arena in Tamil Nadu, the battle is between the DMK and the AIADMK. There is no room for any other force. The DMK has seen a massive victory in the Lok Sabha elections after M Karunanidhi’s death, whereas the AIADMK is floundering without a strong leadership and has become a slave to the BJP-led government at the Centre. Q: The DMK has been focusing on the western constituencies. Is it a deliberate strategy?It is a myth that the AIADMK is strong in the western districts. This impression has been smashed in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Industrial growth is uncertain in the western districts as many small, micro and medium enterprises have ceased operations. I do not understand on what basis media and television channels have created a picture that western districts are favourable to the AIADMK. In the last Lok Sabha poll, the gounders and others proved the western districts are the fort of the DMK. As far as we are concerned, we are focusing our attention on all 234 assembly segments. Q: You have levelled several corruption charges against the government. Do you have enough evidence to back them up?The DMK has levelled corruption charges only when they are backed by evidence. Based on the corruption charge by the DMK against the CM for awarding the ‘highway tender’ to his relative, the Madras high court had directed a CBI probe. But the CM obtained a stay from the Supreme Court. For the first time, I personally submitted a 97-page petition to the governor listing corruption charges and accumulation of wealth against the CM and a few ministers. We have submitted a second petition now. The governor informed our party general secretary (S Durai Murugan) that he had forwarded our first petition to the Union home ministry. Since there was hard evidence, he had forwarded it to the home ministry. It will be proved when there is a proper investigation. Q: How would you compare the corruption charges now to those against the AIADMK regime during 1991-96?By surpassing the level of corruption of the 1991-96 AIADMK government, Palaniswami has proved that his government is number one when it comes to corruption. Not just in Tamil Nadu, the level of corruption is unparalleled in the entire country and Palaniswami is the most corrupt CM in the country. Q: How much of an impact would the graft charges against your partymen, besides the 2G allegation, have on your party’s prospects?To hide their mega scams, the CM and his cabinet are indulging in such false campaigns against the DMK. The special court, which conducted the 2G case, has said there is no proof on the charges and released all of them. Corruption charges are there only against the CM and his cabinet. That will impact the AIADMK in the ensuing election and result in its drubbing. Q: There is some scepticism about your promise to resolve people’s grievances within 100 days.I have held the posts of Chennai mayor, municipal administration minister and deputy chief minister. I know all the tenets of governance. I have accomplished the most challenging schemes and projects without any hiccups or grievances. The plan to solve people’s problems in 100 days can be accomplished. I have given my word since I believe I can deliver it. Concerns over the `5 lakh crore debt burden that the AIADMK has created for the state might have led you to ask this question. If we permanently shut the doors on corruption, then it becomes easy to solve the problems of the people. Q: How many seats do you want to contest and how many do you expect to win?Seat sharing talks haven’t begun yet. The DMK will contest in a high number of seats. The DMK-led alliance will record a resounding victory in all 234 seats. Q: How many seats do you plan to allocate to the Congress?Seat sharing talks will be held after the election notification with every member of the alliance. We will find out their demands, let them know our offer and hold amicable talks quickly. We will share the constituencies with understanding. Q: The DMK decided to go it alone in Puducherry and appointed Jagathrakshakan as in-charge for the assembly poll?In Puducherry from 1996 to 2000, and during other periods, the DMK has governed. There is nothing wrong in the DMK trying to make an effort to strengthen itself. Moreover, who announced that the DMK would contest on its own? We have not made any such announcement. So, your question puzzles me. Q: Do you plan to release a vision document on governance?Over the past 10 years, TN’s industrial growth under the AIADMK government has been stunted. The state’s finances are in a shambles and the economy on a cliff’s edge. The youth have been pushed into despair as the rate of unemployment has reached historical levels. The law and order situation is in bad shape. Crimes against women, children and the elderly have gone up. There has been no new large-scale infrastructure project in the state over the past decade. The spirit of federalism has been surrendered to the Centre by this slavish state government. As a solution to all these problems and to usher a new dawn, we will release a vision document after the election notification. Q: This seems to be the age of poll strategists. Do you think Kalaignar would have been comfortable with the new-age kingmakers?Kings had advisers in their durbars. The Union government has several advisers. To use science and technology better, there is a need for advisers. In the same way, for the election field we are using Prashant Kishor as an adviser. He is offering his services just the way others do it for other political parties. The DMK has not done anything new. Q: How do you counter the AIADMK’s charge that the DMK is promoting dynastic politics?The corrupt government that is ruling Tamil Nadu is dangerous for the state. The BJP, which is supporting them, is a bigger danger. This is the prime and most important issue before the people of TN now. People are clear that the AIADMK government has to be removed. I am hearing it in the numerous meetings I am attending. The reports from the ground indicate the same. Hence, the AIADMK has once again taken the rusted weapon of ‘dynastic politics’ and sharpened it to hide the corruption charges against them. The BJP is trying to hide the fact that it is supporting the corrupt AIADMK government. Otherwise, only those who work hard will receive the top honours in the DMK. Q: Will Udhayanidhi contest this time?We are in the process of seeking applications from those who are keen to contest the assembly election. Those who apply will be called for an interview and then the candidate list will be released. Q: How well have you fitted into the shoes of Annadurai and Kalaignar in terms of public acceptance?You have used the word ‘shoes’, as per the English tradition, and I am not offended by it. As per Tamil tradition, let me rephrase the question: How well do I fit into the Dravidian ideology ‘shirt’ of Perarignar Anna and Thalaivar Kalaignar in the eyes of the people? I started the youth wing of the DMK in Gopalapuram at the age of 13 and invited Anna for a function on behalf of that organisation. Anna had a lot of love for me. After his demise, Kalaignar took over the responsibility of the party and the government. Under his guidance, I overcame several challenges to grow and take over the mantle of the party, after his passing. Kalaignar appreciated me for my hard work. The situation now calls for me to don the Dravidian shirt after Anna and Kalaignar. Anna’s heart and Kalaignar’s hard work are showing me the path. People of TN know my hard work as a legislator and as the leader of the opposition. It is their warmth and wishes that are encouraging me to put in more effort. Q: You held up a ‘vel’. Was it religion or politics?The spear and the sword have been the weapons of ancient Tamils. Lyricist Kannadasan had written: "No one has vanquished the Dravidian land full of valour; Soldiers who have lifted the spear and the sword have not been brought down." Tamils are known to worship armed weapons used in war and also implements like the plough. The divisive forces that had used the "bow" (of Ram) in the past, are suddenly using the spear for politics. People of TN will not accept it. It reminds me of what revolutionary leader Mao said: "What weapon we have to lift, will be decided by our enemies."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-battle-is-between-dmk-and-aiadmk-there-is-no-room-for-any-other-force-in-tn/articleshow/81179157.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Chitranjali studio set for a revamp||T’puram: The renovation works of the government-owned Chitranjali Studio at Thiruvallam will be inaugurated by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday. The studio is being renovated by including all the modern facilities for film production, at a cost of Rs 150 crore. The project is funded by Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The first phase of the renovation includes setting up all the pre-production, production and post-production facilities at an estimated cost of Rs 63.6 crore. All the facilities for outdoor film shoot that includes traditional houses, temples, churches, police station, railway station and railway coaches will be part of the first phase of the renovation. Facilities like modern cameras, lights, Dolby Atmos facility, mixing theatre, web broadcast facility, etc, also will be set up. The work is scheduled to be completed in the next seven months. Once completed, the government expects that in addition to Malayalam films, other language films also will be shot in the studio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chitranjali-studio-set-for-a-revamp/articleshow/81181228.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||Woman loses Rs6.3L excess Covid billing review petition||Nagpur: A Dighori resident’s complaint regarding excess billing by a private hospital in Bhande Plot was rejected by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC).  In his February 15 order, additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma stated that the billing was done as per the 80% quota under capped rates and that no deficiency was found in the supporting documents audited by the civic body. As per the woman’s complaint, her husband was admitted to the hospital on December 9 and remained there till December 29. The hospital charged her Rs6.3 lakh for the 20-day stay. Having exhausted all her savings, the woman, who also borrowed money, was forced to shift her husband to IGGMCH where he breathed his last. “I was asked to clear a Rs3.96 lakh medicine bill and Rs3.01 lakh hospitalization charges and take him to a ‘better’ place. I was shocked to hear that as I assumed it was the best hospital for us,” she said. The complainant said, “I told them I couldn’t pay this much. After a lot of pleading, they slashed it from Rs6.92 lakh to Rs6.3 lakh. Since I had to shift my husband, I took hand loans and paid all the dues on December 30,” she said. Her major grievance was against the hospital which allegedly didn’t warn her that the chances of her husband’s survival were bleak. “Since day one, there was no improvement in his health. I was positive while my son was busy with his engineering exams. I would have admitted my husband in a government hospital if there was no chance of his survival. I have borrowed Rs44 lakh from people. We have exhausted all our savings. I have lost my job too,” she said. A spokesperson of the hospital refuted all the allegations and said the patient’s condition was critical when he was admitted. The man, a stamp paper vendor, was having fever so his family doctor had advised him to go for the antigen test which was negative. On December 5, the RTPCR test found him positive. On December 9, he became breathless and a CT scan showed deep infection in the lungs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-loses-rs6-3l-excess-covid-billing-review-petition/articleshow/81179177.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 24, 2021||Chennai||Court notice to govt after PIL cites issues in SHRC chief pick||Chennai: Citing grave procedural irregularities, a lawyer has moved the Madras high court questioning the appointment of a retired high court judge, Justice S Baskaran, as chairperson of the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC). The first bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the state government to file a report on the appointment process after senior advocate A Sirajudeen submitted that due procedure was not followed in the selection. Petitioner S Logeshwar submitted that a retired judge can be appointed to any post only after consulting the chief justice to safeguard the independence of the judiciary. In this case, there was no such consultation, he said. An SHRC chairperson can be selected only by a panel comprising the chief minister, law minister and the leader of opposition. But in the present appointment, leader of opposition M K Stalin failed to attend the selection meeting making the selection invalid, he said. The vacancy was not notified and applications from willing candidates were not invited, the petitioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-notice-to-govt-after-pil-cites-issues-in-shrc-chief-pick/articleshow/81179162.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Madurai||Kalaimamani: Plea to fix eligibility criteria||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday sought a response from the state government on a plea which sought to fix an eligibility criteria for presenting Kalaimamani awards by constituting an expert committee to recommend eminent people for the award. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi sought the response while hearing a public interest litigation filed by D Sermathurai of Tuticorin district. The petitioner stated that his father Devasagayam is a ‘villupattu’ artist and he has participated in several programmes in the state. He stated that every year the state government along with Tamil Nadu Eyal Isai Nataka Manram presents Kalaimamani awards to eminent people from the cultural field. He stated that there were irregularities in the process of conferring the award and no eligibility criteria is being followed. The state government should fix eligibility criteria for presenting the Kalaimamani award by constituting an expert committee and the awards should be presented to the eminent people based on the recommendations made by the panel. He stated that since there was no response to his representation sent to the authorities in this regard, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench seeking relief. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kalaimamani-plea-to-fix-eligibility-criteria/articleshow/81179169.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Pune||Caseload breaches 4 lakh-mark in region, death count rises to 9,200||Pune: The Covid-19 caseload breached 4 lakh-mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday, with 1,168 people testing positive in the region in the last 24 hours, taking the total tally to 4,00,476. As many as 806 recoveries pushed the total discharges in PMR above 3.83 lakh. A report released by the district health office stated that the PMC and PCMC areas added 661 and 204 new Covid cases, respectively, on Tuesday, while 303 patients were added in the rural areas. Of the total cases, over 1.98 lakh cases have been recorded in the PMC limits, followed by the PCMC limits (1.03 lakh) and the rural pockets (97,898).  The region’s caseload of positive cases had crossed 3 lakh-mark on October 8 last year. Since then, it took more than four months to add the latest 1 lakh cases as compared to just one month in the previous one lakh cases. The report stated that eight more patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Tuesday, taking the total toll to 9,200. Daily testing in PMR increased to 8,868 on Tuesday from over 6,900 the previous day, taking the total tests above 22.57 lakh. The load of active cases in the region jumped to 7,730 on Tuesday evening, including 4,438 patients in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/caseload-breaches-4-lakh-mark-in-region-death-count-rises-to-9200/articleshow/81179171.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Rs 743 cr earmarked for new CUG campus: Prez||Ahmedabad: President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday announced that Rs 743 crore is sanctioned for the permanent campus of Central University of Gujarat (CUG). The campus will come up near Vadodara and will have its own distinct identity, said the President. He was speaking at the third convocation of the varsity at Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal was the guest of honour at the event. A total of 244 degrees were conferred during the event. “Under the new National Education Policy, efforts are being made to encourage education of modern knowledge-science based on Indian values with the aim to make our country a ‘knowledge superpower’,” said the President in his address. “Creating awareness among students about their duties in the changing world is also a major objective of the new education system.” He added that education should benefit the development of society and the country. He asked the students to make India a force to reckon with as it approaches the centenary of its independence in 2047. “About 55% of students getting education in CUG are girls, and in today’s convocation ceremony, out of 21 medals 13 are won by girl students,” said the President, noting that it is a great achievement showing the glimpse of a changing society. Pokhriyal in his address said that the ministry is working hard to bridge the gap between industry and academia. The recipients of degrees include 73 PhD, 26 MPhil, and 121 postgraduate students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-743-cr-earmarked-for-new-cug-campus-prez/articleshow/81179176.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||‘Local trains may be behind cases going up’||Mumbai: Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal in a TV interview on Tuesday said that three weeks after the local trains started for the general public, some of the cause for the rise in cases could be attributed to the large volume of public movement in the transport system. “One of my hunches is that the local trains in Mumbai, which carry almost 50 lakh people a day, were lying shut from last March till January 31, and only on February 1 we allowed all our rail population to board these trains ... I have been saying that it would take us three weeks to understand if the trains have caused any rise in cases. Now we are exactly three weeks away from February 1 and some cases may have been attributed to the huge movement in trains in Covid times,” said Chhal, adding that they were preparing themselves for the worst even if he may be wrong. “We have already taken a meeting with major private and government hospitals and are activating all our Covid case centres and jumbo field hospitals,” he said. Following the recent spike in numbers, again the situation seemed to have improved a bit from Monday, with many putting on their face masks correctly. The improvement was also owing to a large number of clean up marshals being deployed to penalise those without a face masks. - Richa Pinto||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/local-trains-may-be-behind-cases-going-up/articleshow/81179211.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Patna||42% kids malnourished in Bihar: Health minister||PATNA: Nearly 42% of children in Bihar are malnourished, and 63.5% of kids in the age bracket of six months to five years are suffering from anaemia, health minister Mangal Pandey said in Bihar Vidhan Parishad on Tuesday. Also, 58% of pregnant women in the state are anaemic, he added. Pandey was responding to a question by Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra on malnutrition and anaemia problem among children and women and poor facility of antenatal check-up for pregnant women. The minister cited the National Family Health Survey 2015-16, to highlight that 46% of children were malnourished and that this figure has reduced by 6% in 2019-20. Giving a break-up of issues due to malnourishment, Pandey said as per NFHS-5 in Bihar, there's stunting among 42.9% kids, thinness 22.9%, extreme thinness 8.8%, underweight 41% and obesity 2.4%. Pandey said the problems cannot be denied, but the health department is taking steps, including sending "tablets and syrup". He further said to reduce the problems occurring due to malnourishment the department has set up ‘Poshan Punarvas Kendra’ under the National Health Mission in 38 districts and three medical college and hospitals. “Even at the community level, Asha workers give consultation to pregnant and lactating mothers and their family members,” said Pandey, adding in 2019-20 health check-up of 1.22 crore children were done till December and they got health cards. The health minister further said that to address anaemia among pregnant women, the state government is providing 180 iron-folic acid tablets six months before delivery and 180 tablets after delivery. Altogether 74% of pregnant women in Bihar were provided with folic acid tablets to combat anaemia, he added. In another question raised by MLC Rambali Singh regarding the vacant post of doctors and nursing staff in the state, Pandey said 3,706 posts of specialist medical officers and 2,632 posts of general medical officers were vacant in Bihar, taking a total number of vacant post of doctors to 6338. The minister said a requisition for filling up these posts have been sent to the Bihar Technical Services Commission (BTSC) through the general administration department. He said out of 9,130 vacant posts of grade A nurses, BTSC has sent the recommendation for 5,097 posts. RJD MLC Ram Chandra Purbe raised the shortage of medicines and surgical items in Janaushadhi Kendra. He cited the example of Lok Nayak Jaiprakash Narain super speciality hospital, where he said there was a shortage of vitamin D and calcium tablets for the past three months. The minister responded that the medicines are provided to these Janasuhadhi Kendras by the Centre through the bureau of pharma public sector undertaking. He said the state government had written to the Centre on December 14 to address the shortage of medicines. JD (U) MLC Sanjeev Shyam Singh raised the issue of land problem related to BIADA. Industries minister Shahnawaz Hussain said anyone who has taken the land of BIADA but was not utilizing it for industrial purposes, action will be taken against them. He also said the industries department was working on developing industries in all districts with the aim of one district one product.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/42-kids-malnourished-in-bihar-health-minister/articleshow/81179182.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 24, 2021||Madurai||HC reiterates earlier order on release of vehicles||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday reiterated that request for release of vehicles involved in illegal sand mining could only be made before the designated courts, as per an earlier order of the court. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and N Sathish Kumar observed that already a division bench in 2018 had given, but day in and day out writ petitions are being filed and routine orders are being passed by ignoring the orders of the bench. The judges observed that either the order passed by the division bench has not been brought to the knowledge of the single judge or the state government is not desirous of upholding law by filing appeal in such cases. The judges observed that imposing cost could never be a substitute when it comes to the environment. Since the orders passed for release of vehicles are contrary to their directions, the judges directed to post all such matters seeking release of vehicles before this division bench. The judges observed that they are of the view that the number and entertaining such writ petitions itself is contrary to their orders. Therefore, the aforesaid direction is only to clarify and reiterate the order which was passed by this bench in 2018.The court was hearing a petition filed pertaining to a case of illegal sand mining which was reported in Madurai district. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-reiterates-earlier-order-on-release-of-vehicles/articleshow/81179206.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||Not referred by admin, Covid patient not eligible for capped rates at pvt hospitals||Nagpur: Fearing backlash and harassment by political parties, private hospitals have admitted all walk-in Covid patients as per the 80:20 formula levying capped charges fixed through the controversial GR of August 31, 2020. Also, many patients are retrospectively claiming benefits of capped rates without carrying a referral slip. Members of Vidarbha Hospitals’ Association (VHA) said capped rates don’t apply to these patients under the prevailing situation where government hospitals have plenty of beds. As per the GR, private hospitals have to treat 80% Covid patients at capped rates referred by the administration while regular fee can be charged from the remaining 20%. But, NMC hasn’t been referring any patient now, they said. In its letter dated December 9, VHA has citied clause 10 and 15 of the GR which clearly states that “only those patients referred by the municipal corporations/district collectors” shall be admitted against the 80 reserved beds and civic auditors are empowered to audit bills of only referral patients. A widely circulated audio clip by a political activist has now created doubts in the minds of gullible relatives of patients who seemed to be taken for a ride regarding capping of Covid treatment charges. Additional Municipal Commissioner Jalaj Sharma told TOI that NMC avoids referring any patient to a specific hospital as it may amount to promoting it. “We just inform citizens about the availability of beds in a hospital nearest to them. The decision of admission has to be taken by the patient,” he said. VHA claimed that almost all the currently admitted patients are walk-ins and not referred by the city or district administration. OCHRI director and VHA convener Dr Anup Marar said technically people should be sensitized about the GR. “The NMC hasn’t replied to VHA’s letter regarding the issue. VHA is fighting and the case is in court. As per the norms, patients referred by a competent authority are eligible for capped rates. The audit must be done for only those patients who have been referred by the administration for admission in regulated beds. Bills of walk-in patients are being audited and the government is still asking for 80:20 status,” he said. Dr Tushar Gawad, director (administration) at Alexis Multispeciality Hospital, said generally patients are not aware about the GR guidelines and capped rates hence for their benefit we have displayed them at prominent places in our hospital. “In the interest of patients during this ongoing pandemic, we are complying with the capped rates even for walk-in patients. If hospital billing is as per the government prescribed capping, Covid-19 treatment comes at a very reasonable cost to the patient,” he said, adding, a list of Covid-19 beds under the 80:20 plan has been provided to the NMC auditor. “The NMC auditor is auditing all the bills as per the mandate given by the authorities,” he said. However, he added that ideally a referral mechanism must be in place for government-regulated beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/not-referred-by-admin-covid-patient-not-eligible-for-capped-rates-at-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/81179233.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 24, 2021||Coimbatore||Woman, 46, jumps to death as hubby dies||Coimbatore: A 46-year-old woman ended her life by jumping off the seventh floor of a private hospital at Kovilpalayam here on Tuesday afternoon after her husband succumbed to the injuries, which he had sustained in a road accident, at the hospital. The Kovilpalayam police said, Sekaran, 50 of Kalingarayanpalayam near Bhavani in Erode district, was knocked down from his two-wheeler by an unidentified vehicle while he was returning home after offering prayers at Bannariamman temple near Sathyamangalam around 9am on Tuesday. “Immediately, he was taken to the private hospital at Kovilpalayam in Coimbatore in an ambulance. When alerted, his wife Nagarathinam and other family members reached the hospital. Sekaran succumbed to his severe head injuries in the afternoon. When his wife heard the news, she ran to the seventh floor of the hospital and jumped to death,” a police officer said. Both the dead bodies were subsequently sent to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-46-jumps-to-death-as-hubby-dies/articleshow/81179209.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Dementia patient killed in hit-and-run||AHMEDABAD: An 80-year-old man, who was suffering from age-related dementia for two years, died on Monday night when he was hit by a car in the Naroda area of city. The deceased was identified as Dinesh Sutaria, a retired government employee, and lived with his son Chandrakant Sutaria, a resident of Vankarvas in Naroda Gaam. Dinesh had left home on Monday evening and did not return for a long time. His family members then went out to search him. Chandrakant said that when he was searching for his father, some people told him that an elderly man had met with accident on Dehgam Road in Naroda. Chandrakant rushed to the accident spot and found that his father lying dead on the road. He told police that locals told him that a car driver fled after hitting his father. G Division traffic police registered a case of rash driving causing death against an unknown person. Chandrakant said that his father had been suffering from dementia for two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dementia-patient-killed-in-hit-and-run/articleshow/81179214.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Chennai||Multi-level parking at T Nagar opens, free till March 3||Chennai: Chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami on Tuesday inaugurated a slew of Greater Chennai Corporation projects, including the Namma Chennai Smart City prepaid card and the Rs 40.7 crore multi-level car parking (MLCP) facility at T Nagar. The card can be used to pay taxes and bills at corporation offices and also at malls, restaurants shopping and even e-commerce transactions. Chennai is only the second city in the country to have launched such a smart card. The civic body is working with ICICI Bank to issue the card. Construction of the newly launched MLCP on Thanikachalam Road began in February 2018, but the project was delayed due to the pandemic. The facility, which will help ease parking woes at the Pondy Bazaar, uses a fully automated shuttle and trolley system. It can hold 222 cars and 513 two-wheelers. Users will be charged Rs 20 an hour for cars and Rs 5 an hour for two-wheelers and will have to install the GCC smart parking app to use the facility. The civic body plans to conduct trials on Wednesday and Thursday and the facility will be open to public starting Friday. The corporation said people can use the facility for free till March 3, after which charges will kick in. Other projects launched on Tuesday include a digital experience centre at Amma Maligai, new parks at JV Nagar in Velachery, Rutland Gate in Teynampet and VS Mani Nagar in Madhavaram, an urban primary healthcare centre and a new shelter. The Rs 1,216 crore eight-year contract for collection and transportation of solid waste for Manali, Tiruvottiyur, Madhavaram and Ambattur zones was handed over to Ramky Enviro Engineers. Palaniswami also inaugurated solid waste treatment projects, including a bio-CNG plant for processing wet waste at Chetpet, incineration plant for dry waste at Kodungaiyur, five waste processing units each at Alandur, Egmore, Royapuram, Sholinganallur and RK Nagar and a waste processing unit at Sholinganallur for converting plastic waste into fuel. Metrowater projects worth Rs 325 crore, including a sewage treatment plant at Paruthipattu, sewerage facilities for Ambattur and new water supply scheme in Pammal, Pallavaram and Vadaperunbakkam were also inaugurated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/multi-level-parking-at-t-nagar-opens-free-till-march-3/articleshow/81179235.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||‘State inked deal with EMCC despite Centre’s warning’||Thiruvananthapuram: Ratcheting up his attack on the Pinarayi Vijayan government, minister of state (MoS) for external affairs V Muraleedharan on Tuesday claimed that the Centre, after an enquiry based on a query from the state government, had deemed EMCC a bogus company Muraleedharan said his ministry had informed the state government about the scant credibility of the purportedly US-based EMCC, that later signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation Ltd (KSINC), a state PSU, for a deep-sea fishing project. “State transport secretary K R Jyothilal had written to the ministry, on October 3, 2019, seeking details of the company. The ministry, after consulting the Indian embassy in New York, had written back to the state government on October 21 itself, explaining that no such company was operational in New York under the said name,” the MoS said. He was speaking, here, after inaugurating the NDA election committee office. Muraleedharan claimed that the LDF government proceeded with the deep-sea fishing project despite the central government’s briefing on the dubious nature of the company. Unless the state government had any special interest in the project, it would not have inked an agreement with the same company on February 28, 2020, five months after the Centre cautioned about its bogus nature, he said. According to Muraleedharan, there is no reason to believe the state government’s argument that top officials kept ministers in the dark on such a big project. “Despite having received all details about the spurious nature of the company, the Vijayan government signed the deal to backstab fisherfolk. The deal smacks of large-scale corruption,” he said. Baseless claims, says Jayarajan State industries minister E P Jayarajan termed Muraleedharan’s claims as totally baseless and said the Centre had not shared any such information with the state government. “Nobody had informed us anything of that sort. Perhaps Muraleedharan was informed. If so, he should have passed on the information to us instead of keeping it to himself,” Jayarajan said. Reacting to the revelation of the MoS, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, who was the first to raise questions over the deal, said Muraleedharan should at once publicize details of the warning the Centre had given to the state government on EMCC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-inked-deal-with-emcc-despite-centres-warning/articleshow/81179249.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||HC: Check if bldg work’s spoiling Banganga water||Mumbai: The Bombay high court has ordered the Directorate of Archaeology and Museums to immediately depute an officer to survey and inspect the Banganga tank in Walkeshwar, Malabar Hill, to ascertain if piling and construction activities in the vicinity are affecting the water quality and to submit a report to it. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni on Monday heard a petition by the Gaud Saraswat Brahman Temple Trust. The petition said that as a result of the extensive piling and construction activities by developers, the “protected monument and Grade-I heritage structure” was being severely affected. It said the natural underground water streams that flow into the tank are being disturbed and contaminated on a daily basis due to the inflow of muddy water as well as accumulation of mud in the water of the tank in a large quantity. In September last year, residents and community members had noticed and complained about the muddy and contaminated flow of water in Banganga tank. Trust advocate Devendra Rajapurkar argued that the BMC and the directorate were under a legal obligation to protect the tank from “spoliation, disfigurement and destruction”. Senior advocate Milind Sathe, for joint developers NHP Realty LLP and Helecite Residency Pvt Ltd, said that initially the directorate had issued a stop-work notice as its permission was not taken, but after the developers submitted a proposal with reports of technical experts the order was lifted on January 22 and they were permitted to proceed subject to compliance of eight conditions. “Having regard to the seriousness of the concern expressed” by the trust, the judge directed the director “to depute a competent officer” to conduct the survey immediately within two days of receiving the high court order copy. The officer shall ascertain if construction activities are in conformity with the eight conditions and also “whether by reason of such activities, the water level as well as the quality of water of the talav (tank) is in any way affected or not, as alleged by the petitioner”. The report is to be submitted in a sealed cover on March 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-check-if-bldg-works-spoiling-banganga-water/articleshow/81180735.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||Artists weave poetry & prose on social issues||Lucknow: Budding poets upped their act with poetry, ghazals, and nazms at an event called ‘Hum Sukhan’ organised at Sangeet Natak Akademi on Tuesday. With around 11 participants, the event had a good mix of young and middle-aged people who had come to discover and unleash the poet within them. Organised under Dastak Manch for the 12th edition of its Youth Festival, the participants through their writing finesse and hold over Urdu put forward their views on different social issues existing in society. The topics included discrimination on the basis of caste and religion and compositions around their own personal experiences. “This has been a very eclectic experience and I came here as I wanted to be among poets and writers. Every writer has a different experience which is shown in their compositions. Meeting like-minded people always teaches you something new,” said Pankaj Vishwajeet, a student of Lucknow University who participated at the event for the first time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/artists-weave-poetry-prose-on-social-issues/articleshow/81180732.cms||Aditi Singh
February 24, 2021||Pune||Lockdown not a long-term solution: WHO scientist||PUNE: Lockdowns are temporary measures of containment and not the solution for long-term Covid-19 control, the World Health Organization’s chief scientist, Dr Soumya Swaminathan, has said. She also said countries have to boost genomic surveillance to better understand viral evolution and impact of variants on transmission, severity of illness and vaccine efficacy. She said, “Countries have had to go through cycles of lockdown because they were unable to curb spread by implementing public health measures in an effective way. There is a need for behavioural changes and targeted action by local administrations, instead of deploying such severe measures, unless absolutely necessary.” The expert added that improved testing, identification of clusters, contact tracing and quarantining of the contacts — along with mask-use and physical distancing — need to be pursued for the foreseeable future. With new variants emerging, Dr Swaminathan said there should be constant surveillance and research to understand epidemiological and clinical manifestations of the virus and co-relate it with vaccine effectiveness. She said while the current vaccines against the coronavirus may not be able to shield recipients against infection completely, they do appear to significantly reduce severity of Covid-19 in those infected. “There are recent reports that suggest if you have the vaccine and you get infected, the viral load is much lower. So the chances of infecting others may be lower,” she said, adding that more studies are needed to determine how effective these vaccines are in blocking transmission. Dr Swaminathan said the WHO has also called for an increase in samples sequenced per week through sentinel surveillance sites and improved data sharing through accessible genomic databases that allow global collaboration. On vaccine hesitancy, she said it ought to improve as countries reach out to at-risk populations, such as older people and those with comorbidities. The WHO has said that millions of doses have been administered around the world and there have been no incidents involving major side-effects so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-not-a-long-term-solution-who-scientist/articleshow/81179195.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra state board prepares for offline SSC, HSC exams||MUMBAI: Amid growing demand for online board exams or school-level assessments for classes X and XII, state board officials clarified they are preparing for the usual offline tests scheduled in the end of April, considering the large volume of students. Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has more than 30 lakh students who will appear for their HSC and SSC exams across the state. The state has announced HSC and SSC exams will begin on April 23 and 29, respectively. Following the rise in Covid-19 cases in the state and the delayed reopening of schools in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, though, teachers and parents had demanded the board consider an online format for the exams or allow schools to conduct these at their level. Varsha Gaikwad, minister for school education, told media persons how holding an online exam is difficult across the state simultaneously at a particular time. While citing a few reasons, the minister said the board is preparing for offline exams. Considering the large number of students, it is difficult to conduct online exams at a time across the state and could lead to a further delay in starting a new academic year. Gaikwad added it will not be possible to hold online exams before September 2021, in case it decides on that format. Dinkar Patil, chairperson of the state board, too, said an online format might not be feasible for its large number of students and their demographics. “A lot of our students are in rural parts of the state, making it nearly impossible for us to conduct an online exam. We are still two months away and hope the situation around Covid-19 will improve. Meanwhile, we have started preparation for the offline examinations and will take measures to ensure that students’ safety is our top priority,” he said. Patil added students must not believe any rumours about exams and wait for instructions from their school or the board. “There are a lot of rumours about the format of the exams but students must focus on studying right now. Closer to the exam dates, we will review the Covid-19 situation and make appropriate changes to the format and issue guidelines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-board-prepares-for-offline-ssc-hsc-exams/articleshow/81183206.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 24, 2021||Pune||Pune civic limits record 106% vaccination, boost PMR count||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded 66% vaccination, including the second dose, on Tuesday as against 57% inoculation the previous day, recording a surge of about 9%. A total of 5,753 beneficiaries were vaccinated in PMR as against the target of 8,900, stated district data. The Pune municipal areas recorded 106% immunisation, the highest among all PMR constituents. The Pimpri Chinchwad areas recorded 46% turnout, while the rural pockets recorded 45% vaccination on Tuesday. “We appeal to all the healthcare workers to take the tests. They should also get vaccinated since they work in close proximity with Covid-19 patients,” said Ashish Bharati, head of PMC’s health department. According to Bharati, an appeal to complete the vaccination before February 24 had helped in increasing the immunisation count. Many healthcare workers have come forward and taken the jab since the appeal, he said. He said those who have not been registered in this phase or missed out vaccination due to technical glitches will get another opportunity after a few days. “Those dates will be declared as per the state and Union government guidelines,” Bharati added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-civic-limits-record-106-vaccination-boost-pmr-count/articleshow/81179244.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana order to reopen classes 6-8 from today has worried parents fuming||HYDERABAD: Under pressure from school managements, the Telangana government on Tuesday ordered reopening of physical classes for students of classes 6 to 8 from today, but the Hyderabad parents association questioned the hurried move. Education minister P Sabitha Indra Reddy said that the decision was taken following instructions from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. A GO was issued on Tuesday by special chief secretary Chitra Ramchandran on reopening of schools. “Physical classes for class 6 to 8 students can be reopened from February 24 as far as possible and not later than March 1,” said Reddy, adding that schools will have to strictly follow Covid-19 guidelines on the premises. The present digital classes shall continue and schools have been advised to follow a blended form of online/offline mode. “Consent of parents is also mandatory for children coming to school,” the minister said. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar, in a teleconference with all the district collectors, DEOs and district welfare officers of BC, Minority, Tribal Welfare and SC development departments said that the move would bring back about 17.24 lakh students from classes 6 to 8 back to schools. “All precautions should be taken for the safety of students and teachers. Special measures should be taken for schools opening for the first time,” said Kumar, adding that the District Level Education Monitoring Committee (DLEMC) chaired by the district collector should meet and take up the opening of classes. While school managements and teachers welcomed the move, Hyderabad Schools Parents Association (HSPA) alleged the decision was taken under pressure from the school managements without even consulting parents only to give schools a free hand to collect fees. “What’s the hurry? What made the state make this decision in a day? Even a couple of days back the education minister said that the state is not going to start schools for younger kids as there are hardly one and a half months left for the academic year to end. Now, all of a sudden, they want parents to send their kids to schools from tomorrow,” said K Venkata Sainath, joint secretary, HSPA. He said that it is surprising to see the state reacting to the threats of school management. “State did not bother to initiate action against 11 schools who were found guilty. They did not come to the rescue of parents when schools were openly violating GO No 46 on fee regulation. But now they are siding with school managements and giving them licence to loot parents. Parents also pointed to rising cases in other states and said it was not wise to reopen schools for younger children in a hurried manner. Following Covid-19 guidelines, especially social distancing, would not be possible in many private schools due to space constraints as many are just vertical buildings, they said. Both Telangana Recognized Schools Managements Association (TRSMA), which has budget schools as its members, and Independent Schools Managements Association (ISMA), which has all top schools in the city as its members, said that all schools will reopen for class 6 to class 8 soon. “While few schools are planning to reopen tomorrow, others might need some more time to get schools, hostels and buses ready,” said Y Shekar Rao, president, TRSMA adding that all schools will reopen by March 1. K Praveen Raju, vice-chairman, Suchitra Group and president, ISMA said as the academic year is winding up in the third week of May, most of their members have decided to open schools for offline exams. “We will open physical classes for younger kids in a full-fledged manner from the next academic year only,” he added. On February 11, citing financial constraints, the private budget schools in the state said that they would be starting physical classes for students of class 6 to class 8 from February 25 irrespective of whether or not the state gives its permission to start classes for upper primary students. They have already stopped offering online classes from February 15 to students of class 6 to class 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-order-to-reopen-classes-6-8-from-today-has-worried-parents-fuming/articleshow/81181230.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 24, 2021||Delhi||33°C: Summer is here, folks||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded its warmest day of the season with mercury crossing the 33-degree mark in parts of the capital on Tuesday. Safdarjung — city’s base station for weather — recorded a high of 31.5 degrees Celsius, which was seven notches above normal for this time of the year. The maximum was recorded at 32.6 degrees Celsius in Pitampura and 33.6 degrees at the Sports Complex weather station in east Delhi. Met officials forecast a similar maximum temperature for Wednesday. It is likely to increase further on Thursday and Friday. The last time Delhi had recorded a higher maximum at Safdarjung in February was in 2018 when it touched 32 degrees on February 23. In 2017, the highest was 32.4 degrees Celsius on February 21. In the last two years, it failed to touch even the 30-degree mark in February. “The normal mark for this time of the season is around 25-26 degrees. We did not see it touch 29 degrees both in 2019 and 2020, however, it did touch 32 degrees in both 2018 and 2017. The primary reason for such high temperatures is lack of western disturbances in the region,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD. Srivastava said clear skies were also playing a key factor. “A western disturbance not only brings cloud cover but also leads to an increase in wind speed. Both these factors are missing and therefore direct sunlight is falling during the day,” he added. India Meteorological Department last week had forecast mercury to touch 31 degrees by Thursday. While the minimum temperature is expected to hover around 10-11 degrees, it will be 32 degrees Celsius on both February 25 and February 26. “Only from February 27, it will start to drop again and it may touch 29 degrees by February 28,” the official said. On Tuesday, Delhi’s minimum temperature was recorded at 10.7 degrees, however, it touched 15.2 degrees at the Ridge station. The all-time record for February is a high of 34.1 degrees Celsius, which was recorded on February 26, 2006.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/33c-summer-is-here-folks/articleshow/81179252.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||2,223 people penalized for flouting face cover norms||Pune: As many as 2,223 people in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits and the rural parts of the district were penalized on Tuesday for moving around in public places without face masks or for violating other Covid-19 protocols. The administration recovered Rs7.96 lakh in fine from these persons. In Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic areas, the fine for not wearing a mask in public places is Rs500 each. The fine amount in a gram panchayat area in rural Pune is Rs100. Pune police additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said, “We have deployed 1,500 personel at 47 nakabandi points and 13 fixed points for taking action against people caught not wearing facemask and not maintaining social distances.” Morale said, “We have issued instructions to all police stations to take action against people found loitering after 11pm without any reasons and assembling in groups.” A senior officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad police said, “Apart from taking action against people at strategic locations, our teams are patrolling community/wedding halls, eateries, markets and public places for taking action against violators.” Superintendent of police (Pune rural) AbhinavDeshmukh said, “Our teams are visiting bazaar peths and other public places and taking strict action against people violating the Covid-19 norms.We are distributing free face masks among people in need and appealing them and others to take care of themselves and their families to contain the spread of coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2223-people-penalized-for-flouting-face-cover-norms/articleshow/81179231.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Karnataka keen on collaboration with startups’||T’puram: Karnataka deputy chief minister C N Aswath Narayan on Tuesday expressed the willingness to closely collaborate with Kerala’s startup ecosystem. He was interacting at a function organized by Bloombloom at B-HUB, Nalanchira. At the event ‘When in Trivandrum’, renowned personalities from across various sectors around the globe are invited to talk about progress, collaboration, development and future. The Karnataka deputy CM, who is in charge of IT portfolio, said a collaboration among startup ecosystems is vital as far as global progress is concerned. The minister also mentioned Karnataka’s plans to set up similar models around university campuses, and has invited B-HUB to facilitate the mission in the state. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/karnataka-keen-on-collaboration-with-startups/articleshow/81181229.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Coimbatore||All-round relief as Covid-19 count plateaus in district||Coimbatore: The district reported 42 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, even as 41 patients were discharged from treatment centres. While the Covid-19 count has touched 55,544, the number of active cases stands at 402. With 54,460 getting cured, the district now boasts a recovery rate of 98%.Officials said the number of fresh cases has been plateauing at around 40 for more than a week and there was no sign of an increase.However, the health department has decided to start testing all passengers arriving from the UK, Europe and Middle East through connecting domestic flights or international flights for the virus and insist on institutional quarantine till the arrival of test results, to prevent new strains of the virus from entering the district.Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “While they will be landing in the city only with a Covid-19 negative certificate, we will take their nasal swabs again and insist on institutional quarantine till the results arrive.”Another health official said they hadn’t seen the virus behave differently in any of the new patients. “We haven’t seen any new strains of the virus so far in the district.”All hotels have been asked to maintain a registry of passengers arriving from Mumbai, to help the health department monitor them closely.Meanwhile, the CoWIN app is yet to offer an option for the public to register for the vaccination drive. This is when the Union government had on Monday announced that people aged above 50 years could get vaccinated from March.Residents said they didn’t have any clarity on the documents to be submitted, when or where they could register for the vaccine and where they could take the jab. The CoWIN app is yet to have a link for the public for registration.“We have been visiting the website since Monday to register for the vaccine, but there is no link for the same,” said 55-year-old R Nirmala, who plans to fly to the US in May with her husband. “When we called our cardiologist at KMCH to check if we could register with the hospital, he said they did not have such a system.”In fact, the district health authorities don’t have clarity on vaccinating the general public. Dr G Ramesh Kumar said, “We are yet to receive any written notification from the state government. We do not know whether to offer them Covishield or Covaxin, or give them a choice, or how to enter their details on the app. We have 102 cold chain points in the district that could be converted into vaccination centres. We also have at least 40,000 doses of vaccine with us.”An official in Trichy also said they were not informed as to when the vaccination for the public start. “We don’t know whether it will be a self-registration or bulk registration as done by the frontline health workers and frontline government staff. Yet, we are gearing up for the drive,” the officer said, seeking anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/all-round-relief-as-covid-19-count-plateaus-in-district/articleshow/81179245.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Kolkata||Gulf flyers undergo virus test at Kolkata airport||KOLKATA: Swab collection for RT-PCR test of 543 international passengers who reached Kolkata from Doha and Dubai in four flights were conducted at the city airport on Tuesday. There was no information about any of the flyers testing positive till late on Tuesday, said an airport official. Following the new SOP issued by the health and family welfare ministry to check the spread of the new Covid-19 strains, all passengers arriving from Gulf nations will have to undergo Covid test at the Kolkata airport. “Swabs of all the incoming flyers from Doha and Dubai were collected at the airport. The flyers were allowed to proceed to their destination after the swab test and the result will be sent to them online. If anyone tests positive, they need to be isolated and admitted to a healthcare facility,” said a senior airport official. From Tuesday, swab collection was revived at the airport exactly after two months since it had stopped with the stoppage of the Kolkata-London flight. The first flight passengers to undergo the test were from Doha on board a Qatar airlines flight at 1.50am. The last flight to reach was from Dubai at 9.20pm. Private diagnostic centres Suraksha and Dr Lal’s Path Lab will continue to collect the swabs at the airport till HLL Lifecare sets up a high-tech laboratory at the old domestic terminal early next month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gulf-flyers-undergo-virus-test-at-airport/articleshow/81177907.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Kolkata||Get empanelled for Swasthya Sathi or face action, West Bengal government warns hospitals||KOLKATA: The state government has mandated all clinical establishments in the state that have more than 10 beds to get empanelled for the Swasthya Sathi scheme. The health department came out with a notification on Tuesday, cautioning all hospitals and nursing homes against non-empanelment and also warned against patient refusal under the scheme. “Non-empanelment or refusing/denying treatment to Swasthya Sathi patients shall be treated as violation of clause (v) and (w) of sub-section 3 of section 7 of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment (Registration, Regulation And Transparency) Act 2017, which may lead to cancellation/revocation or non-renewal of licence,” said the notification. “All big hospitals in Kolkata have got empanelled. About 35 odd nursing homes were yet to come on board. Out of them, five got enrolled on Tuesday, four could be enrolled due to issues like legal matters pending against them. We are trying to get the rest empanelled very soon,” said an official of the state health department. According to the official, there are 1,806 hospitals across the state, out of which 1,632 have got empanelled so far. But despite the government’s efforts to reach out to maximum residents with quality healthcare under this universal health scheme, allegations of refusal continue. Take the example of a private hospital off EM Bypass, where a critical patient was allegedly refused admission under the scheme, saying that the hospital is empanelled for cancer treatment. The patient’s family from Lake Town had to pay from their own pocket. “There is a toll-free hotline number in the Swasthya Sathi card that the patient/family can dial anytime in case of admission problems. No hospital can choose their speciality. We get close to 70 calls daily and the team tries to sort the issues with the hospitals,” said the official. Private hospitals, however, are yet to get any response from the government to their proposal that grade A hospitals be reserved for patients who need high-end speciality care. “We had proposed that patients who need high-end tertiary care be handled by grade A hospitals while cases like medical management be tackled by nursing homes. This will allow rational distribution of patient load as well as better clinical outcome,” said Rupak Barua, AMRI Hospitals group CEO and the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. “There is surge in the number of Swasthya Sathi patients. Currently, above 10% of our patients is under this scheme,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/get-empanelled-for-swasthya-sathi-or-face-action-state-warns-hosps/articleshow/81177908.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man held for uploading intimate picture of ex||AHMEDABAD: Cybercrime sleuths on Tuesday arrested a 29-year-old unemployed man, Pavan Avadhya, an Odhav resident, for allegedly uploading a lascivious picture of his ex-girlfriend as the WhatsApp status on the number she was formerly using. The victim had on Monday filed an FIR with the cybercrime police station in this regard. She stated that she had used the number in question till about October 2020 when it got deactivated. She stated that the lascivious picture had been taken by Avadhya on his phone, when the two were in a relationship. The number in question was registered in Avadhya’s name, but she had been using it. As she had been using the number, and the lascivious picture had been put up in the WhatsApp status, it had potentially reached all her friends and relatives. A statement issued by the city police said the investigation in the case was handed over to inspector R J Chaudhary. After securing the technical data regarding the case, investigators zeroed in on Avadhya and arrested him. Police said that on interrogating Avadhya, he revealed that he and the complainant had studied in the same tuition class in 2013-14 and were in a relationship, but later broke up. Avadhya had borrowed money from the complainant, which she demanded back. He offered to pay it back in parts, but she did not agree and informed his family members about the debt. Avadhya stated that he later married another woman, and the complainant had told her false things about him, causing friction between them. Angered, he decided to get back at the complainant by embarrassing her. He thus got the complainant’s old number reactivated. He then posted the lascivious picture he had clicked as the WhatsApp status on that number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-for-uploading-intimate-picture-of-ex/articleshow/81179240.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Madurai||Man suffers seizure, drowns along with two kids in Madurai||MADURAI: A man and his two children drowned in a waterbody near Thirumangalam in Madurai on Tuesday when he developed seizure and collapsed while preparing to bath his son while his daughter who jumped in to save the two also died. The deceased were identified as V Alagarsamy, 35, of Lakshmipuram, his son Magamugesh, 4, and daughter Sangeetha, 10. Police said Alagarsamy’s daughters Sangeetha and Logadarshini had gone to the Lakshmipuram tank along with their neighbour Thandeeswari in the afternoon. A little later, Alagarsamy took his son there to take bath and ventured into the water carrying his son. He was standing in four feet water carrying his son on his shoulders when he suddenly developed a seizure. He fell into the water and could not get up, taking with him Magamugesh. Sangeetha saw her father and brother drowning and jumped into the tank to help them though she did not know swimming. Seeing this, the other two girls cried for help. Villagers rushed in and brought all three from the water to the banks of the tank, but they had died by then. Thirumangalam taluk police arrived and shifted the bodies to the government hospital for postmortem. A case was registered under CrPC section 174 (suspicious death) based on a complaint, and inquiry is on. Police said Alagarsamy was working as a truck driver, but had stopped going to work after suffering health problems. His wife A Dhanalakshmi, 35, works in a brick kiln. A large number of villagers gathered at Thirumangalam hospital as word spread about the tragedy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-suffers-seizure-drowns-along-with-two-kids-in-madurai/articleshow/81179224.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Four conmen arrested in two separate cases||New Delhi: Four alleged conmen were arrested in two separate cases in the city. Three were caught by North West district police for allegedly running a call centre and duping scores of youths on the pretext of providing jobs in e-commerce companies, while a man was nabbed by South East district cops for ordering goods online and accepting delivery by showing fake online payment receipts. In the first case, police have seized three mobile phones from the three men — Kishan Chand, Virender Yadav and Hemant — and are analysing their content. “The suspects called up gullible youth by posing as human resource managers and offered employment,” said DCP Usha Rangnani. In the second case, the cops seized an iPad, three laptops, over 100 SIM cards from Sanmahya Kumar Parida from Odisha. Police began tracking Parida after receiving a complaint from a sales manager of an e-commerce website, Naredi.in, whose outlet was located in Eash of Kailash market. A man with a profile name Ashish Das had placed an order for a battery charger worth Rs 43,560. Das sent the screenshot of the payment to the merchant. The battery chargers were then dispatched in good faith, but later the victim realised he had been duped and filed a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/four-conmen-arrested-in-two-separate-cases/articleshow/81197627.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||Board practical exams to be delayed; no change in national level schedule||Nagpur: Closure of schools and colleges in Nagpur district till at least March 7 means that the board practical exams get pushed ahead. But national level exams, like those for Ignou, JEE etc, will proceed as per schedule. Practical exams for both state and CBSE board have not started due to different reasons. For the state board, the practical exams are to be conducted a month before the board exams start. Madhusudhan Mude, president of Headmasters’ Association (Nagpur district), said “The SSC and HSC timetable issued by the board is marked as ‘tentative’ and hence, we may get more time to conduct it. The list of external examiners comes from the board and that’s still being finalized.” For CBSE, schools are yet to receive the list of approved external examiners and observers from the board. Once the list comes, schools have to coordinate for a mutually suitable date with both stakeholders and then arrange for the practical exams. Principal of a CBSE school said, “The external examiners are also teachers and have to conduct practicals in their own schools. The observers are basically principals so matching their availability is also crucial.” It’s now clear that no practical exam can now happen before March 7 in Nagpur. All internally evaluated exams will now either be postponed or held online by schools.  National level exams, however, are going ahead as scheduled. On Tuesday, various colleges and private exam centres played host to students appearing for the Indira Gandhi National Open University (Ignou) exams and for the online Joint Entrance Examination (JEE).  P Sivaswaroop, regional director of Ignou Nagpur said, “Due to increasing Corona cases, partial lockdown has been announced in Nagpur and other districts of Vidarbha. I visited centres to check the impact on our exams. The attendance is good. Students and centre officials were informed about precautions to be taken in view of the lockdown.” JEE online exams are held at both colleges and private centres used exclusively for online exams. Tanjit Chhabra, head of admissions at Resonance (Nagpur), said, “The initial assessment points to low attendance at centres. Since there are more opportunities available, students are probably approaching this as a warm-up test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/board-practical-exams-to-be-delayed-no-change-in-national-level-schedule/articleshow/81179256.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 24, 2021||Madurai||Plea to classify small, minor communities in MBC as MMBC||Madurai: The small and minor communities, which have less representation in terms of numbers in the community but could not enjoy the 20% reservation for the most backward classes (MBC), should be classified separately as the most, most backward classes (MMBC) and given 10% reservation in state, said state president of the MBC Pattiyalil Ula Sirukuru Samuga Makkalin Kootamaipu, (Federation of Small and Minor Communities in the MBC list) K P Manibaba. Speaking to reporters in Madurai on Tuesday, he said that many communities in the backward classes, including the chettiars, yadavas, nadars, pillaimars, ahamudaiyars, maravars, kallars etc, were demanding reservation in the state. On the other hand, the PMK leader S Ramadoss was demanding 20% reservation for the vanniyars in the MBC category. Others in the MBC category, including the piramalai kallars, valayars, and maravars were also seeking proper representation. But, lesser known communities such as navithars, kulalars, isai vellalars, andipandarams, yogeeswarars, ottars, and poyars have about 20% representation in the state in terms of their population. They are scattered and rarely enjoy the benefits of the MBC category as they do not have access to reservation in education and jobs, and are economically very poor. In Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the BC category is further divided into A, B, C, D and E and they enjoy benefits accordingly. These small and minor communities should be integrated and they should be given 10% reservation or they can be classified as Most Most Backward Class (MMBC), he said. A welfare board should also be established for them, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-classify-small-minor-communities-in-mbc-as-mmbc/articleshow/81179242.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Now, passport applicants can use DigiLocker||Passport applications have been integrated with DigiLocker to enable real-time access and verification of documents online at all Passport Sev Kendras. At the time of filing the application, a button ‘fetch from DigiLocker’ will be displayed. The applicant will then have to select the documents and upload them. Further details are available on www.passportindia.gov.in. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-passport-applicants-can-use-digilocker/articleshow/81180762.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||After 10 months, no corona sample found +ve at KGMU||LUCKNOW: None of the 3,456 samples tested for Covid-19 by the microbiology lab of the King George's Medical University were found to be positive on Tuesday, making it a pleasant coincidence as it was on this day last year, the lab had started testing samples from across the state. The microbiology lab was the first in the state to be approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for Covid-19 testing. Until then, samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology. The lab began testing with the capacity of 72 tests daily that gradually increased to 7,000 per day. A record over 12 lakh samples have been tested over the year. Samples from across the state were sent to KGMU lab for testing. Among them, the first sample, that tested positive was on March 4, was of a Noida family that had come into contact with travellers from Italy. Since then, some samples out of total being tested daily gave positive results all through the year, except for two occasions in April first week. “On Tuesday, after over 10 months not a single sample tested positive. It's a great relief, but we need to remain cautious as cases are slowly rising in some of the states in the country,” said microbiology department Prof Amita Jain. The entire staff of the microbiology department worked tirelessly 24X7 throughout the year to keep the testing going. "It was a challenging time and most employees have not taken any leave in this period," she added. The department and its lab also played a crucial role in cutting testing costs as they were given an opportunity to approve indigenously developed RT PCR reagents kits in May. Earlier, labs mostly were relying on kits (US-FDA approved) imported from China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-10-months-no-corona-sample-found-ve-at-kgmu/articleshow/81180749.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
February 24, 2021||Delhi||History that binds: With Bhagat Singh’s kin in tow, farmers mark ‘Pagdi Sambhal Diwas’||NEW DELHI: On the 140th birth anniversary of Sardar Ajit Singh, uncle of revolutionary Bhagat Singh, the protesting farmers at Singhu border observed the Pagdi Sambhal Diwas on Tuesday. Ajit Singh had spearheaded the Pagdi Sambhal Jatta movement in 1907 against the agrarian laws introduced by Britishers and was an apt inspiration for the farmers currently protesting against the central government’s three new farm laws enacted in September last year. Bhagat Singh’s family members were present on the main dais at Singhu border on Tuesday. Abhay Singh Sandhu, the martyr’s nephew, told TOI that history was repeating itself, recalling how, as part of Ajit Singh’s Pagdi Sambhal Jatta movement, farmers had agitated against the Punjab Land Colonisation Bill, Bari Doab Canal Act and Punjab Land Alienation Act. Sandhu elaborated, “The British introduced three agrarian laws to exploit farmers and we today have three farm laws that will burden and exploit farmers. The struggle against the repeal of the British farm laws went on for eight months. Indians who were in the British army refused to fight against the farmers. Though Ajit Singh was arrested and sent to jail, the British were forced to withdraw the agrarian laws.” Sandhu who joined the farmers' protest on Monday night, having visited Singhu border earlier too. Bhagat Singh’s niece, Gurjeet Kaur Dhatt, 72, who has been camping at Singhu since December, said the government would be compelled to repeal the black farm laws if everyone followed the examples of Bhagat Singh and Ajit Singh. A native of Hoshiarpur, Dhatt, daughter of Bibi Parkash, the revolutionary’s sister, said, “The colonial government introduced three farm laws that threatened seizure of land, prohibited farmers from building houses on their land and stopped land ownership passing to younger brothers on the death of the older brothers. We are today fighting similarly against three black laws that threaten farmers’ ownership rights.” Dhatt, who has listened to her grandmother, Vidyawati, telling her stories about the Pagdi Sambhal Jatta, said, “Lala Lajpat Rai also joined the movement. Ajit Singh once gave an eight-hour speech against the farm laws and stirred up the public, leaving the British scared.” She continued, “Ajit Singh and Bhagat Singh are our icons. They inspire us to fight for the withdrawal of these black laws. We can win this fight for our rights when the entire country is united.” Meanwhile, commemorating the birth anniversary of Ajit Singh, farmers draped turbans on their heads in honour of the hero of anti-British farm movement. Hardeep Singh, a farmer from Punjab, said, “As the farmers fought the British over the anti-farmer laws, we too must continue our non-violent stir till our demands are met. Observing Pagdi Sambhal Diwas on Tuesday has motivated us and strengthened our movement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/history-that-binds-with-bhagat-singhs-kin-in-tow-farmers-mark-pagdi-sambhal-diwas/articleshow/81179303.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Give vaccine to Mantralaya staffers on priority: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Concerned about the surge in Covid cases among Mantralaya staffers in the last one week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday directed the chief secretary to include them in the frontline workers’ list and ensure they are given the vaccination on priority. Thackeray also asked the chief secretary to prepare a plan to stagger the work timings of departments in two shifts and examine the feasibility of how many can function at full capacity if allowed to work from home. “We will start work on this innovative method in which there is no compromise on work and the risk of Covid-19 infection will also be less,” said Thackeray, after the meeting with the Maharashtra State Gazetted Officers’ Confederation. Mantralaya staffers will undergo temperature checks every day and those who show symptoms will have to take antigen tests, the CM added. Officials said Thackeray had pushed for a national policy on staggered work timings during the recently held Niti Aayog meeting with PM Narendra Modi. G D Kulthe, advisor of the confederation, said as on Tuesday, 75 staffers, including officers, have tested Covid positive. “There are nearly 7,000 employees in Mantralaya building, New Administrative Building and Vidhan Bhavan. If vaccinated on priority, it will reduce risk at the state headquarters,” he said. The confederation also demanded a cap on the number of visitors to Mantralaya and insisted that those allowed entry should follow all Covid protocols. “The CM said he will take a decision regarding visitor entry in a day or two,” said Kulthe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/give-vax-to-mantralaya-staffers-on-priority-cm/articleshow/81179264.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Prison Break! Rush To Eat Out Revives Restaurants||New Delhi: If enthused by reports of declining Covid-19 cases in the city, you decided to step out, you would count yourself lucky to find a table at the Sunday brunch or a dinner slot at a deluxe hotel in central Delhi. In the weekend just gone by, coffee shops in Khan Market didn’t have a seat vacant either while popular eateries in Mehrauli were packed and getting a place in the open there was next to impossible. After a month-long lull, the dining business is picking up again. Some restaurants are reporting almost 95% of pre-Covid commerce on weekends, while weekday numbers have stabilised at 65%. Even nightclubs — which were the last to reopen after the lockdown — are logging good turnouts. Ankit Khilwani of Soho claimed it has gone up almost three times now and that after a long time Sunday was sold out at the club. Abhishek Panshikar, GM, The Oberoi Gurgaon, reported the food business at his hotel to be 80% of pre-Covid days despite seating being restricted to 50% and international and domestic business travel being limited. He felt that since people cannot travel, they visit local hotels. From sold-out Sunday brunches and fully booked alfresco spaces to growing demand for in-room dining with friends and family, Panshikar said people were pushing food and beverage sales in the right direction. Anil Chadha, COO, ITC Hotels, was happy that adherence to safety protocols had turned the guests’ anxiety into trust. “At ITC Hotels, our outlets have reached 80% of pre-Covid volumes and 63% in terms of revenues, which is a very good sign,” he smiled. This renewed activity has given confidence to restaurateurs Avantika Sinha to open Singaporean eatery Mai Bao, Vanshika to introduce fun dining space Fio Pop, Zorawar Kalra to start Swan and Bo Tai Switch, Harshit Kochar to reopen Anglow and Navneet Kalra to add Kakapo to his existing chain of restaurants. “Things started picking up from Wednesday, and business is back to 70% of last year,” said a buoyant Kalra. Suggesting a positive sentiment, Pushpa Bector, executive director, DLF Retail, disclosed the new venture, Commons at DLF Avenue, had seen 25 new signings in recent months. While weekend sales are almost 85% of pre-pandemic months, weekday sales, she hoped, would rise steadily once offices reopened. “Most food outlets at our malls are running packed on weekends. Weekday numbers will also rise by June, when offices become fully operational,” Bector said. Investing in reopening outlets in such uncertain times was a big leap of faith for restaurateurs, opined Deepak Tandon of Wok in the Clouds. He had no regrets and revealed that his Rajouri Garden and Punjabi Bagh restaurants had reached 90% of last year’s business, while the Connaught place and Khan Market outlets were regularly registering 70%. These are enough to fill him with optimism about a recovery faster than expected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/prison-break-rush-to-eat-out-revives-restaurants/articleshow/81197693.cms||Amin Ali
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Gangula Kamalakar challenges land order, Telangana HC seeks govt counter||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Tuesday directed the revenue department to file its counter in a petition filed by civil supplies minister Gangula Kamalakar charging the minority welfare department’s secretary with inaction in removing his 15 acres and 26 guntas of land in survey No. 126 at Kazipur village of Kothapalli mandal in Karimnagar district from the wakf properties’ list. He also challenged the alleged attempts of the district collector to keep this land in the prohibited list under section 22-A of the Stamps and Registration Act. Upon being informed that Kamalakar filed a similar petition in 2014 also in respect of the same land, Justice P Naveen Rao directed the registry to tag both these pleas together and adjourned the case to March 23 for a combined hearing of both the pleas. According to Kamalakar, the land in survey number 126 belongs to Syed Hameeduddin, an inamdar. After affirmation by a civil court in Karimnagar, state wakf board in 1981 recognised Hameeduddin as the inamdar for certain portions of land in Kothapalli mandal. He was also appointed as muthavali of the old idgah of Karimnagar. Scores of people bought land plots from Hameeduddin and were granted ORCs by then RDO under the provisions of Inams Abolition Act. The minister also said that he filed a petition before the high court in 2014 challenging the gazette notification given by the wakf authorities on January 11, 1990, notifying the land in survey No. 126 as wakf land. That petition is still pending before the high court. District collector of Karimnagar is taking steps to keep land on prohibited list under section 22-A of Stamps and Registrations Act on the ground that they were already included in wakf properties list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gangula-challenges-land-order-hc-seeks-govt-counter/articleshow/81179260.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Second arm of Medavakkam flyover likely to be ready in three months||CHENNAI: Commute just got easier for around 1.25 lakh motorists using the Velachery-Tambaram Highway everyday as one arm of Chennai’s longest flyover in Medavakkam was opened for public use from Tuesday, after a two-year delay. The three-lane arm, will decongest Sholinganallur and Mambakkam road junctions on the highway, is about 1.1km long and was constructed at a cost of Rs 51.5 crore. The flyover will have two arms, 11m wide each. The other arm, which will support vehicular movement in the opposite direction, will be 2.35km long and will allow motorists to skip Madipakkam road junction (near Quaid-e-millath) as well. Construction of the second arm is pending due to shortage of space for traffic diversion and land acquisition, said a senior state highway department official. “Traffic police were unable to find an alternate route. Now that one arm is open, it will make things easier for us,” the official added, requesting anonymity. The highways department is optimistic that they will be able to finish work along the second arm within three months as work is only pending at five of the 80 bridge decks and service roads. Medavakkam residents, however, complained about shoddy road maintenance and dust pollution. The 1.3-km long Retteri flyover constructed at Rs 41 crore was inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswmi on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2nd-arm-of-medavakkam-flyover-likely-to-be-ready-in-three-months/articleshow/81179261.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 24, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Tolly repeat for Dum Dum after Dakshineswar opens||KOLKATA: When motorman Subrata Seth steered the maiden rake out of Dakshineswar station at 7am on Tuesday, the oldest Metro route in India managed to change the commute experience of thousands. The route extension has linked Kolkata with districts — even those across the river — without the Metro line actually crossing the river Hooghly. “When East-West Metro’s Sector V-Salt Lake stadium stretch was unveiled a year ago, it was like a joy ride for Salt Lake residents. The Dakshineswar Metro extension has more immediate significance,” admitted a senior Metro Railway engineer, who helmed the East-West Metro project. The extension has provided a new lifeline to commuters from Hooghly, Dunlop, Bonhooghly, Belghoria and other areas of the northern suburbs, who can now travel to the southern parts of the city in an hour. By the end of the first day, the rider count on the new stretch stood at 8,800. Some are disappointed that only 158 services are Dakshineswar-bound as of now. Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi had told TOI earlier: “We shall study the footfall and accordingly increase the number of trains.” Even as Dum Dum has 86 more Kavi Subhas-bound trains, there was a mad rush on Tuesday as trains came filled up from Dakshineswar and Baranagar stations. “All this time, we only had Noapara to contend with but I always managed to find a seat. Today, I was struggling to get into the train at 10am,” Arati Sengupta, a teacher, said. In Dakshineswar, locals like Sandip Ghosh, who along with wife Ruma and daughter Swastika, queued up from 6am to register as the first ticket buyers (there are only smart cards now). Beyond the euphoria nurtured by this family from Maharaja Nanda Kumar Road, a bigger opportunity has hit office-goers like Samik Basu. The Narendrapur RKM staff member and Chinsurah resident said: “Till Friday, I would wake up at 5am, take the 6am local train to Howrah station, board an AC15 bus from there to Garia and ride an auto to reach my workplace at 9.30am.” From Tuesday, his three-and-a-half hour ordeal has been slashed to a 75-minute comfort ride. From now on, it will take him 62 minutes to cover Dakshineswar and Kavi Subhas Metro stations. Basu has to spend another 13 on a suburban train to Bally and take an auto to the Metro station. In fact, the empty CSTC S9 route (Dunlop-Jadavpur) was ample proof that the commuting behaviour of people from Howrah, Hooghly and the city’s northern outskirts was changing. “These buses would be jam-packed even in Covid times,” said Mainak Chakraborty, station superintendent, Dakshineswar Metro station. “Can’t help feel proud to be a Metro family member. I can see the difference the carrier has made to the lives of these Kolkata-bound passengers for whom commuting was an everyday torture,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tolly-repeat-for-dum-dum-after-dakshineswar-opens/articleshow/81177920.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 24, 2021||Trichy||Govt move will give fillip to computer science education||Trichy: The government’s decision to introduce computer science as a subject for government school students in class VI is expected to enhance the performance of students in coming years as they reach class XI. The subject which was so far being taught separately only in classes XI and XII, will now be taught from classes VI to X in all government high and higher secondary schools, said deputy CM O Panneerselvam while presenting the interim budget on Tuesday. In private schools, students start learning about computers from their primary classes. A computer science teacher of class XI in a government school in Trichy said most of the students enter class XI without knowing the fundamentals of computer. “It takes at least three to four months for students to get into the subject. First, the student learns the fundamentals and then gets into the computer language and programmes,” said the teacher. “If we could start teaching them about computers from class VI, students will be equipped to do project work in computer science when they come to class XI,” said R Boopathipriya, another teacher who teaches the subject. “Attempts were made to introduce computer subject in early classes to students by previous DMK government through Samacheer Kalvi. But they didn’t materialise after AIADMK came to power,” said a senior official of the school education department. The state government’s decision has also given hope to many computer science teachers working in private schools in the state. While the subject is expected to be introduced from the next academic year, at least two teachers may be required in each school for taking the subject. “Over 5000 teachers may be required for taking computer subjects and we expect the government to take steps in this regard,” said D Akilan, a computer teacher at a private school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-move-will-give-fillip-to-computer-science-education/articleshow/81180738.cms||Sampath Kumar
February 24, 2021||Madurai||Trade and industry say interim budget is disappointing||Madurai: Trade and industry in the region have termed the interim budget of the Palaniswami government disappointing without any major announcements and the state’s high debt sure to make it difficult for the government to implement the proposed schemes.With a revenue deficit of Rs 41,000 crore and no significant announcements for the overall development of the state, the budget is disappointing, Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has said. In a statement, chamber president N Jegatheesan said it was shocking that an allocation of Rs 6,683 crore had been made only for Coimbatore metro rail project though the chief minister had urged the Union government to implement it for Madurai as well. Also, since it has been announced that flood canals will be constructed in Karur, Trichy and Mayanur for the Cauvery- Vaigai -Gundar project, southern Tamil Nadu will not benefit from it. However, the chamber welcomed the announcement of Chennai-Kanyakumari industrial corridor at a cost of Rs 6,448 crore.Jegatheesan said it was a pity that the government had not taken steps to reduce the price of petrol and diesel even as Rajasthan, Delhi, Meghalaya and Nagaland had cut value added taxes on the fuel. The debt of the state government had increased by nearly 90% in five years, from Rs 2.5 lakh crore in 2016-2017 to Rs 4.5 lakh crore. So, how will the schemes announced in the interim budget be implemented with a projected debt of Rs 5.7 lakh crore, he asked.S P Jeyapragasam, president of Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Associations, said there are some welcome points like allocation of Rs 5,000 crore for waiver of crop loans to encourage farmers and agriculture sector. Market committee cess was not collected in Tamil Nadu from farmers during the pandemic, but now the authorities are stopping vehicles and demanding cess.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/trade-and-industry-say-interim-budget-is-disappointing/articleshow/81179262.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Six from Rosera returning from ‘tilak’ die in accident||KATIHAR: Six persons died and three were seriously injured when the SUV they were travelling in collided head-on with a sand-laden truck in Katihar district in the wee hours of Tuesday. This was the second major accident within 24 hours and only 12km from the spot where 5 people had died in an autorickshaw-truck collision on the NH-31 on Monday. The accident took place on Kataria-Kosi bridge near Kursela on NH-31. The deceased were identified as Shivji Mahato (42), Raj Kumar Mahato (27), Nandlal Kumar Mahato (24), Ajay Mahato (42), Ram Swaroop Shah (45) and Santosh Shah (38). The injured are Sunil Mahato (35), Kailash Mahato (60) and Arjun Mahato (60), all from Rosera in Samastipur district, Kursela police station SHO Anjay Aman said. They were returning home after attending a ‘tilak’ (engagement) ceremony in Korha block. The injured were undergoing treatment at Katihar Medical College and Hospital. The truck was coming from Bhagalpur side, he added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan and chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief and condolences to the bereaved families. The CM also announced Rs4 lakh ex gratia payment to the next of kin of each deceased. “Heard the sad news about death of few people in a road accident at Katihar in Bihar. I express my condolences to the family members of the victims and pray for early recovery of injured persons,” PM Modi tweeted. “Have got the information about death of six persons in a road accident near Kursela in Katihar. My deep condolences for the deceased persons. District administration has been instructed to expedite the ex gratia payment and treatment of the injured persons,” the CM said in a statement. The impact of the collision was so powerful that the SUV coming from north side turned to south direction, DSP (traffic) J P Narayan said. “It took at least three hours to extricate the body of the SUV driver, which was badly stuck between the dashboard and the front seat. The policemen carrying out the rescue operation had their uniform soaked in blood,” the SHO said. “JCB and heavy machines were used to extricate the bodies from the mangled SUV. Six occupants of the SUV died on the spot. The condition of the three injured is critical,” said Anjani Kumar, an ASI posted at Kursela police station, who supervised the rescue operation at the accident site. District transport officer (DTO) Md Athar, who was preparing a report of the accident with an official from the National Highways Authority of India, said, “These accidents take place due to over-speeding and reckless driving. We have conducted several refreshers courses, but the truck drivers are not paying any attention.” Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad said the ex gratia payment was made to the family members of the victims. 3 of a family crushed to death in Siwan Three persons, including two minor boys of the same family, were crushed to death by a truck at Millat Colony Mor under Sarai police outpost in Siwan on Tuesday. Sarai outpost incharge Bhagwan Tiwari said the deceased were identified as Faiyyaz Alam (6), Muskaan (10) and their maternal uncle Rehan Alam (20). Tiwari said one Shabana Khatoon (35), the mother of Faiyyaz and Muskaan, was critically injured in the accident. They were going on a bike to Chand Kudaria village under Mashrakh police station area in Siwan when the incident took place. He said the truck was seized but the driver managed to escape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/six-from-rosera-returning-from-tilak-die-in-accident/articleshow/81179281.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Wakf board claims Hafeezpet land its property||Hyderabad: Telangana State Wakf Board counsel AM Qureshi on Tuesday informed the high court that the land in survey number 80 of Hafeezpet in Rangareddy district belongs to the wakf board and that they have suspicions on the genuineness of the preliminary decree allegedly obtained by third parties on this land. He also narrated to a bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Vinod Kumar that his efforts to secure a copy of this preliminary decree did not yield any result so far. The wakf counsel made this statement when the bench was hearing two writ petitions filed by K Pravin Kumar and Sai Pavan estates challenging the decision of the authorities in notifying this land as wakf property. The bench, however, disagreed with the wakf counsel and told him that they got a copy of the decree from the registry and went through it. “You claim that you got this land through Munirunnisa. But, the record shows she has no right to give it to you,” the bench said. Additional advocate general J Ramachandra Rao said the land belongs to the state. The hearing would continue on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wakf-board-claims-hafeezpet-land-its-property/articleshow/81179266.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||K S Anilkumar is new KU registrar||Thiruvananthapuram: K S Anilkumar, principal, Kumbalathu Sankupillai Memorial Devaswom Board College, has been appointed as the new registrar of Kerala University. Anilkumar assumed charge from professor C R Prasad. Anilkumar, a member of the varsity senate, had twice worked as member in the university academic council. He had worked as principal in some other devaswom board colleges as well before he was appointed as the principal of Kumbalathu Sankupillai Memorial Devaswom Board College at Sasthamcotta. He has 24 years of teaching experience and is a research guide. He had completed his MTech and PhD from Kerala University. Earlier, Anilkumar has worked as state IT Mission e-governance head and e-government procurement project nodal officer. He currently holds the additional charges of Travancore Devaswom Board IT Mission head and nodal officer of Sabarimala pilgrim management system. Meanwhile, there were voices of dissent from higher education circles regarding the haste with which the university filled the post. There were allegations that the university hurriedly conducted the selection process as short-listed candidates were not informed about the interview well in advance as prescribed by the rules. For over four years, C R Prasad, professor with department of Malayalam, Kariavattom campus, had been holding the additional charge of registrar. It is learnt that pro-left members of the Kerala University syndicate pressurised the authorities to recruit the new registrar immediately. The syndicate meeting held on Monday, within hours of conducting the interview, approved the selection and appointed Anilkumar as the registrar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/k-s-anilkumar-is-new-ku-registrar/articleshow/81181246.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Eligibility exam to replace aptitude test for SSC students, to be offline||Aurangabad: The SSC aptitude test started by the previous BJP-led government has been scrapped by MVA and a special eligibility test has been planned for students. Dinkar Patil, chairperson, Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, said on Tuesday the proposed eligibility test would be more scientific in nature. “The new test would be conducted offline—unlike the online aptitude test held in the past. We will rope in experts from the District Institute of Education and Training to conduct it and evaluate students on several parameters to gauge their inclination towards different career options,” he said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/eligibility-exam-to-replace-aptitude-test-for-ssc-students-to-be-offline/articleshow/81179291.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Trichy||Renowned structural engineer C Natarajan passes away in Trichy||Trichy: Renowned structural and forensic engineer C Natarajan, 65, who was instrumental in the restoration of many old structures in Trichy, died on Tuesday. Natarajan was a professor of the civil engineering department of National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy, and was undergoing treatment for the past two years after meeting with a road accident. He was survived by his wife and three daughters. He also held the post of dean, planning and development before retiring in July last year. In his three decades of teaching, research and consultancy experience, he had brought many reforms in institute affairs, set up several labs, and introduced the ME programme in structural engineering. Natarajan’s contributions to his field were widely recognized and he was a recipient of many awards including the Karikalan award from the Builders Association of India. He also received best teacher award from NIT. He was also an expert in health monitoring of structures and was instrumental in the restoration of many buildings in St Joseph’s College. One of his daughters N Madhavi said her father was instrumental in the restoration of the more than a century-old Our Lady of Lourdes Church near main guard gate. “He gave his ideas to restore the heritage structure without demolishing it. He has designed many hotels not only in Trichy but across Tamil Nadu,” she said. He was also the third-party consultant for the new terminal building that is being constructed at the Trichy International Airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/renowned-structural-engineer-c-natarajan-passes-away-in-trichy/articleshow/81180774.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Shimla||MC elections to be fought on party symbols in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: The coming elections of municipal corporations in Himachal Pradesh would be conducted on party symbols as the state cabinet on Tuesday decided to carry out amendments in Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1994 and Himachal Pradesh Municipal Corporation Elections Rules, 2012. These amendments would also pave the way for providing reservation for OBCs, provision of disqualification on grounds of defection, strengthen provisions of no-confidence motion. The cabinet, during a meeting chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, also gave approval to the governor’s address to be delivered during the budget session of the state assembly. The cabinet gave its approval to provide government land on a lease basis at the rate of Re 1 per month for a period of 99 years in Mauja Dhaulakuan in Paonta Sahib tehsil of Sirmaur district measuring 122-08 bighas in favour of Dr Y S Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, at Dhaulakuan, for establishing Regional Horticulture Research and Training Station for the benefit of farmers. It gave its consent to construct additional accommodation at Sundernagar rest house in Mandi district at a cost of Rs 3.9 crore to provide better boarding and lodging facilities to the employees and general public during official tours. The cabinet also decided to extend special land acquisition unit at Nalagarh in Solan district and also engage staff on a re-employment/ fixed emoluments basis for a period of one year from January 1, 2021 as the land acquisition work in the stretch of Baddi-Nalagarh road length of 18 kms under NHAI project director, Shimla, was being done by land acquisition collector, Nalagarh. It also approved the proposal to modify penalties and fines under Section 210A of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019 as well as to specific authorities competent to compound the offences under Section 200 of the Act. This was being done to ensure safety of the people, by motivating the people to adopt save driving. It also gave its nod to extend the engagement of 2,555 SMC (school management committees) teachers already engaged under SMC teachers’ policy in elementary and higher education departments for the academic session 2021-22. The cabinet gave its consent to rename Government Senior Secondary School Manoh in Hamirpur district as ‘Shaheed Ankush Thakur Government Senior Secondary School, Manoh’ as a mark of respect to the Galwan martyr Ankush Thakur. It decided to implement Mukhya Mantri Krishi Kosh Scheme for Farmer’s Producer Organizations (FPOs)-2020 for providing incentives, concessions and facilities for eligible FPOs of the state. Under the scheme, FPOs could avail seed money up to 30% of the total project cost with a maximum ceiling of Rs 6 lakh or one-and-a-half times of equity raised by the FPOs, whichever was less. The scheme would also ensure credit guarantee cover for bank loan, interest subsidy etc. Box: Other important decisions To provide reservation of one seat in ANM or BSc (Nursing) courses for eligible widows below 45 years of age in each nursing institute of the state Amendment in Mukhya Mantri Swavlamban Yojna 2019 to reduce the burden of loan on the entrepreneurs and the subsidy would be deposited in the term loan account of the borrower and would be adjusted only after three years To fill up 12 posts of junior office assistant (IT) in prosecution department on a contractual basis through direct recruitment. To fill up four posts of deputy superintendent of police on a regular basis through direct recruitment To fill up eight posts of junior office assistant (IT) in geological wing of industries department on a contractual basis To fill up one post of DIC manager in industries department on a contractual basis through direct recruitment To fill up two posts of junior office assistant (IT) in information technology department on a contract basis To fill up one post of assistant director, factories (chemical) on a contract basis in labour and employment department||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/mc-elections-to-be-fought-on-party-symbols-in-hp/articleshow/81179278.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Lockdown, rumours make many stay indoors in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: The fear of contracting Covid infection and also rumours about it’s lockdown made many stay indoors not just in the cities in Vidarbha where lockdown has been enforced, but also where only Covid restrictions have been imposed. Barring sporadic movement of people to buy essentials till 3pm, roads and main squares in Amravati wore a deserted look. Similar scenes were witnessed in Achalpur, Akola, Murtijapur and Akot towns in Amravati division. In Nagpur, streets in usually busy market areas had enough space for vehicles to move freely on Tuesday even though only restrictions have been imposed in the city. Shopkeepers sat with arms resting on their chins waiting for a customer to turn up. Markets in Nagpur, which are supposed to shut down at 9pm, bore a deserted look throughout the day. Shopkeepers said the crowds have dwindled slowly since a week. This was due to the news that Covid cases are rising again. With the restrictions imposed, many are thinking that it’s lockdown, said local vendors. Fifty-year-old Hema Dalal, who sells crockery on the streets in Mangalwari market, said she was not aware that weekly markets have been shut till March 7. “Since I had come down, I thought of better trying my luck as well, but haven’t sold a single piece yet,” she said. The tales that were heard often during the lockdown days were heard again. “I move around weekly markets each day. My husband passed away, and I have to bring up my three daughters. It will be tough if there is no business till March 7,” she said. In Mominpura, the streets were not deserted but the crowds were much lesser than it has been usually. The area was declared a containment zone last year. “Business was dull,” said vendors here, as the famous Mominpura eateries were also empty. The fear was evident in the locality. “The number of persons turning up for Covid tests has gone up by three times, as against last month. But those tested positive can be counted on the fingers,” said an attendant at the NMC testing centre in Mominpura. There were no signs of crowd in Sitabuldi too. “People are scared about getting infected. Shops can remain open till 9pm, but the curbs have affected travel to the city also. The shops here depend on customers from nearby pockets,” said a street vendor here. “It’s evening and I have earned just Rs20,” lamented Lalta Prasad, an aged chana seller. Fruit sellers in Mangalwari cater to the upper class clients. However, Anil Sahu, one of the vendors, said the sales are down for nearly a week. “It may be due to Covid or people have cut down on spending,” said another. Apart from street shops, even stores selling branded ware were empty. Amravati restaurants, hotels, gyms, swimming pools, indoor stadiums, religious places etc remained shut while retail medical shops also put down shutters after 3pm following collector’s orders. In Anjangaon Surji, a fine of Rs25,000 was recovered from one Jahid Khan Yusuf Khan for violating marriage reception restriction on number of guests. He has also been booked under Section 188. Association of Marriage Hall and Lawn Owners has raised concern saying if buses to even aircraft are running at full capacity, why should there be a limit of 50 persons for weddings. Like other events, it should be 200 persons or 50% of capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-rumours-make-many-stay-indoors-in-vid/articleshow/81179282.cms||Shishir Arya
February 24, 2021||Madurai||Madurai airport comes 2nd among 50||Madurai: Display of flight information boards, safety and security, availability of trolleys and helpfulness of staff have catapulted Madurai airport to the second position among 50 airports in the customer satisfaction survey conducted by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) between July and December 2020. Officials said that second position is the best achievement for the airport so far in the survey that is conducted every six months. Udaipur airport secured the first position in the survey with overall points of 4.84 Madurai and Tuticorin are the only airports from Tamil Nadu covered in the survey, officials said. Madurai secured 4.80 points out five points while Tuticorin secured the 29th position with a score of 4.42 points. Officials from the Madurai airport said that various parameters including parking facility, availability of trolleys, efficiency of check in staff, waiting time, helpfulness of staff, ease of finding way through the airport, availability of feeling safe and security and facility for eating are taken into account while taking the survey. While Madurai scored well in the flight information boards, feeling safe and secure, availability of trolleys and helpfulness of staff, it has fared badly in shopping options, internet accessibility, ambience, restaurant facility. Worst performance from the airport came from baggage delivery system with just 4.36 points. The airport had performed even badly in the parameter in 2019. Airport director S Senthil Valavan said, “Madurai airport has improved in various parameters compared to earlier years. However, there are two three areas in which we are lacking like eating facility and delay in security check-in and baggage delivery. If these areas are improved we can even secure number one position next time.” He said they are planning to revamp the ‘May I Help You’ teams available in the terminal by changing their attire from formal to traditional to make it look apart. They will also be made more passenger friendly. They are also planning to show short videos taken in tourist spots available in and around Madurai to engage passengers, while they are waiting at the terminal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-airport-comes-2nd-among-50/articleshow/81179273.cms||V Devanathan
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Bribery case: Two GST officials suspended||HYDERABAD: The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has suspended two GST officials — Bollineni Srinivasa Gandhi and Chilaka Sudha Rani — in connection with Rs 5 crore bribery scandal. Gandhi has been recently promoted from superintendent to assistant Commissioner on an ad hoc basis by CBIC of the ministry of finance. The CBI has registered an FIR against the accused but has not made any arrests. Sudha Rani and Gandhi were connected with an investigation into a case against Infiniti Metal Products India Private Ltd and its group of companies for wrongful availing of input tax credit. The duo conspired with other officials of GST department and demanded Rs 5 crore bribe from the group. He had earlier worked in ED. In July 2019, the CBI had conducted searches on properties of Gandhi, who was then an ED investigating official in several high profile cases, and found Rs 3.7 crore worth disproportionate assets. CBI’s second FIR was issued on September 11, 2019, based on a complaint by bribe giver Satya Sridhar Reddy Jagan, director of Bharani Commodities and Hyderabad Steels. Sudha Rani, who was deputy commissioner of GST, and Gandhi in March 2019 had detected a fake invoice fraud where Rs 1,289 crore was raised and Rs 224 crore illegal input tax credit involving eight companies linked to Sridhar Reddy and others. CBI booked FIR under IPC sections of criminal conspiracy and Prevention of Corruption Act. Gandhi has been recently promoted from superintendent to assistant Commissioner on an ad hoc basis by CBIC of the ministry of finance. CBI has filed FIR against accused||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bribery-case-two-gst-officials-suspended/articleshow/81179276.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Two more held in connection with January 26 Red Fort violence||NEW DELHI: Two men, including the president of the Jammu and Kashmir United Kisan Front, have been arrested in connection with the Red Fort violence. Police said both were active participants and key conspirators in the vandalism that occurred at Red Fort on January 26. According to police, the two were arrested with the support of Jammu and Kashmir police. The accused have been identified as Mohinder Singh (45), a resident of Chatta Mill, Satbari, Jammu, and Mandeep Singh (23), a resident of Gole Gujral, Jammu. “Mohinder is the president of Kashmir United Kisan Front. As per the information received, both the accused persons are active participants and key conspirators in the riot case of Red Fort,” a senior police officer said. On Monday, Delhi Police had made another arrest in connection with the Red Fort violence. The arrested man, a resident of Delhi’s Swaroop Nagar, had allegedly climbed atop one of the domes of the fort during the violence. The accused was identified as 29-year-old Jaspreet Singh alias Sunny. He was seen in an offensive gesture, said police. Watch Republic Day violence: Two accused arrested from Jammu||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-more-held-in-connection-with-january-26-red-fort-violence/articleshow/81179361.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Trichy||K’taka must not object to river-linking: Congress MP||Pudukottai: Stating that Karnataka must not oppose the Cauvery - Vaigai - Gundar river-linking project, Trichy MP Su Thirunavukkarasar on Tuesday said that he will raise his voice in Parliament against the Karnataka government for opposing the project. On Sunday, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for the commencement of the first phase of the project. Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa was quick to respond to the development by saying that they won’t allow Tamil Nadu to go ahead with the project.Thirunavukkarasar said that the project is to utilise excess water from Cauvery river and Karnataka must not oppose it. He also said that Palaniswami had failed to implement the project in the last four years but laid the foundation stone at the fag end of his tenure with an aim to woo the voters.On the interim budget, he said that the new schemes announced can only be viewed as an attempt to gain votes. Commenting on the fall of the Congress government in Puducherry, the MP said that it was a murder of democracy by making the MLAs to resign first and then orchestrating a drama asking the government to prove majority. Charging the BJP for capitalising on the differences within the Congress party to topple the government, Thirunavukkarasar said that DMK MP from Arakkonam S Jagathrakshakan, who was suspected to have played a role in toppling the government to strengthen the DMK in Puducherry, cannot be blamed for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ktaka-must-not-object-to-river-linking-congress-mp/articleshow/81180803.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Road to Delhi University likely to have entrance exam bumpers||NEW DELHI: With a common entrance test now a certainty for getting admissions in all central universities, Delhi University is likely to push for a system where both merit and the entrance test results will count for admissions. While many feel this is the right way forward, there are others in the university who would like to make the Central University Common Entrance Test (CUCET) the sole entry point into DU because this would help remove the tyranny of Class XII board marks in the admissions process. TOI had reported earlier that a mandatory, computer-based “high-quality aptitude test” conducted by National Testing Agency would determine admission to all central universities for the 2021-22 academic session. PC Joshi, acting vice-chancellor of DU and a member of the education ministry committee that recommended modalities for a university entrance exam, confirmed, “CUCET will be finalised soon and Delhi University will adopt it”. Sobha Bagai, DU dean of admissions for 2020-21, was certain that CUCET would benefit students and the university. “The entrance exam will ease admissions. Earlier, we did not know how to differentiate among students who had scored very high marks in Class XII. CUCET will help in this, like in our undergraduate courses that require admission tests,” she said. Gurpreet Singh Tuteja, former dean of students’ welfare at DU, also welcomed the move. “Admission via entrance exams is a time-tested process that DU has experience of for certain courses, where merit, the DU Entrance Test (DUET) marks and even an interview count,” Tuteja said. But he advised proper deliberation before implementing CUCET in DU. Ramanujan College principal S P Agarwal too was in favour of the entrance exam. “Admission through DUET uses the same formula of merit and entrance marks,” noted Agarwal. “In the merit system, the problem is that different boards have different scoring systems. This makes the admission process uneven in terms of diversity and demography. The 50:50 formula will ensure evenness and good students are bound to get admission.” However, Venkat Kumar, principal, Sri Venkateswara College, observed that CUCET’s impact on DU admissions would depend on the weightage the common entrance exam got. “If equal weightage is given to Class XII marks and CUCET scores, there would be no big difference from earlier,” Kumar said. “Higher weightage to Class XII would mean status quo, so only by giving more weightage to CUCET will there be a significant impact and the national entrance test will matter to students and to DU.” There are many in DU who feel this is the right time to do away with Class XII merit and implement CUCET to usher in a clearer admission system. Debraj Mookerjee, associate professor at Ramjas College, suggests DU should opt for one clear process: either the entrance exam or the marks scored in the board exams. ““I don’t know how they will go by a mixture of Class XII marks and the entrance scores. This will create one complication or another,” explained Mookerjee. He continued, “If Class XII marks are to be considered, the tabulation can happen only after verification, rendering the entire admission process as fraught as now, and probably requiring the list system. But if entirely done through the common university entrance exam, then admissions can be easier and students can choose their course preferences before colleges are assigned. This is how it is done with engineering and medical entrance exams.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/road-to-du-likely-to-have-entrance-exam-bumpers/articleshow/81179397.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana pulled up for non-submission of Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary ESZ proposal||CHANDIGARH: The Centre’s expert committee has pulled up the Haryana government for failing to submit a proposal for declaration of Eco Sensitive Zone (ESZ) around Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary falling under the state’s jurisdiction. “The state is responsible for non-submission of proposal,” the expert panel on ESZ said. The ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) has flagged this issue time and again but no credible action seems to have been taken by the state government, it added. The issue was discussed in the meeting of the expert committee held last month under the chairmanship of MoEFCC additional secretary Ravi Agrawal. The minutes of the meeting, a copy of which is with TOI, reads, “The proposal for declaration of ESZ around Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary, Haryana, has not been received from the state government as yet. The state government representative informed that the proposal is under pre-draft stage. The committee informed the representatives of the state government that as they are aware as per the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court (March 2, 2020), the stipulated time period for the submission of proposal by the state government was three months.” “Representative of the Haryana government informed the committee that ESZ proposal for Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary, Haryana, is being prepared and currently they are seeking inputs from other departments. The committee, therefore, informed the state that it (state) is responsible for non-submission of proposal. Further, the committee reiterated that as deliberated in the preceding items, in order to enable the ministry in integrating the ESZ boundaries in the digital support system, digitized map of the ESZ and protected area shall be submitted to the ministry at the earliest. The committee, based on the deliberation, advised the state government to immediately submit the draft ESZ proposal to the ministry keeping in view the legal obligations,” the panel added. Recently, the Chandigarh administration had even urged the Union government for early declaration of ESZ around Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary by neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-pulled-up-for-non-submission-of-sukhna-wildlife-sanctuary-esz-proposal/articleshow/81179309.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
February 24, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Award presented to Sattriya dancer||Thiruvananthapuram: Sattriya dancer Indira P P Bora was presented with the Guru Gopinath Desiya Natya Puraskaram here on Monday. Bora, a well-known exponent of the Assamese dance form was chosen for the award for the year 2019. In her acceptance speech, Bora expressed gratitude to Kerala for recognizing and fostering the traditional artform. The award, regarded as a high-profile one instituted to honour and encourage dancers and various dance forms across the country, carries a cash price of Rs 3 lakh, a statute designed by Kanayi Kunhiraman and a citation. Bora attended the award ceremony via video conference while Rajith Mahesh, a faculty of Guru Gopinath Nadanagramam, accepted the award on behalf of the artist from cultural affairs minister A K Balan. Nanthancode Vinayachandran was honoured with the Saparya Puraskaram instituted to recognize artists who have dedicated themselves for the propagation of various dance forms. Vinayachandran was selected for his overall contribution to the field of Kerala Natanam. The Saparya Puraskanam comprises a purse of Rs 50,000, a statute and a citation. Vattiyoorkavu MLA, V K Prasanth presided over the function held at the National Dance Museum at Natanagramam. Natanagramam vice-chairman K C Vikraman welcomed the gathering. Councillor I M Parvathy, museum expert committee chairman Dr Velayudhan, executive board members T Sasimohan, M Velappan and secretary Sudarsan Kunnathukal were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/award-presented-to-sattriya-dancer/articleshow/81181259.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||People have lost faith in TRS: Premender||Hyderabad: BJP MLC candidate of Warangal, Nalgonda and Khammam graduates constituency, Premender Reddy, on Tuesday expressed confidence of winning the polls and said that more people are approaching the BJP rather than TRS for a solution to their issues. He said that this is an indication that people have lost faith in the ruling party. He said that though he had lost the seat to the TRS last time, he will win with more than 50% votes this time around. “Last time, I had lost the same seat with very less margin. The TRS candidate had an edge in second and third preference votes, but the support now for BJP is overwhelming,” he said. Stating that employment issues will put the TRS in a spot, he said, “People have understood that by routing TRS, they will convey to the government the fact that many promises like unemployment allowance, PRC and job creation were not delivered,” he said. He also alleged that the TRS is sponsoring independent candidates to split votes. “If not all, many of the independent candidates are being supported by the TRS, but when graduates have decided against TRS, nothing can stop us,” he said. He further claimed that he is getting calls from Muslims too in support of BJP. “A few Muslim leaders from Warangal also called me up and said that they wanted to meet me,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-have-lost-faith-in-trs-premender/articleshow/81179311.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||RPF constable rescues man from platform gap||Mumbai: A female Railway Protection Force (RPF) constable rescued a passenger who got stuck in the gap between platform and rake. The passenger, Annasaheb Shere, was not injured. Shere, from Ahmednagar, was trying to board a moving CSMT-bound local at Ghatkopar station platform 2. at 12.12pm on February 21 but lost his balance and got stuck in the gap. The train dragged him along as onlookers raised an alarm. Trivedi, who was patrolling the platform, pulled him to safety. “Shere thanked the constable for her presence of mind,” said CR senior divisional security commissioner (RPF) Jitendra Shrivastava. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rpf-constable-rescues-man-from-platform-gap/articleshow/81180821.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: GMCH, IGGMCH stop physical classes as 81 students, doctors test Covid positive||NAGPUR: Both the medical colleges in the city have stopped theory and practical classes and switched to online teaching for an indefinite period after several undergraduate and postgraduate students tested positive within a week of resuming physical teaching.The move was taken much before the district and city administrations ordered educational institutions to shut down till March 7. At GMCH, 64 comprising 14 dental students, 17 MBBS, nine resident doctors, one faculty member, 14 nursing staff, and 9 Class III and IV employees have tested positive since February 8. At IGGMCH, 17 students have tested positive. These comprise a junior resident-I (JR), a JR-II, 10 first year MBBS students, three second-year MBBS and two final MBBS students. All the 17 are admitted in Ward 42 of the IGGMCH. “Over 200 close contacts of these students were tested and found negative. But a separate wing has been allotted for all the suspects to isolate them from other students. They have also been asked not to venture out for sometime,” officials said. Half of the 64 from GMCH students too are admitted in paying ward while others are in hostel. “We have asked them to limit their visit outside campus while close contacts need to be in isolation,” GMCH official said. Officials from both the medical colleges said beside rising cases in the city, entry of students from other states and cities has been one of the causes. None of the medical staff from both the colleges has so far tested positive this month. Over 150 doctors and 180 nurses are working in its Covid hospital and 280 doctors and 450 nurses in regular duties at GMCH. However, many of these healthcare workers had tested positive during the first Covid peak in Aug-September last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmch-iggmch-stop-physical-classes-as-81-students-docs-test-ve/articleshow/81179374.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Man tries to smuggle 1.8 kg gold at Hyderabad airport||HYDERABAD: Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) sleuths caught a passenger who arrived from Pune at RGI Airport while he was trying to smuggle out 1.86 kilo gold worth Rs 90.4 lakh on Monday night. The passenger is from Karnataka. He concealed six gold bars in his underwear. During the interrogation, the accused confessed that he picked up the gold bars concealed under a passenger seat of the aircraft. The Indigo aircraft (6E3126) in which the accused traveled from Pune to Hyderabad, has earlier during the day done a trip from Dubai - Hyderabad. DRI sleuths suspect that the smugglers might have concealed the gold under the seat through their gang member during the international trip of the aircraft.  The accused was booked under the Customs Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-tries-to-smuggle-1-8-kg-gold-at-rgia/articleshow/81179386.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Vij takes up Ambala civil airport issue with Rajnath||Chandigarh: Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij met Union defence minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi on Tuesday to discuss various issues pertaining to the state. Vij said discussions were held with the defence minister on the matter pertaining to the civil airport in Ambala cantonment under UDAN 3. He said permission to fly passenger aircraft on the Ambala Air Force Station’s airstrip was granted. A civil airport is required to be built near the Air Force Station and for this defence department land would be required, Vij said adding that he had urged the ministry of defence to constitute a team of officers both from central and state governments for the inspection of the site. He said an airline has already been allotted to Ambala and flights from Ambala to Lucknow and Srinagar have also been approved. Vij said he also met BJP national president J P Nadda in New Delhi and discussed several issues in detail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vij-takes-up-ambala-civil-airport-issue-with-rajnath/articleshow/81179321.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Trichy||E-braille reader to be given free to blind PG students||Trichy: Blind students pursuing their postgraduation (PG) and aspirants of competitive examinations, can, henceforth make use of the electronic braille reader issued by the state government. The portable, refreshable braille display and stand-alone reader equipment is equipped with features of a line of 20 braille cells with pins that can accurately represent any six or eight dot braille code in any language and for any discipline. It will read the content of files on a SD card stand-alone mode. In Trichy, the equipment will be issued by the district differently-abled welfare office (DDAWO) near Trichy district court campus to candidates categorised by the state government. Trichy collector S Sivarasu has asked the visually challenged people studying PG, other doctoral programmes and aspirants of government jobs to apply for the reader. DDAWO, Trichy, R Ravichandran said that the government has allotted 204 electronic braille readers for the entire state of which 10 have been reserved for the district. To avail of the facility provided free of cost, candidates should possess the knowledge of reading braille texts. The reader also has the provision of remote connectivity to PCs and mobile devices for use with a screen reader. Other features are – on-board translation from text to braille and from braille to text, on-board support for contracted braille, on-board support for over 40 languages, simple editing functions and signage-quality braille. Interested candidates can apply for the facility at the office of the DDAWO or contact the office at 0431-2412590 on or before February 26. Ravichandran told TOI that the number of visually challenged people adept at reading through braille method may be limited to 10 to 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/e-braille-reader-to-be-given-free-to-blind-pg-students/articleshow/81180817.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Madurai||54 cases in south TN, 41 in central districts||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state recorded 54 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the tally to 1,37,280, which include 372 active cases. Meanwhile, the central region reported 41 fresh cases, which saw the tally crossing the 77,000-mark on Tuesday. It took nearly three weeks for the region to add 1,000 more cases to its count. Kanyakumari reported 11 fresh cases, the highest in the region. There has been a marginal rise in the number of cases in the region in the past few days. The cases, which had been below fifty per day till about a week ago, have started rising. Kanyakumari (63) has the highest number of active cases, followed by Madurai (57), Dindigul (56), Sivaganga and Tirunelveli (53 each) and Tenkasi (34). The other districts had less than twenty active cases. The region maintains the toll at 2,136. Thanjavur recorded 14 cases, taking the tally to 18,017, the highest among other districts in the central region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/54-cases-in-south-tn-41-in-central-districts/articleshow/81179326.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Drunk truck driver who killed couple nabbed||Hyderabad: Alwal police arrested a truck driver in a recent fatal accident for causing death of two Nepali workers. The accused was drunk at the time of the accident. Police have also booked the truck owner for allowing his employee to drive despite knowing that he was drunk. Police have registered a case under sections 304-II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 188 of the Indian Penal Code and SEC 184, 185 of MV ACT R/W 109 IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-truck-driver-who-killed-couple-nabbed/articleshow/81179356.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Kolhapur||Big jolt to BJP as Cong-NCP win Sangli mayoral elections||Kolhapur: The Congress-NCP alliance on Tuesday won the mayoral seats in the Sangli Miraj Kupwad Municipal Corporation, in which the BJP enjoyed majority but suffered defeat due to defection by five of its corporators. Digvijay Suryawanshi of the NCP defeated Dhiraj Suryawanshi while Congress’ Umesh Patil trounced Gajanan Magdum to become mayor and deputy mayor, respectively. The Congress-NCP front bagged 39 votes against the BJP candidates’ 36 in the election that was held online. In 2018, the BJP won with clear majority for the first time in the civic body. It bagged 41 seats as against the Congress-NCP alliance’s tally of 35, while two seats were won by independents. The half-way mark in the civic body of 78 corporators is 39. The contest for the mayoral posts, held by the BJP for two-and-a-half years, had become a prestige issue for both BJP state president Chandrakant Patil and his NCP counterpart Jayant Patil. Seven BJP corporators had remained incommunicado over the last few days as they were unhappy with the choice of mayoral candidates by their party. Two corporators abstained from voting while one Congress corporator died a few months ago. The BJP leadership was claiming that they were in touch with some Congress corporators who would vote for the saffron party candidates. However, state minister Vishwajeet Kadam and Congress leader Jayashri Patil succeeded in keeping their flock of 19 corporators together. Soon after learning about disgruntlement among some BJP corporators, the Congress and NCP struck a deal for the seats and drew up a strategy to wrest the seats from the saffron party. NCP state spokesperson Mahesh Tapase said, “Chandrakant Patil attacked our party president during the graduate constituency election, but the BJP faced defeat. They lost in the Sangli civic body too. The BJP is losing after the Maha Vikas Aghadi came to power in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/big-jolt-to-bjp-as-cong-ncp-win-sangli-mayoral-elections/articleshow/81176084.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Chandigarh||Notification to acquire land for Sunni dam project issued||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh government has started the process to acquire over 698 bighas of land for the construction of 382MW Sunni dam hydroelectric project by issuing a notification under Section 11(1) of Land Acquisition Act. Land acquisition would result in displacement of 45 families. The social impact assessment of project-affected areas has revealed that 91% primary stakeholders were willing to surrender land for acquisition, provided appropriate compensation was paid and only 8% resisted the process. As per the notification, total 8,007 forest trees and 2,914 fruit-bearing trees are in the project area. Additional district magistrates of Mandi and Shimla have been designated as administrators for the purpose of relief and rehabilitation process as land to be acquired for the project fell in the two districts. Land proposed for the project would be acquired in the villages of Jaishi, Bharara, Khaira, Lunsu, Bathora, Pandhoa, Grehna, Talah, Ogli, Kothi, Malgi of Sunni tehsil; Jhjnjhun and Majrog of Kumarsain tehsil in Shimla disrtrict; and Jaqlin, Bhounra, Balog, Phaphan, Parlog, Beludhank, and Kharyali of Karsog tehsil of Mandi district. The project aims to harness the hydel potential of Satluj river between Rampur and Kol hydroelectric projects. The project is proposed to generate 1,369 million units (MU) of electrical energy in a 90% dependable year. Proposed project is located on Satluj river basin with Shimla district falling on its left bank and Mandi on right bank. The dam is located near Khaira village in Shimla district. Total land requirement for the project is 44,03,889 sq metre, of which 38,71,915 sq metre is forest land and 5,31,974 sq metre is private land||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/notification-to-acquire-land-for-sunni-dam-project-issued/articleshow/81179364.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Phase-3 preparation starts, over 7 lakh in 50-plus age group to get vax jabs||LUCKNOW: Registration for Phase-3 of mass vaccination drive against Covid-19, in which people in the age group of 50 years or above will be inoculated, is likely to begin later this week. The dates of vaccination will be decided as per the directions of the central government. In the phase I and II of the campaign, health and frontline workers were given their first dose. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said, “Registeration may begin in coming days. As per the estimate of the district administration, there are 7.41 lakh people in the district who are 50 years or above.” “These beneficiaries will be able to get themselves registered through their voter ID, Aadhaar card or any other identity proof with the date of birth mentioned on it,” he added. Another senior officer, who is a part of the planning for phase III, said multiple options were being created for registration as many among elderly might not be tech savvy. “These options include banks, post offices, Jan Sewa or E-Seva centres, CoWIN app and a dedicated website. It will be easier for them to register themselves at their nearest centre. The data will then be uploaded on CoWIN portal,” he added. District immunisation officer Dr MK Singh said, “It would be the biggest phase so far. We are planning to conduct it at 402 booths in nearly 292 centres which include 27 primary health care centres, 52 community health centres and nine district hospitals, besides government and private medical educational institutes and private hospitals in the district.” “The drive may be held in 15 rounds. SMS and calls will be made to inform beneficiaries about the time and venue of the vaccination,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/phase-3-preparation-starts-over-7l-in-50-plus-age-group-to-get-vax-jabs/articleshow/81180827.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Will seek CBI probe into T govt graft: BJP||Hyderabad: BJP Telangana affairs in-charge Tarun Chugh on Tuesday said that his party will demand a CBI investigation into the corruption by the state government and submit a report to the Centre. Speaking on the occasion of Congress in-charge of Sirpur-Kagaznagar constituency Palvai Harish Babu joining the BJP, he said, “We will not leave the corrupt TRS government till it gets punishment. This corrupt rule will end soon,” he said. Chugh alleged that police are totally partisan towards the TRS. He also alleged that TRS MLC Kalvakuntla Kavitha controls workers’ unions in Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL). “It would be better if corruption is nailed there,” he said, and added that the Centre has 49% stake in the SCCL. Meanwhile, BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar said that they would welcome leaders from all parties. “Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and TRS working president KT Rama Rao are spending sleepless nights because of us. Their corrupt rule will end soon,” he added. He said the TRS government has not kept its promise of providing jobs to local youth in industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-seek-cbi-probe-into-t-govt-graft-bjp/articleshow/81179368.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||AIMIM bags 7 wards in Ahmedabad||Asaduddin Owaisi’s party, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), made an impressive debut in Gujarat’s electoral politics, winning seven of the 21 wards which it contested in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) election. The party tasted success on a day when AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi held two public meetings in Gujarat ahead of the local body elections slated in state villages and towns on February 28. “AIMIM is thankful to Ahmedabad for voting for our candidates and believing in them. From day one, our councillors will work on the promises that we have made. For years, Congress had done nothing but unlike in the past, Muslims will not be ignored now,” Owaisi said at a public rally in the communally sensitive Godhra in Panchmahals, late on Tuesday evening. Apart from fielding 21 candidates in the AMC election, AIMIM is also contesting in the Godhra and Modasa municipalities, where voting will take place on February 28. All of AIMIM’s success in Ahmedabad has been directly at the cost of the Congress party. AIMIM won all four seats in Jamalpur ward and three of the four seats in Maktampura ward. All were held by the Congress in 2015. AIMIM, which is looking to spread its base across the country, has already announced that it will field candidates for the 2022 assembly elections as well. City leaders of the beleaguered Congress party admitted that the party’s own failure helped AIMIM gain a foothold in the city. “Two of the candidates who contested from Jamalpur ward on AIMIM ticket, namely Mushtaq Khadiwala and Mohammad Rafiq Shaikh, were strong Congress candidates who were denied tickets. In Maktampura, ex-Congress councillor Suhana Mansuri was denied ticket and later joined AIMIM. Such bad moves caused a large chunk of voters to move away from the Congress,” said a senior city-based leader. The complete indecision of the state Congress party leaders in finalising candidates even in wards where it had the edge led to major resentment among the cadre, which in turn caused infighting. This led to the Congress losing out seats in Jamalpur and Maktampura wards to the AIMIM, the leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mim-bags-7-wards-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/81179337.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
February 24, 2021||Coimbatore||Don’t close Tuticorin Sterlite plant, govt told||Coimbatore: The Railway Suppliers Association and Coimbatore Compressor Industries Association (COCIA) have written to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami requesting him to reconsider the decision to shut down Tuticorin Sterlite plant permanently. They said closure of the plant since May 2018 has led to refined copper production coming down by 50%, which in turn has led to prices of the metal to shoot up by 85% recently. The associations said before the lockdown copper price was at Rs 380 per kg, however since then it has spiked to Rs 712 per kg, a hike of 85% within a year. “This month alone, price has increased by 21% and banks estimate that the metal price will reach Rs 1000 per kg,” said COCIA president M Raveendran. “While closure of the Sterlite plant had lead to refined copper production to fall by more than 50%, import of the same increased by 120% in 2018-’19, and further increased by 70% in 2019-’20,” he said. The associations believe increasing indigenous copper production will shield small industries from further price increase. Industries also requested the government to adopt dual pricing policy with all major copper plants, making them to offer reasonable prices to Indian manufacturers, and also abolish customs duty on import of copper scrap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dont-close-tuticorin-sterlite-plant-govt-told/articleshow/81179424.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Kolkata||Cov +ve doc returns home after 48 days on ECMO||Kolkata: A 34-year-old paediatric dental surgeon, who had been on ECMO support for 48 days after she contracted Covid-19, was recently sent back home from the hospital. Doctors said 48 days is the longest a Covid patient had to fight under ECMO support in the country during this pandemic.Roshni Dey was infected mid-November. Around the same time, her husband Asis Ghosh, who is also a doctor, got infected as well. Both of them were admitted to the same hospital. While doctors were able to treat her husband in the general isolation ward, Dey had to be put under ventilation. Despite the ventilation support, her oxygen saturation kept dipping. That is when the ECMO team from Medica Superspecialty team came in.“We went to the hospital and put her on ECMO support to bring her to our hospital. We are happy that we could send her home recovered,” said Medica ECMO specialist Arpan Chakraborty.Though the patient did not have any co-morbidity, doctors said that since she was a dental surgeon she faced the occupational hazard of a humongous viral load because of which the battle was tough for her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-ve-doc-returns-home-after-48-days-on-ecmo/articleshow/81179417.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 24, 2021||Pune||RT-PCR method used for over 70% tests in Maharashtra now||MUMBAI: The more accurate RT-PCR test is now the predominant testing method used in the state. Data accessed by TOI shows that the use of RT-PCR was as high as 71%-73% on February 20 and February 21. Till December and most of January, the share of RT-PCR (50%) was as much as that of the rapid antigen test (50%), which though quicker is known to be less accurate. A Central team that visited Maharashtra a few weeks ago had directed that testing numbers should be increased drastically, including that of RT-PCR tests. In certain districts, over 70% of the tests were done using rapid antigen. Data showed that on February 20, of the 65,962 tests, 46,842 were done using RT-PCR. The data for February 21 too showed that 73% of the 48,141 tests carried out in the state on that day was using RT-PCR. The share of antigen has been reduced to 30% on most days. A senior state official said that districts have been asked to push up RT-PCR numbers following the spurt in cases. “As it is, no district was encouraged to use too much antigen, but because of the ease, it was preferred over RT-PCR. The turnaround time for RT-PCR remains 24 hours, and that tempts many to opt for antigen,” the official said. The dependence on antigen tests had vastly increased around August and September, when up to 55% tests were done using this method. The state, however, did a course correction soon after. The public health department had released a testing algorithm on August 21, spelling out the use of three testing modalities—RT-PCR, rapid antigen and TrueNat/CBNAAT— for different categories of patients and population. It stated that patients coming to hospitals with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) or influenza-like illnesses (ILI) and in need of immediate hospitalisation should be tested with the antigen test that gives an outcome in 30 minutes.  In Mumbai, AMC Suresh Kakani said 70% of tests are now done using RT-PCR. “Even as we push up testing numbers, the emphasis will be on RT-PCR,” he said. However, in the more interior districts, the RT-PCR scale-up could take a while. Dr Anil Rudey, civil surgeon of Gadchiroli, said they can test up to 100 samples a day in the sole RT-PCR lab. “We are looking at ways to scale up,” he said. In Amravati, one of the districts worst hit in the February surge, civic surgeon Dr Shyamsundar Nikam said they are currently using antigen mainly for mass testing in hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rt-pcr-method-used-for-over-70-tests-in-state-now/articleshow/81182258.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||RT-PCR method used for over 70% tests in Maharashtra now||MUMBAI: The more accurate RT-PCR test is now the predominant testing method used in the state. Data accessed by TOI shows that the use of RT-PCR was as high as 71%-73% on February 20 and February 21. Till December and most of January, the share of RT-PCR (50%) was as much as that of the rapid antigen test (50%), which though quicker is known to be less accurate. A Central team that visited Maharashtra a few weeks ago had directed that testing numbers should be increased drastically, including that of RT-PCR tests. In certain districts, over 70% of the tests were done using rapid antigen. Data showed that on February 20, of the 65,962 tests, 46,842 were done using RT-PCR. The data for February 21 too showed that 73% of the 48,141 tests carried out in the state on that day was using RT-PCR. The share of antigen has been reduced to 30% on most days. A senior state official said that districts have been asked to push up RT-PCR numbers following the spurt in cases. “As it is, no district was encouraged to use too much antigen, but because of the ease, it was preferred over RT-PCR. The turnaround time for RT-PCR remains 24 hours, and that tempts many to opt for antigen,” the official said. The dependence on antigen tests had vastly increased around August and September, when up to 55% tests were done using this method. The state, however, did a course correction soon after. The public health department had released a testing algorithm on August 21, spelling out the use of three testing modalities—RT-PCR, rapid antigen and TrueNat/CBNAAT— for different categories of patients and population. It stated that patients coming to hospitals with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) or influenza-like illnesses (ILI) and in need of immediate hospitalisation should be tested with the antigen test that gives an outcome in 30 minutes.  In Mumbai, AMC Suresh Kakani said 70% of tests are now done using RT-PCR. “Even as we push up testing numbers, the emphasis will be on RT-PCR,” he said. However, in the more interior districts, the RT-PCR scale-up could take a while. Dr Anil Rudey, civil surgeon of Gadchiroli, said they can test up to 100 samples a day in the sole RT-PCR lab. “We are looking at ways to scale up,” he said. In Amravati, one of the districts worst hit in the February surge, civic surgeon Dr Shyamsundar Nikam said they are currently using antigen mainly for mass testing in hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rt-pcr-method-used-for-over-70-tests-in-state-now/articleshow/81179419.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 24, 2021||Bareilly||Girl goes missing from college run by ex-Union minister Chinmayanand, found badly burnt near highway in UP’s Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: A 21-year-old college girl mysteriously disappeared from the campus on Monday morning and was found severely burnt hours later close to Delhi-Lucknow national highway in Tilhar area of UP’s Shahjahanpur district. Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand told TOI, “Who did this is still a mystery as the girl’s statements are inconsistent as she seems to be hiding someone’s name. She had left her phone at home and was not using any phone at the time of incident. In the night, she said that her friend Pinki knows everything and when we called Pinki for questioning we came to know that she was not aware of anything. Later she took the names of two youths and one of them was found to be in another state for the past several days. The second one was called for questioning. We are still verifying the facts coming forward after recording her statements. ” Her father said that he had dropped her at the college in the morning and was waiting outside the gate to pick her up. But he couldn’t find her. After examining CCTV footage of the area, police found her stepping out of the college premises, alone. The girl, meanwhile, said that she “doesn't remember what happened to her after she went to the third floor of the college building.” Police are questioning the girl’s friends to gather further details after registering an FIR against an unidentified accused under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by a weapon or means). ADG Avinash Chandra and IG Rajesh Kumar Pandey also visited Shahjahanpur and inspected the crime scene. The girl belongs to a family of a marginal farmer and lives in a village under the jurisdiction of Kaant area. SS College’s principal Avinash Mishra told TOI, “She did come to the college. But after an hour she left, all alone. There are no restrictions on entry and exit on college students. The CCTV footage clarified that she was absolutely fine when she left the college.” When asked about the possibility of sexual assault, the SSP said, “We cannot deny the possibility of sexual assault as the clothes of the girl were found removed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/college-girl-21-found-badly-burnt-near-highway-in-ups-shahjahanpur/articleshow/81176767.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Sub-inspector suffers injuries chasing drunk biker in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A sub-inspector suffered injuries while intercepting a drunk bike rider at KPHB colony on Tuesday. The accused managed to escape from the spot while police were busy shifting the injured cop to a hospital. A man hunt has been launched to nab him. At 12.30 am, a team of cops from Kukatpally traffic PS were conducting drunken driving check at JNTU Rythu Bazar on JNTU-Hitec city road. The team tried to intercept a bike going towards JNTU. Instead of stopping the vehicle, the biker tried to escape by driving in the wrong direction towards Forum mall.  “The offender rode the bike at high speed to escape from the traffic police and hit SI K Rajeshwar who tried to stop him. The bike rammed into barricades,” KPHB inspector S Laxmi Narayana said. The SI suffered a leg fracture and underwent surgery at a nearby hospital. Police have launched a man hunt to nab the accused. The offender rode the bike at high speed to escape from the traffic police and hit SI K Rajeshwar who tried to stop him. The bike rammed into barricades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/si-suffers-injuries-chasing-drunk-biker/articleshow/81179415.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||AAP vrooms into Gujarat’s electoral politics in style||AHMEDABAD: The Aam Aadmi Party positioned itself as a force to reckon with in Gujarat’s politics, as it opened its account in the civic body polls with an impressive showing in the Surat Municipal Corporation election. AAP won 27 of 120 seats becoming the key opposition party in the diamond city. “Congratulate the people of Gujarat for ushering new politics,” AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal tweeted. Emboldened by their maiden success, Kejriwal will hold a road show in Surat with an eye on garnering more seats in the rural elections slated on February 28. Read AlsoBJP sweeps Gujarat civic polls, AAP makes stunning debutBJP swept all the six municipal corporations of Gujarat, putting up its best performance in two decades by winning 483 of the total 576 seats and leaving main opposition Congress in tatters. AAP made a stunning debut in the state by winning 27 of the total 120 seats in Surat, virtually stamping out“People have established AAP as the opposition party in Surat. Before the 2022 assembly election, AAP will take to the streets to expose the BJP’s corruption. AAP will emerge as a strong opposition party across Gujarat, as the party will win many more seats in the rural local body polls,” said AAP Gujarat in-charge Gulab Singh, spelling out the party’s plans in the state. BJP state president CR Paatil termed AAP's victory in Surat a ‘nail in the golden plate’. “AAP has entered Surat and won most of the seats Congress lost. We will deliberate on how to deal with AAP,” said Paatil. He had earlier slammed AAP for winning by making false promises to voters. “People will regret choosing AAP,” said Paatil. Read AlsoSaffron surge in Ahmedabad: BJP gains in East, Patidar bastionsSaffron bloomed in the city as the BJP recovered the very same territories it had lost after the 2015 Patidar agitation which had scarred its political status. This was starkly visible in the eastern part of the city. The BJP wrested 16 seats from the Congress in the eastern part in the 2021Singh said that the party is working out it’s vote share in the municipal elections. “We may have won 27 seats but a large number of voters across cities voted for us. We will know this once we ascertain the vote share in a day or two,” said Singh. Voting data of 19 wards in Ahmedabad indicated AAP had won a 5% vote share against Congress’s 28%. In Rajkot too where the Congress was decimated, there were reports of AAP causing a major dent to the party’s prospects. Read AlsoDebutant AIMIM bags 7 Ahmedabad municipal corporation seatsAHMEDABAD: Asaduddin Owaisi’s party, All India Majlies-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), made an impressive debut in Gujarat’s electoral politics, winning seven of the 21 seats it contested in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) election. The party tasted success on a day AIMIM chief AsaduddinAAP is set to position itself as a formidable opposition party in Gujarat at a time when a weakened Congress is fast losing both it’s leaders and support base. In fact, of the 27 seats AAP won in Surat, 25 were held by Congress. Some four candidates of the Congress lost their deposits in Ward 17 Puna (east) against AAP candidates, who scored a lead of over 25,000 votes. The party primarily found favour in Patidar-dominated areas of Amroli, Varachha, Kapodra, Puna and Katargam, which are hubs of diamond cutting and polishing and the majority of the artisans belong to Saurashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aap-vrooms-into-gujarats-electoral-politics-in-style/articleshow/81179423.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Kolhapur||KMC takes over waste processing facility||Kolhapur: The temporary suspension of the firm selected to run the 200 tonne capacity waste-to-energy plant came into effect on Tuesday and the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has taken over the operation of the plant. The facility was shut for the last one month due to which garbage collection and its processing was hampered badly. Despite repeated requests the private firm could not start the facility and finally civic administrator Kadambari Balkawade had to sign the order, issuing temporary suspension for six months. Vijay Patil, in-charge of waste processing management, said, “We have now formed a management committee comprising top KMC officials to look over the entire functioning of the plant. We have hired an agency to run different components such as biogas and dry waste processing components of the facility. We will add more staff to manage the plant effectively. The number of waste collection vans will be increased in the coming days.” Patil said the KMC will not face any serious challenge to run the plant of such large capacity. “The KMC is already running the biomedical waste processing plant for the last three years after we suspended the firm for poor management. We are quite confident to run the waste-to-energy plant effectively,” he said. Earlier, the waste-to-energy plant was meant to convert the waste into fuel along with generating electricity, but that could not happen due to the lethargy of the firm. “The KMC had agreed to pay Rs 308/tonne to the firm for processing the waste, but as the objective was not the civic body has not paid any money,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-takes-over-waste-processing-facility/articleshow/81176110.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Vani Devi declares assets worth Rs 5cr||Hyderabad: Former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao’s daughter S Vani Devi owns Rs 5 crore worth properties, according to an affidavit filed by her in the Mahbubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad graduates MLC constituency elections. Vani Devi is contesting on a TRS ticket. She owns agricultural land in Pamulaparthi in Siddipet district and inherited two houses in Hyderabad. According to the affidavit, Vani Devi has Rs 38 lakh worth gold jewellery. The movable assets of Rs 3 crore mostly include fixed deposits in various banks. Interestingly, she doesn’t own a car. She purchased six acres in 2016 and 2018 in Pamulaparthi and Gajwel in Siddipet, plots and a flat in Madhapur and inherited a house in Nallakunta, all worth around Rs 2 crore. Her income sources are salary, rent, interest and agriculture. Vani Devi is presently working as secretary of Surabhi Educational Society, in-charge chairman of Swami Ramananda Thirtha Memorial Committee, director of PV Global Education and a member of Swamy Ramananda Thirtha Socio-Economic Research Institute. In 2020-21, she earned an income of Rs 31 lakh. On the other hand, sitting MLC and BJP candidate N Ramchander Rao, who filed his nomination on Monday, owns Rs 3.1 crore properties. As per his affidavit, he is an accused in an abetment to a suicide case of research scholar Rohith Vemula in University of Hyderabad. In 2016, Gachibowli police had filed an FIR under section 306 of IPC and SC, ST (Atrocities Prevention) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vani-devi-declares-assets-worth-rs-5cr/articleshow/81179422.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 24, 2021||Trichy||Key projects announced by Jaya for Trichy still unfulfilled||Trichy: While the ruling AIADMK gears up to celebrate the birth anniversary of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa on Wednesday, the key projects announced by her for the city during her tenure as an MLA of Srirangam remain unfulfilled.After being elected from the Srirangam assembly segment in 2011, the frequent visits by Jayalalithaa to Trichy and Srirangam helped the city remain in the limelight. She also announced a slew of projects for Trichy. One of the them was the proposal to establish an integrated vegetable market complex in Kallikudi for relocating the wholesale vegetable traders from Gandhi market, as it was saturated. Although the complex was completed in 2018 at a cost of Rs 80 crore facility, the government had failed to make use of it and the Gandhi market continues to function from the same complex.Another proposal that was put on hold was the satellite bus stand for Srirangam island. Though a site was identified near the Yatri Nivas in 2013, the corporation said that the location was unviable and shelved the project in 2020. “A proposal for the scent factory in Srirangam announced by Jayalalithaa has not made any progress either. The ruling party has ignored the key demands of Trichy ever since her death,” Suresh Venkatachalam, coordinator, Arangama Nagar Nala Sangam told TOI. An assurance to resolve the land dispute in claiming ownership of land between the management of the Arulmigu Ranganathaswamy temple and the nearby residents also stands unaddressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/key-projects-announced-by-jaya-for-trichy-still-unfulfilled/articleshow/81180842.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 24, 2021||Navi-mumbai||RT-PCR method used for over 70% tests in Maharashtra now||MUMBAI: The more accurate RT-PCR test is now the predominant testing method used in the state. Data accessed by TOI shows that the use of RT-PCR was as high as 71%-73% on February 20 and February 21. Till December and most of January, the share of RT-PCR (50%) was as much as that of the rapid antigen test (50%), which though quicker is known to be less accurate. A Central team that visited Maharashtra a few weeks ago had directed that testing numbers should be increased drastically, including that of RT-PCR tests. In certain districts, over 70% of the tests were done using rapid antigen. Data showed that on February 20, of the 65,962 tests, 46,842 were done using RT-PCR. The data for February 21 too showed that 73% of the 48,141 tests carried out in the state on that day was using RT-PCR. The share of antigen has been reduced to 30% on most days. A senior state official said that districts have been asked to push up RT-PCR numbers following the spurt in cases. “As it is, no district was encouraged to use too much antigen, but because of the ease, it was preferred over RT-PCR. The turnaround time for RT-PCR remains 24 hours, and that tempts many to opt for antigen,” the official said. The dependence on antigen tests had vastly increased around August and September, when up to 55% tests were done using this method. The state, however, did a course correction soon after. The public health department had released a testing algorithm on August 21, spelling out the use of three testing modalities—RT-PCR, rapid antigen and TrueNat/CBNAAT— for different categories of patients and population. It stated that patients coming to hospitals with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) or influenza-like illnesses (ILI) and in need of immediate hospitalisation should be tested with the antigen test that gives an outcome in 30 minutes.  In Mumbai, AMC Suresh Kakani said 70% of tests are now done using RT-PCR. “Even as we push up testing numbers, the emphasis will be on RT-PCR,” he said. However, in the more interior districts, the RT-PCR scale-up could take a while. Dr Anil Rudey, civil surgeon of Gadchiroli, said they can test up to 100 samples a day in the sole RT-PCR lab. “We are looking at ways to scale up,” he said. In Amravati, one of the districts worst hit in the February surge, civic surgeon Dr Shyamsundar Nikam said they are currently using antigen mainly for mass testing in hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/rt-pcr-method-used-for-over-70-tests-in-state-now/articleshow/81181903.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 24, 2021||Thane||RT-PCR method used for over 70% tests in Maharashtra now||MUMBAI: The more accurate RT-PCR test is now the predominant testing method used in the state. Data accessed by TOI shows that the use of RT-PCR was as high as 71%-73% on February 20 and February 21. Till December and most of January, the share of RT-PCR (50%) was as much as that of the rapid antigen test (50%), which though quicker is known to be less accurate. A Central team that visited Maharashtra a few weeks ago had directed that testing numbers should be increased drastically, including that of RT-PCR tests. In certain districts, over 70% of the tests were done using rapid antigen. Data showed that on February 20, of the 65,962 tests, 46,842 were done using RT-PCR. The data for February 21 too showed that 73% of the 48,141 tests carried out in the state on that day was using RT-PCR. The share of antigen has been reduced to 30% on most days. A senior state official said that districts have been asked to push up RT-PCR numbers following the spurt in cases. “As it is, no district was encouraged to use too much antigen, but because of the ease, it was preferred over RT-PCR. The turnaround time for RT-PCR remains 24 hours, and that tempts many to opt for antigen,” the official said. The dependence on antigen tests had vastly increased around August and September, when up to 55% tests were done using this method. The state, however, did a course correction soon after. The public health department had released a testing algorithm on August 21, spelling out the use of three testing modalities—RT-PCR, rapid antigen and TrueNat/CBNAAT— for different categories of patients and population. It stated that patients coming to hospitals with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) or influenza-like illnesses (ILI) and in need of immediate hospitalisation should be tested with the antigen test that gives an outcome in 30 minutes.  In Mumbai, AMC Suresh Kakani said 70% of tests are now done using RT-PCR. “Even as we push up testing numbers, the emphasis will be on RT-PCR,” he said. However, in the more interior districts, the RT-PCR scale-up could take a while. Dr Anil Rudey, civil surgeon of Gadchiroli, said they can test up to 100 samples a day in the sole RT-PCR lab. “We are looking at ways to scale up,” he said. In Amravati, one of the districts worst hit in the February surge, civic surgeon Dr Shyamsundar Nikam said they are currently using antigen mainly for mass testing in hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/rt-pcr-method-used-for-over-70-tests-in-state-now/articleshow/81181902.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 24, 2021||Delhi||LG reviews work on 77 corridors||New Delhi: Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday reviewed the ongoing work on decongestion of 77 corridors across the city and directed officials to complete it within the given time frame. During a meeting, Baijal directed agencies, including PWD, municipal corporations, power companies and the traffic police, to work in coordination and ensure completion of outstanding tasks within the laid down timeline. Pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lg-reviews-work-on-77-corridors/articleshow/81197821.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Lessons in saving trees for 20 agencies||NEW DELHI: Over 20 agencies were called to Delhi secretariat on Tuesday by Delhi forest department, where they were sensitised about the best practices to follow during construction, trenching and digging projects. Following orders of Delhi High Court to ensure agencies did not violate norms and damaged trees while carrying out work, the forest department issued a warning to each agency to ensure compliance. It added that a fine of Rs 10,000 would be imposed for every tree found concretised or damaged in their jurisdictions. Among the agencies called include Delhi Jal Board, Public Works Department, Delhi Cantonment Board, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, New Delhi Municipal Council, Delhi Development Authority and National Capital Region Transport Corporation. The department had called in environmental experts Vallari Sheel, who in the past has conducted a number of tree censuses, and Prabhakar Rao from NGO Kalpavriksha. Sheel in her presentation explained how trenching work was cutting off roots, leading to subsequent death of trees. Rao explained how pruning could be done without damaging the trees. “Experts were called in on orders of Delhi High Court to inform each agency of the guidelines and the best practices to follow while carrying out work near trees. In the past, we had found trees and their roots were getting damaged due to improper practices. A link along with the tree helpline number are available on our website, and if any complaint is registered against any agency for violations, fines will be imposed on them,” said a senior forest official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lessons-in-saving-trees-for-20-agencies/articleshow/81179427.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Take up agitations for youth: Uttam||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy exhorted Youth Congress members to take up agitations against communal politics being pursued by BJP government at the Centre and corruption in irrigation projects being executed by the TRS government in the state. Addressing a two-day training camp of Youth Congress at Patancheru on Tuesday, Uttam asked Youth Congress members to organise interactive programmes with the youth to identify and understand their problems. “Take up the issue of unemployment in Telangana and in the country on a large scale,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/take-up-agitations-for-youth-uttam/articleshow/81179407.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Covaxin allowed for non-GMCH staff in Nagpur, 3 more districts||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has permitted healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) to take Covaxin jab at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) centre in the city. Administering Covaxin dose has also been started for these two categories at district general hospitals in three districts of Vidarbha. NMC medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar told TOI, “Government had made Covishield available at all centres since January 16, but Covaxin was given only for HCWs at GMCH. Therefore, we did not allow others. Now, any registered HCW or FLW can take Covaxin shot at GMCH. The beneficiaries will have to sign an undertaking and submit report of adverse event following immunization (AEFI).” All requisite trials of Covaxin are pending hence the undertaking is must, he said. Of the total 5,210 HCWs registered at GMCH, 1,925 (36.95%) have taken the jab in the last 39 days. Amravati civil surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam said, “We have made Covaxin available for HCWs, other than staff of the district general hospital, from the second day. There is no hesitancy in HCWs and also FLWs here in taking Covaxin. There were no major cases of AEFI in Covaxin, so many opted for it here.” Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde took Covaxin dose at GMCH on Tuesday. Dr Shinde said, “Covaxin has less reactogenicity compared to Covishield, hence there should be no apprehensions. Efficacy level of both the vaccines is said to be same.” NMC should make available both — Covishield and Covaxin — at all vaccination centres, he said. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B is likely to become first FLW in the city to take Covaxin jab, apart from a few others from NMC, on Wednesday. Dr NK Arora from ICMR, in reply to city lawyer Ankita Shah on MoHFW’s Twitter handle, said, “Overall efficacy of Covishield is 70.42%. Extent of the Covaxin efficacy would be known in due course, but data has shown that Covaxin produces good amount of protective antibodies.” Government had made doses of Covaxin available at district general hospitals in Wardha, Gadchiroli, Bhandara, Washim and Buldhana on February 13. Washim civil surgeon Dr Madhukar Rathod said Covaxin was made available for HCWs and FLWs from Tuesday. Wardha civil surgeon Dr Sachin Tadas said, “There is good response to Covaxin here. We started administering Covaxin to both HCWs and FLWs a week ago.” Dr Nikhil Dokrimare of Bhandara district general hospital said Covaxin was made available for HCWs and FLWs from February 17. Buldhana civil surgeon Dr Nitin Tadas said Covaxin will be made available at district general hospital from Wednesday. Gadchiroli is yet to plan roll out of Covaxin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covaxin-allowed-for-non-gmch-staff-in-city-3-more-districts/articleshow/81179457.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 24, 2021||Coimbatore||Police fail to curb chain, phone snatching on Puttuvikki Road||Coimbatore: Three unidentified people have snatched a gold chain weighing three sovereigns from a woman on Puttuvikki Road here on Monday night. According to police, the incident took place when Sathish and his wife Lathika, 34, of Kuniyamuthur, were returning home from Kovaipudur. “When they were travelling on Puttuvikki Road, a three-member gang followed them on a motorcycle, snatched the gold from Lathika and sped away.” She alerted the city police, who conducted vehicle check across the city, but to no avail. Based on Lathika’s complaint, the Kuniyamuthur police have registered a case under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code and further investigation is on. Motorists are afraid to travel on Puttuvikki Road during night hours because of the presence of chain and mobile phone snatchers. If police fail to act immediately, Puttuvikki Road is likely to become infamous for these chain and mobile phone snatching gangs soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-fail-to-curb-chain-phone-snatching-on-puttuvikki-road/articleshow/81179461.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Business||We have concerns over cryptocurrencies: RBI governor||MUMBAI: Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das on Wednesday said the central bank has concerns that cryptocurrencies could impact financial stability. He also said that a central bank-issued digital currency is receiving RBI’s ‘full attention’ and is ‘very much in the game’. In an interview to a private TV channel, Das reiterated RBI’s statement that while it had concerns about cryptocurrency, the IT behind bitcoins—the blockchain technology—could provide benefits to the financial sector. The statement by the RBI governor indicates that despite a Supreme Court order stopping RBI from restricting banks from dealing with cryptocurrency, the central bank is not fully convinced. This expression of concern could discourage banks from allowing Indians to deal with bitcoins or providing services to bitcoin exchanges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/despite-sc-lifting-ban-rbi-concerned-by-cryptocurrency/articleshow/81200174.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: New link eases Tallah bridge closure pangs||KOLKATA: The new Metro has come as a boon for thousands on Kolkata’s northern fringes, who have been suffering commuting woes daily in the absence of the Tallah bridge. “The Dakshineswar Metro link is a gift. I managed to zip from Dunlop to Park Street in 28 minutes for just Rs 20,” said Jayanta Chakraborty, 56, the first commuter to reach Baranagar Metro station at 7.04am on Tuesday. The administrative manager of Apeejay School and resident of R N Tagore Road (near Dunlop) said, “Before this Metro link, I tried all kinds of routes. Sometimes I took an L9 bus from Baranagar to Park Street. I also availed of the Metro from Dum Dum station after an extremely uncomfortable Dankuni local train journey till Dum Dum station. Sometimes I took multiple autos to reach a nearby Metro station.” Times ViewThis link may help a lot of commuters but it is imperative that the Tallah bridge is completed as soon as possible.Belghoria resident Badal Chatterjee echoed, “The Baranagar station is the best thing to have happened to us.” The 58-year-old north Kolkata lifeline or the Tallah road overbridge (ROB), which used to be a crucial link between the city and the northern fringes, had weakened beyond repair and was closed. The state government has fixed a January 2022 deadline to complete the new bridge, which will link BT Road and Shyambazar over the Tallah rail tracks. But officials of PWD, the implementing agency, said more time may be needed for the commissioning. The bridge, under the Eastern Railway’s ambit, needs the zonal railway’s approval at various stages of construction. So, the 4.1km Dakshineswar extension of the north-south Metro route is being seen as a saviour of office-goers from Dunlop, Bonhooghly, Ariadaha, Belghoria and other areas of the city’s northern fringes. A number of them had been using the Noapara Metro station, roads to which are narrow and pothole-ridden. A few made it to Dum Dum Metro station, which is quite difficult to access because of diversions from BT Road to Paikpara and the Chitpore Lockgate. These areas have become much more congested than before. “The ride is comfortable through the aesthetically-made stations along the Noapara-Dakshineswar stretch. The elevated tracks go via Baranagar station, which has now emerged as a crucial link,”a Metro Railway official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-link-eases-tallah-bridge-closure-pangs/articleshow/81179433.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||CP blast officers over yet another goon murder||Nagpur: An exasperated City police chief Amitesh Kumar on Tuesday is learnt to have given an earful to senior officers of Sonegaon police station over goons killing a rival a day ago even when the top brass has launched ‘Operation wash out’ and other anti-crime measures against criminals with records. Kumar was left angered after learning that most of the cops from the crucial detection branch wing of the police stations were on leave and there had been no replacements provided by senior officers. One of the police vehicles too developed a technical snag. “Though the criminals were mostly from the jurisdiction of the Ranapratapnagar police station, the CP’s vision is to create fear of law among the goons with repeated action and police presence,” said a source. The top cop was also left disappointed as dreaded goon Nilesh Naidu, who had stepped out of jail on February 19, was killed by his rivals, Mayur Sherekar and his gang, who have several cases but no tough measures were initiated against them which could have put a spanner in their wheel. Cops were also caught on the wrong foot as they had no inputs regarding the raging rivalry between the two groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cp-blast-officers-over-yet-another-goon-murder/articleshow/81176118.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Truck overturns, 2 workers from Odisha die at construction site||Hyderabad: Two migrant workers from Odisha died when a truck overturned and fell on them at a construction site in Pet Basheerabad. Pet Basheerabad inspector S Ramesh said the incident happened at 11.30am. A truck carrying load of steel rods came to the construction site where cellar and basement construction was happening. As the driver was slowly manoeuvring the truck in reverse to the spot over a slope, it turned turtle and crashed 10 feet below, the inspector said. Two construction workers, Upender, 21, Manohar, 20, from Odisha, suffered injuries when the truck collapsed on them. Upender died on the spot. Manohar succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment at a nearby hospital, inspector said. Accused were absconding and a manhunt was launched to nab them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/truck-overturns-2-workers-from-odisha-die-at-construction-site/articleshow/81179446.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Kailash Gahlot takes Switch Delhi pledge, asks city to join him||NEW DELHI: Transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Tuesday launched a “Switch Delhi pledge” at a webinar that sought commitment from Delhiites to switch to electric vehicle or install a charging point on their premises. The event, which is a part of the Switch Delhi campaign, was organised by Dialogue and Development Commission in association with WRI India. It hosted two panels that saw discussions with EV adopters and experts, while the other debated how youth could drive the EV movement in Delhi. “The Switch Delhi pledge, available on ev.delhi.gov.in/pledge, has been launched to cement the commitment of Delhiites to be a part of the EV revolution in Delhi and make it the EV capital of the country. I encourage all Delhiites to take this pledge if you are going to switch to an EV and/or install a charging point on your premise in the next three years. I have taken this pledge today and hope everyone will do the same,” Gahlot said. The minister added that it had been a challenging journey to ensure the transition was smooth. “I am happy and proud to tell you that over 7,000 new EVs have been registered in Delhi, and a total subsidy of around Rs 13.5 crore approved for over 210 models have been disbursed so far,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gahlot-takes-switch-delhi-pledge-asks-city-to-join-him/articleshow/81179523.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nashik||Nashik Inc appeals to people to follow all Covid norms||Nashik: The industrial and business fraternity of Nashik has appealed to the residents of the district to follow Covid-19 safety norms to prevent the spread of the infection so that the district administration refrains from announcing the lockdown. Taking serious cognisance of the rise in Covid-19 cases during the last few days, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal declared imposition of night curfew in Nashik city between 11pm and 5am from Monday. However, essential services have been excluded from the restrictions. The industrialists said that lockdown will have a disastrous impact on the economy of the district. Both the industrial associations and traders outfit reminded people that production and business in the district had a telling impact during the lockdown last year. Now that things have returned to normalcy, any more lockdown would jeopardize the business and revival would be an herculean task. The associations have also directed its members to ensure that their employees strictly adhere to the Covid-19 safety norms. “There is no impact of Covid-19 on manufacturing, but we are concerned about the rising cases. Industries are following the Covid-19 safety protocols, but they are not being followed in market places. Hence, everyone should take precautions to prevent Covid-19 pandemic,” Harishankar Banerjee, former president of Nashik Industries& Manufacturers’ Association, said. “Raw material availability is still a problem and their prices have also increased. Hence, we can’t afford another lockdown. Hence, all individuals need to take precautions,” he added. Varun Talwar, president of Ambad Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (AIMA), said that after last year’s lockdown, the industrial growth has revived fully. “The automobile, electric, construction and infrastructure sectors have fully recovered, but the industries will suffer severely if we face another lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-inc-appeals-to-people-to-follow-all-covid-norms/articleshow/81176119.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 24, 2021||Trichy||As traders oppose service roads along NH, residents plan to boycott them||Trichy: In protest against the opposition of a section of traders towards acquiring land for laying service roads along Trichy-Thanjavur NH, residents of the area have planned to boycott the shops of the traders. The traders pitched for an elevated highway instead of acquiring land and demolishing shops, but the residents termed it a diversion tactic to delay the project. Though the NH 83 was commissioned in 2012, service roads for a 14.5-km stretch between Palpannai and Thuvakudi were not laid. Over a period of time multiple commercial complexes cropped along the NH, and the traders approached the high court seeking a stay as their properties are likely to be acquired for the road. But, the high court urged the state government to complete the service roads in 2019. Subsequently, the district administration has completed 90% of the preliminary land acquisition work. But a section of traders on the stretch opposed the land acquisition. They staged a token hunger strike in protest at Thiruverumbur. Reacting to the traders’ move, residents attached to the Federation for Retrieval of Trichy-Palpannai-Thuvakudi Service Road have announced that they will boycott the shops of the traders who oppose the service lanes. “Several people have died in accidents due to the absence of service roads along the NH. Traders are trying to scuttle the progress made in establishing service lanes for their personal benefits. So, we will boycott their shops,” S Sakthivel, convenor of the federation, said. The federation will soon convene a meeting and ask the residents of five added wards in Thiruverumbur, Kailash Nagar and Kattur to boycott the shops. Questioning the silence of the traders all these years, the residents said that they do not have trust in political parties as they may support the traders after the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/as-traders-oppose-service-roads-along-nh-residents-plan-to-boycott-them/articleshow/81180845.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||IIM-Varchasva fest goes online this year||Lucknow: Manfest-Varchasva, annual business, cultural and sports fest of the Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow, will be held online on February 27 and 28. Students from top business schools and undergraduate colleges will participate. Bollywood singer KK and stand-up comedian Vipul Goyal will enthral the audience through online concert. In the ‘Icons’ series, Infosys founder NR Narayan Murthy; chief economic advisor, GoI, KV Subramanian; managing director and CEO of Marico Ltd, Saugata Gupta; chess master Tania Sachdev; country director of the World Bank Junaid Kamal Ahmad; and former CEO, HCL Technologies, Vineet Nayar will share their vision in an online interactive event. This year, the social conclave will see director, The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (India) M Hari Menon; vice-president of international affairs, PETA UK Poorva Joshipura; and CEO of Save The Children Foundation, Sudarshan Suchi indulging in an online panel discussion. A panel discussion on policy making will see views being shared by IAS officer Armstrong Pame, IPS officer Amitabh Thakur, Supreme Court lawyer Karuna Nundy; founding partner, The Quantum Hub & co-founder, Young Leaders for Active Citizenship, Rohit Kumar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/iim-varchasva-fest-goes-online-this-year/articleshow/81180846.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Pardeshi, Kunte in race for post of CS||Mumbai: Days ahead of chief secretary Sanjay Kumar’s retirement, speculation is rife about frontrunners for the post with additional chief secretaries Praveen Pardeshi and Sitaram Kunte emerging as the top choices to lead the bureaucracy. An IAS officer of the 1984 batch, Sanjay Kumar is due to retire this month. According to reports, he may get a brief extension in view of the ensuing budget session of state legislature. However, instead of an extension, Sanjay Kumar is keen on helming the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) in place of Anand Kulkarni, whose tenure ended last month. He had initially been vying for the post of Real Estate Regulatory Authority chairman. But former chief secretary Ajoy Mehta was selected for the assignment. Former additional chief secretary Satish Gavai and MERC member Mukesh Khullar are also in the race for post of MERC chairman. Though both Pardeshi and Kunte are from the 1985 batch, Pardeshi is senior. Both are due to retire on November 30. Pardeshi was BMC commissioner during the pandemic outbreak. However, following his unceremonious exit from BMC, he took up an assignment with the UN. Incidentally, Pardeshi’s tenure ended a week ago and, on Monday, he rejoined the general administration department. He is awaiting a posting currently. Kunte was BMC chief before his posting in Mantralaya. “In the appointment of chief secretary, generally the principle of seniority is followed. However, it is the prerogative of the CM and he can appoint a bureaucrat of his choice as chief secretary,” a senior bureaucrat told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pardeshi-kunte-in-race-for-post-of-cs/articleshow/81180848.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cleric held for cheating cancer patient of Rs 2 lakh||HYDERABAD: Commissioner’s task force sleuths arrested a cleric from the Old City in connection with an alleged cheating case promising monetary aid to a cancer patient from the Telangana chief minister’s relief fund, on Tuesday. Maulana Ali Quadri, chairman Seert-un-Nabi academy allegedly took Rs two lakh from one Mohammed Jaleeluddin Qadeer Sidddiqui, a resident of Devi Bagh Lane, Bahadurpura. The complainant , Siddiqui alleged that he had to undergo colon cancer surgery for which he needed chief minister’s relief fund for 14.5 lakh. He approached Quadri for this. Siddiqui had arranged Rs 2 lakh. He along with his son handed over a private hospital estimation form, Aadhar card, passport copy and other reports at his brother-in-law’s house in the Old City, police said. The complainant requested Quadri to return his money since he failed to help get chief minister’s relief fund. However, the accused started avoiding Siddiqui. According to the police, Quadri reportedly collected the cash and failed to provide relief to the cancer patient upon which a case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) section 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) has been registered by the Banjara Hills police station. “We have issued a zero FIR against Quadri. The case has been transferred to Charminar police station,” said Kalinga Rao inspector Banjara Hills police station. The complainant, Siddiqui alleged that he had to undergo colon cancer surgery for which he needed chief minister’s relief fund for 14.5 lakh. He approached Quadri for this. Siddiqui had arranged Rs 2 lakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cleric-held-for-cheating-cancer-patient-of-rs-2-lakh/articleshow/81179454.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Debutant AIMIM bags 7 Ahmedabad municipal corporation seats||AHMEDABAD: Asaduddin Owaisi’s party, All India Majlies-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), made an impressive debut in Gujarat’s electoral politics, winning seven of the 21 seats it contested in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) election. The party tasted success on a day AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi held two public meetings in Gujarat ahead of the local body elections slated in the state’s villages and towns, on February 28. “AIMIM is thankful to Ahmedabad for voting for our candidates and believing in them. From Day One, our councillors will work on the promises that we have made. For years, Congress had done nothing but unlike in the past, Muslims will not be ignored now,” Owaisi said at a public rally in communally-sensitive Godhra in Panchmahal, late on Tuesday evening. Apart from fielding 21 candidates in the AMC election, AIMIM is also contesting the Godhra and Modasa municipalities, where voting will take place on February 28. Owaisi questioned the need for the Distrubed Areas Act in the state. He said the law is a violation of the Constitution. The four-time MP also questioned the triple talaaq law brought by the NDA government in its previous term. Owaisi appealed to voters to not be lured by independent candidates.“I want that our leadership is established in Godhra which fights for the rights of Godhra and raises the voice of Muslims, tribal and Dalits,” Owaisi said. Godhra has a history of electing independents, some of whom have extended support to the BJP. Owaisi also said that the Prime Minister should embrace the protesting farmers. “Call them to your home for tea or since you have not visited any foreign country in last one year, take a tour to Singhu,” he said. AIMIM has fielded eight candidates in the 44-seat board of the Godhra municipality. All of AIMIM’s success in Ahmedabad has been at the cost of the Congress party. AIMIM won all four seats in Jamalpur ward and three of the four seats in Maktampura ward. All were held by the Congress in 2015. AIMIM, which is looking to spread its base across the country, has already announced that it will field candidates for the 2022 assembly elections as well. City leaders of the beleaguered Congress admitted that the party’s failure helped AIMIM gain a foothold in the city. “Two of the candidates who contested from Jamalpur ward on AIMIM tickets, Mushtaq Khadiwala and Mohammad Rafiq Shaikh, were strong Congress candidates who were denied tickets. In Maktampura, ex-Congress councilor Suhana Mansuri was denied a ticket and joined AIMIM. Such bad moves caused a large chunk of voters to move away from the Congress,” said a senior city-based leader. The complete indecision of the state Congress leaders in finalizing candidates even in wards where it had the edge, led to resentment in the cadre, leading to infighting. This led to the Congress losing seats in Jamalpur and Maktampura wards to the AIMIM, the leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/debutant-aimim-bags-7-amc-seats/articleshow/81179493.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Village life taught me to hit pause, cherish humanity||By Pallavi SahuLife is simple, yet enriching. It has limitations, but there’s joy in its simplicity. I have been silently observing these nuances of daily life, while staying in a village for the last few months. Here, the air fills with uncontrollable laughter during charcha hours (time when people sit together to discuss various issues) around a peepal tree. It might have witnessed the lifetime journey of innumerable people. It’s so unlikely in our city lives, where, unfortunately, we do not get time to talk even to our neighbours. Such gatherings reflect the beauty of strong social support -- where noone feels left out. One can feel the air filled with peace here, birds chirping early in the morning, lush green trees all around, lush green fields with seasonal crops, a crystal-clear sky with picturesque patterns everywhere. Here, dawn-dusk-mid-day-night- are all the same. It’s so peaceful and quiet that one can hear his/her own voice. It is true what people say about the soul of India living in itsvillages. Even a child’s behaviour changes, the moment he sets foot in a village. It pleasantly surprised me. He no longer needs to be pushed, to go outdoors to play. In fact, it’s the opposite now – he doesn’t want to stay caged in. There are so many places for him to explore and so many homes to enter – without any prior notice – and indulge in home-made delights. Such welcoming people here are! It’s a learning experience for children. Even food habits have changed and we have found pleasure in simple, regular homemade food. I feel relieved with this change – to see how a shift in environment has created a space where there is no need to push, to run. It has given me another perspective – that children’s initial inclination towards gadgets starts due to boredom, loneliness, lack of friends to play with. Gadgets then become that opportunity to make friends, like posts to boost self-esteem and slowly but surely leads to children becoming dependent on them. The outdoors of a village has reversed this dependency. These experiences over time have, once again, reinforced my belief that environmental factors play a vital role in the advancement and betterment of our lives. (The writer is psychologist)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/village-life-taught-me-to-hit-pause-cherish-humanity/articleshow/81179488.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Coimbatore||Disabled people protest meagre monthly financial allowance||Coimbatore: Hundreds of disabled people entered the Pollachi sub-collector’s office and staged a sit-in on Tuesday, pressing various demands, including hike in their monthly financial allowance.Similarly, around 40 members of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers, staged a sit-in at the south taluk office in the city by holding placards and raising slogans, demanding the state to increase the monthly financial allowance.S Punitha, district president of the association, said there were 21 types of disabilities as per the Union government’s categorization. People with 40% disabilities could apply for the monthly financial assistance of Rs 1,000 from the state government, if their annual revenue didn’t exceed Rs3 lakh. However, there are reports of the government rejecting many such applicants. People with 75% disabilities are provided a financial assistance of Rs 1,500 every month through the differently abled rehabilitation department.“We are struggling to run our families with the meagre monthly financial assistance, as the prices of all essential commodities have shot up. So, we are demanding the government to increase the monthly financial assistance to Rs 3,000 for the people with 40% disabilities and Rs 5,000 for the people with 75% disabilities. Governments in Telangana, Kerala and Puducherry are already providing such financial assistance to the disabled people,” Punitha said.She also called on the Union government to provide 4% reservation to the disabled people in education and employment. “As of now, those who are getting the benefit come under the social welfare department. We are requesting the state government to form a separate ministry for the welfare of differently abled people.”At the Pollachi sub-collector’s office, the protest went on till 7pm. The protesters would conduct a road blockade at Pollachi on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/disabled-people-protest-meagre-monthly-financial-allowance/articleshow/81179497.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Re-open hostels for SC, ST, BC students: ABVP||Hyderabad: Demanding that the state renovate and reopen Scheduled Caste (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST), and Backward Class (BC) hostels in the state, members of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on Tuesday staged a protest in front of Social Welfare Bhavan, Masab Tank. They said that the state should renovate these dilapidated buildings and make them available to newly-joined students. “When students, especially those hailing from remote areas and economically backward families are approaching these hostels for accommodation, there is no proper response. Newly-admitted students are suffering as they don’t have proper accommodation,” said P Srihari, general secretary, ABVP, Greater Hyderabad. They said that Covid-19 guidelines should be strictly followed in every hostel and added that students should also be provided healthy food. The protesters further alleged that the hostels are not maintained due to the lack of staff and demanded that vacant posts be filled immediately. Students also demanded the government enhance cosmetic and mess charges to Rs 3,000 per student from the existing Rs 1,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/re-open-hostels-for-sc-st-bc-students-abvp/articleshow/81179491.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Rajkot||Bedridden, BJP candidate wins using social media||Rajkot: A BJP candidate showed the power of social media by winning the Jamnagar Municipal Corporation (JMC) election despite being rendered bedridden due to a road accident. Just two days before he got the ticket to contest from ward 7, Gopal Sorathiya met with an accident that left him bedridden with plaster in both legs. Knowing that it would be impossible for him to go door to door for campaigning, Sorathiya unleashed an aggressive social media campaign and reached out to maximum voters. He prepared a recorded speech and sent them to 10,000 people. A text message was circulated to as many as 9,000 voters on Whatsapp while 30,000 others were sent by sms.  “Voters expect candidates to contact them in person, but I was unable to walk. So, I took the help of social media to reach my voters and I am fortunate that I could convince them to vote for me,” Sorathiya told TOI. “The party workers used to connect with me and voters through video calling and I appealed to them for a vote,” he added. Sorathiya had contested the election in 2015 too and has been working for the party since 2010. He is a resident of ward number 8 but got a ticket in ward number seven. “The voters were new, but the social media campaign worked,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bedridden-bjp-candidate-wins-using-social-media/articleshow/81176977.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Trichy||Residents’ forum releases charter of demands in Trichy||Trichy: The Federation of Tiruchirappalli City Residents Welfare Associations (FTCRWA) has released a charter of demands for political parties ahead of the assembly elections. The residents also criticised ministers Vellamandi Natarajan and S Valarmathi for their failure in improving the city’s transport infrastructure and addressing their grievances.Stating that an integrated bus terminus (IBT) still remains a dream for the past 20 years, the federation urged the parties to give them an assurance on establishing it. The federation said that candidates who contest from assembly constituencies in the city must come forward to re-launch the pending infrastructure projects including the Trichy junction road overbridge near Mannarpuram. “We are completely disappointed at the performances of the two AIADMK ministers for the past five years. No new projects for bridges were made, while the city is facing frequent snarl-ups,” S Subramaniyan, convenor of the federation, said. Addressing reporters on Tuesday, the representatives said that waste management by Trichy Corporation is in tatters. Roads dug up for the underground drainage project were not properly re-laid, they alleged. “Stray cattle are causing many accidents on city roads, but the authorities are doing nothing. Stray dog population is also increasing, but the corporation has failed to tackle the menace,” Subramaniyan said. The federation also urged the government to declare Trichy as the second capital of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-forum-releases-charter-of-demands-in-trichy/articleshow/81180849.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Hardsell of hope before polls||CHENNAI: In spite of going through an extraordinary year due to the Covid-19 pandemic that ravaged the state’s finances, Tamil Nadu government is confident that the state will strongly bounce back and register a double digit growth next year. “There will be a strong bounce back and Tamil Nadu will achieve a double-digit growth next year. While our growth rate has generally been around 8%, with a low base this year, I am hopeful we could achieve a 10-11% growth next year,” Tamil Nadu finance secretary S Krishnan told reporters. He said, the interim budget should be viewed from the backdrop of the problems and hurdles created by the Covid pandemic and how the state government overcame them through some deft financial manoeuvres. “If the state’s economy is already back on tracks and set on the growth path, despite the pandemic, then the government’s intervention and the measures taken by it in August and September last year is a reason. We continued to support all the welfare schemes, while ensuring that we support the economic growth measures too,” Krishnan said. While the April-July 2020 period saw very little economic activity, the government relaxed the restrictions selectively on specific industries to boost growth. “Industries like pharma were quick to adopt to the new norm, while the established broadband network across the state helped the services sector to quickly opt for the work from home policy,” Krishnan said. “The tea industry performed better. While the demand was poor the previous year, the Covid lockdown boosted the demand and the state utilized the opportunity, which could not be catered by other tea growing states,” he said. But the state’s debt is projected to increase to `5.7 lakh crore. “When there is economic growth, the size of the debts too will grow. Last year, the state’s own tax revenue fell by 18%, which roughly translates to around `40,000 crore. On the other, the expenditure increased due to the need to sustain welfare measures and capital expenditures to ensure economic growth. As long as there is economic growth, the debts can be handled and it is not alarming,” he said. The concern should be not on the number, but whether the state is well within the borrowing limits, prescribed by the finance commission and the Centre, he said. While the Centre permits states to borrow up to 3% of state’s GSDP, being an extraordinary year, it increased the limit to 5%. “That offered a scope for Tamil Nadu to borrow up to about `95,000 crore if needed. Next year, this limit will be brought down to 4%. The state’s borrowing limits too will come down accordingly,” he said. On the rising petroleum prices, Krishnan said it has nothing to do with the taxes levied by the state. “On May 3, 2020, we rejigged the tax from flat rate to a mix of fixed tax and variable. This ensured that the people are not overburdened when the prices keep going up, while also ensuring the state’s tax revenues remain stable when the prices come down,” he said, while reiterating that the rise in prices has nothing to do with the state’s taxes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hardsell-of-hope-before-polls/articleshow/81179494.cms||D Govardan
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Brute majority will leave little space for debate||Ahmedabad: Never has the opposition felt so helpless and reduced to such numbers in over two decades in Gujarat’s history of municipal elections. Political sociologists and political parties are worried as the municipal budget discussions in the general board or policy discussions in the standing committees regarding fund allocations for civic services and infrastructure will be a lopsided affair. Barring Ahmedabad, opposition numbers were below half the two-thirds majority required to form a municipal board. In Rajkot, Congress had 34 seats in 2015 and was just four seats behind the BJP. In the latest elections, the Congress was reduced to just four seats. In Jamnagar, Bhavnagar and Surat, the opposition numbers were at least half or a less than numbers required for a two-thirds majority. “Since the 2000 district panchayat polls, the BJP has stopped including Congress members on a pro-rata basis in various civic works and policy-making committees. Since 2010, in Ahmedabad and all major municipal corporations, BJP has stopped including opposition members in various committees. This is systematically done,” says Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi. “We require a strong opposition to ensure that there is a check on resource allocation, spending is debated on in the public domain and citizens get a chance to participate in civic debates and opinion formation, especially young voters,” says sociologist Gaurang Jani. Doshi adds, “We are concerned about being a weak opposition. But we will give a tough fight by raising issues that concern people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/brute-majority-will-leave-little-space-for-debate/articleshow/81179556.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Portion of old assembly bldg crumbles, staff scurry for cover||Hyderabad: A portion of the old assembly building of Telangana partially collapsed on Tuesday. No one was injured. The assembly staff sitting inside the building ran out after the portion of the top part of the building collapsed with a loud noise. The building was constructed by sixth Nizam Mahbub Ali Khan in 1913. Assembly secretary V Narasimha Charyulu said engineering wing of the state assembly maintains the building. “The main structure is stable and necessary repairs would be taken up ,” he said. Telangana government is using a new building built for conducting assembly proceedings, old one is used by some of the staff for office purposes. Assembly sessions of AP government were held in this old building after state bifurcation in June 2014. However, it was being used only by some of the staff after AP government shifted its administration to Amaravati in AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/portion-of-old-assembly-bldg-crumbles-staff-scurry-for-cover/articleshow/81179526.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Actor booked for molesting his ex-girlfriend||Mumbai: Khar police on Tuesday registered an FIR against an actor, who was part of an internationally acclaimed movie, for allegedly molesting and beating his ex-girlfriend at her Bandra home on February 13. The actor barged into her home two days after she ended her relationship because of his addiction to liquor, leading to fights, police said. “A case under the IPC sections for 354, 354 (A) and (B) for outraging modesty and assault has been registered against the actor. No arrest has been made so far.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actor-booked-for-molesting-his-ex-girlfriend/articleshow/81180929.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Rajkot||AAP scores zero, bowls out Cong for 4||Rajkot: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) could not repeat its stellar show of Surat in Rajkot. But the party, which did not win a single seat here, was the Congress’ nemesis and helped The Congress, which was reduced to just four seats from 33, conceded that AAP was a spoiler for them. “AAP damaged us a lot. The traditional voters voted for AAP, which benefited BJP in some of the Congress stronghold areas,” claimed Hemang Vasavada, a senior Congress leader.Nearly two dozen Congress heavyweights including the city president Ashok Dangar, Gayatriba Vaghela and Atul Rajani were sent home packing as the party failed to capitalize on issues like skyrocketing fuel prices, joblessness due to Covid-induced lockdown and resentment over heavy mask penalties which even the BJP feared could dent its chances in some wards.In 2015, Congress had got 45% seats which has now diminished to just 5.5% in the RMC board.Insiders say voters were frustrated with the functioning of the party, elected members switching loyalties and corporators not solving their day-to-day issues of water and roads.AAP, however, blamed EVMs for their debacle in Rajkot. The party was on the second position in ward number 4,8 and 9 in terms of getting maximum votes, but according to its leaders, they were confident to win some of the seats. AAP Rajkot vice-president Shivlal Barasia said, “The difference between the votes polled by BJP and AAP is huge. In a ward, where 30,000 votes were cast, 20,000 went to BJP which is not believable. I got very few votes from my own society where I have been the president for the last 12 years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/aap-scores-zero-bowls-out-cong-for-4/articleshow/81176870.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Class XI students question the need for offline exams||NEW DELHI: The offline examination for classes IX and XI is turning out to be a headache for schools. On Tuesday, Class XI students of a private school, KR Mangalam World School in Greater Kailash-II, protested against the move. They questioned the need to appear for an offline exam in March as they have already sat for online tests. “The school is saying appearing for the offline exam is optional, but they are also saying the exam will have 50:50 weightage — 50% from the online exam and 50% from the offline one. So how can that be a matter of choice?” asked a student. While students gathered on the premises carrying placards, the principal addressed them. “But she couldn’t say anything concrete. Now we are waiting for a response from the school,” added the student. The director of the school, Jyoti Gupta, claimed that it was not a protest, and the students just interacted with the administration as they had some concerns. Both the directorate of education (DoE) and Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) have said the schools are opened for classes IX to XII, said Gupta, adding that parents “have to give consent to the children to come to school”, but it’s not related to the online or offline examination. “If schools are open, the examinations will happen inside the school. Where has CBSE or DoE said there is an option for online or offline examination?” asked Gupta. Parents question the need to mandate offline exams. “The schools cite the CBSE order and say they cannot do anything about it. It makes no sense at all,” said a parent. Some parents have received a mail from CBSE, which states, “In view of your concern, please note that CBSE conducts examination for classes X and XII for students of affiliated schools. Class IX and XI examinations are not conducted by CBSE, not supervised by CBSE. Please take up the issue with the state/Union territory government where the school is situated.” DoE was supposed to hold a meeting with the school principals, but it is yet to take place. A few schools are still undecided. The Indian School says they have sent a consent form to the parents and provided them with two schedules — one examination in March and another in April. “Since it is extraordinary circumstances, we are providing with the options. Once we get consent forms back, the final decision will be taken,” said principal Tania Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/class-xi-students-question-the-need-for-offline-exams/articleshow/81183581.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court dismisses plea for DNA test to ascertain paternity||MUMBAI: Bombay high court bench at Aurangabad dismissed a man’s plea to conduct a DNA test to ascertain paternity of his two minor children born during his marriage. The HC said he had admitted being their father in their school records in a court document and hence found his plea “devoid of substance’’. The HC also distinguished his case from the one he cited where the SC had in 2014 permitted a DNA test as scientific proof of paternity, saying the husband, in that case, had “never admitted the paternity.’’  The HC declined to interfere with an order of a magistrate who had rejected the father’s plea for the forensic test in 2019. Justice M G Sewlikar said since the man had also admitted while filing a mutual consent divorce petition that the children were from his marriage, directing them to undergo a DNA test is “completely unwarranted.’’ The wife’s counsel A R Devkate said his admission was reason enough for the HC to dismiss his petition. The husband, through his counsel A D Kesliwal, said that he had “all along’’ disputed his paternity since their birth in 2003 and 2008 and explained he had admitted the paternity in the divorce proceedings only because “he wanted anyhow to end the marriage.’’ Section 112 of the Indian Evidence Act deal with the legitimacy of a child if born during a valid marriage between a man and woman or if born within 280 days after its dissolution, the mother remaining unmarried would be “conclusive proof that he is the legitimate son of that man unless it can be shown that neither had ‘access’ to each other when a child could have been conceived. The HC said the law was clear that a “child born during continuance of a valid marriage shall be conclusive proof that the child is legitimate child of man to whom the lady giving birth is married.’’ Justice Sewlikar said the husband can deny paternity only if he proves non-access with his wife at the relevant time. He added, “Access and non-access mean the existence or non-existence of opportunities for sexual intercourse. It does not mean actual cohabitation.’’ The mutual consent divorce to end their marriage of 1992, did not go through as the wife withdrew her consent. She later filed a civil suit for partition. The HC said “it seems he raised this issue (of paternity) for the first time only after she filed the civil suit’’. The wife also filed a case against him under the domestic violence Act where she said the children were theirs, from marriage. He denied the paternity and accused the wife of “adultery’’ and seeing her in an alleged “compromising” situation in 2009.  In 2013 he sought an order from the magistrate to conduct the DNA test, which wife opposed and the court rejected. There was another couple of rounds of litigation over the paternity test with a civil court permitting it, his wife then challenging it till finally it was rejected again. The man had cited a Supreme Court ruling of 2014 where DNA test for paternity was allowed and the apex court had said, “We may remember that Section 112 of the Evidence Act was enacted at a time when the modern scientific advancement and DNA test were not even in contemplation of the Legislature. The result of the DNA test is said to be scientifically accurate. Although Section 112 raises a presumption of conclusive proof on the satisfaction of the conditions enumerated therein the same is rebuttable. The presumption may afford legitimate means of arriving at an affirmative legal conclusion. While the truth or fact is known, in our opinion, there is no need or room for any presumption.’’ The husband argued it would not be desirable to rely on ‘presumption of paternity’ under the Indian Evidence Act when there could be cogent scientific proof in the “era of technology’’ and undergoing DNA test would cause no harm to his wife. The HC, however. said the man had admitted to being the father in school and court record and shows the children “were born during a continuance of valid marriage’’ and thus held the magistrate’s order had committed no error in rejecting his application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-dismisses-plea-for-dna-test-to-ascertain-paternity/articleshow/81178659.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||My new love: Meditation, gardening||By Tanmai MaduguOne common question you hear these days is: What did you take away from the pandemic-induced lockdown? My response: A new meaning of life. For, that period to me, was that of enlightenment. Initially, the lockdown was so mundane and boring that even binge-watching on shows became unexciting after a while. It was doing nothing to stimulate my brain. That’s when I started meditation. I had no idea that 20 minutes of daily meditation would have such a tremendous impact on my life. I started to notice the change in me which made me realise how disconnected I had been from myself, the whole time. When I closed my eyes and observed my breath, it helped me concentrate and enhance my creativity, patience and self-awareness. I gradually stopped being worried all the time -- thinking about my future – and instead began to concentrate on the present and be calm. This process enabled me to discover who I really am, what my strengths and weaknesses are and how I can work on my negatives. Soon enough, I mastered the art of managing my stress and time and strengthened myself to face the challenges confidently and fearlessly with a positive attitude, which I believe is of utmostimportance, especially to this generation of ours. It also helped me discover my passion, my interests, set goals and reach new heights. Another factor that shaped my lifestyle was gardening. It made me understand the infinite bliss of nature. It taught me the purity of being grateful. Taking care of plants and watering them daily edified love, caring, and responsibilities. I also realised that happiness wasn’t something I should go looking for outside, but can find that only within myself. In fact, I even started to find them in very small things. Accepting, appreciating and having zero expectations led to no disappointments, which turned out to be my main cause of happiness. Through this process of evolution during the lockdown, I have now come to believe that I am not weak and all the powers and the divinity needed to face life, lies within me. (The writer is a third year BSc student)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/my-new-love-meditation-gardening/articleshow/81179549.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||Head of Amazon Prime records statement in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Head of Amazon Prime India (Original Content), Aparna Purohit, got her statement recorded at the Hazratganj police station in Lucknow on Tuesday in connection with the FIR against her for alleged objectionable depiction of Hindu deities in web series ‘Tandav’. Disposing of her petition seeking stay on police proceedings, the Allahabad high court had on Monday directed Purohit to appear before the police and cooperate in the investigation. Investigating officer inspector Anil Kumar Singh said, “Purohit had not been cooperating in the probe. She finally appeared to record her statement following the court’s directives.” “On January 17, an FIR was lodged against Amazon Prime head Aparna Purohit, director the web series Ali Abbas Zafar, producer Himanshu Krishna Mehra, writer Gaurav Solanki and others. However, when Lucknow police team reached Mumbai to take statements, all the accused, except Aparna, appeared before the team and gave their statements. Notices were also issues to them. Purohit did not meet us and sought protection from the high court on February 11,” he said. Singh, however, did not share the details of her statement. Sources in the police department claimed that 100 questions were posed to Purohit and added that she reached the police station at 2pm and stayed there till 5pm. Sources said she was also questioned about the words and visuals used to show Hindu dieties in bad light. The case was registered by additional inspector at Hazratganj police station, Amarnath Verma, who alleged that in the 17th minute of Episode 1, characters playing Hindu gods and goddesses were portrayed in an objectionable manner. In the 22nd minute of the same episode, an attempt was made to ignite caste tension, he added. The accused were booked on charges of promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, defilement of a place of worship or an object held sacred, forgery for purpose of harming reputation, statements conducing public mischief with the intent to threaten the unity, integrity, security or sovereignty of India and depicting Hindu gods in bad light.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/head-of-amazon-prime-records-statement-in-city/articleshow/81180902.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Workshop on provisions under RPWD Act||Hyderabad: In an initiative to make stakeholders aware of the provisions under the newly enacted Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act (RPWD Act) 2016, the National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP) in association with Network of Persons with Disabilities Organizations and its Disability Law Unit is organising a two-day regional-level workshop at St Ann’s Generalate, Hyderabad. Seminar was supported by Mphasis. “State level implementation of RPWD Act 2016 is important as disability is considered a state subject. The sector needs to work with a rights-based approach,” said Niharika Das, program officer — advocacy, NCPEDP. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/workshop-on-provisions-under-rpwd-act/articleshow/81179561.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Nabard sanctions Rs 2,989 cr for rural development projects||Ahmedabad: National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) on Tuesday announced the sanction of Rs 2,989.7 crore to the Gujarat government under the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) for the year 2020-21. Some six projects for irrigation and one each for education and drinking water supply were executed during the financial year. These projects include Tapi-Karjan Lift Irrigation Scheme (Ukai reservoir based, Rs 656.58 crore), Tharad-Sipu Pipeline Project (Rs 462.33 crore), and Ukai reservoir based Songadh, Ucchal and Nizar Lift Irrigation Scheme (Rs 905.15 crore). They also include the construction of a barrage in Hirpura village (Rs 138.53 crore), the construction of a barrage in Valasana village (Rs 124.41 crore), and three irrigation projects in Mahisagar district (Rs 115.54 crore). On the completion of these projects, irrigation potential of 65,882 hectares will be developed. For drinking water supply, Rs 502.04 crore has been sanctioned for Navda to Chavnad bulk pipeline project. That apart, Rs 85.18 crore has been sanctioned for the construction of 13 Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBV). With the above sanctions, the cumulative loan assistance given under the RIDF to the Government of Gujarat aggregates to Rs 32,218 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nabard-sanctions-rs-2989-cr-for-rural-development-projects/articleshow/81179568.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu to get 12k new buses, Rs 623 crore provided for initial procurement||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s bus fleet is set to expand by 40% in the next five years with the government announcing procurement of 12,000 new vehicles. The government, in the interim budget on Tuesday, sanctioned `623 crore for the first phase of the project, which will involve buying 2,200 diesel buses and 500 electric buses. “A majority of the e-buses will be for MTC, Chennai, and the rest will be deployed in Madurai and Coimbatore cities,” said a senior transport department official. The entire first phase will cost `1,580 crore and German Bank (KfW) has agreed to provide financial assistance of up to 203 million Euros. TN was the first Indian state to sign Global C40 Clean Bus Declaration to KfW funding and all new diesel buses will have BS-VI type engines, which cause lesser air pollution. Sivasubramaniam Jayaraman from Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP), Chennai, said this is a “great initiative” by the Tamil Nadu government to improve public transportation in the state. However, to provide adequate services as per ministry of housing and urban affair’s standard of 50 buses per lakh population, the urban areas will require around 11,000 new buses over the next five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-to-get-12k-new-buses-rs-623cr-provided-for-initial-procurement/articleshow/81179559.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 24, 2021||Delhi||South Delhi civic body to set up 20 Wi-Fi hotspots in each ward||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday announced that it would soon start implementation of a Wi-Fi hotspot scheme under the PM-WANI project. Twenty hotspots will be operated in each of its 104 wards. The proposal has been approved by us, said the standing committee chairman, Rajdutt Gahlot. “These hotspots will be set up at small shops and general stores. Local area councillors will provide details regarding shops in their respective wards. Shopkeepers will look after running as well as functioning of these hotspots,” Gahlot said. People can use Wi-Fi between 10 minutes and 60 minutes by paying a one-time or monthly charge. “The facility will be cheaper than private companies’ Wi-Fi facilities.” Gahlot said that connections would be provided by SDMC and shopkeepers would have to buy routers from sellers authorised by the civic agency. “With this scheme, people living in unauthorised colonies will be able to avail Internet facility at low rates. The move will also provide job opportunities to those living in unauthorised areas,” he added. North and East corporations are also planning to come up with a similar proposal. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that the hotspots would mainly be set up in JJ clusters and unauthorised colonies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/south-corpn-to-set-up-20-wi-fi-hotspots-in-each-ward/articleshow/81179583.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||MLC elections set for a close contest, parties on tenterhooks||Hyderabad: All major political parties are now on tenterhooks as a close contest appears to be inevitable in the graduates MLC constituency elections. The reason is that over half of the assembly constituencies in the state are under the two MLC graduates’ constituencies for which elections are being held. While the total number of assembly constituencies is 119, the two MLC constituencies cover 75 of these — 41 constituencies in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and 34 in Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda. The major parties fear there will be impact of the MLC election results on the next polls. Elections to Warangal and Khammam municipal corporations and bypolls to Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency are likely to be held after the MLC polls. Adding to this, more than a hundred nominations have been filed only in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituency. In the 2015 elections, BJP candidate N Ramchander Rao won from the constituency against TRS candidate Devi Prasad, while TRS candidate Palla Rajeshwar Reddy secured Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda MLC constituency. Both are now in the fray and trying their luck. When it comes to Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency, sitting MLC Rajeshwar Reddy is striving hard to retain his seat. While BJP and Congress fielded G Premender Reddy and Ramulu Naik as candidates, professor M Kodandaram of TJS and Jayasarathi Reddy from Communist parties are also trying their luck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlc-elections-set-for-a-close-contest-parties-on-tenterhooks/articleshow/81179572.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||‘2,340 fake teachers identified’||Lucknow: At least 2,340 teachers have been found to have bagged jobs by submitting fake documents as on September 30 last year, the state government submitted in the UP assembly on Tuesday. Responding to a question raised by Samajwadi Party MLA Mohammad Faheem Irfan, who sought to know about the action taken by the government against fake teachers, basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi said the inquiry conducted by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) and Special Task Force (STF) found 2,340 fake teachers. “Of these, the government has terminated the services of 1,155 teachers. FIRs were lodged against 995 fake teachers while the government stopped the salary of 1,140 teachers. The remaining teachers have secured stay order from the high court due to which action against them is pending,” Dwivedi said. Responding to another question put forth by SP legislator Haji Irfan Solanki regarding the requisite qualification for teachers at private schools, Dwivedi said it was determined as per the Service Rules of Basic Schools (1975) and UP Recognized Basic School (Junior High School)-1978, amended in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2340-fake-teachers-identified/articleshow/81180912.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||7,000 BEST staff get Covid vaccine||Mumbai: More than 7,000 drivers, conductors and other frontline employees of BEST have been given the Covid-19 vaccine in the past few days. As of Tuesday, nine BEST employees were being treated at hospitals for Covid, said BEST’s chief medical officer. A Covid awareness camp is to be held for BEST employees on March 7. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/7000-best-staff-get-covid-vaccine/articleshow/81179578.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Coimbatore||Rs 6,683cr allocated for city metro rail project||Coimbatore: In a huge pre-poll bonanza for the district, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam allocated Rs 6,683 crore for the metro rail project in the interim budget that was tabled on Tuesday. The fund allocation comes almost three years after he announced the metro rail project for the district in the assembly. He said a detailed feasibility report for setting up the metro rail for about 44km at a cost of Rs 6,683 crore in the first phase was already prepared and the same was under scrutiny. A source privy to the project said five corridors, covering a total distance of 144km, have been proposed and preparation of a detailed project report was underway. The first corridor, the source said, would cover 26km between Ukkadam and Kaniyur, the second 24km between Ukkadam and Bilichi near Karamadai on Mettupalayam Road, the third 42km between Thanneerpandal on Thadagam Road and Karanampettai on Trichy Road, the fourth 44km between Karunya Nagar and Ganeshapuram, and the fifth corridor would cover 8km between Ukkadam and Vellalore, where the integrated bus terminus would come up. Earlier, the Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) had selected the engineering and consulting firm, Systra, to conduct feasibility study for implementing the project in the city. It had in its report suggested four corridors. About a year ago, the CMRL had decided to create a fifth corridor, connecting Ukkadam and Vellalore. Industries and trade associations have welcomed the move. M V Ramesh Babu, president, Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association, said, “Considering the rising vehicle population on the road, flyovers will also become congested in five to six years. At that time, the metro rail project would be helpful to decongest the traffic on the roads. A lot of people would start using metro trains if proper connectivity is provided.”Good infrastructure, he said, would attract many big firms to the district, further boosting the industrial development. Expressing a similar view, Vanitha Mohan, vice-chairperson, Kongu Global Forum, said industries were looking forward to moving to two-tire cities with good internal, air and rail connectivity. “With this project in place, a lot of industries might come to the district. Lack of infrastructure development would suffocate the growth of the region.” Urging the government to implement the project at the earliest, she said many roads in the district were narrow and flyovers alone could not decongest the roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rs-6683cr-allocated-for-city-metro-rail-project/articleshow/81179584.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||No bail for dad ‘confident of acquittal’ in Pocso case||Mumbai: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act court rejected the bail plea of a 45-year-old father accused of sexually assaulting his two teenage daughters, even as he claimed that since the conviction rate in the city was only 9%, there was a 90% chance he would be acquitted. The court held that the record revealed that there was prima facie evidence on his involvement in the heinous offence of penetrative sexual assault. The court held that as investigations are on, it was not a fit case for bail. The older daughter is at a children’s home. The survivor, who was 17, lodged the FIR last month with help from her teacher. The teenager confided in her after her mother refused to pay heed. She said the first incident was when her mother had gone to their village in 2018. The girl also found that the accused was also assaulting her now 14-year-old sister. The teacher contacted the Child Helpline and got help. Opposing the bail plea, the prosecution submitted that as the minor and he were residing in the same house, he may exert pressure on her. Among other grounds for seeking bail, the accused said that he was the sole bread-earner of the family and there were dependent on him. He also said he had an heart ailment, diabetes and blood pressure, and Covid-19 put him in the vulnerable category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-bail-for-dad-confident-of-acquittal-in-pocso-case/articleshow/81178660.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Waste facility to recycle 8 tonnes/day||New Delhi: North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday inaugurated a material recovery facility under Zakhira Flyover. The facility can process up to 8 tonnes of waste per day. “Mechanised machineries, such as bailers, conveyor belt and material stackers, will be used in its operations. Sorting of around 8 tonnes of waste will be carried out here daily to recover recyclable materials. Waste pickers are an integral part of this project and they will be trained as a formal workforce, thus creating green jobs,” mayor Jai Prakash said. Material recovery facility is a place where waste collected from the doorstep is segregated and various components of recyclable waste are recovered from it for recycle or resale. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta and MP Meenakshi Lekhi were present during the inauguration. Gupta said that despite adverse conditions, the north corporation was providing civic facilities to the citizens. Jai Prakash said that the facility was first of its kind. “This will be operated by an NGO, Chintan. This socio-technological model for segregation and recycling aims at developing solid waste management infrastructure in a scientific manner,” he added. Chintan’s founder-director Bharati Chaturvedi said that they would work with the civic body to help reduce the waste going to the Bhalsawa landfill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/waste-facility-to-recycle-8-tonnes/day/articleshow/81179597.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Maha crosses 10L vaccination milestone, city nears 2L mark||Mumbai: Maharashtra crossed the 10-lakh mark in Covid-19 vaccinations for healthcare and frontline workers on Tuesday. Although there was a sharp drop in turnout as compared to Monday, 42,319 workers were inoculated across the state. On Monday, 57,367 people had taken the vaccine. In Mumbai, 88% of the 11,600 scheduled people took the shot. With 10,257 taking the vaccine on Tuesday, Mumbai is on the verge of completing two lakh vaccinations. “Our goal is ensure that all registered beneficiaries get the vaccine at the earliest,” said state immunization officer Dr Dilip Patil. Around eight lakh healthcare workers in Maharashtra had registered for the Covid-19 vaccine, while registration for the second phase targeting frontline workers is still on. Dr Patil said the state has begun micro-planning with various departments to ensure better turnout. “We have already started multiple sessions in vaccination centres. We have allowed vaccines to be given at public hospitals, mental health hospitals and private hospitals as well. We will ensure that everyone who wants the vaccine will get it,” he said. Of the 10 lakh vaccinated in the state since the mass drive started on January 16, seven lakh are healthcare workers and the rest are frontline workers. In Mumbai, Tuesday marked 30 vaccination days, with 3,736 healthcare workers and 6,494 frontliners getting the shot. So far, 1.9 lakh people have been inoculated in Mumbai. The city has received almost two lakh registrations of healthcare workers and an equal number of frontline workers. “We have started getting a lot of queries from healthcare workers who haven’t been able to register themselves. But as the Co-WIN app has stopped accepting new registrations for healthcare workers, we have to turn them away,” said BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-crosses-10l-vaccination-milestone-city-nears-2l-mark/articleshow/81179596.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: They snatched in tandem, now in cops’ net together||NEW DELHI: They are a couple and became partners in crime too. As 22-year old Aash Mohammad would speed up the bike, his wife Kajal (20), riding pillion, would look for potential snatching targets on the lonely stretches of south Delhi. The couple would snatch valuables from people on the road and flee the spot within seconds. Their snatching spree came to an end on Monday when the couple landed in a police net while looking for targets. The couple has been identified as residents of Church Colony in Sangam Vihar. They usually targeted people in neghbouring areas of Neb Sarai, Sainik Farm, Saket and Sangam Vihar. The duo came under the police radar on Monday when a patrolling team received information that two suspects involved in multiple cases of snatching in different areas of south Delhi would come near Tigri T-point at Mehrauli-Badarpur Road in search of targets. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said a police team was stationed accordingly and after some time a man was spotted riding a motorcycle with a woman as the pillion rider. The man was asked to slow down for checking but he tried to speed away. The alert police team, however, managed to catch them. “On searching them, a mobile phone was recovered that, the man said, they had snatched from Sainik Farm two days ago. He further disclosed that the woman was his wife and they together target victims on lonely stretches in south Delhi late at night,” he said. The DCP said Mohammad was found to be previously involved in at least 10 cases of snatching. He told police that at times his associate Himanshu would ride the bike while the couple carried out snatchings. Himanshu is absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/they-snatched-in-tandem-now-in-cops-net-together/articleshow/81179593.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Sewage overflow fixed in West Marredpally, after CR report||Hyderabad: Residents of West Marredpally can finally heave a sigh of relief. The problem of sewerage overflow in their area, that was haunting them for weeks, has now been fixed after it was highlighted on TOI’s citizen reporter app. The grievance aired by citizen reporter, S Sambodhi, was published in these columns on February 16. Soon afterwards, officials of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) swung into action and resolved the issue. The apathy was inconveniencing locals, especially those living along Road number 5 Shankar Nagar Colony, West Marredpally. Locals said, at least 100 families were affected because of the sewage overflow. “We were forced to wade through the sewage. Whenever a vehicle passed through the stretch, the dirty water would spill on to pedestrians. Now, thankfully, the issue has been resolved,” said Sambodhi. Another resident, N Anita, said she was relieved after HMWSSB officials fixed the issue. “We were forced to stay indoors due to the foul smell and mosquito menace,” she added Attributing the problem to haphazard garbage dumping, a senior citizen from the locality said: “The waste from the cattle shed is drained into the manholes and the existing drainage pipelines are unable to take the load. If an onsite composting unit is installed in the shed, the situation could have been avoided.” He urged the authorities to install a composting machine or ask the owner of the cattle shed to compost the waste so that there is no issue even during monsoon. HMWSSB officials said that notice has been served to the people running the cattle shed. “Pipes running through the locality were desilted to stop the sewage overflow. A notice has been served to the people running the cattle shed,” said Y Krishna, deputy general manager, Marredpally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sewage-overflow-fixed-in-west-marredpally-after-cr-report/articleshow/81179588.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: All parties agree to legalise temple at Chandni Chowk||NEW DELHI: All political parties on Tuesday agreed to support the proposal to legalise the prefabricated steel structure of the Hanuman temple at Chandni Chowk during a meeting with North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash. The private member proposal will be brought in the House meeting on Thursday and then sent to Delhi government for the final nod before implementation. However, the political parties also blamed the BJP-led north corporation for not working out a consensus before removing the original temple or filing an affidavit in Delhi High Court to save the structure from facing any action. Leader of opposition Vikas Goel said they supported the decision of regularising the prefabricated structure, but the civic agency could have saved the original temple from removal. “BJP has argued that the old temple was removed on court order, but the same situation exists today. How is that they are favouring legalising the new structure? Rather than just filing an affidavit in court, they could have given a justification for not removing the structure. BJP is just doing politics to gain people’s sympathy,” added the AAP councillor. Senior Congress councillor Mukesh Goel questioned the mayor for not calling an all-party meeting before filing the affidavit in court. “When the temple was defined as an encroachment, both BJP and AAP were busy accusing each other. None of them made any effort to save the structure, nor did they take consent from other political parties. Now, they are eager to take credit for the new structure. If they had wanted, they could have given suggestions in court for beautification of the temple as a part of the redevelopment project rather than removing it,”’ he added. Prakash said the meeting ended successfully. “Everyone agreed to support the proposal with a positive mind. BJP could have passed the proposal being in majority, but we wanted everyone’s support and contribution,” added the mayor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-parties-agree-to-legalise-temple-at-chandni-chowk/articleshow/81179649.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Rajkot||Best show for BJP in 25 years||Rajkot: When BJP had won 59 out of the 60 seats in the 1995 election, BJP patriarch Atal Bihari Vajpayee had himself visited the city and appreciated the hard work put in by the party workers.“It was a moment of pride for all of us when Vajpayeeji specially came down to appreciate us, but in the same breath, he had pitied the fact that India’s oldest political party had no voice left in the general board.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/best-show-for-bjp-in-25-years/articleshow/81176921.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||Prerna app to help assess learning curve of students||LUCKNOW: The department of basic education launched a ‘Prerna Lakshya’ mobile application on Tuesday to test students on the foundational learning competencies fixed by the government. The app, which is an innovative assessment tool, will enable parents and teachers to determine the learning levels of their children and know their under-developed competencies that need more focus. The app, available on Google Play Store for free, also supports offline use. The app includes a question bank prepared by subject experts of the State Council of Educational Research and Training. “Using the assessment results, teachers can give more attention to students who have not been able to achieve their foundational learning competencies,” said basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi after launching the app. The app motivates students to continue their practice and supports them in their journey towards becoming a ‘Prerak Balak/Balika’. Students who achieve their grade corresponding language and math learning competencies in the assessment are declared ‘Prerak Balak/Balika’. Through this mechanism, an atmosphere of creation of ‘Prerak Schools’ and ‘Prerak Blocks’ will be created in time for third-party assessment of students at block-level through the ‘Prerna Ghoshna’, said an official. The Prerna Lakshya app has been integrated with the Google ‘Read Along’ app through which the children’s Oral Reading Fluency, analytical, cognitive, comprehension assessment can be done. Prior to launching the app, the government had launched a 100-day campaign ‘Prerna Gyanotsava’ to connect children with their schools before regular school restarted for classes VI-VIII from February 10. Soon after coming to power, the BJP government had launched Mission Prerna aimed at improving the quality of education. Under this, students of government schools are being made competent in basic language and mathematics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/prerna-app-to-help-assess-learning-curve-of-students/articleshow/81180923.cms||Isha Jain
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 21-year-old GPSC aspirant raped||AHMEDABAD: A GPSC aspirant has accused an Usmanpura resident of raping her after promising her marriage. She also accused the 28-year-old and his friend of having cheated her family members out of Rs 7 lakh. Filing an FIR on Monday, the 21-year-old Ghatlodia resident named Kuldeep Jain, a resident of Snehsangam Society, and his friend Akash Chaudhary as accused. The woman, whose father is an SRP jawan, told police that she was studying for BCom at a Navrangpura college when she met Jain at a cafe. “He persuaded her to have a relationship with him. Jain told me that he earned Rs 80,000 per month. I thought he was well-educated and earned well, so I decided to spend my entire life with him. He also met my family and would often stay over at my house,” she said. The girl told police: “Jain told my family that his father was dead and his mother had remarried. So, he was alone and wanted to have a family of his own.” She alleged that Jain took her to various hotels in Vastrapur and Gurukul where he raped her. She further alleged that he also raped in a parked car in Bopal. Later, Jain asked her sister, father, and mother for money to invest in business. Though he did not allegedly divulge the details of the venture, he promised them huge returns. “My family gave him and Chaudhary Rs 7.19 lakh but they did not give back a paisa,” she told police. She alleged that when she demanded the money back, the two threatened her and her kin with dire consequences. Jain broke up with her and stopped responding to her calls. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/21-yr-old-gpsc-aspirant-raped/articleshow/81179600.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Coimbatore||Appoint qualified computer science teachers, govt told||Coimbatore: Schoolteachers have welcomed the state government’s move to introduce Computer Science as a separate subject for classes VI to X in all the government schools in the state. They, however, said the move won’t be effective if the government didn’t appoint qualified teachers in the subject to handle the classes. Earlier in the day, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam had announced in the assembly the government’s commitment to provide quality education by leveraging Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in schools. “Initiative to integrate ICT education into the science curriculum for classes VI to X was already taken and hi-tech labs were set up in 6,029 government schools at a cost of Rs520.13 crore.” He said the computer science, which is being taught as a separate subject that too only in classes XI and XII as of now, would now be introduced for classes VI to X in all the government high and higher secondary schools. Appreciating the move, T Arulanantham, state auditor, Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary Graduate Teachers’ Association, said the government should appoint separate teachers to handle the subject. “Presently, one computer related lesson is included in science books for classes VI to X and it is being taught by science teachers, who do not have in-depth understanding about computers. And it is not very effective.” Speaking about the importance of framing right syllabus for the students, M Kalaivanan, state coordinator, Tamil Nadu Higher Secondary School Computer Teachers’ Association, said basics like introduction to computers and how to operate a computer should be included for Class VI and other advanced topics for the higher classes. “Once the students understand the basics clearly, it will be easy for them to learn the advanced concepts in higher secondary school.” Insisting that teachers, who were qualified to teach computer science, should be appointed in the schools, he said first preference should be given to the 652 teachers, who were debarred about nine years ago following a court direction, while creating at least one additional post per higher secondary school. In 2012, a special examination to recruit computer science teachers was conducted in the state. The eligibility score was reduced to 35 marks from 75 and eligible teachers were appointed. After some people moved the court, challenging the government’s move to reduce the eligibility mark to 35, the court had issued a direction against the government. Subsequently, 652 teachers, who had scored between 35 and 74 marks, were debarred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/appoint-qualified-computer-science-teachers-govt-told/articleshow/81179599.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: E-auction dates for liquor shops shifted due to poor response||JAIPUR: The new excise policy (2021-2022) formulated by the state government has failed to attract the liquor traders to participate in the e-auction. Earlier, the auction was scheduled to be held between February 23 and 27. Now, the e-auction will begin on March 3. The bidding, which was scheduled to be organised on February 24 and 25, will now be held on March 4 and 5. Similarly, instead of e-auction on February 26 and 27, it will now be held on March 9 and 10. The idea of organising the e-auction instead of lottery this year has not gone down well with the liquor traders. This can be gauged as the department received 1,185 applications against 404 shops in Jaipur. An official said, “Out of total applicants, not even 25% have deposited licence fees and security deposit for bidding. Last year, before the policy was amended 30 to 40 applications were received for each shop,” he said. Sources said, there are a total of 7,665 liquor stores in the state. The department has received over 24,000 applications, however, not even received application from 16% of the applicants. “There are many stores in divisions for which not a single application has been received. For instance, there is a shop in Jhunjhunu division for which not a single applicant has applied.” Apprehensive about the revenue loss, the excise department on Tuesday night revised the dates for conducting e-auctions for allotting Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and country-made liquor stores in the state. In the new policy, one person will not be allotted more than five shops in state and not more than two shops in a district. To participate in bidding for a shop having a reserve price of Rs 50 lakh, an applicant has to deposit Rs 40,000 application fee along with Rs 50,000 security money. Similarly, for shops having a reserve price more than Rs 50 lakh and up to Rs 2 crore, the application fee will be Rs 50,000 and Rs 1 lakh security money. Applicants will have to pay Rs 60,000 application fee along with Rs 2 lakh security money to bid for a shop having a reserve price more than Rs 2 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/e-auction-dates-for-liquor-shops-shifted-due-to-poor-response/articleshow/81179639.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Coimbatore||Call for resumption of Rameswaram train service gets louder||Coimbatore: Industrialists, politicians, activists and commuters are up in arms over the Southern Railway’s refusal to recommend reinstatement of the daily overnight train to Rameswaram via Pollachi from the city.The Southern Railway has instead proposed a Mangaluru-Rameswaram night train, which would be operated twice a week. Activists are worried that the city would permanently lose one of its crucial originating trains and frequency. Another concern is that people have to take the train from Podanur.Resumption of the train service to Rameswaram has been a long-pending demand, and MPs P R Natarajan (Coimbatore), Shanmuga Sundaram (Pollachi) and S Venkatesan (Madurai) had written to the Southern Railway, demanding the same.However, last month, Southern Railway general manager John Thomas had shot off a letter to the Madurai MP, stating they had proposed a Mangaluru-Rameswaram bi-weekly express instead of the Rameswaram-Coimbatore fast passenger. The train would pass through Madurai, Dindigul, Palani, Pollachi, Podanur and Palakkad. TOI has a copy of the letter.TOI also has a copy of Salem railway division’s recommendation to the Southern Railway to reinstate the train, along with justifications, people’s demand and proposed timings and stoppages. In its reply, the Southern Railway presented the proposal for Mangaluru- Rameswaram train that would pass through Podanur.R Raveendran, president, Residents’ Awareness Association of Coimbatore, said, “A bi-weekly train is not adequate for the people, who have to travel between the region and southern districts regularly for business, work, pilgrimage and tourism. A train originating from the city means more seats and more time for traders and people to load and unload their luggage. An express train will hardly stop for two minutes and timing would be inconvenient.”Many industrialists have also appealed to reinstate the train, so they could use it for transporting goods, including vegetables. B Mohanraj, secretary, Pollachi Train Passengers’ Welfare Association, said, “The daily overnight train is comfortable, because you don’t lose any working days. It is also an important pilgrimage route for people visiting Madurai, Nagercoil and Rameswaram from the district.” He had written to several politicians and railway authorities, demanding resumption of the train service.Since the conversion of Podanur-Pollachi track to broad gauge from metre gauge, residents in the district have been pitching for the reinstatement of the Rameswaram train. “The railway wrote back to me saying a daily fast passenger is not feasible. But on what basis or data?” asked MP P R Natarajan. “Besides the industrialists, traders, tourists and pilgrims, we have many people from southern districts living here who need to frequently visit their families. And this was a train that was running successfully,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/call-for-resumption-of-rameswaram-train-service-gets-louder/articleshow/81179624.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Keep all jumbo centres ready, civic chiefs told||Mumbai: minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday directed all municipal commissioners in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region to ensure that all jumbo Covid centres in their jurisdictions are audited so that they could be activated at a short notice, if required. “The CM also asked all civic chiefs to continue action against those who do not wear masks in public places or violate other Covid norms, and keep a tab on marriage halls and restaurants to ensure they follow the prescribed SOPs,” said Kalyan-Dombivli municipal commissioner. Thackeray said for the last one year, the state governm-ent, health workers and frontliners have been working relentlessly to reduce the spread of the virus, but citizens too have to do their bit to help this initiative. —Pradeep Gupta & Bhavika Jain||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/keep-all-jumbo-centres-ready-civic-chiefs-told/articleshow/81179628.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid-19 sequelae cases on the rise in Hyderabad||Hyderabad: An upswing in ‘post covid sequelae’ cases is being seen in the city with many who had contracted Covid-19 in April and May last year reporting back to pulmonologists. Covid sequelae is referred to as an acute complication arising from a chronic disease. While lung fibrosis remains the most common post Covid complication with many requiring long-term oxygen support, people who had been in ICU set up and critically ill (accounting for less than 10% of all Covid patients) are at risk of long-term effects. “The usual presenting complaint of covid sequelae cases is that they used to have no respiratory problem prior to developing Covid, but even months after recovery, having tested negative and discharge, they continue to have persistent dry cough and breathlessness. We are seeing many such cases of Covid sequelae,” said Dr Pradyut Waghray, chief pulmonologist, Kunal Institute of Medical Specialities. “A few of them may require ventilatory assistance in view of severely damaged lungs. However, most patients, who require this, may have had a history of prolonged ICU admission or prior heart or lung-related ailments, or they may suffer from immunocompromised conditions like underlying diabetes or chronic kidney disorder,” said Dr Viswesvaran Balasubramanian, consultant interventional pulmonology and sleep medicine, Yashoda Hospitals. A subset of these patients might even end up having lung transplantation due to irrecoverable damage to lungs. There has been a surge in the incidence of myocardial infarction and brain stroke, following recovery in Covid survivors, he added. Cases which might have not been detected as Covid previously, but later detected with severe fibrosis fall in this category. “In such patients, who might have had good immunity and the initial symptoms were ignored or not detected, slowly there might be some changes in the lungs and later these are categorised as post Covid fibrosis when detected. While majority of the patients with fibrosis are doing good, but patients having multiple complications like neurological, fungal or clot formations are not responding well to treatment,” said Dr A Raghukanth, senior consultant pulmonologist, Medicover Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-sequelae-cases-on-the-rise-in-hyderabad/articleshow/81180938.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||State hikes MLA fund to Rs 3 crore||Mumbai: Cash-starved state government on Tuesday enhanced the MLA local area development fund from Rs 2 crore to Rs 3 crore per year. An order issued by the planning department stated funds from the annual district plan would be utilised for small works, construction of school rooms, anganwadis, gymnasiums, cremation grounds and shelters for bus stands. As per the order, the fund hike became necessary due to massive escalation in cost of construction material. There has been no hike in the MLA area development fund since it was introduced in the financial year 2011-12. A senior bureaucrat called for stringent audit of fund utilisation. “We will be spending nearly Rs 1,098 crore on small development works. There should be critical evaluation of assets created by the fund. All works should be displayed on the website of the legislator or legislature,” he said. There are 288 MLAs in Maharashtra and 78 members of the legislative council. Prafulla Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-hikes-mla-fund-to-rs-3-crore/articleshow/81179830.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||MLC polls set for close contest||Hyderabad: All major political parties are now on tenterhooks as a close contest appears to be inevitable in the graduates MLC constituency elections. The reason is over half of the assembly constituencies in the state are under the two MLC graduates’ constituencies for which elections are being held. While the total number of assembly constituencies are 119, the two MLC constituencies cover 75 of these — 41 constituencies in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and 34 in Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda. The major parties fear there will be impact of the MLC election results on the next polls. These elections are being held after GHMC polls which were held two months ago. Elections to Warangal and Khammam municipal corporations and bypolls to Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency are likely to be held after the MLC polls. Adding to this, more than a hundred nominations have been filed only in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituency. In the 2015 elections, BJP candidate N Ramchander Rao won from the constituency against TRS candidate Devi Prasad, while TRS candidate Palla Rajeshwar Reddy secured Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda MLC constituency. Both are now in the fray and trying their luck. Congress fielded G Chinna Reddy from Mahbubnagar and Ramulu Naik from Warangal graduates segments. After dilly-dallying for a week, the TRS nominated former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao’s daughter Vani Devi from Hyderabad. The ruling party is of the opinion that the choice of Vani Devi will improve the party’s prospects in the elections. Political analysts say there will be a close contest among all candidates — Ramchander Rao, professor K Nageshwar (contesting as an independent candidate), Chinna Reddy and Vani Devi — and will not be a cake-walk for any candidate. There is dissidence in the ruling party and Congress. While Congress leader Harshavardhan Reddy filed his nomination as a Congress rebel, TRS leader Varkatam Jagannath Reddy, who tried for the ticket till last minute, openly commented that party leaders, especially in Mahbubnagar district, are unhappy with the leadership’s decision to field Vani Devi. When it comes to Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency, sitting MLC Rajeshwar Reddy is striving hard to retain his seat. While BJP and Congress fielded G Premender Reddy and Ramulu Naik as candidates, professor M Kodandaram of Telangana Jana Samithi and Jayasarathi Reddy from Communist parties are also trying their luck. TRS has appointed in-charges for every assembly segment and ministers have been asked to ensure the victory of both the candidates in the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlc-polls-set-for-close-contest/articleshow/81179610.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid-19 sequelae cases on the rise in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: An upswing in ‘post covid sequelae’ cases is being seen in the city with many who had contracted Covid-19 in April and May last year reporting back to pulmonologists. Covid sequelae is referred to as an acute complication arising from a chronic disease. While lung fibrosis remains the most common post Covid complication with many requiring long-term oxygen support, people who had been in ICU set up and critically ill (accounting for less than 10% of all Covid patients) are at risk of long-term effects. “The usual presenting complaint of covid sequelae cases is that they used to have no respiratory problem prior to developing Covid, but even months after recovery, having tested negative and discharge, they continue to have persistent dry cough and breathlessness. We are seeing many such cases of Covid sequelae,” said Dr Pradyut Waghray, chief pulmonologist, Kunal Institute of Medical Specialities. “A few of them may require ventilatory assistance in view of severely damaged lungs. However, most patients, who require this, may have had a history of prolonged ICU admission or prior heart or lung-related ailments, or they may suffer from immunocompromised conditions like underlying diabetes or chronic kidney disorder,” said Dr Viswesvaran Balasubramanian, consultant interventional pulmonology and sleep medicine, Yashoda Hospitals. A subset of these patients might even end up having lung transplantation due to irrecoverable damage to lungs. There has been a surge in the incidence of myocardial infarction and brain stroke, following recovery in Covid survivors, he added. Cases which might have not been detected as Covid previously, but later detected with severe fibrosis fall in this category.  “In such patients, who might have had good immunity and the initial symptoms were ignored or not detected, slowly there might be some changes in the lungs and later these are categorised as post Covid fibrosis when detected. While majority of the patients with fibrosis are doing good, but patients having multiple complications like neurological, fungal or clot formations are not responding well to treatment,” said Dr A Raghukanth, senior consultant pulmonologist, Medicover Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-sequelae-cases-on-the-rise-in-hyderabad/articleshow/81180944.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Four arrested a week after 38-year-old was stabbed several times in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Four men were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly attempting to kill a man by stabbing him multiple times last week in north Delhi’s Burari. Police said the man was attacked for allegedly using filthy language against the wife of the main accused, who was previously involved in at least eight cases of extortion, cheating and thefts. The arrested were also running a car racket of buying vehicles on fake documents and selling the same through e-commerce websites. The main accused has been identified as 38-year-old Naseem Ahmad, who was once the victim’s neighbour. His associates were identified as Amit Mehra (38), Naveid Khan (24), and Imran (22). While Khan used to sell toys and was also involved in an attempt to murder case earlier, Imran, a labourer, was involved in at least three criminal cases of murder, threatening and under the Goonda Act in Uttar Pradesh. On February 15, around 7.45am, Raj Kumar, a 38-year-old resident of Chandan Vihar, was stabbed by two men on the head and the neck when he was returning after dropping her daughter to school. Kumar was admitted to Bhatia Hospital in Jahangirpuri and a case of attempt to murder was registered. Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said more than 500 CCTV cameras were checked to identify the attackers. “The route they had taken to flee was traced and we succeeded in identifying the house from where they had left for the crime and returned,” he said. Alphonse said Ahmad told police that he and Kumar earlier lived in the same building and about six months ago, the victim had used filthy words against his wife during an argument over water leakage. “Ahmad said he had planned with his associates to take revenge,” Alphonse said. Police also found about the car racket. A laptop, 11 keys of motor cycles and two of cars, 45 cheque books, 28 passbooks, 34 Aadhaar cards, 65 PAN cards, 68 voter ID cards, 49 electricity bills, 11 driving licences, 18 ATM cards, 282 passport-size photographs of various people and 20 mobile phones have been seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-arrested-a-week-after-38-year-old-was-stabbed-several-times/articleshow/81179713.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||Ponnam targets BJP for poaching Cong leaders||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress working president and former MP Ponnam Prabhkar on Tuesday took a jibe at the BJP and asked the saffron party’s leadership why it was welcoming leaders of other political parties into its fold after terming them as ‘traitors’ and ‘thieves’. Speaking to mediapersons, Prabhakar alleged that the BJP was welcoming the other party leaders into its fold after ignoring all its own leaders who have worked hard for years together to strengthen it. Several leaders from Congress joined the BJP in the last two years. Targeting the Congress leaders who have joined the BJP in recent times, Prabhakar sought to ask them if their conscience is right to join the BJP which had termed the Congress as a party which passed the separate Telangana state creation bill after closing the doors of Parliament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ponnam-targets-bjp-for-poaching-cong-leaders/articleshow/81179672.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||Chandrapur: Support pours in for Eco-Pro hunger strike for Ramala Lake||CHANDRAPUR: Support continues to pour in for Eco-Pro Organization as the indefinite hunger strike being staged for conservation of historic Ramala Lake entered the second day on Tuesday. Over a dozen social, education and environmental organizations have pledged support to the agitation during the two days. The agitators staged symbolic agitation to drain the polluted water from the lake. Local people and activists of Eco-Pro joined hands to throw the lake water away with the help of buckets. The agitators toiled for hours as a gesture of their commitment to save the 550-year-old lake. Eco-Pro president Bandu Dhotre claimed presently whatever water is accumulated in the lake has came from the sewage washed through Macchi nullah and the drainage from Jalnagar habitation. “Entire water in the lake is polluted and non-potable. Even the water in wells and borewells in the surrounding area smells foul. The water body lacks necessary soluble oxygen leading to death of fishes. There is a dire need to analyse what hazardous effect the polluted water is having of the flora and fauna in the lake,” demanded Dhotre. Various organizations including Green Planet Society, Female Education Society, Wardhaman Social Academy, Drushti Samajik Sanghatana, Lions Club, Chetna Sangharsh Manch, Jungle Journey Group, Netrakalam Institute, Wild Care and others have pledged support to the ongoing agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/support-pours-in-for-eco-pro-hunger-strike-for-ramala-lake/articleshow/81179721.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 24, 2021||Pune||Educators hoping to restore lost learning expect long road ahead||Pune: The long hiatus from physical classes that has impacted reading, writing and arithmetic is because of increased screen time, educators said. Many said they will have to work double as hard to get students back on the rails when regular physical classes open. Principal of The Bishop's School, Camp, Joel Edwin said the habit of reinforcing by writing after careful reading has been impacted as have tests. “Exams have also been conducted online,” he added.Director of Rosary Education Group, Vinay Aranha, said blended learning has been hard but handled well by the teachers and parents. “Reading and arithmetic have not been impacted much. Writing to a certain extent has been compromised due to digital interface used for teaching and learning," he added.Mubarak Saiyyad, a teacher of a ZP school in Bhandara, said primary school students have been the worst affected. “These students have been learning without the help of a teacher or support from parents. If they don’t recognise the alphabet in standard I, they cannot be taught words or sentences in the next class. Older students can still learn on their own, but hand-holding for beginners is a must. In the rural areas, online classes were hardly possible,” Saiyyad added. He is a member of a group that recommends measures for quality improvement in schools.Mrinalini Gholap, coordinator of City Pride School, said conducting online exams was challenging as there is no way to find out the authenticity of the answers. “A learner's ability cannot be challenged because learners have been found to be more technically advanced than teachers. One cannot gauge the understanding of students. Online mode allows objective questioning which requires ticking options rather than writing elaborately. ," she said.Many educational institutions skipped exams due to the lack of gadgets, connectivity or technical knowledge to continue teaching and learning, leading to lack of interest, concentration, over dependence on technology, lack of thinking on their own, writing and reading among students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/educators-hoping-to-restore-lost-learning-expect-long-road-ahead/articleshow/81179678.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Soon, third party to open sealed illegal buildings||Jaipur: The state government is all set to strip the powers of 217 urban local bodies, including the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA), to open illegal buildings which are sealed. While the ULBs will be allowed only to seal the buildings, a third party will be appointed to open them. The proposal is mooted after urban development and housing minister (UDH) Shanti Dhariwal received the complaints of official for committing alleged corruption in opening the seal of the buildings. An official said, “The government will introduce the bill for same after making amendments in the bylaws. As per the proposal, the third party authority will be organised which only will have powers to open the seal,” he said. It was alleged that the civic agencies seal the buildings for violation, however, without removing the illegal construction its opened again by the officials. Once the new law is implemented the violators will be able to raze their illegal construction on their own. “Earlier, after the building was sealed, the owners were not allowed to enter inside the building or raze any construction. As per the new provision, after removing the illegal construction, the owner can approach to the appointed authority, which could later open the seal on the state government’s permission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/soon-third-party-to-open-sealed-illegal-buildings/articleshow/81179708.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||Govt steps during pandemic to be poll plank for BJP||Lucknow: Cases of Covid-19 might have subsided in the state but the pandemic is finding an active mention in BJP’s panchayat poll campaign. Party functionaries have been told to remind voters of what the state government and the party did for them during the Covid-19 pandemic, as people in villages and towns were the worst affected. The party’s panchayat poll plan has specific instructions for workers to highlight to voters the work the state government did under MNREGS to create income for those who came back home from states like Maharashtra, Gujarat and Punjab. Distribution of ration during the pandemic also has to be specifically discussed during gram chaupal and ward-level meetings. The party has planned hectic campaigning for panchayat polls till at least March 10. In series of meetings, from senior party leaders to ground-level workers, including block-level coordinators and gram sabha coordinators, directions are to prepare the profile of every ward and gram panchayat. The profile talks of social and political equations in the ward, such as number of influential families, caste profile of voters, supporters of other political parties and also people willing to contest on the party’s backing. “The 2015 panchayat election results have also been analysed in these meetings,” said sources. Based on the analysis, wards have been categorised into A, B and C categories. The C category needs maximum focus. “That’s where most senior party leaders have to visit and stay,” said sources. In Awadh region, there are no C category wards. Of 679 wards, 132 are in B category and that’s where the party has set its focus. Ambedkarnagar, particularly, is the concern area. Besides, gram sampark and gram chaupal are the highlights of the party’s campaign. Beneficiaries of government schemes have to be specially invited to these events. Party workers have been given the responsibility to publicise gram chaupal and meetings to bring in more voters. Schemes of rural housing, toilet construction, old-age pension, scholarships, beautification of primary schools, Ujjwala, Saubhagya, Ayushman Bharat and Kisan Samman Nidhi will be talked about in the meetings with voters. “Problems faced by people in gram panchayats will also be discussed. To give these meetings a grand look and scale, events will be held in public places and buildings and not at anyone’s doors,” said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-steps-during-pandemic-to-be-poll-plank-for-bjp/articleshow/81180952.cms||Neha Shukla
February 24, 2021||Coimbatore||NMR fails to provide drinking water facility for tourists||Udhagamandalam: Tourists taking a joy ride in the heritage Nilgiris Mountain Railway (NMR) have no access to drinking water for nearly two and half hours of their journey from Mettupalayam station to the next station in Hillgrove as the district administration has neither made any arrangements to provide water to them nor allows them to carry water in plastic bottles.The mountain train, which is a connecting train to the Nilgiris Express, starts from the Mettupalayam station by 7.10 am and the next stopover is at Hillgrove station at around 9.30 am. After nearly two and half hours of journey, tourists don’t get drinking water at the Hillgrove station. The mountain train stops at the station to fill water to the engine of the train. Same is the case at the Ooty station.According to NMR lovers, the railway authorities have turned a blind eye to the issue even after making several complaints in the past.Managing trustee of Heritage Steam Chariot (HSC) K Natarajan said, “Tourists coming from Chennai and other places straight away go to board the NMR train at Mettupalayam station due to constraint of time. After nearly two and half hours of journey, the train stops at Hillgrove station to fill water for the engine. Though the stopover is about 15 minutes, the station lacks a drinking water facility for the passengers.”He said, “As carrying plastic water bottles is banned in the Nilgiris, tourists are helpless. They must wait till the next stop at Coonoor for the facility. However, this station too lacks a hand washing facility even during this pandemic.”According to him, even the Ooty station does not provide drinking water facilities to the passengers. “NMR is a heritage site. This kind of bad experience will create a negative impression about the mountain railway,” Natarajan said. “A complaint by a few passengers to the Salem division of the railways recently went in vain,” he added.“We are planning to take up the matter with the Passenger Amenities Committee of the Railways,” Natarajan said.Baskaran, a tourist from Chennai told TOI, “It is very sad that NMR passengers are deprived of essential amenities. The railways should take immediate steps to provide the facilities at stopover stations along the route.”Divisional railway manager of Salem division A Gautam Srinivas told TOI, “We will check up and provide the needful to the passengers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nmr-fails-to-provide-drinking-water-facility-for-tourists/articleshow/81179666.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||2 years after launch, Jal Jeevan Mission gains speed in state||Jaipur: Two years after launching, the state government is finally expediting the implementation of the Jal Jeevan Mission Scheme. A campaign has been launched where engineers of public health and engineering department (PHED) have started to spread awareness among villagers about the scheme. The objective of this scheme is to connect every rural household with water taps for which pipelines have to be laid and new pumping stations have to be made. Around 45% of the financial burden will be borne by the Centre, 45% by the state government and 10% by villagers. The cost of the pipeline can be paid back by villagers either by contributing through labour or monetarily. However, making them understand is a challenging task which is been fulfilled by the officials by awareness campaign now, although it should have been begun a year back. Moreover, data of the households which have been connected to taps have to be updated in the system. Manish Beniwal, additional chief engineer of PHED, said the department is close to achieving its target. “Our engineers are working to make rural people aware about the ways they can contribute and inform them about the importance of the issue. For collecting data, we are already on the verge of completing our annual target and very soon the entire data will be updated,” said Beniwal. To maintain such a vast data in the servers, a district project management unit in each district and a central project management unit at the state-level will be opened that will be established soon. In all, 1,530 villages of Jaipur circle will be connected under major projects of pipeline that are ongoing and the rest will be covered under Jal Jeevan Mission. A senior official in the department said the state government expected more financial benefits from the central government. “In a hilly region like Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, central government is giving 90% of budget. There are many parts in Rajasthan like Jaisalmer, Barmer or forest region where houses are far away and cost of connecting them will be higher. So, central government should have thought about it,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-years-after-launch-jal-jeevan-mission-gains-speed-in-state/articleshow/81179740.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Salem||Forest watcher commits suicide due to ‘work pressure’||ERODE: The body of a 28-year-old forest watcher who committed suicide was found in a reserve forest in Andhiyur forest division in Erode district on Tuesday. Before ending his life by consuming poison, the forester, A Prabhakaran, shared a video with his collegues on WhatsApp stating that he was taking the extreme step due to “work pressure from senior officials”. Prabhakaran, a native of Nagamalai village in Madurai district, was working in Sennampatty forest range. The exact time of his death is yet to be ascertained. The video was delivered to his colleagues only on Monday evening and as it was already dark the officials launched a search for him on Tuesday morning. With a help from local villagers, they found his body in the Kombuthooki Amman temple area. Subsequently, the Burgoor police were alerted, who reached the spot and retrieved the body. They sent the body to the government hospital in Andhiyur for postmortem. In the video, Prabhakaran alleged that he was forced to take the extreme step after his higher officials exerted “work pressure” on him. “As I am addicted to alcohol, the officials are addicted to money,” he said in the video, which had gone viral. He alleged that he was not transferred despite several requests. However, district forest officer Vismiju Viswanathan said Prabhakaran didn’t approach his higher officials for transfer or any other work-related requirements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/forest-watcher-commits-suicide-due-to-work-pressure/articleshow/81179743.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: 47 students, 5 teachers of Latur school test positive||AURANGABAD: The Swami Vivekanand Integration English school, a private school in Latur, and its hostel facility have been sealed by the civic administration as a precautionary measure after at least 47 students and five teachers of the institution tested Covid-19 positive. Latur Municipal Corporation’s health officer Mahesh Patil on Tuesday said the number of positive cases at the school may go up in the days to come. “As many as 36 Class X students, 10 Class IX students and one from Class VI have so far tested positive for Covid-19. Most of these students are asymptomatic and, therefore, we fear they might have spread the infection to others. Moreover, five teachers of the school have also tested positive,” he said. The infected students hail from Aurangabad, Kalamnuri in Hingoli district, Pandharkawada in Yavatmal district among other places and had been staying at the school-run hostel facility. “First, a girl student developed a fever and was found to be infected on February 20. As a part of her contact-tracing, we tested 14 other students and 13 of them were also found positive. Later, we shifted the testing facility to the school itself carried out RT-PCR tests of all students and staff,” Patil said. About 410 students and staff members of the school have undergone Covid testing. The civic administration, as a precautionary measure, has kept all those who tested negative also in quarantine. The school authorities could not be reached as they too were in quarantine. Latur municipal commissioner Amant Mittal said there was no need to panic. “The classes for students of classes V and above are still on. The incident of mass infection of students should be seen in isolation as of now. We will review the decision to continue school functioning if needed,” he said. Maharashtra medical education minister Amit Deshmukh, who isalso Latur guardian minister, said: Latur district has reported 24,947 Covid cases so far, including 23,897 recovered patients and 702 fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/47-students-5-teachers-of-latur-school-test-positive/articleshow/81179700.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Second leopard radio-collared||Mumbai: A second leopard was radio-collared on Monday night as part of Sanjay Gandhi National Park’s project to study the animal in an urban landscape. Maharaj is approximately six years old. Earlier, a 2.5-3-year-old leopard Savitri had been radio-collared. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/second-leopard-radio-collared/articleshow/81180964.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Kolkata||IITs must turn into Insts of Indigenous Tech: PM||Kharagpur: Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants Indian Institutes of Technology across the country to grow into Institutes of Indigenous Technology and take a lead in the development of health technology, solar power and disaster management to cater to the Indian market at affordable rates as well as play a global role in these fields.“Requirements and aspirations have changed for India in the 21st century. Now it is time for the IITs to rise to the next level and develop as Institutes of Indigenous Technology,” the PM said in his address to the 66th convocation of IIT Kharagpur on Tuesday. Lauding the software solutions offered by the IIT KGP in the fight against corona, Modi urged students and researchers to carry forward the initiative in health technology innovation. “Earlier, people kept a thermometer and some essential medicines at home. Now, they keep equipment to measure BP, sugar and oxygen level besides other healthcare and fitness devices. I would urge the institute to work fast and come up with futuristic solutions in health technology with precision at affordable rates,” the PM said.Use of solar power during climate change was the PM’s another area of focus. “When the world is struggling with the challenges of climate change, India has come up with the idea of International Solar Alliance (ISA). India is among countries, where the cost of solar power is very low per unit. But there are still many challenges to deliver solar power to households,” Modi said. “I was thinking of launching the Clean Cooking movement. Around 25 crore households use chullahs. If we can innovate energy-storage batteries to run these chullahs and for other domestic requirements, we can take a major leap in the solar front.”Modi said disaster management needed technology to minimize damage to the environment. Stating that India had joined the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure floated by the United Nations, he said, “Small and medium houses and bridges collapse in a disaster. We saw what happened in Uttarakhand. We need innovation in construction technology to make our assets disaster proof,” he said. Exhorting students to recognize their potential and move ahead with confidence and selflessness, the PM said self-awareness, self-confidence and selflessness would help them overcome lack of confidence and obstacles. But Modi was not without a sound a word of caution for the IIT students and researchers. “There is no place for hastiness in the field of science and technology. You may not get complete success in the innovation you are working on. But that failure of yours will also be considered a success, because you will learn something from that,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iits-must-turn-into-insts-of-indigenous-tech-pm/articleshow/81180958.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Delhi||Advisory board under Gautam to help disabled||New Delhi: The capital now has a state advisory board on disability, constituted by the lieutenant governor under Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act. Social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam will be the ex-officio chairperson of the 45-member board. “Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act has a provision that the government in every state will create one state advisory board,” said Gautam, adding that the number of categories for the differently abled has gone up from seven to 21 and that around 4% of Delhi’s population fall under these categories. “We would have to move ahead with an inclusive approach and the different rights related to disability, including reservation policy, has to be implemented by us. The board will hold its meeting regularly, study the problems faced by persons with disabilities and guide the government, so that it can help and strengthen them through schemes,” Gautam said. The board will ensure that all certificates, including those for disability, are issued to them easily and swiftly, in addition to all aids and appliances that they are supposed to get from the government, he said. The board will also study national and international best practices to ensure rights of persons with disabilities. “Its work will guide the government so that it can bring better schemes and empowerment to them,” Gautam said. The other board members will be principal secretaries of various departments such as social welfare, education, women and child development, health and family welfare, urban development, transport, public works department, finance and industries. It will also have three MLAs, 18 nominated members and five district magistrates who will also be nominated. The secretary of Delhi government’s social welfare department will be the member secretary of the board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/advisory-board-under-gautam-to-help-disabled/articleshow/81179755.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 24, 2021||Salem||Undertrial prisoner ends life fearing verdict||Salem: A 31-year-old undertrial prisoner facing a child sexual abuse charge against him committed suicide in the Salem central prison on Tuesday. A prison official said the deceased, S Ashok Kumar, a native of Shenbagamadevi village in Tiruchengode taluk in Namakkal district, was an ambulance driver in a private company. “Ashok was arrested by the Ammapet all-woman police in Salem under the Pocso Act last June and was lodged in the prison since then. Even as his bail pleas were rejected, the police had filed a chargesheet against Ashok before a judicial magistrate in the Salem district combined court. He was supposed to appear before the judicial magistrate on Tuesday,” the official said Ashok was upset as his bail pleas were rejected, the official said. “The trial was nearing verdict and Ashok feared that he would be sentenced to a life term in prison. He told fellow inmates that he wouldn’t appear before the magistrate on Tuesday,” the official added. On Tuesday morning, the prison officials found him hanging from a ceiling fan hook using his dhoti. After the prison doctor confirmed his death, his body was brought down in presence of prison superintendent T Tamilselvan and the Hasthampatty police. The police have registered a case and initiated an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/undertrial-prisoner-ends-life-fearing-verdict/articleshow/81179726.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Delhi||3,000 take rooftop solar connection from BSES||New Delhi: The BSES discoms have installed over 3,000 rooftop solar net metering connections with a connected solar load of 106MWp (megawatt peak) in the capital and aims to install 1,000 more by 2021-22. The company, which runs BSES Rajdhani and BSES Yamuna, said it had been aggressively promoting roof-top solar in its areas in south, west, east and central Delhi. The total count stands at 3,140 and the response from consumers ranging across categories such as residential, educational and commercial establishments has been encouraging, it added. The highest number of connections are in the domestic segment (1,805), followed by educational institutions (655), commercial establishments (554), industrial (35) and others (91). “Besides promoting adoption of solar power, the initiative is a win-win proposition for both the consumers and the discoms alike,” a BSES spokesperson said, adding the connections ranged from a sanctioned load of 1KW to over 2,000KW. Consumers have begun to see how the move reduces their electricity bills, bringing it within the threshold to avail Delhi government’s power subsidy, said the spokesperson. Every KW of rooftop solar generates about 100-120 units of electricity every month and the cost of the system can be recovered in 3.5-4 years, he added. Consumers can generate electricity for self-consumption and sell surplus, if any, to the discom, which pays them as per DERC guidelines. “Now, a residential consumer can get a capital subsidy of up to 40%, depending on the solar load,” he said, adding that this benefits the discoms, too, in meeting renewable purchase obligation and will help it minimise overloading issues in congested areas during the peak summer months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3000-take-rooftop-solar-connection-from-bses/articleshow/81179795.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Pune||Remedial classes are way out in next academic year||Pune: Educators watching the school year unfold in dramatic ways said the top 10% students in a class may cope up with all changes that the pandemic has ushered in. The remaining have found it difficult to deal with online classes. Anjali Gujar, principal of Pawar Public School, Nanded City, said teachers will have to work extra hard and do a lot of revision in the first two months before proceeding when the new academic year begins. “Remedial teaching will be needed to a large extent as 90% of the students may not have attended online classes sincerely. We will have to replan vacations with three weeks for summer and cut short one week of Diwali or Christmas vacation. The situation will be less stressful and there will not be a burnout of teachers,” she added. Samadhan Dukre, professor of District Institute of Education and Training in Akola, has been a teacher for 19 years. “Online education may not help students understand everything. Depending upon the capacity of the students, they understood what was being taught and a small percentage actually learned the curricula taught. Hence, remedial teaching would be necessary,” he added. Even so, the entire syllabus will not be completed in the remedial classes. Teachers can only brush up the important topics. Bhagwan Pandekar, a teacher at Laxmanrao Apte Prashala said, “I teach mathematics and it is imperative that one understands the concepts well. Hence, there are topics which need to be taught to students in remedial classes so that they do not suffer when they go to higher classes.” Educators say there will be learning gaps without physical classes. “Some shy children would not speak up in an online class and a teacher may not be able to pick up on the lack of learning or understanding of a concept until it shows in an assessment. That would mean an extra effort for teachers to plug these gaps and reinforce concepts when we get back to physical school,” principal of The Orbis School, Nalini Samuel, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/remedial-classes-are-way-out-in-next-academic-year/articleshow/81179775.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Coimbatore||222 EVMs to be distributed in district today||Coimbatore: The district administration is likely to begin voters’ awareness campaigns and training for polling personnel soon. An election cell officer said they would distribute as many as 222 electronic voting machines (EVM) to assistant returning officers on Wednesday to conduct the training. Besides the required number of EVMs, the district has 25% extra EVMs in reserve, the officer added. “The voters’ awareness campaigns will be conducted at public places. Once the training and campaign are completed, the machines will be returned,” the officer said. As on Tuesday, 6,300 people have submitted applications to include their names in the voters list after the final electoral roll was published in January. The public are allowed to submit applications at least 10 days prior to the last date for filing nominations. The district will have as many as 4,437 polling booths and about 19,800 personnel were assigned election duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/222-evms-to-be-distributed-in-district-today/articleshow/81179772.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Tax fraud: Fake firms have footprints in many cities||Jaipur: The CGST operation in Jaipur against fake firms created to evade Rs 90 crore in taxes has found links all over the country. The evasion is the biggest in the state since the CGST came into force in 2017. The body has arrested seven persons for creating fake invoices of Rs 3,200 crore on February 22. Prime facie, it is reported that the accused has registered firms in several cities in the country to avoid attention on them. The CGST team have been keeping a watch on firms for almost six months and have been collecting evidences against them. “The modus Operandi being used by them is common but the scale at which they were using is unusual and uncommon,” said an official. These firms have been generating fake GST invoices of different products to illegally evade input tax credit. “So far those arrested are proprietors of the fake firms and those who issued the fake invoices on a commission basis are also likely to be arrested in the case,” said an official. Those arrested have been sent to judicial custody till February 8 and will be questioned to ascertain the extent of the fraud carried out by them. “The estimated evasion of Rs 90 crore is based on the preliminary investigation and the amount can go run into several times more than the current estimate. The accused are being investigated to establish their links with other firms registered across the country,” said the official. The authorities are using technological tools—data sharing and artificial intelligence which is commonly used in the investigation to collect evidence based on digital footprints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tax-fraud-fake-firms-have-footprints-in-many-cities/articleshow/81179773.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Shelter home for oxen to be set up in Jaipur||Jaipur: Following the Budget announcement of the state government last year, a Nandi Shala (shelter for oxen) will be established under the Nandi Gaushala Jan Sahbhagita in Jaipur city. To address the menace of the increasing number of destitute male cows in public places and on roads in the state, this project has now been approved by the government. Consent has been given to sign this contract between district collector, chairman of District Gopalan Samiti, commissioner of Jaipur Municipal Corporation Greater and Shri Krishna Balram Seva Trust. JMC Greater commissioner Yagya Mitra Singhdev on Tuesday explained that separate sheds will be prepared for the ‘nandis’ in the gaushala at a cost of about Rs 50 lakh. Out of this, Rs 45 lakh will be borne by the Animal Husbandry department and Rs 5 lakh by trust department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shelter-home-for-oxen-to-be-set-up-in-jaipur/articleshow/81179761.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Kala namak rice to be exported to Singapore||LUCKNOW: UP will start exporting 20 tonnes of Siddharthnagar’s famous Kala Namak rice or Buddha rice to Singapore soon. A government spokesperson explained that the rice, known as Buddha ka Mahaprasad or offering to Lord Buddha has been rebranded as Buddha rice in order to promote it in Buddhist countries. “The packaging of the rice carries a popular quote of Mahatma Buddha and adds ‘The unique aroma of the rice will remind people about me,” the official said. Additional chief secretary, MSME and export promotion Navneet Sehgal said that the consignment will be sent by the end of March. “The rice is being packaged in attractive glass jars with all its qualities mentioned on it. One can read the qualities by simply scanning the bar code,” he said. The export order comes as a boost for economy of the areas where the Kala Namak rice is grown. These include Gorakhpur, Deoria, Kushinagar, Maharajganj, Siddharthnagar, Sant Kabir Nagar, Bahraich, Balrampur, Gonda and Shravasti. It is part of the government’s one district-one product scheme under which specialty local products and produce of each district is being promoted. Kala Namak rice is the ODOP of Siddharthnagar, Basti, Gorakhpur, Maharajganj and Sant Kabir Nagar. Agricultural scientist Dr Ramchet Chaudhury said that historically Kala Namak rice was grown in Siddharthnagar’s Bajaha Village during the period of Buddha. “It is said that Mahatma Buddha broke his fast at Hiranyavati bank with pudding made of therice and had distributed it as an offering among devotees. The rice also finds mention in Chinesetraveller Fahyan’s account,” he said. Chaudhary added that the rice is not only highly aromatic, but also healthy and delicious. The government will also be organising a Kala Namak Rice festival. There isalso a plan to set up a Kala Namak rice Resaerch Centre at Siddharthnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kala-namak-rice-to-be-exported-to-singapore/articleshow/81180962.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nashik||Permission from Nashik police must for weddings||NASHIK: The Nashik city police has made it mandatory for citizens to seek permission for weddings. Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey said a one-window system for granting permission to wedding ceremonies would be set up at the police commissionerate. In view of the resurgence of Covid-19 infection, not more than 100 people would be allowed in wedding ceremonies as per government guidelines. The aim of the police is to ensure they are aware about the weddings taking place in different parts of the city so that they can keep a tab and ensure that all the safety Covid guidelines, like use of mask, social distancing and use of sanitizers, is being adhered to at the events. While granting permission, the police will instruct the concerned parties about the maximum limit of guests at the wedding ceremony and also apprise them about other Covid appropriate behavior. While the police will ensure that all the wedding events taking place in the city have obtained prior permission, action will be taken against the organisers for failing to take the requisite permission. The patrolling teams would also ensure that there are not more than 100 guests at the weddings. There are a large number of wedding halls in the Nandur Naka and Panchavati area of the city. On specific ‘muhurats’ of a wedding, the traffic on the Mumbai Agra highway and Aurangabad highway under the Adgaon police stations comes to a standstill due to the rush of guests arriving at these wedding halls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/permission-from-police-must-for-weddings/articleshow/81179752.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 24, 2021||Kolkata||Turn plastic waste to wealth, professor urges young Kolkata entrepreneurs||KOLKATA: Professor Shantanu Bhowmick, whose invention replaced the 18kg imported bullet- proof jackets used by defence personnel with 1.5 kg multi-layer plastic (carbon fibre) vest and saved defence ministry Rs 20,000 crore annually, has been meeting young entrepreneurs in Kolkata to encourage them to create wealth from plastic waste. His latest research aimed at making cities and villages free of plastic and thermocol waste. He has produced cotton fibre from thermocol, another all pervasive menace, which is choking drains, canals and polluting rivers. The thermocol cotton can be used for pillows, cushions and various other purposes. “While people throw away plastic packets and containers, they refrain from throwing broken pieces of metal. It is only because of the resale value. But the product we can manufacture with discarded plastic can make good business. So, entrepreneurs must buy plastic waste, like they buy metal waste. This is the only way to save the planet from plastic waste,” said Bhowmick on the sidelines of a seminar held at South Asian Institute of Advance Research and Development, where he spoke on waste to wealth.  Bhowmick, head of the aerospace engineering at Coimbatore-based Amrita University, has developed fibre boats (both mechanised and manual) and prefabricated paver blocks, which are light, fireproof and five times more durable than conventional concrete blocks. All of these are climate-friendly building materials. “Such buildings will be naturally cooler in summer and warmer in winter,” he added. “My target is the indigenous boat industry at Balagarh. For one boat, at least two full-grown trees are cut. Just imagine, a tree requires nearly 50 years to grow. Naturally, each boat is more expensive compared to a plastic boat made from waste, which could have been built in a day. A plastic boat would also be energy efficient with much better buoyancy because of the designed shape, which plastic can assume easily,” he added.  Bhowmick has planned to replace wooden boats of the Sundarbans with fibre ones. “The way people are discarding plastic items in Sundarbans, it poses a great threat to aquatic biodiversity,” he added. “The way we are generating plastic waste, the city will be badly affected during a flood. Because of the choked drains, water will take more time to recede. The sea-level is rising and Bengal is particularly vulnerable. We have very little time act,” said the professor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/turn-plastic-waste-to-wealth-prof-urges-young-city-entrepreneurs/articleshow/81180966.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 24, 2021||World||Secretive Israeli nuclear facility undergoes major project||DUBAI: A secretive Israeli nuclear facility at the center of the nation's undeclared atomic weapons programme is undergoing what appears to be its biggest construction project in decades, satellite photos analysed by The Associated Press show. A dig about the size of a soccer field and likely several stories deep now sits just meters (yards) from the aging reactor at the Shimon Peres Negev Nuclear Research Center near the city of Dimona. The facility is already home to decades-old underground laboratories that reprocess the reactor's spent rods to obtain weapons-grade plutonium for Israel's nuclear bomb programme. What the construction is for, however, remains unclear. The Israeli government did not respond to detailed questions from the AP about the work. Under its policy of nuclear ambiguity, Israel neither confirms nor denies having atomic weapons. It is among just four countries that have never joined the Non-Proliferation Treaty, a landmark international accord meant to stop the spread of nuclear arms. The construction comes as Israel — under Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu — maintains its scathing criticism of Iran's nuclear program, which remains under the watch of United Nations inspectors unlike its own. That has renewed calls among experts for Israel to publicly declare details of its programme. What “the Israeli government is doing at this secret nuclear weapons plant is something for the Israeli government to come clean about," said Daryl G. Kimball, executive director of the Washington-based Arms Control Association. With French assistance, Israel began secretly building the nuclear site in the late 1950s in empty desert near Dimona, a city some 90 kilometers (55 miles) south of Jerusalem. It hid the military purpose of the site for years from America, now Israel's chief ally, even referring to it as a textile factory. With plutonium from Dimona, Israel is widely believed to have become one of only nine nuclear-armed countries in the world. Given the secrecy surrounding its program, it remains unclear how many weapons it possesses. Analysts estimate Israel has material for at least 80 bombs. Those weapons likely could be delivered by land-based ballistic missiles, fighter jets or submarines. For decades, the Dimona facility's layout has remained the same. However, last week, the International Panel on Fissile Materials at Princeton University noted it had seen “significant new construction” at the site via commercially available satellite photos, though few details could be made out. Satellite images captured Monday by Planet Labs Inc. after a request from the AP provide the clearest view yet of the activity. Just southwest of the reactor, workers have dug a hole some 150 meters (165 yards) long and 60 meters (65 yards) wide. Tailings from the dig can be seen next to the site. A trench some 330 meters (360 yards) runs near the dig. Some 2 kilometers (1.25 miles) west of the reactor, boxes are stacked in two rectangular holes that appear to have concrete bases. Tailings from the dig can be seen nearby. Similar concrete pads are often used to entomb nuclear waste. Other images from Planet Labs suggest the dig near the reactor began in early 2019 and has progressed slowly since then. Analysts who spoke to the AP offered several suggestions about what could be happening there. The center's heavy-water reactor has been operational since the 1960s, far longer than most reactors of the same era. That raises both effectiveness and safety questions. In 2004, Israeli soldiers even began handing out iodine pills in Dimona in case of a radioactive leak from the facility. Iodine helps block the body from absorbing radiation. Those safety concerns could see authorities decommission or otherwise retrofit the reactor, analysts say. “I believe that the Israeli government is concerned to preserve and maintain the nation's current nuclear capabilities,” said Avner Cohen, a professor of nonproliferation studies at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey, who has written extensively on Dimona. “If indeed the Dimona reactor is getting closer to decommissioned, as I believe it is, one would expect Israel to make sure that certain functions of the reactor, which are still indispensable, will be fully replaced." Kimball, of the Arms Control Association, suggested Israel may want to produce more tritium, a relatively faster-decaying radioactive byproduct used to boost the explosive yield of some nuclear warheads. It also could want fresh plutonium "to replace or extend the life of warheads already in the Israeli nuclear arsenal,” he added. Israel built its nuclear weapons as it faced several wars with its Arab neighbors since its founding in 1948 in the wake of the Holocaust. An atomic weapons program, even undeclared, provided it an edge to deter enemies. As Peres, who led the nuclear program and later served as prime minister and president of Israel, said in 1998: “We have built a nuclear option, not in order to have a Hiroshima, but to have an Oslo,” referring both to the first U.S. nuclear bomb drop in World War II and Israel's efforts to reach a peace deal with Palestinians. But Israel's strategy of opacity also draws criticism from opponents. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif seized on the work at Dimona this week as his country prepared to limit access by the UN's International Atomic Energy Agency amid tensions with the West over its collapsing 2015 nuclear deal. (AP)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/secretive-israeli-nuclear-facility-undergoes-major-project/articleshow/81193381.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||Parents go the extra mile to double up as teachers||Pune: Parents now have to make special efforts to understand the syllabus and teach concepts that children were unable to grasp during the online classes. Revision during assessment was completely monitored by them and some prepared mock tests too. Principal of The Orbis School, Nalini Samuel, said parents have worked closely with them through this difficult year to ensure that the students do not lose out on learning and growing. Swati Chaurasia, a senior teacher at the Victorious Kidss Educares, said till grade 3, students had to be assisted by their parents with technology, attending the sessions and completing assignments during offline sessions. Julie Mishra said it is harrowing to juggle work, academics and home. “My daughter is in standard I and she has online classes that we closely monitor since her attention wanders. Homework and projects need to be taken care of too,” she said. Savita Joshi, with 30 years of teaching experience, was a state-appointed counsellor till last year. She said while students have had a bad year, parents are in dire need of counselling. “Most do not know English but send their children to English-medium schools making it impossible for them to help the children. It is hard for parents to see their children struggling. Above average students can cope with online classes, but others are in a fix. When the schools reopened, parents, students and teachers were relieved. In rural and semi-urban areas, online cannot substitute physical classes. I have been tutoring some students online for free because they will be left behind,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/parents-go-the-extra-mile-to-double-up-as-teachers/articleshow/81179765.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Curb imports of medical devices’||Hyderabad: The government needs to strike the right balance between price control and incentives and curb imports to ensure the medical devices industry thrives and the country does not have to rely on imports, said experts during a session at BioAsia 2021. Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AIMED) coordinator and Hindustan Syringes & Medical Devices Ltd MDRajiv Nath batted for strict regulation of pre-owned imports to ensure India does not become an e-waste dumping zone and an increase in import duties to encourage domestic manufacturing. Lauding recent government moves like PLI scheme for medical devices, Transasia Bio-Medicals Ltd CMD Suresh Vazirani said it was a good beginning. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/curb-imports-of-medical-devices/articleshow/81180963.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Nearly 3,000 Covid cases in Vidarbha region for the first time post September peak||NAGPUR: With all the 11 districts in Vidarbha region increasing tests significantly, the number of Covid-19 cases has also gone up. On Monday, 2,866 new cases were reported from Vidarbha region, the highest after the September peak. The total caseload has reached 3,03.701. For the first time since pandemic, the number of Covid-19 tests done in 24 hours surpassed the 10,000 mark in Nagpur district on Monday. Total 10996 tests were conducted out of which 691 tested positive. Sample positivity rate in Nagpur is under 6.5% now. In Amravati, 2472 tests were conducted on Monday and 926 of them tested positive which means more than 37% samples tested positive. Buldhana reported 416 positive cases out of 2,049 samples tested in last 24 hours which means more than 20% positivity rate. In Akola, 277 samples out of 1,413 tested positive with almost 20% positivity rate. Yavatmal reported 246 new cases out of 1,339 samples tested in a day which means 18% samples tested positive. In short, all districts in West Vidarbha have reported positivity rate at an alarming level. In Nagpur division, barring Wardha, no district reported more than 10% sample positivity. In all, 1992 patients recovered in a day from Vidarbha. These include Nagpur (477), Amravati (1077), Yavatmal (158), Buldhana (136), Akola (44), Wardha (36), Chandrapur (25), Washim (21), Bhandara (10), Gadchiroli (7) and Gondia (1). As more patients recovered on Monday, the recovery rate also continued to remain at 91.8% which is less than the state and national average. Total 20 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in the region on Monday. Highest 8 were reported in Nagpur district which include 5 from Nagpur city, 1 from Nagpur rural and 2 from other state/divisions. Amravati once again reported a serious spike in Covid-19 deaths with six patients dying in a day on Monday. Wardha, Akola, and Yavatmal reported 2 deaths each, most of them being senior citizens above 70 years of age. Vidarbha’s Covid-19 death toll reached 7,260. Case fatality rate is less than 2.4%. Amravati: Despite lockdown, coronavirus seems to be spreading unabated in the district as it reported an all time high spike of 926 cases on Tuesday. This surpassed the previous high of 727 posted on February 20. The month has thus far given 9,069 cases of which 4,728 have come in just last seven days, including Tuesday. The day's spike took the caseload to 31,123. To add further pain to the panic, the district also reported six deaths to take the count to 471. Discharge of 359 patients took the total to 26,758 as recovery rate dropped to 85.98. A total 2,13,728 tests have been conducted in the district since March with 31,123 testing positive, a few after their deaths. Washim: The district witnessed a chaotic situation at Pohra Devi pilgrimage destination on Monday when more than 10,000 supporters of a Maharashtra minister gathered there defying all Covid-19 norms. Washim reported 87 new cases, 21 recoveries and no deaths on Monday. Total cases in the district reached 7,922, including 7,162 recoveries and 156 deaths so far. Total 603 patients are under treatment. Wardha: While two elderly men died, taking the toll to 334, nearly 125 tested positive. The caseload is now 11,492. After 36 recovered, the overall figure is now 10,371. There are 787 active positive patients under treatment. New cases were reported from Wardha (65), Deoli and Arvi (15 each), Hinganghat (10), Karanja (9), Selu (6) and Ashti (5). Chandrapur: In all, 55 tested positive, while 25 were discharged, leaving 166 active cases in the district. With no deaths, the toll is stable at 397. While the case count is 23,437, recoveries are 22,874. Yavatmal: Two deaths, a woman and a man, both senior citizens, took the toll to 453. Out of the 1,339 reports, 246 (154 male and 92 female) were found to be positive. Currently, there are 1,138 active positive patients undergoing treatment. Out of the 16,501 positive patients, 14,913, including 158 of Tuesday, have recovered. Sources said most of the PCRT test centres across the district were lying inoperative since November. Enhanced tests have led to the surge in cases with the district administration dubbing it as ‘Super Spread’. Akola: A 71-year-old and a 74-year-old (both men) admitted after February 18 died during treatment on Monday. This took the toll of the district to 357. With 277 new cases and 44 recoveries; Akola now has 14,418 cases, 11,675 recoveries and 2,386 patients are under-treatment in the district. Most of them are in home-isolation. Buldhana: The district reported 416 new cases, a record for Buldhana till date. No death was reported. Caseload reached 16,912 on Monday. On the other hand, 136 patients recovered which took the recovery count to 14,822. With 187 deaths reported till date, Buldhana district now has 1,903 total cases. Shegaon, a most popular pilgrimage destination of Vidarbha in Buldhana district has closed down from Monday. The temple will not receive any visitors till next orders. Gadchiroli: The district reported 5 new cases and 7 recoveries on Monday. This took the total case count to 9,473 and recoveries to 9,298. With 105 deaths reported till date, the district has 70 patients under treatment. Gondia: With 16 new cases and only 1 recovery, Gondia district’s total Covid-19 caseload reached 14,355 on Monday. With 14,094 of them recovered and 185 deaths reported till date, the district now has 76 patients under treatment. Bhandara: The district reported 22 new cases and 10 recoveries. No death was reported for the fourth day in a row on Monday. Now, 179 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nearly-3k-covid-cases-for-the-first-time-post-september-peak/articleshow/81179824.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||UP govt may fund sick MSME units to prepare their revival plan||LUCKNOW: UP government is likely to float a new scheme under which it will financially help sick MSME units prepare a revival plan. In a budget discussion with the Lucknow Management Association on Tuesday, additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal said that many of the sick MSME units in the state were in such a state that they did not even have funds to prepare a detailed project report for their revival. “To help out these units, the state is considering a proposal to pay for hiring consultants to prepare their revival plans,” he said. Sehgal said that the 2021-22 budget, presented on Monday, had a strong focus on infrastructure development and generation of employment, especially for women. “We have covered every segment with schemes that will provide ease of living. This can be achieved by creating infrastructure like irrigation facilities, piped water supply etc,” he said. During the discussion, LMA member Arvind Mohan praised the budget for its significant thrust on infrastructure. Almost doubling the capital expenditure, he said, worked to create an opportunity for allowing transition to growth after the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy. Mohan said that the participation of women in UP’s economy is about 17% which the state should try and improve and is already addressing it through schemes launched in the budget. “Another aspect that we could look at is creation of cold chains and storage infrastructure. A lot of grain is being wasted due to lack of proper storage facilities,” he suggested. Another member Rajat Mehra said that this was possibly the “boldest budget” of the government till now. “Any other government would have been forced into a corner due to the increase in borrowing and shrinkage in revenue after the pandemic but this government has been audacious in this budget. Realising that private investment may not be coming in, the government has sharply increased expenditure and this will definitely propel the economy,” he said. Mehra added that the only disappointing bit about the budget was the lack of any funds or planning for improvement of infrastructure in industrial states. He also added that a relief in fuel and power rates, especially for small business units, would have not made a significant dent in the government’s earning but would have gone a long way in helping micro and small businesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-may-fund-sick-msme-units-to-prepare-their-revival-plan/articleshow/81180969.cms||Neha Lalchandani
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Transparency key to solving drug shortage’||Hyderabad: Batting for higher transparency and sharing of data among various stakeholders, Ronald Piervincenzi, CEO, United States Pharmacopeia (USP), pointed out that such practices can help in tackling the shortage of medicines globally. “USP is building a system to proactively identify and mitigate supply chain risk .. a database with millions of data points...linked together to create a global snapshot of the world’s medicine, where they are coming from...what kind of ingredients are being supplied…to help identify and measure resilience and to use it as a data source to conduct risk assessment,” Piervincenzi added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/transparency-key-to-solving-drug-shortage/articleshow/81180971.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nashik||Spike in Covid cases forces admin to impose sec 144||Nashik: Collector of Ahmednagar district Rajendra Bhosale on Monday evening announced prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code till March 15 following the spike in Covid-19 cases in the district. As per the order, gathering of over five people at public places is prohibited. Shops outside containment zones will have to function between 9am and 9 pm. Restrictions have also been imposed on the movement of vehicles which will be allowed to operate between 10pm and 5am. Citizens cannot bring out there vehicles on the road without any valid reason. However, essential services will not come under the purview of these restrictions. Ahmednagar is the third district in Nashik region to impose curbs. The Nashik and Jalgaon administrations had earlier imposed night curfews. Bhosale said these measures were being initiated to curb the spread of Covid-19. “The weekly Covid-19 positivity rate in the district is around 12%,” he said. According to him, educational institutions and religious places like the Sai Baba temple in Shirdi would remain open. The managements would have to ensure that Covid appropriate behaviour is followed. “I had visited some colleges on Monday and interacted with college authorities. I have told them they must ensure that students wear masks and follow social distancing. College authorities must send back students without masks,” he added. Even the owners of marriage halls and lawns have been instructed that the footfall for marriage ceremonies must not exceed 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/spike-in-covid-cases-forces-admin-to-impose-sec-144/articleshow/81179786.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
February 24, 2021||Pune||Ex-bizman dupes woman of Rs 4L with PMC job bait||Pune: The Hadapsar police on Monday arrested a former businessman, Harshal Batule (30), on the charge of duping a woman to the tune of Rs4 lakh on the pretext of helping her brother secure a job in the PMC’s anti-encroachment department between November 13 and 25 last year. A magisterial court on Tuesday remanded him in police custody till February 25. “Batule got friendly with a jobless woman from Manjari on a matrimonial site. He told the woman that he was an officer with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and promised help in getting her brother a job with the civic body,” said sub-inspector Sachin Gadekar from Hadapsar police. “Batule asked the woman to make an online transfer of Rs3lakh and pay Rs1lakh in cash to secure a job for her brother. The woman later realised that she had been tricked after Batule failed to secure the promised job for her brother and started avoiding her,” Gadekar said. She then filed a complaint with the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ex-bizman-dupes-woman-of-rs-4l-with-pmc-job-bait/articleshow/81179804.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Coimbatore||17 sovereigns of gold ornaments burgled from two houses||Coimbatore: A disingenuous act by a 62-year-old man led to looting of 12 sovereigns of gold ornaments and Rs1 lakh from his house. V Panneerselvam, 62, of Thiruvalluvar Street at Maniyakarampalayam in the city, locked the main door of his house, hid the key in a place outside his house and went to a temple along with his family members on Monday morning.When the family returned from the temple, Panneerselvam found the key intact in the place he had kept. But when he opened the main door and entered the house, he was shocked to see almirah broken open and 12 sovereigns of gold ornaments and Rs1 lakh missing. Unidentified burglars had taken the key from the spot, opened the door with it and decamped with the valuables. The Saravanampatti (crime) police registered a case based on a complaint from Panneerselvam.In another incident, K Haja Moideen, 37, of North Housing Unit at Selvapuram, had gone to Tirunelveli along with his family members on February 16. His younger brother Thameem Ansari of Selvapuram went to Haja Moideen’s house on Monday and found the front door lock was broken open. Unidentified burglars had broken open the house and looted five sovereigns of gold ornaments. The Selvapuram (crime) police registered a case and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/17-sovereigns-of-gold-ornaments-burgled-from-two-houses/articleshow/81179835.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Delhi||HC tells police to make amends, earmark area in colony for children||New Delhi: Acutely aware of shrinking spaces for children to play in the city, Delhi High Court has stepped in. In a recent order, the court asked police to make amends for its failure to obey earlier court orders and directed it to earmark a portion of a west Delhi colony for children, especially girls. Justice Najmi Waziri spared the local station house officer over his failure to act promptly on removal of unauthorised construction in a Rajouri Garden locality while hearing a plea for contempt. However, the court said since it overlooked the SHO’s “inadvertent default” in filing an affidavit in terms of the previous order, the cop will coordinate with landowning agencies “to have some area under his jurisdiction cleared up so that the same could be used as a playfield by the children of the neighbourhood.” It recorded the policeman’s statement that it would be a good step since “team-games and sporting activities will lend to building of healthy bodies and healthy minds, to building team-spirit and fostering community bonds and social cohesion. All this will eventually lead to maintenance of public order.” On his part the local station in-charge assured the court that the beat constable and the staff under him will be given clear instructions to ensure that the sporting activities in the designated area is not obstructed or disrupted by unruly elements or that the land is not otherwise encroached-upon or made unusable. The court further ordered to ensure “there is no unruly or obstructive behaviour during the time specially allocated only for girls.” The court issued notice to police and asked standing counsel of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) Gaurang Kanth to respond to the concerns raised in the plea. “The report regarding work undertaken in this regard, as well as the schedule when the playfield could be used exclusively by girls, should be filed within two weeks from today. The space should be made available to the children,” the judge further observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-tells-police-to-make-amends-earmark-area-in-colony-for-children/articleshow/81179843.cms||Abhinav Garg
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘It’s challenging to play with pink ball regardless of pitch’||Ahmedabad: India captain Virat Kohli feels that it would be a big challenge playing with the pink ball when the hosts play England in the third Test at the Sardar Patel Gujarat Stadium at Motera in the day-night encounter starting on Wednesday. Kohli, however, slightly differed from India opener Rohit Sharma, who two days ago had said that Motera should be a spinner-friendly track like the one witnessed during the second Test at Chennai where it started turning from the first session itself. The India captain believes that the speedsters should not be ignored as the ball will assist them in the beginning till it shines but felt that spinners will have a role to play later as well.“The pink ball swings a lot more than the red ball. During our first experience with the pink-ball Test against Bangladesh in 2019, we felt that it was much more challenging, especially during the evening hours. When the sun was shining the ball did not do much but when it got dark it got very challenging and tricky. The ball tends to swing too much and the batsman has to adjust a lot. It’s always challenging to play with the pink ball regardless of what the pitch has to offer,’’ he said.Kohli seemed positive about the outcome of the match and said the team's focus was to win both the Tests at Motera. “We have defeated England at their own backyard some time ago where the ball swings a lot.’’ On India's capitulation for 36 in the pink-ball Test at Adelaide in December last year, Kohli sought to remind everyone that England too were bundled out for 58 in their pink-ball Test against New Zealand in Auckland and thus it will not have any impact of the outcome of this match."Both are bizarre experiences for two quality sides," said Kohli. ‘‘Barring those 45 minutes, we dominated the Adelaide Test. We brushed that result aside and won in Melbourne later," he said.Kohli also lauded veteran speedster Ishant Sharma, who is set to become the second Indian fast bowler to play 100 Tests, and Ravichandran Ashwin who he referred to as a ‘smart’ cricketer. "For a fast bowler, it is indeed a big achievement to play 100 Tests,’’ said Kohli, who has known Ishant from his Ranji days when they were roommates on several occasions. Kohli said they still shared a great bonding. “Ash (Ashwin) is very smart and very sharp and understands his field positioning,’’ said Kohli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/its-challenging-to-play-with-pink-ball-regardless-of-pitch/articleshow/81179780.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||5 bars raided, sealed for flouting Covid safety norms||Thane: The civic body conducted a surprise raid on five bars operating and sealed them as they were found flouting Covid rules. According to officials, separate teams were formed to raid bars across the city. Of the five, two were orchestra bars at Naupada and Kapurbawdi. The teams armed with cameras recorded the situation where visitors and staff were found not maintaining social distancing and were roaming around without a mask. Following instructions from the civic chief, the officials immediately sealed the premises and the administration is now mulling to register cases against the owners. Meanwhile, over 300 residents have been penalised for failing to wear masks in public places over the weekend. The civic body started a crackdown after a spike in Covid cases was reported in the city. Residents have been appealed to wear masks and follow safety protocol. Those found flouting norms were penalised Rs 500. Meanwhile, Naupada ward has witnessed the highest number of Covid violations, following which a total penalty of Rs 43,000 was collected from there. Majiwada and Manpada wards also collected nearly Rs 18,500 in fines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-bars-raided-sealed-for-flouting-covid-safety-norms/articleshow/81179853.cms||Manoj Badgeri
February 24, 2021||Pune||70-year-old dies of burns in blaze at cloth outlet||Pune: A 70-year-old woman died of severe burn injuries after a cloth showroom in Akurdi caught fire early on Tuesday.The fire broke out around 3am on the ground floor of an old bungalow near Mhalsakant Chowk. The flames were doused at 7am. The fire brigade said the cause of the fire had yet to be ascertained.The deceased, Bharati Nandlal Sarda, died while attempting to escape. She lived on the first floor of the bungalow, while the ground floor housed the shop. Her son, daughter-in-law and other family stayed in a nearby flat.A neighbour, Nilesh Bhagwat, said his brother noticed smoke billowing out of the bungalow when he was returning from work. “He alerted her son,” Bhagwat said. Suryakant Mathpati, sub-officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad fire brigade, said they received the call around 3am. “We dispatched three fire tenders immediately. A fire tender from Bajaj Motors too reached the spot,” Mathpati said.The flames had already reached the first floor. “We were told the woman was on the first floor. We smashed the windows and sprayed water inside before breaking the door and gaining entry. The ground floor was filled with smoke — the clothes had caught fire. We went to the first floor and opened the windows to let out the smoke. We did not find the woman there,” he said. They found her body near the door. “She suffered severe burns. She must have come downstairs and was unable to open the door,” he said.J N Awte, a neighbour, said his wife and he woke up when their room filled with smoke. “Fire tenders reached the spot a little late. Some of us started pouring water on the flames,” Awte said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/70-year-old-dies-of-burns-in-blaze-at-cloth-outlet/articleshow/81179845.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||AIT honours Gangakhedkar||Pune: The Army Institute of Technology (AIT) will confer lifetime achievement award to Dr Raman Gangakhedkar on the occasion of its 27th foundation day on February 24. Gangakhedkar was awarded the Padma Shri last year. He is the former head scientist of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research. The event will be conducted online and on the campus as well. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ait-honours-gangakhedkar/articleshow/81179813.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Aurangabad||‘Will register offences against those spreading rumours’||Aurangabad: Citing that the misuse of social media is unnecessarily causing panic amongst commoners, Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta has ordered registering of offences against those spreading rumours, especially related to Covid-19, lockdown and anything that poses threat to peace and communal harmony of the city. The issue of morphed photos, backdated video bytes of police officers and warning messages about lockdown-related restrictions caught attention of senior police officers after they noticed a sudden surge in the number of calls received by police control room as well as direct calls made to senior police officers from their respective contacts. “People should abstain from forwarding anything and everything received by them through social media. We have ordered registering offences against those found spreading rumours, false messages, hatred content, intentionally or unintentionally,” Gupta said. He said that people should closely follow the official Twitter and Facebook handles of city police for any specific instructions. If unable to find anything, they may also dial a call to the police control room, said Gupta, adding that spreading rumours is being looked upon seriously by the city police. Police authorities even cited the example of a forged lockdown order claiming to be issued by Hingoli district collector Ruchesh Jaywanshi which had gone viral on social media, causing serious panic in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/will-register-offences-against-those-spreading-rumours/articleshow/81177023.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Three held for stealing 21 bikes in city||Jaipur: Vidhyadhar Nagar police have arrested three persons in connection with stealing vehicles on Tuesday. Police have seized 21 bikes, including eight power bikes from their procession. The mater key and the tools used for stealing bikes were recovered from the thieves. Paris Deshmukh, deputy commissioner of police, Jaipur (North), said they have been keeping an eye on the thieves who are involved in crimes under several police stations. “They have been arrested while committing a crime at Ganesh Nagar in Vidhyadhar Nagar. They were under the watch,” he said . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-held-for-stealing-21-bikes-in-city/articleshow/81179844.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Goa||Goa: With love from northeast, football gets a beauty touch||PANAJI: Jessica Snock is done winning beauty pageants. Now it’s time to win hearts and change perceptions about the northeast, through football. Crowned Mrs United Nations Universe 2019 and now an ambassador of the UN Peacekeeping Forces, Jessica—who was the first Naga woman to win the beauty contest—is busy putting together an ambitious football tournament in Goa that will attract teams from across the country. “Northeast shares the same passion with Goa. Football is also the state sport here. In Goa, we have fellow brothers and sisters from the northeast working. This is like a second home for every one of us,” Jessica, who has made Goa her home for the past four months, said. Through her own trust, The Snock, Jessica is organising NorthEast 7’s 2021, a football tournament that will have around 24 teams. There will be men, women and veterans—involved in an exhibition match—who will battle for honours starting April 19 at the GMC Athletic Stadium at Bambolim. Jessica has already found support from several quarters, including Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju, who will attend the opening. He even tweeted in support of the tournament, while chief minister Pramod Sawant has promised all possible support. Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju launching the NorthEast 7s logo“The sports minister was very supportive. He is a huge sports enthusiast himself, so that helps a lot. He has agreed to launch the tournament,” said Jessica. Initially, the tournament—set to be an annual affair—was scheduled to kick off last year, but the coronavirus pandemic held everyone back. That proved to be a blessing in disguise as the organisers found enough time to put everything in place, besides getting the approval of the Union sports minister. “Sports has such a huge fan following and such a strong power to connect people. It can unite people from whichever regions they are. When we first discussed this idea, everyone loved it and that’s how we moved ahead,” said Jessica. There is also support from Mama Natung, Arunachal Pradesh’s minister for sports, environment and forest. “I wanted to do something for my own people. When you step out of your own region, you see many don’t recognise us as Indians. It’s not their fault. We may look totally different from the rest of our brothers and sisters from India. We now want to show everyone what northeast is all about,” said Jessica. “Besides football, we will have cultural events around the tournament. This will help create awareness of not just the northeast, but Goa too. Everyone will get a true picture of the northeast. There are too many misconceptions,” said Jessica.  Who said football is just about winning trophies?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-love-from-northeast-football-gets-a-beauty-touch/articleshow/81179839.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 24, 2021||Kolkata||Monitoring boat for Sunderbans||KOLKATA: The buffer zone of the Sunderbans that falls in South 24 Parganas Forest Division got a mobile monitoring boat on Tuesday for effective “management of tigers and their habitat”. The South 24 Parganas forest division of the Sunderbans is now home to more than 20 tigers. “To enhance the protection of the wildlife in the region and their habitat, the Sunderbans Biosphere Reserve and WWF-India, with support from Discovery-India, introduced MV Aranya Prohori, the patrolling boat,” said Ajoy Kumar Das, joint director of Sunderbans Biosphere Reserve. The move is part of an integrated approach to prioritize habitat management, manage human-wildlife conflict and build resilient communities, said an official of WWF-India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/monitoring-boat-for-sunderbans/articleshow/81181011.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||Ownership of residence in rural areas to be in woman’s name: CM||Lucknow: Reviewing implementation of the second phase of Mission Shakti, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday gave directions that registration of Gharauni, the document that will certify ownership of a residential accommodation in rural areas, will be issued in the name of a woman in the family. The CM has also ordered setting up of an outpost under the Mahila Thana of the district for speedy redressal of complaints lodged by women. He also said that women self-help groups should be given the charge of maintaining community toilets in rural areas at the earliest. The CM said that to celebrate International Women’s Day on March 8, government departments should start programmes under Mission Shakti from February 26. The discussion also focused on the women cyber crime cell, cyberbullying and cyber stalking, setting up a woman safety committee under community policing, facility for first aid at women help desks, release of very old inmates from jail or those who are physically disabled, etc. The CM directed district magistrates to prepare a road map for the next year to continue the programme even after April 2021. “Women and girls still suffer discrimination and gender inequality. Effective communication helps overcome these situations,” said Manoj Kumar Rai, director, women welfare department and nodal officer, Mission Shakti. He said that a special social and behavioural change communication module has been prepared and public awareness programmes will be conducted through this in March. Rai said women and children will be made aware of the role of effective communication in the fight for their rights. A training of departmental officers and employees will be conducted from March 1 to 10 on the basis of the communication module. One member each from the child protection unit of every district, one from each Mahila Shakti Kendra and four mukhya sevikas from each district will also be trained. Master trainers will then impart training to other departmental officers and employees between March 10 and 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ownership-of-residence-in-rural-areas-to-be-in-womans-name-cm/articleshow/81180994.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 24, 2021||Nashik||Start RT-PCR testing at Gangapur hosp: Bhalerao||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) standing committee member Varsha Bhalerao on Tuesday demanded that an RT-PCR testing centre should be started at the Gangapur hospital for the convenience of the residents of the area. Bhalerao said that residents of the area are forced to go to Zakir Hussain hospital, civil hospital or other private hospitals that are around 10-km away from Gangapur Road. “At times all family members have to undergo the RT-PCR test and going to a testing centre that is around 10km away becomes an expensive affair. Sometimes they have to go to private hospitals for getting themselves tested. As a result, residents of Gangapur Road area have to bear the additional expenses along with wasting time for getting tested,” Bhalerao said. “Recently, the civic body had started the RT-PCR tests at Gangapur hospital, but it lasted only for 15 days as the contract of the lab technicians was terminated by the NMC. Hence, we want the health department of the NMC to immediately restart the RT-PCR testing at the Gangapur hospital. This may benefit over 1 lakh residents of the area,” she added. Following this, chairman of the standing committee of NMC Ganesh Gite directed the civic administration to look into the issue to which additional municipal commissioner Praveen Ashtikar assured that the RT-PCR testing will be started at the Gangapur hospital at the earliest. Meanwhile, the NMC health department is already increasing RT-PCR testing centres from two to six. Apart from Bytco and Zakir Hussain hospital, the swab collection centres are to be started at Morewadi hospital, civic hospital, Indira Gandhi hospital and IMA hall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/start-rt-pcr-testing-at-gangapur-hosp-bhalerao/articleshow/81179819.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 24, 2021||Aurangabad||Eligibility test to replace aptitude test for SSC students||Aurangabad: The SSC aptitude test started by the previous BJP-led government has been scrapped by the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and a special eligibility test has been planned for the students. Dinkar Patil, Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary (MSBSHE) chairman, on Tuesday said the proposed eligibility test would be more scientific in nature as compared to the aptitude test conducted for the past five years. “The new test would be conducted in an offline manner as against the online aptitude test held in the past. We will rope in experts from the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) to conduct the eligibility test and evaluate students on several parameters to gauge their inclination towards different possible career options,” he said. Patil said the aptitude test held in the past had many gaps and its proposed alternative would prove more useful to the students in deciding career track after SSC. On reasons behind scrapping the aptitude test, MSBSHE officials said the contract with certain private firm concerned has expired and it was decided not to renew it in the wake of decision to offer better alternative. “The students need to register online for the proposed eligibility test. The detail time-table of it would be shared with schools in near future,” Patil said. Schools said they are ready to implement the new test as decided by the MSBSHE. “We are ready for the change as the reform is related to the students. We hope the new initiative gets implemented in a smooth manner,” Savita Mulay, principal of Sharda Mandir school, said. Educational activist Prashant Sathe said timely sharing of the eligibility test result was a must.“The main objective of the test is to help students in realizing their aptitude,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/eligibility-test-to-replace-aptitude-test-for-ssc-students/articleshow/81177005.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Goa||Organisers keen to have India at Copa America: AIFF||Panaji: India are hoping to get an invitation from organisers of Copa America, the South American football championship starring powerhouses Brazil and Argentina, for the next edition after narrowly missing out on 2021 due to scheduling issues. The Copa America – postponed last year due to the coronavirus pandemic -- is scheduled to kick off on June 11. Amazingly, India could have been one of the participants after being recommended by Australia as their replacement. “There were two Asian teams, Qatar and Australia, invited for Copa America. Australia couldn’t make it due to various commitments. They actually then spoke to India and to CONMEBOL (South American Football Confederation), who were excited to get India. They were very interested in having us play,” All India Football Federation general secretary Kushal Das told TOI on Wednesday. India, however, couldn’t confirm their availability after the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) postponed the Fifa World Cup qualifiers from March-April to June. “There were scheduling issues. The Copa America is in June and we were trying to see if the qualifiers could be played earlier in March/April. But it didn’t work out for some of the countries (in the group) like Bangladesh and Afghanistan. “Had the qualifiers been in March or April, it would have been a fantastic experience for our team. It’s a very difficult tournament, but for a young squad, this is what they require. I hope, as the organizers have indicated that they are interested in India, we can make it happen in the future,” said Das. India coach Igor Stimac also confirmed the “chance” of playing at Copa America, alongside some of the world’s greatest players like Lionel Messi, Neymar, Luis Suarez and James Rodriguez. “We were all really excited. There was a chance for us to go there, instead of Australia. This would have been a wonderful experience. In the future, hopefully we will be invited,” said Stimac. The decision to push the World Cup qualifiers to June means both Asian countries have now turned down the invitation. While Australia had made it clear quite a while ago, Qatar have also officially opted out. Those in the know said the organisers are looking at the possibility of inviting two other teams to replace Australia and Qatar. Should they fail in their attempts, they will go ahead with 10 South American teams. Had India replaced Australia, as they and the organisers wished, Stimac’s boys would have been rubbing shoulders with Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, Bolivia and Paraguay in group A. This edition of Copa America is due to be held in two countries for the first time in its 105-year history with Colombia and Argentina as hosts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/organisers-keen-to-have-india-at-copa-america-aiff/articleshow/81198459.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 24, 2021||Pune||Duo held, 17 criminal cases solved: Police||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Tuesday claimed to have detected 17 criminal cases, including 14 chain snatchings, with the arrest of two criminals on records. The police recovered gold ornaments worth Rs11 lakh and two motorcycles, collectively worth Rs12.7 lakh, from the duo -- Safir Khan (35) of Lonavla and Mohammed Irani (25) of Shivajinagar, Pune. Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said, “The duo was taken into custody from Dudulgaon on a tip-off.” He said the suspects and their one more accomplice used to steal motorcycles and snatch gold chains. “We have detected 14 chain snatching cases, one case of stealing ornaments by posing as a cop and theft of two motorcycles,” he said.  Khan has 22 cases registered against him, while Irani has nine cases against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-held-17-criminal-cases-solved-police/articleshow/81179864.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Saffron surge in Ahmedabad: BJP gains in East, Patidar bastions||Saffron bloomed in the city as the BJP recovered the very same territories it had lost after the 2015 Patidar agitation which had scarred its political status. This was starkly visible in the eastern part of the city. The BJP wrested 16 seats from the Congress in the eastern part in the 2021 election — mainly comprising areas of Sardarnagar, Saijpur Bogha, Amraiwadi, Viratnagar, Bapunagar, Saraspur, India Colony, Bhaipura-Hatkeshwar and Ramol-Haijan. These are areas which have sizeable Patidar dominance and in 2015 these areas had voted for the Congress. Read AlsoBJP sweeps Gujarat civic polls, AAP makes stunning debutBJP swept all the six municipal corporations of Gujarat, putting up its best performance in two decades by winning 483 of the total 576 seats and leaving main opposition Congress in tatters. AAP made a stunning debut in the state by winning 27 of the total 120 seats in Surat, virtually stamping outIn the western part, however, the BJP improved its tally by one seat. In 2015, BJP had won 66 seats in the western part of the city. On the other hand the Congress suffered a major blow after two of its loyal bastions — Jamalpur and Makhtampura wards — gave away six seats to a new entrant the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen and one seat in Sarkhej ward to the BJP. The only consolation for the party was it won all four seats of Khadia ward — a traditional BJP bastion. The internal rift between the Congress MLAs in the city had led to a major dent in the Congress tally. An office-bearer said the former leader of opposition Dinesh Sharma was shunted out of Bapunagar and was allotted a ticket in Chandkheda, where the leader lost. The BJP won all the four seats, while it had three seats in 2015. An office-bearer of the BJP said that with AAP and AIMIM in the fray, it was felt that the BJP candidates may not be able to retain the panel in several wards, but in fact it was revealed that the BJP got all four candidates winning in 36 wards this election against 29 in 2015. The top candidates who polled the highest votes above 25k were all BJP candidates. The Vastral BJP candidate Anirudhsinh Jhala won with the highest votes of 35,000. In Navrangpura, the voting was 29.3% but the vote share of BJP was over 81% while in Bodakdev where the voting was 32.3% the vote share of BJP was 83%. The Congress barely managed the vote share of 14% and 15% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/saffron-surge-bjp-gains-in-east-patidar-bastions/articleshow/81181016.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Cut T&D losses below 15%: min||Energy minister B D Kalla directed the discoms to bring down the transmission and distribution (T&D) losses below 15% in the next six months. He said everyone must work with team spirit to achieve this objective while expressing concern over the high losses. He said that by reducing one percent of T&D losses, there is an annual savings of Rs 450 crore. “We will be able to give cheap and good quality electricity to the common man only by reducing the losses of transmission and distribution,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cut-td-losses-below-15-min/articleshow/81179879.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||Develop Ayodhya with culture intact: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Pushing for integrated development of Ayodhya, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said that the city is known the world over as the birth place of Lord Ram and its ancient culture should be kept intact while developing it. Its buildings, he said, should reflect both Indian culture and heritage. During a review meeting to discuss ongoing works in the city, the CM directed officials to involve the private sector for development of projects while also going through PPP and CSR modes. He said that a sharp increase in tourist footfall to Ayodhya was expected in the coming days and keeping that in mind, good hotels should be built in the city. “Identify land in the city for guest houses, dharamshalas and rest houses. Ayodhya should be developed in such a way that tourists visiting the city should get to experience its religious and historical aspects. Ghats should be beautified but preserved. Riverfront should provide a new tourist spot,” he said. “Ayodhya should be developed as a clean and green solar city. Infrastructure like roads should be constructed keeping in mind the future requirements. Railway and bus stations should have adequate parking spaces,” he added. “Matters of land acquisition should be disposed of at the earliest and any concerns should be resolved through dialogue. The panch kosi, chaudah kosi and chaurasi kosi parikrama routes should be developed with proper amenities for devotees,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-develop-ayodhya-with-culture-intact/articleshow/81181009.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||17 booked for shouting slogans||Seventeen persons, including seven candidates in local body polls, have been booked for unlawful assembly and sloganeering outside Gujarat College in Ellisbridge on Tuesday. According to the FIR filed with Ellisbridge police, there was a notification barring gathering outside the counting centre but many people still amassed outside the college. When cops rushed towards them, many fled. Later, police identified 17 persons and booked them. Inspector (Ellisbridge) S N Chaudhary said that he could not identify the candidates and workers and did not know which party they belonged to. Police registered an FIR of unlawful assembly and booked them under sections of Epidemic act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/17-booked-for-shouting-slogans/articleshow/81181021.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Aurangabad||Woman nabbed for lifting child from GMCH||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad city police has nabbed a 35-year-old woman on the charges of kidnapping after she allegedly lifted a day-old baby boy from Obstetrics and Gynaecology department’s general ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). The alleged incident took place on Tuesday morning. The suspects have been identified as Kavita Mugdal of Adgaon. She was found hiding in a house located in Taksh-Sheela Nagar of the Jafar Gate area. Police suspect that the woman could be part of a racket involved in either child trafficking or using children for begging. GMCH authorities said that a 30-year-old woman from Limbe Jalgaon was admitted to ward 30 on Sunday afternoon. She delivered a baby boy on Monday early morning. Around 7.30 am, the new mother left the baby on the bed and went to the washroom while her family members went home to get breakfast for her. “Taking advantage of the fact that relatives are permitted in the ward during morning hours for getting breakfast for patients, the suspect barged in without any problem. She lifted the baby and walked out of the ward,” said inspector Sachin Sanap. The baby’s mother found him missing when she returned. After inquiring with other patients and their relatives, she blamed the nurses for the incident. One of the nurses told her that she saw a woman walking out with a baby. On checking footage of the CCTV cameras installed in the hospital, the woman was seen rushing out of the building. Soon Begumpura police were informed about the incident and a complaint was lodged. Later, a security guard happened to remember the registration number of the auto rickshaw in which the suspected kidnapper left, following which police tracked down the driver. He told police about the place where he dropped off the suspect. After carrying out a door-to-door search, police located the woman and arrested her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/woman-nabbed-for-lifting-child-from-gmch/articleshow/81177048.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ravi Pujari sent to police custody in 2016 firing case, will be kept in HQ lockup||MUMBAI: Extradited gangster Ravi Pujari, who is wanted in more than 49 serious offences in the city, was produced before the special MCOCA court on Tuesday in connection with the 2016 firing at Gajalee restaurant in Vile Parle and remanded to police custody till March 9. The police said Pujari will be kept in highly guarded stone-brick lockup at the police headquarters at Crawford Market under 24x7 CCTV vigilance. The city crime branch has formed a special team of officers from the anti-extortion cell, led by inspector Sachin Kadam, to interrogate Pujari under the supervision of deputy commissioner of police (crime) Prakash Jadhav. Brought to the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) court amid heavy security, Pujari was made to sit in the accused dock at the back of the third floor courtroom. A policeman sat next to him. Dressed in a neon green-black t-shirt and his face covered with a black cloth, Pujari remained stoic during the proceedings. Seeking Pujari’s remand, special public prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves submitted that the gangster had been absconding for over a decade. The prosecution said the investigators wanted to ascertain who gave instructions for the firing at the Vile Parle restaurant since Pujari was purported to be in Senegal at that time. The prosecution said it was suspected that the attack was carried out on someone’s instructions. It was further submitted that Pujari’s custody was also required to find out where the pistol was procured and how the finances were arranged. “Prima facie, ample evidence is available on record. Considering the seriousness of the allegations made against the accused and...since investigations are to be carried out and for that purpose sufficient opportunity should be given to the investigating officer,” the court said. It granted permission to Pujari’s defence lawyer to meet him once every two days while in custody. The prosecution requested the court to direct them to only converse in Hindi, English or Marathi and not in Tulu during the meetings. As per the undertakings given to the extradition court in Senegal while seeking Pujari’s custody, Mumbai Police has given 10 serious offences on which MCOCA has been invoked. The 10 cases in which Pujari will be prosecuted first are the 2005 firing on Humayun Chandiwala of Deepa Beer Bar, 2010 firing at Mahesh Notandas Jewellers, 2010 firing on builder Tajuddin Maradia of Sagar City, 2011 double murder on builder Sudhakar Shetty’s Andheri site, 2011 firing on businessman Rohit Shah, 2011 firing on Ashok Mohannai of Ekta World Construction, 2014 firing on civil contractor Idris Shaikh in Deonar, 2015 extortion and attempt to firing on a Bhandup wine shop owner , 2016 extortion and firing on the guard of Gajalee restaurant, and 2017 extortion bid on prope-rty consultant Sushilkumar Sh-inde of Nirwana Enterprises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pujari-sent-to-police-custody-in-2016-firing-case-will-be-kept-in-hq-lockup/articleshow/81181019.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 24, 2021||Goa||No set rules for delimitation, quota of wards: State to HC||Panaji: Barely three weeks ahead of the municipal polls, the government and state election commission accepted before the high court of Bombay at Goa that there are no set principles or guidelines for reservation of wards and delimitation. During the hearing of a dozen petitions claiming arbitrariness in reservation of seats and delimitation, the respondents accepted the fact that there are no set principles or guidelines based on which reservation and delimitation is done, and stated that it is the director of municipal administration who takes the decision based on his understanding. Advocate general Devidas Pangam stated that merely because the state doesn’t have a policy doesn’t mean the reservations were arbitrary. Advocate Carlos Alvares Ferreira argued that these are not statutory legislations covered by Article 243-ZA of the Constitition of India and hence challenge to these orders is not barred. They are all in the realm of administrative orders, he argued. Another counsel argued that although delimitation was done, the boundaries remained unchanged. Responding to the petitions, the government stated that the election process should be completed and that the court shouldn’t interfere as this would result in postponing and delaying the elections. It may be recalled that on Monday, the goverment told the high court that the reservation of wards was done legally. “It is only prudent that the election process should be completed at the earliest,” director of municipal administration Gurudas Pilarnekar submitted to the court. The government, responding to the petitions, had also stated that the Constitution prohibits interference by the court, and that any interference at the present stage with respect to the municipality election will only result in postponing and delaying the election and the schedule of election, which are reasonably imminent. Pilarnekar also stated that public interest lies in strenthening democracy by holding public elections to local bodies and not by postponing or stalling them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-set-rules-for-delimitation-quota-of-wards-state-to-hc/articleshow/81179902.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nashik||Deolali Camp police parade goons in police attack case before public||Nashik: The suspects involved in an attack on policemen on the streets of Deolali Camp on Monday were paraded in front of public by senior police officials to put across the point that no one should mess with law and order. A total seven suspects were arrested by the Deolali Camp police in connection with the attack on police after the Shiv Jayanti celebrations on Friday. A clash between two groups broke out after the celebration with one group reaching out to the police station to lodge a complaint against members of the other group. Meanwhile, the members of the other group created pandemonium a little distance away from the police station on Friday night. When some policemen tried to intervene, the suspects pelted stones on police. As a result, police booked those involved in the incident for assault on public servant and attempt to murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/deolali-camp-police-parade-goons-in-police-attack-case-before-public/articleshow/81177088.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||11 Bhujbal staffers test Covid positive||NASHIK: Eleven staffers of district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, including his driver and body guard, have tested positive for Covid but reports of his family members came negative, said civic health officials on Tuesday. The positive patients have been informed or home quarantined. After Bhujbal tested positive on Monday, 62 persons who met him recently were traced and tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/11-bhujbal-staffers-test-covid-positive/articleshow/81179924.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad city under night curfew till March 8||AURANGABAD: Commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta informed that night curfew will be imposed across the city starting from Tuesday night — from 11pm to 6am till March 8. The decision was taken unanimously during a closed door meeting between district collector Sunil Chavan, municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey and Gupta. Only essential services apart from industries, media-related services, goods transport services have been exempted from this. To ensure effective night curfew, 55 four-wheelers and 25 two-wheelers apart from senior officers will patrol the city streets. As per the issued instructions, those found violating the norms will be booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Epidemic Diseases Act. Gupta said, “We want the citizens to avoid social, religious and political gatherings, unless it is utmost important or emergency in nature. If situation goes out of hand, we will be compelled to go ahead with lockdown.” Authorities clarified that at this stage, situation in Aurangabad is absolutely under control and can definitely improve, provided citizens start behaving responsibly. “Follow social distancing as well as hygiene-related norms while stepping out of home as well as while travelling and while being at their respective work places. This will definitely ensure that things remain under control,” Pandey said. District administration has clarified that no decision has been taken so far on bringing any curbs or restrictions on weekly and daily markets. However, citizens have been warnedto take utmost precautionary measures including use of face masks, so that fine is not imposed on them by the squads. Following the meeting, Gupta issued instructions to all the four divisions of traffic police to ensure that none of the public or private transport services including auto-rickshaws ferry more passengers more than the permissible limits. “Those vehicles found carrying more number of passengers or if their drivers or passengers are found without mask, will face action,” assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Suresh Wankhede said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-city-under-night-curfew-till-march-8/articleshow/81179893.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Congress fears losses in rural areas too||GANDHINAGAR: As the Congress witnessed a major slide in the six municipal corporation elections on Tuesday, the party new fears the same in the next phase of polling – for panchayats and municipalities – on February 28. The Congress, though in opposition in all six civic bodies, is now finding it difficult to even qualify for the posts of the Leader of the Opposition in the houses this time. The party’s losses in these elections have shrunk its size from a three-digit score in 2015 to double digits – from 175 to 55 seats. Of the 120-seat loss caused to Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) carved out 27 seats for itself and the AIMIM walked away with 7 victories with the rest taken by the BJP. The Congress always feared that the results of six municipal elections would affect voting for the 31 district panchayats, 231 taluka panchayats and 81 municipalities. It even unsuccessfully moved the Gujarat high court and the Supreme Court expressing its apprehensions.  In 2015, the Congress had the better of the BJP in the panchayats. With the absolute victory in six civic bodies, the BJP has again proved its supremacy in Gujarat’s urban areas, which account for 44 assembly seats. In the 2017 assembly polls, the BJP faced the wrath of the Patidars following the reservation movement. It helped the Congress gain some ground in rural areas in the assembly polls in 2017, but the situation did not change for the ruling party in urban areas even then. Senior Congress leader and the leader of the opposition in the assembly, Paresh Dhanani, said that the party was not expecting such a massive loss in the civic elections in six cities. “It’s a wake-up call for us. During the 2017 assembly elections, we fell short of forming the government by just a few seats even though we had won a large number of rural seats. But we did not win enough seats in municipal corporation areas.” He further said, “The party will have to do a major course correction to improve our presence in municipal corporation areas to win the 2022 assembly elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-fears-losses-in-rural-areas-too/articleshow/81181015.cms||Kapil Dave
February 24, 2021||Mumbai||Petrol peaks to Rs 97.34, diesel Rs 88.44 in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Petrol price in Parbhani is now 51 paise shy of the Rs 100-mark with another hike in fuel prices on Tuesday. The rate of petrol in Mumbai peaked to Rs 97.34, while diesel shot up to Rs 88.44 per litre. The price of diesel in Amravati is the highest in the state and is now just 17 paise shy of the Rs 90-mark. Transporters have given a 14-day ultimatum to the government which will end in the next few days, and they plan to agitate nationwide with the possibility of a chakka jam. A section of transporters will also participate in a one-day strike on Friday, said Abhishek Gupta from Bombay Goods Transport Association. Petrol rates in Thane and Navi Mumbai are the highest in MMR at Rs 97.45, while diesel’s revised rate was Rs 88.55 per litre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/petrol-peaks-to-rs-97-34-diesel-rs-88-44-in-city/articleshow/81179978.cms||Somit Sen
February 24, 2021||Nashik||Nashik police recover 9 lost cellphones, return to owners||Nashik: The Panchavati police traced nine lost cellphones totally worth R s 1.24 lakh which were reported missing in the recent weeks and were handed over to the concerned owners. Senior PI of the Panchavati police station Ashok Bhagat said that they had received complaints from several people that they had lost their cellphones in the Ramkund area or the vegetable market area of Panchavati. These phones were, however, not reported stolen. Taking into account the complaints of missing or lost cellphones, police sought help of technical analysis wing to check if the phones were active. All the lost phones were found to be active and people using it had replaced the old sim card with new ones unaware of the fact that they could be still tracked down. After tracing the phones, they were recovered from the concerned people and handed over to their original owners. The task of tracing lost phones was taken up under the guidance of CP Deepak Pandey and DCP Amol Tambe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-police-recover-9-lost-cellphones-return-to-owners/articleshow/81177105.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ruckus over liquor bottles outside centre||Ahmedabad: A ruckus took place outside LD Engineering College — one of the two counting centres for the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation elections, after people found two men with liquor bottles in an SUV which had a Gujarat Police emblem on it. According to the FIR filed by police, the two accused were identified as Balu Sangadi, 41, a resident of Vejalpur and Vimal Trivedi, 40, a resident of Vatva. They were caught with three liquor bottles, worth Rs 300. They also had packets of snacks, bottles of soda and water with them. Some political activists began filming the car and the persons with the liquor and when the cops arrived they got into a verbal spat with them for ‘shielding the accused persons’. The video also captures T-shirts of the Congress party in the car. Inspector V J Jadeja of Gujarat University police said the cops did not know the identity of the party workers who created the ruckus .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ruckus-over-liquor-bottles-outside-centre/articleshow/81181013.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Pune||Pune: Back in school, students struggle to write quickly and adequately||PUNE: Online education appears to have robbed students of speed writing. Teachers who observed students of senior classes, who either took tests or preliminary examinations after schools reopened recently, said their skills to apply pen to paper have frozen. While teachers felt online education had its pitfalls, the lack of willingness to write adequately and at a stretch was dangerous and growing rapidly among the students. Speed writing is essential for quality and the completion of board papers. A standard X student writes a three-hour paper in the board examination for most subjects comprising subjective and objective questions, and has to set aside time for a once-over to check the answers. Pallavi Joshi, principal of City International School, Pimpri, said seriousness in studies has greatly reduced this year after the return to classes, and students are unable to write a three-hour paper in the stipulated time. Farha Daruwala, principal of Crescent High School and Junior School, said students have been away from writing, and this is the most worrisome part as they have to write to gain marks. “Assessing students becomes the most complicated part as teachers have to evaluate them on the basis of written papers and not the comprehension part,” she said. Transitions to distance learning platforms tend to be messy and frustrating, even in the best of circumstances, an educator said. “In many contexts, school closures lead to distancing from teachers. Assessments, examinations and evaluations after the students returned made us realise that they need constant monitoring since education is a basic necessity,” Daruwala added. Students felt since all the study material was available online through their school channels and power point slides, they did not feel the need to take down notes and now rely more on the available content. Standard XI student Sayali Marathe said it has been a long gap since she wrote her last paper in March for the board exams. “For nearly 11 months, I did not study or even pick up a pen because of the admission confusion. Classes began last month, and we have been relying on e-learning. When I first attended college two weeks ago, I found it painful to write beyond two pages. The teacher was dictating notes, but after a point I gave up. I realised that I have lost my writing habit. It was alarming,” she said. Schools are taking special efforts to boost writing. Principal of Trinity International School, Rupali Dhamdhere, said, “It has been a difficult year for students who will be appearing for the board exams. Our school encouraged them to maintain a journal, and solve sample papers in a virtual classroom where the teacher monitors them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/back-in-school-students-struggle-to-write-quickly-and-adequately/articleshow/81179908.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 24, 2021||Goa||After poor response, IMA bats for spot jabs||Large-scale vaccine hesitancy has put a spoke in the state’s inoculation campaign, even as the Union health secretary said on Tuesday that Goa is among the ten worst states and Union territories that have vaccinated less than 25% of their frontline workers. Dr Vinayak Buvaji, president of the Indian medical association, Goa, has suggested that on-the-spot entry be provided on production of identification. However, other doctors have stated that this would lead to chaos at vaccination sites. They also said they wouldn’t be able to verify the frontline workers and healthcare workers showing up. “Pre-registration is a must, and ensures that the vaccine is systematically given. Only once more people take the vaccine will the hesitancy go away,” a private doctor said. Even in the first phase — healthcare workers — Goa fared poorly, with it featuring in the list of 11 states and Union territories in which less than 60% got the jab. Both healthcare and frontline workers can get the jab at any health centre within their district where vaccinations are on, but even with this, only a trickle of beneficiaries show up. “The fears related to the vaccine are real, but these can easily be clarified by a health professional,” said nodal officer for vaccination at Hospicio, Margao, Dr Ira Almeida. So far, Goa has vaccinated 24.2% of its frontline workers and 56.8% of its healthcare staff. Meanwhile, several sessions have been held to motivate workers and clear their doubts and apprehensions. Such programmes have been organised for collectorate staff, police and municipality workers, among others. Vaccination for healthcare workers is expected to end on Thursday. Healthcare workers who joined after November haven’t been able to add their names on the CoWin portal. Similarly, several healthcare workers from private hospitals who submitted names late weren’t able to get vaccinated, as the portal froze registrations for healthcare workers. The IMA-Goa’s past president, Dr Shekhar Salkhar, said that the vaccination drive must be carried out on a war footing and not in the manner it is being done currently, with very few showing up to receive the jab. “Vaccination should be open not only to healthcare workers but to anyone who wants to take it, so that manpower, resources and vaccines don’t get wasted,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-poor-response-ima-bats-for-spot-jabs/articleshow/81179948.cms||Lisa Monteiro
February 24, 2021||Nashik||Traffic branch office to soon come up at police HQ||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The city traffic branch office that is currently located along the Sharanpur Road would soon be shifted to the city police commissionerate at Gangapur Road. Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey said that the move was aimed at bringing the important department under the roof of the police commissionerate. Officials said that a lot of time was spent in travelling between the CP office and the traffic branch office, posing a challenge during any urgent matters or meetings. The traffic personnel and officials also have to come all the way to the CP office for getting signatures of the CP or DCP (Traffic) on any important document or public order. While CP Deepak Pandey did not inform about which police department would come up at the existing city traffic office, he said that the premises would definitely be brought under use. Pandey also said that the process of re-starting the towing cranes has been initiated and Nashik city would soon have these cranes moving in different parts of the city to pick up illegally parked vehicles. The existing office of the city traffic branch has huge space, where towed vehicles can be parked. Earlier, the city traffic branch office was located at the spot of the current Mumbai Naka police station. In 2015, when the Mumbai Naka police station was set up, the city traffic branch office was shifted to its existing location.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/traffic-branch-office-to-soon-come-up-at-police-hq/articleshow/81177112.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 24, 2021||Lucknow||‘UP Gaurav Samman will be on the lines of Padma awards’||Lucknow: The UP Gaurav Samman, announced in the state budget on Monday, is being planned on the lines of padma awards, the highest civilian honour in the country. Under the scheme of UP Gaurav Samman, five persons having roots in UP living anywhere in the world who have brought laurels for their native land will be felicitated. Each recipient will also be presented a sum of Rs 11 lakh as a token of appreciation from the state government. “While the guidelines and rules are being finalised, they are largely akin to the procedure for padma awards. In fact, the Award may be seen as a state counterpart of the padma. In this way, it will be the highest civilian honour in UP. However we will not have several categories as of now,” said principal secretary, culture, Mukesh Meshram. Adding that anyone — artist, painter, writer, sports personality, social activist, media, actor, singer and so on — living anywhere in the world who has made their native state proud can apply for the award, Meshram said: “the award will be presented on UP Diwas at a ceremony which will be attended by both the governor and the CM.” He said that the guidelines will be published and publicised soon. Anyone will be able to nominate a person while the artists will also have a chance to self-nominate. The entries will be scrutinised by a body of experts and government officials. It may be noted that padma awards, which were instituted in the year 1954, are announced every year on the occasion of Republic Day except for brief interruptions during 1978-1979 and 1993 to 1997.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-gaurav-samman-will-be-on-the-lines-of-padma-awards/articleshow/81181022.cms||Shailvee Sharda
February 24, 2021||Goa||BJP government in Goa proving increasingly anti-Hindu: Subhash Velingkar||PANAJI: Former long-time Goa RSS chief Subhash Velingkar has said that the BJP government in Goa is proving to be anti-Hindu day by day. While the entry of Sri Ram Sena’s Pramod Muthalik has been banned in Goa since 2012, Popular Front of India (PFI), an organisation being investigated for its terrorist links, is allowed to openly publicise its public events in the state, he added. “Though the PFI event is being openly talked about, the Goa government is turning a blind eye to it. The state government should ban the activities of PFI in the state or else Hindu organisations will not keep quiet,” said Velingkar. He also alleged that Calangute MLA Michael Lobo had stalled the installation of a statue of Shivaji Maharaj in his constituency, even though it was being done inside a temple premises with the consent of the temple committee members. “I condemn this two-faced approach of the government, which treats minorities differently and Hindus differently. On one hand, chief minister Pramod Sawant visits a goushala and worships the cow and calls the cow his mother, while on the other hand, he expresses anxiety about how he can make beef available to minorities in Goa,” said Velingkar. While accusing the BJP government in the state of betraying the trust of all Hindus who elected them, the former state RSS chief said, “Voters should pose BJP-backed candidates at the upcoming municipal polls difficult questions when they come to them seeking votes. They should be asked why the mother tongue was betrayed in the medium of instruction issue,” said Velingkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-govt-in-goa-proving-increasingly-anti-hindu-velingkar/articleshow/81179950.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Aurangabad||Study centres face action for violation of Covid norms||Aurangabad: Different study centres in Aurangabad on Tuesday faced action from the civic administration for not following Covid safety norms like compulsory use of thermal-guns and pulse oximeter, besides flouting social distancing rules. As per an offical release from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), Tuljai Abhyasika in N-6, Yash Abhyasika in Samarth Nagar, Goyal Abhyasika in N-3 , Bidwe DnyanPrabhodhini in Kamgar Choqk and Abhidnya Academy near Vivekanand College were among the centres which have been slapped with a fine of Rs 5,000 each,  On Tuesday, the AMC tested 202 individuals at the railway station and the airport as part of its measures to curb the spread of Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/study-centres-face-action-for-violation-of-covid-norms/articleshow/81179909.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Hyderabad||There is no threat to KBR Park’s well-being: Telangana minister Allola Indrakaran Reddy||Telangana’s forest and environment minister, Allola Indrakaran Reddy, responds to queries from TOI readers about various measures being taken to enhance the state’s green cover, protect its parks and reduce human-animal conflicts Q. While I appreciate the government’s ‘Haritha Haram’ initiative, I feel not much attention is given to protect these plants, after these saplings are planted. What is the government doing to ensure that they stay alive? -- P R Vittal RaoA. I am happy to share that Hyderabad has become the only city in India to be recognised as a 'Tree City of the World' by the Arbor Day Foundation and the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations. This is one of the results of our flagship programme ‘Telanganaku Haritha Haram’. It is a massive greenery programme -- third biggest initiative in the world. In the last six years, 217 crore plants have been planted. In order to ensure proper watering and maintenance of the plants, tractors with tankers have been provided in 12,768 gram panchayats in the state. Not only that, the government has amended both the Panchayati Raj Act and Municipal Act ensuring minimum 85% survival of plants -- a path breaking initiative in this direction. Apart from this the plants are being monitored online through geo-tagging in http://fmis.telangana.gov.in/ website. Government has also constituted the State and District Level Monitoring and Coordination Committees to ensure proper implementation of the programme. Q. The United Nation Decade on Ecosystem Restoration 2021-2030 was conceived as a means of highlighting the need for greatly increased global cooperation to restore degraded and destroyed ecosystems. Does Telangana have any such vision to restore its forest cover? -- Pranathi GumudalaA. Forest Ecosystem in Telangana has been under pressure from encroachment of forest area, illegal felling of trees for timber, firewood and minor forest produce, forest fire, grasing and from developmental activities. After formation of Telangana, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao launched a visionary flagship program 'Telangana Ku Haritha Haram’ in 2015 to increase green cover from 24% to 33% of the geographical area -- both inside and outside forest areas and rejuvenation of forests. The Telangana Forest department organised an international conference on Forest Landscape Restoration – Developing Strategies for Global and National Commitments -- in November 2019 involving country heads of international organisations like IUCN, USAID, IUFRO, WRI and also experts from national institutions. From 2019, the department is also collaborating with USAID on the Forest Plus 2.0 programme for incorporating best practices for management of ecosystem services in the planning process for sustainable forest management. Based on the valuable technical inputs from various international and national organisations, the forest department after detailed field exercise, has come up with Forest Rejuvenation Plan – which is, restoring forest ecosystem for all reserve forest blocks in the state, for taking up forestry interventions; mostly focusing on protection of forest from encroachment and its further degradation and protection of wildlife and improving natural regeneration, grasslands and existing forest rootstocks in degraded forest areas which could meet global and national commitments in terms of Bonn Challenge, biodiversity conservation, land degradation neutrality, climate change, carbon sequestration, water and prosperity. The department is already geared up and taking necessary forestry interventions as required for restoration of forest ecosystems in consonance with the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration. Q. Is the KBR Park going to be saved? Has the SRDP project been shelved? Has the DPR been presented to the National Green Tribunal & MoEF? -- Phani MadhavA. There is no threat to the well- being of KBR National Park situated in the heart of the city with an area of 1.42 square km. The Eco-Sensitive Zone around the national park has been notified by the Government of India with a width varying from 3 mts to 29.80 mts. This will ensure that the GHMC walk-way garden around KBR will not be disturbed and will be contiguous. The SRDP project is neither passing through the park nor falling in the notified Eco-Sensitive Zone of KBR. Q. Reports indicate Telangana’s depleting green cover is a major reason for increase in man-animal conflict. What is the Government doing to address this? -- Trishitha R A. There is neither any study conducted nor is there any evidence showing that green cover in Telangana is depleting and leading to increase in man animal conflict. However, incidents of wild animals straying into human dominated landscapes are reported in the state. The government has taken several measures to address it. Among them are: improvement of habitat, grassland management, provision of water resources, measures to improve protection etc for wildlife in the forest areas. The major animals in conflict with humans are wild pigs and monkeys. Regarding the monkey menace, the department in coordination with the local bodies is dealing with the problem by issuing necessary permissions for capture and release of monkeys in interior forest areas. In addition, the department has established a Monkey Rescue Centre at Chincholi near Nirmal in which 200 monkeys can be housed, sterilised at a time. Once the monkeys recover, they are released deep into the forest areas in their natural habitat. In the case of wild pig menace, recently the government has issued orders for appointing GP sarpanches as Honorary Wildlife Wardens under Section 4 (1) (bb) of WLPA, 1972. The Chief Wildlife Warden has delegated the powers under Section 5 (2) to the GP sarpanches to issue permission under Section 11 (1) (b) for culling of wild pigs damaging standing agriculture/horticulture crops. The entire process of culling is as per the provisions of the Act. A detailed procedure for culling of wild pigs along with the list of empanelled shooters were communicated to all the District Forest Officers, District Panchayat Raj Officers, District Agricultural Officers. In the human-animal conflict, the government has issued orders for payment of compensation in case of damage to life or property. Accordingly, Rs 5 lakh is being paid as ex-gratia, Rs 0.75 lakh in case of major injuries and Rs 6,000 per acre for crop damage. While dealing with the apex predators and co-predators, all Standard Operating procedures issued by the National Tiger Conservation Authority are being followed. Q. The Telangana government’s decision to permit culling of wild boars has raised concerns among the wildlife conservationists. Your comments? -- Ramesh RaoA. All procedures for culling of wild pigs have been laid down taking due precautions in the proceedings issued by the Chief Wildlife Warden, Telangana. In order to make the whole procedure transparent and ensure that provisions are not being misused, the GP Sarpanch and forest department will maintain registers of all details. Procedure to be followed along with detailed annexures about receiving complaints, conducting panchanama, issuing orders for hunting wild pigs damaging standing agricultural/horticultural crops, disposal of carcass, have been communicated to all District Collectors, District Forest Officers, District Panchayat Raj Officers and District Agricultural Officers. Additionally, there is a provision of booking cases and punishment under WLPA, 1972 in case of any violation. Q. Technology has made its way into all areas of work. Given the state’s IT strength, has the forest ministry made use of it to protect our green spaces? - Ronita Rao A. We are fully utilising the IT and Geomatics tools with an established full-fledged infrastructure in the following: Examining satellite images to ascertain annual change in green cover, which is being sent to field staff for action post assessment. Identifying degraded forest lands for taking up forestry works like rejuvenation, planting, soil and water conservation works etc. Detecting fire incidence and sending fire alerts to field officers for control of fire and reduction in damage to forests. Using time series satellite images to take action against offenders and further protection of green cover. We are also using DGNSS (Differential Global Navigational Satellite System) survey equipment for quick and reliable survey and demarcation of green cover that can help make strategies for its protection. Various IT- based solutions and tools are helping in planning, implementation and monitoring of various activities. This is also helping in saving time for field staff due to which they are able to devote more time to development and protection of green cover. Q. What is the status of relocating human habitations that are in the core area of Kawal Tiger Reserve? Is there any particular reason for delay in implementation of this proposal? -- S S V MohanA. Two villages, Rampur and Maisampet, are selected for relocation and rehabilitation from the core area of Kawal Tiger Reserve. In all, 142 families have opted for this. Recently, a budget of Rs 14.20 crore, required for this was released to the Tiger Reserve and the process of relocation has commenced. Q. There is massive encroachment of parks and lakes in the state. It is often said, this happens in connivance with government officials. What measures are you taking against such illegal activities? -- Valmeekam AravinduA. Like other states, Telangana too facing encroachment issues on government lands. These encroachment issues will be resolved through Dharani Portal. No registrations will be done in future, of encroached lands. Already legal action has been initiated against encroachers wherever encroachments have been seen. In addition, to protect existing parks and lakes, erecting fencing around parks, forming peripheral ring bund around lake for walking track, providing entrance plaza and access control gates to lake premises and demarcating FTL boundary with global geo coordinates (latitude and longitudes) are being done. Q. Over the years, thousands of crores have been spent in the name of revamping the Hussainsagar Lake. Yet, the iconic water body continues to raise a stink and is in an abysmal state. Your comments? -- Priyanka BaratA. The government is firm about revamping the Hussainsagar Lake; the process is going on. There are many challenges that need to be attended to. The sediments which are in the lake have accumulated for a long time. Seeping of pollutants to be stopped initially. In this regard, we have already diverted sewerage pipelines to Musi through STP. As many as 24 separate ponds have been constructed across the city for the purpose of immersion of Ganesh idols. Beautification of Hussiansagar area is already in place. Recent studies reveal that oxygen levels have increased and stink has also come down drastically. Q. While work done in recent times around Durgam Cheruvu is commendable, all surrounding areas of the lake, with exception of the southern side, have become densely concretized. Is the government planning something to protect what is remaining? -- S S PrasadA. Durgam Cheruvu used to be a polluted lake earlier. Now, it is the best tourism spot in Hyderabad. Several steps have already been taken up to facelift this area. We have established a STP and diverted sewerage lane, developed an iconic urban park around the lake and constructed a cable bridge. Development process is going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/there-is-no-threat-to-kbr-parks-well-being/articleshow/81179953.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Onion prices shoot up as rain damages crop in Maharashtra||JAIPUR: The prices of onions are increasing in Muhana mandi due to poor supply from Maharashtra due to crop damage. Traders said the rising trend in prices will continue as local produce has been exhausted. During January, various parts of Maharashtra had witnessed unprecedented rainfall which damaged the crop. “Prices of onions have been increased by the mandis at Nashik and other parts of Maharashtra. We are getting onions for Rs 25 to Rs 35 per kilogram in the wholesale market which is now available at Rs 40 to Rs 50 per kilogram,” said Abdul Sagir, a wholesale trader at Muhana mandi. Traders said the local harvest of onions has been exhausted and for the upcoming months the state will have to depend on Maharashtra and some parts of Gujarat. “Fresh crop of onions will start coming from March 15 and thus dried onions would be in abundance from the last week of March onwards. Until the arrival of the local harvest, the prices of the onions will continue to increase,” said Roshan Lal Samtani, a wholesale dealer of onions at the Sodala situated mandi. Onions are sold for Rs 40 to Rs 50 per kilogram. “We have small sized onions available for Rs 30 per kilogram, but the big sized onions are available for Rs 40 to Rs 50 per kilogram,” said Sitaram Saini a retailer at the Jhotwara situated vegetable market. Muhana Mandi has been getting low supply of onions which is also the reason behind the surge its prices. “We have witnessed 30% drop in the supply starting from first week of February which is the reason why the prices have increased. Also marriage season has increased its demand,” said Ramji Lal Lavania, a wholesale dealer at Hasanpura situated vegetable market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/onion-prices-shoot-up-as-rain-damages-crop-in-maharashtra/articleshow/81179916.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: 181 slapped fine of Rs 100 for not wearing masks||Kolhapur: The civic administration has intensified its action against those flouting Covid safety guidelines in the city. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation.(KMC) fined 10 traders Rs 5,000 each for not wearing masks and not ensuring social distancing among customers in the premises of their shops. Around 181 individuals were fined Rs 100 each for not wearing masks at public places. The KMC has deployed more staff to initiate action against the violators.Ashok Pol, the chief health officer, said, “Citizens should exercise caution as the infection may spiral out of control anytime. We are reopening the closed Covid care centres. Currently, we have a 60-bedded facility ready at Shendapark.”Pol said it has been made mandatory for the private labs to inform about the suspects whose test reports return positive. In case they fail, the KMC may shut the laboratory. “Many private hospitals are refering patients to the private labs. Both hospitals and labs have been told to compulsorily report about the positive patients. Currently, we are tracing around 60 contacts for each Covid patient as against target of 20 contacts,” said Pol. The KMC is also taking action against those spitting and smoking in public places. On Tuesday, the KMC collected around Rs 35,100 fine from violators.The Sangli district administration has fixed fine of Rs 20,000 for wedding halls, cinema halls and drama theatres and Rs 10,000 fine for supermarkets, hotels, bars and coaching classes if they flout the Covid safety norms. Sangli police have registered a complaint against Nitin Chougule, expelled leader of right wing outfit Shiv Pratishthan Hindusthan, for holding a meeting with his supporters on Sunday and violating Covid rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-181-slapped-fine-of-rs-100-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/81179947.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ranchi||VHP attacks Soren over ‘tribals not Hindu’ remark||Ranchi: Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) has accused chief minister Hemant Soren of sabotaging the faith of “vanvasis (forest-dwellers)” and confusing them by saying that adivasis are not Hindus. Speaking online at the 18th Annual India Conference at Harvard University on Saturday night, Soren said adivasis have different customs and culture and there is a need for a separate column for them in the 2021 Census to retain their distinct identity. In a statement issued on Tuesday, VHP central secretary general Milind Parande said Soren’s comment was immature and not backed ny a proper thought process. “He is sitting with and playing into the hands of the scheming and plotting Christian missionaries, communists and naxalites. It will never be acceptable,” he said. He added, “Political leadership ought to make statements with responsibility and accountability. The planned and systematic, sickening and despicable attempts that he (Soren) is making to confuse, misguide and disorient the vanvasi society will never succeed in this offensive disgraceful agenda. He must keep it in mind that the vanvasi society has been in a principal role in protecting, preserving and promoting the causes of the country, dharm and Bharatiya culture since times immemorial.” He added that the country celebrates the illustrious Mata Shabari of the Ramayana and also Rana Poonja Bheel of Rajasthan – who supported Maharana Pratap in fighting the Mughal invaders. “In Jharkhand, Bhagwan Birsa Munda was not only adept at practicing the values of the Ramayana-Mahabharata, but also strongly opposed the conversion plotting of the British and the Christian missionaries. Whether it were the freedom fighters Tantya Bhil and Maharani Gaidinliu of Nagaland – who fought the British Raj – or the heroes like Siddhu-Kanhu and Budhu Bhagat of Jharkhand – they were all committed and dedicated to protect the country-dharm culture,” he said. He also said that the spontaneous dedication shown to Shri Ram Janmbhoomi fund contribution campaign in all nooks and corners of vanvasi regions, including Jharkhand, is reflective of this devotion and nationalistic outlook. “Shri Ram had also sojourned and lived among these nature-loving-worshiping forest-dwelling communities for 14 years. The sacred earth and holy water sent by our vanvasi brethren from their holy sites and pilgrimage centres across the country for the construction initiation programme of the Temple of Nativity held at Ayodhya on August 5 also reflected their reverence for and identification with the umbilical cord as children of Maa Bharati. Chief minister Soren must desist from attacking their indigenous faith for the sake of his political gains and vested interests,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/vhp-attacks-soren-over-tribals-not-hindu-remark/articleshow/81177826.cms||ASRP Mukesh
February 24, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchi administration to test 1,200 samples each day||RANCHI: The Ranchi district administration has directed the health machinery to conduct weekly Covid-19 tests of patients who are living with immuno-compromised ailments. Their database of these people will have to be created and monitored periodically by the district health officials. An order issued recently, in the light of a surge in Covid cases in several states, has also mandated periodic screening of hotel and restaurant employees, courier personnel, cab drivers, frontline workers to track Covid infection among them and check for a possible surge in the state capital and its neighborhood. On February 19, the office of Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan directed health officials to set up dedicated swab collection centres at 17 designated sites, including Ranchi railway station, Birsa Munda International Airport, Hotwar jail, five community health centres, Ranchi sadar hospital and eight primary health centres spread across the district. The swab collection centre outside Ranchi airport recorded low footfall as optional sampling made several passengers, who arrived from different parts of the country and overseas, skip the screening process. “We have been directed to collect the samples of passengers who are voluntarily stepping up to get tested,” an on-duty health official said. Samples collected at the airport will be tested through RT-PCR machines. Besides patients with underlying ailments, healthcare workers, traffic police personnel will be tested on priority basis. In its order, the administration said at least 1,200 samples have to collected each day for tests. RT-PCR machines will test 46% of the total samples collected while 8% will be done through TruNat. Around 45% will be done through rapid antigen method.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-admin-to-test-1200-samples-each-day/articleshow/81177521.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Ranchi||Lohardaga mourns as U’khand says all missing in Chamoli tragedy dead||Gumla: Bethod village in Lohardaga district descended in a pall of gloom on Tuesday after the Uttarakhand government officially declared that all 136 missing persons in the Chamoli tragedy on February 7 are dead following weeks of rescue missions. From Jharkhand, a total of 14 persons -- nine from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh and one from Bokaro -- all working in NTPC's power project site at the Tapovan tunnel in Chamoli went missing after the tragedy struck. Of them, nine workers hailed from Lohardaga, four from Ramgarh and one from Bokaro. Of the 14 workers, bodies of three from Lohardaga and one from Bokaro have been identified. After the Uttarakhand government's announcement, all hopes of finding the remaining workers safe were dashed. The deceased from Lohardaga were identified as Vicky Bhagat, Jyotish Bakhla and Sunil Bakhla. While Vicky’s body had arrived last week, the remaining two corpses are expected to reach their village by Wednesday, administration sources said. In Lohardaga, family members of the missing persons mourned the loss of their loved ones but welcomed the Uttrakhand government’s announcement, saying the move has put their unending wait to rest. Manoj Bakhla, the father of Jyotish Bakhla, said, “My son's death was all but certain but now that the government has finally announced it, we feel pained by the loss.” Shashi Oraon, the elder brother is another missing worker Ravinder, said, “It was unlikely that anyone would be found alive after such a long time. Hence, we welcome the Uttrakhand government’s announcement. We hope the compensation will be released to help the bereaved families soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lohardaga-mourns-as-ukhand-says-all-missing-in-chamoli-tragedy-dead/articleshow/81177790.cms||K A Gupta
February 24, 2021||Vadodara||Heavyweights face rout in their own fortresses||Vadodara: He was the undisputed leader of his ward for three long decades. But Congress leader Chirag Zaveri got the shock of his life on Tuesday after he lost the civic polls from ward 18. Zaveri was defeated by BJP councillor Kalpesh Patel by a margin of 11,709 votes in a closely fought contest. Zaveri was leading comfortably for the first three rounds, but in the fourth round of counting, he fell behind and the fifth round of votes sealed his fate. A senior Congress leader who was also made opposition leader in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) by his party, Zaveri had won seven civic polls on the trot in his ward. He was a popular councillor, who attended to citizens’ complaints and was seen among the people. When asked the reason behind his defeat, a visibly dejected Zaveri said, “During the delimitation, some new areas like Maneja and Vadsar were added to my ward. These areas cost me many votes. But I accept the voters’ verdict. They voted for the BJP panel.” Another Congress heavyweight who lost in the polls was Anil Parmar from ward 4. Much like Zaveri, delimitation created hurdles for Parmar. Despite delimitation, many had expected that he would win and even ensure that the party got some seats in his panel. It was an embarrassing moment for a former standing committee chairman and BJP leader, Satyendra alias Satish Patel lost in ward 1 where the entire panel of Congress won. It was the only ward where the Congress ensured a victory on all four seats. Sources said that Patel may not have been the first choice on the seat, but lobbying ensured he got a ticket. The rout in ward 1 has also surprised many as veteran party member and Sayajigunj MLA Jitendra Sukhadiya was overseeing the polls in this ward. Many residents and influential persons in the ward were also peeved with Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/heavyweights-face-rout-in-their-own-fortresses/articleshow/81177502.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Rajkot||Sixth consecutive win for BJP in Jamnagar||Rajkot: In Jamnagar Municipal Corporation (JMC) BJP retained power for the sixth consecutive term. The party won 50 seats out of the total 64 seats. For the first time Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) won three seats in ward 6 of Jamnagar. The has a mixed population of Ahir, Dalits and minority community. Though the BJP gave tickets to candidates of the minority community in ward 1 and 12, in both the wards the Congress panel won. In 2015, BJP had won 38 seats and Congress had got 24 seats. BJP betters tally in BhavnagarRajkot: In Bhavnagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) BJP won 44 seats out of 52 while Congress managed just 8 seats. There were BJP candidates who won the election by a margin of 6,000 to 10,000 votes. However, there were three candidates who won by a narrow margin of less than 500 votes. Kanti Gohil, a Congress candidate from ward 1 won the election with 139 votes, Naresh Chavda of BJP in ward 2 won with a margin of 336 votes, while Bhumi Gohil of Congress from ward 9 won by 189 votes. In 2015, BJP had won 34 seats and Congress 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sixth-consecutive-win-for-bjp-in-jamnagar/articleshow/81177074.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Nagpur||‘Kasturchand Daga’ back at Park after 10 months||Nagpur: Sir Kasturchand Daga is back at Kingsway. The white marble statue of the early 20th century business magnate that stood near Kasturchand Park for 96 years was shattered due to a fierce squall in April last year. The ground gets the name from him. By sheer coincidence, work on the statue began in 1918-19 when the world was under the grip of Spanish flu. And it fell when the Covid-19 pandemic had begun. The statue was installed at the site in 1924. Ten months after the incident, even as the pandemic is yet to be overcome completely, a new statue has been readied by Daga’s descendants. The Daga family continues to be among the known business families of the region. Daga’s firm M/s Bansilal Abirchand ran a successful banking business extending up to today’s Pakistan and Rangoon in erstwhile Burma. A known philanthropist, Daga is also known as the pioneer of coal and manganese mining in the region. The statue was dedicated after Daga’s death by his business partner Manek Dadabhoy. It was inaugurated by the governor of erstwhile CP & Berar province Sir Frank Sly. The old statute was built by GK Mahatre, a noted sculptor in erstwhile Bombay. “The new statue is covered now but will be unveiled soon,” said Govind, one of Daga’s descendants. Govind said the family made an arrangement with the district administration that it will remake the statue while the latter will maintain the precincts. “The statue was made by an artisan in Jaipur. It was a tough task to get the original facial expressions in the new statute. It could happen only after repeated attempts,” said Govind. “My sister Suman Rathi and her daughter Aditi monitored the work due to which the original features could be retained.” The family took the pieces which helped in making the new statue. Another statue has been made out of the pieces which will be installed in the family’s land near the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kasturchand-daga-back-at-park-after-10-months/articleshow/81178737.cms||Shishir Arya
February 24, 2021||Surat||AAP dents BJP’s hopes of 100 plus||SURAT: The BJP retained the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) by winning 93 out of the 120 seats, 13 more than 2015 election as Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) dented its hopes of crossing the three-figure mark. BJP retained majority of those areas which it had won in past elections and clinched seats from some areas which were earlier Congress bastions. Aslam Cyclewala, one of the tallest Congress leaders, lost to BJP from the Anjana Magob ward 19 while leader of opposition in SMC, Praful alias Pappan Togadia was humbled AAP’s Kiran Khokhani. One of the heavy weights of Congress that was defeated by BJP is Aslam Cyclewala who was contesting from Anjana Magob ward no 19. While Congress’s leader of opposition in the last municipal body Praful alias Pappan Togadia was defeated by AAP candidate in Varachha. In fact, Togadia got 5,357 votes and lost his deposit as well. “The victory in the city is due to the leadership of PM Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and CM Vijay Rupani’s governance. Due to hard work of party workers and page pramukhs, we could retain all municipal corporations in the state,” said CR Paatil, state BJP president. Party insiders said BJP’s seat tally improved due to delimitation in minority-dominated areas. Areas with minority communities were divided in two wards which resulted in Congress losing its traditional voter base. In all, 81 Congress candidates and 59 from AAP lost their deposit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/aap-dents-bjps-hopes-of-100-plus/articleshow/81177902.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 24, 2021||Business||Startups laud tax holiday to stay afloat amid pandemic, eco slump||Kolkata: The announcement on extension of tax holiday and exemption of capital gains tax in the Union budget is showing a glimmer of hope to several startups in eastern India which have been reeling under economic slowdown and lack of adequate funding. Analysing the post-Budget condition of the startups, Rajeev Singh, director-general of Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC), told TOI: “We have seen startups suffering from lack of demand for a niche product or service and mismanagement. Exemption of capital gains tax and extension of tax holiday till 2022 are motivating the investors to stay invested in profit-making startups. If a corporate giant invests in equity of a startup or purchases goods from it or avails of its services, they should get a tax relief.” Speaking about the crisis, Alok Patnia, managing partner, ProfitBoard Ventures, said, “About 39% of our startups implemented salary cuts ranging from 21-30%. About 42% of our startups faced deal postponements from investors while 10-15% startups downed their shutters. One common trend that we have been witnessing among most of the startups is pivot. About 50% of our startups considered pivoting their business models to grab new opportunities.” However, the growth trajectory of the startups in eastern India has been revived since the unlock phase. “Both startups and traditional retails were worst-hit during the pandemic. But things have started stabilising from the supply side while the demand has been consistently rising,” said Sourjyendu Medda, founder of the e-commerce startup, Dealshare. Echoing the view of Medda, Ashish Gupta, co-founder & CEO, Bambinos, an ed-tech startup, said, “We have seen an uptake in demand in eastern India in the past few months and that is why, we are planning to focus on this region to gain a higher share.” The business of traditional offline startups saw less growth during the lockdown and new normal phases. Consider Kolkata-based Alfatech System dealing with 3D modelling and 3D bio-printing technology. “The pandemic hit us and some of our employees, who live in suburbs, could not join us until local train services resumed operations,” said Sumant Bhutoria. The provisions stated in the budget, though, may not cater to the entire startup ecosystem, according to many startup owners and market experts, who think that while the Rs 945crore allocation for Seed India Fund scheme would be a good support base. “Some changes were needed as compliance filing still remains a huge burden on this business sector,” said Abhishek Kumar, COO and co-founder of My Gate, a startup on security and community management that logged 70% growth in business over 2020 in Kolkata alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/startups-laud-tax-holiday-to-stay-afloat-amid-pandemic-eco-slump/articleshow/81180683.cms||Sarthak Ganguly
February 24, 2021||Vadodara||Chemical turned Vishwamitri’s water red: GPCB||Vadodara: Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) has given a complaint to Vadodara rural police after chemicals were released in Surya river, a tributary of Vishwamitri river, in Waghodiya taluka. GPCB investigated after Vishwamitri’s water turned red last week. In its investigation, the pollution watchdog found that two to four tankers released chemicals in the ravines of Surya river near Asoj sub-station of GETCO on Halol-Waghodiya highway. “A closed hot mix plant site was used to reach the ravines. We have found traces of chemicals in a pit in the ravines,” said regional director of GPCB, R B Trivedi. “We have showed the site to Waghodiya police and have asked them to intense patrolling and ask the owner of plot of closed hot mix plant to fence it,” Trivedi said. Police are yet to register an FIR on GPCB’s complaint. Surya is a minor tributary which merges with Vishwamitri river near Dena village. Vishwamitri river’s water near Mangal Pandey bridge had turned red last week which had raised eyebrows of environment activists and GPCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chemical-turned-vishwamitris-water-red-gpcb/articleshow/81177576.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Goa||Last original Kaavi art works under threat as Dodamarg locals plan Mauli temple renovation||Keri: The last of the original pieces of the ancient art of Kaavi in Zolambe in Maharashtra’s Dodamarg taluka are under threat with villagers planning on renovating the Mauli temple whose walls and pillars are decorated with Kaavi murals. Today, most temples that were known for their Kaavi art have lost the murals during renovation work. Heritage and history lovers from Goa and Maharashtra are visiting Zolambe and requesting the villagers to protect the Kaavi art for posterity. Unlike today’s painting process, Kaavi is a labour of love, requiring patience and skill to produce the intricate monochrome motifs. To make the Mauli temple’s murals, Kaavi artists from Goa were invited. They used different motifs from Indian mythology. Heritage activist and writer Heta Pandit said that the temple has one of the finest pieces of untouched Kaavi on its walls. “A lot of the segments are narrative in nature,” she said. The name Kaavi is derived from the local name for the maroon red pigment used to etch the beautiful murals. Derived from laterite soil, ‘kaav’ or ‘tambdi mati’ is the base material. To make the layer of plaster on which the murals are drawn, lime obtained from seashells is mixed with fermented jaggery, residue from creepers, gum and powdered tamarind seed. This process ensured durability to the art work. Over the centuries, these murals have lent shrines, temples, churches and mosques on the Malwan, Konkan and North Malabar Coast a unique identity one that transcended linguistic, religious and communal barriers. “There is a need to protect the unique Kaavi art heritage in its original form in Zolambe,” a well known artist from Maneri told TOI. The Kaavi murals of the Mauli temple depict geometrical designs and motifs representing the socio-cultural heritage of the area and mythological concepts, he said. The art form was once popular in villages along the coastal belt of Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka. Kaavi took root in Goa and parts of the Konkan coast around 600 years ago. But hardly any of the original Kaavi art works survive today. Mahadev Narayan Gawas, 64, from Zolambe, said that devotees have decided to renovate the temple. “However, being aware about the rich Kaavi heritage, locals are discussing how best these art works can be retained,” he said. The Zolambe Kaavi depicts varied forms of a lotus bud and flower in full bloom besides other flora and fauna, too. The murals of Lord Ganapati and Lord Vishnu have themes that resonated with the locals’ belief systems. Sanskruti Naik, an artist from Mencure, who visited the temple recently, said, “All the murals here have inspired me to revive the ideas and concepts expressed through Kaavi art. It has a lot of potential to educate artists and researchers about the dying wisdom of this rich art form that has its roots in Goa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/last-original-kaavi-art-works-under-threat-as-dodamarg-locals-plan-mauli-temple-renovation/articleshow/81179371.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
February 24, 2021||Goa||SWR readies six underpasses on Collem-Margao route in 20 days||MARGAO: Mission accomplished. As the Vasco-Nizamuddin Goa Express passed over the just completed rail underpass at Sao Jose de Areal on Tuesday afternoon, minutes after the track-fit certificate was issued by the railway authorities, the South Western Railway (SWR) recorded a significant milestone. It marked the completion of building six underpasses along the Goa stretch of the double tracking project in a record time. “Six underpasses in 20 days flat! That’s a record in itself,” general manager, projects, RVNL, Shashibhushan Sahoo told TOI. “Each was completed and the track restored within the permitted five-hour traffic block as stipulated by SWR.” The underpass at Sao Jose de Areal was the last of the six limited height subways (LHS) constructed by Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL) along the Collem-Margao stretch. The first underpass was constructed in Curchorem on February 3, followed by one at Chandor on February 6, one in Kamral near Curchorem on February 10, and two in Dhadem near Sanvordem on February 16 and 18. RVNL employed the cut-and-cover method of construction for all the six underpasses. A number of precast RCC panels — composite structures consisting of side walls and roof of the underpass — were lowered inside the trench by a heavy duty all-terrain crane after removal of the affected portion of the rail length, ballast and sleepers. The track was restored in position once the panels were put in place. “Safety of our staff and workers was uppermost in our minds, while working within the deadlines. Much as I am happy over the task completed, what gladdens my heart is that locals will stand to benefit immensely from the underpass,” Sahoo said. Panchayat member of Sao Jose de Areal, Tressy Fernandes, who was present at the site, couldn’t conceal her excitement over the long-pending demand of the villagers getting fulfilled. “As the railway line bifurcates this village, cases abound in our village of daughters who were given in marriage on the other side of the railway line hardly a few meters away, having to take a 2km-long detour to go to their maternal homes. Even farmers who have their fields on the other side of the track would be inconvenienced. People of the village are indeed thankful to the Railways for constructing the underpass,” she told TOI. Senior RVNL officials said that the Railways has gone out of the way to meet all the demands of the villagers with regards to land connectivity through the double tracking project. “Construction of access roads to some houses in this village, which isn’t at all connected to the double tracking project, has also been taken up by the Railways. Though the villagers have been by and large cooperative, we are working on resolving other issues over which they have conflicting views,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/swr-readies-6-underpasses-on-collem-margao-route-in-20-days/articleshow/81179378.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
February 24, 2021||Goa||After 3 days of no deaths, one succumbs to Covid at GMC||Panaji: After three days of no Covid-19 related deaths, a 30-year-old man succumbed to the disease on Tuesday. This has taken the cumulative Covid-19 related deaths to 789. The victim, who hails from Calangute, had alcoholic liver disease as a comorbidity. He died after three days of treatment at Goa Medical College and hospital, Bambolim. His antecedent cause of death was alcoholic liver disease with hepatic encephalopathy with upper gastrointestinal bleeding (UGI) and his immediate cause of death was shock with Covid-19 infection. The state reported 57 new infections over the past 24 hours. While 22 people were hospitalised over the past 24 hours, 31 opted for home isolation on Tuesday. There have been 479 active Covid cases and 41 recoveries over the past day with a recovery rate of 97.7%. New cases were reported in Margao, Chimbel, Panaij, Mapusa, Aldona, Betqui, Candolim, Corlim, Siolim, Porvorim, Vasco, Bali, Loutolim, Cansaulim, Chinchinim, Shiroda and Dharbandora among other health centres. In the North, Chimbel reported the highest cases with 38 testing positive. In the South, Margao continues to test higher than the rest of the health centres with Tuesday seeing 45 cases. Of the 275 beds for patients in Covid care centres, all remain vacant in North Goa. In South Goa, most beds in such facilities remain unused with only 58 of the 60 occupied. On Tuesday, an additional 48 healthcare workers received the first dose of the Covid vaccine and 36 the second dose of the vaccine. Healthcare workers have until February 25 to receive the first dose of the vaccine. A total of 269 frontline workers received the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-3-days-of-no-deaths-one-succumbs-to-covid-at-gmc/articleshow/81179441.cms||---
February 24, 2021||Goa||Margao CO Agnelo Fernandes transferred within just four months||MARGAO: A little over four months after he was posted as the chief officer of the Margao Municipal Council (MMC), Agnelo Fernandes was on Tuesday transferred to the Goa State Industrial Development Corporation as the Special Land Acquisition Officer. Johnson B Fernandes, director of settlement and land records, will hold additional charge as the chief officer of the municipality, as per an order issued by the government. Agnelo was posted as the chief officer of the MMC on October 5, 2020. He had succeeded Ajit Panchwadkar. Soon after he took over, Agnelo set about the task of finding solutions to the waste treatment plant at Sonsoddo. His transfer order came as a surprise to many in the civic circles. The order has been issued just a day after the high-powered coordination committee (HPCC) on Sonsoddo headed by chief minister Pramod Sawant met in Panaji and took a decision to allow the MMC to go ahead with just one of the three bio-methanation plants it had already tendered. The Margao Municipal Council had last week opened the financial bids following which two firms had qualified for setting up the three plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-co-transferred-within-just-4-months/articleshow/81179474.cms||---
