February 25, 2021||India||Officials asked to collate action taken on issues raised by PM in his I-Day, Mann ki Baat speeches||NEW DELHI: Officers across several ministries have got a fresh task to go through all the Independence Day speeches of Prime Minister Narendra Modi since 2014 and note down his mentions about the respective department or issues relating to particular entities. They have been asked to prepare actions taken on those issues. Some ministries have even issued directions to different departments to go through all Mann Ki Baat - the monthly radio address - the PM has had since 2014 and list the references he has made to issues relating to the particular departments. In this case also, they have been asked to prepare the details of actions taken so far on such issues. “There has been strict monitoring across the ministries and departments. Since the PM’s addresses to the nation from Red Fort or in Mann ki Baat are assurances to the people, it is felt that every department must take necessary steps. Monitoring of all issues and development have been the hallmark of this government,” said an official. He added that every secretary of each department receives the full audio recording and also the verbatim script of Man ki Baat a day after it’s broadcast and hence none can give any excuse for not going through them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/officials-asked-to-collate-action-taken-on-issues-raised-by-pm-in-his-i-day-mann-ki-baat-speeches/articleshow/81196799.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 25, 2021||World||India on lips, Pakistan PM Imran Khan plays peace card in Sri Lanka||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan PM Imran Khan frequently referred to India during his two-day visit to Sri Lanka, projecting himself as someone who had always advocated dialogue as the way forward for the two neighbours even as New Delhi took two steps back. Addressing the Pakistan-Sri Lanka Trade and Investment Conference in Colombo on Wednesday, Khan said one of his first tasks after assuming office was to "explain" to PM Narendra Modi the need to resolve all differences through dialogue for the sake of peace and prosperity in the subcontinent. "I didn’t succeed, but I am optimistic that eventually common sense will prevail. The only way the subcontinent can tackle poverty is by improving trade relations. Let us live like civilised neighbours, just as the Europeans live," he said. "Germany and France have fought multiple times, but today it is unthinkable for them to have a conflict because they are so interlinked due to trade. Similarly, my dream for the subcontinent is that we resolve our differences," he said, adding that the Kashmir issue was the only reason for conflict in the region. Read AlsoTo avoid clash with India, Sri Lanka cancels Imran Khan's speech in ParliamentCOLOMBO: In an effort to avoid confrontation with India, Sri Lanka has cancelled a scheduled speech of Prime Minister Imran Khan in Parliament. According to a report titled 'Sri Lanka avoids clash with India by cancelling Khan's Parliament speech' by Dar Javed published in Colombo Gazette, theApprehensions about Khan raking up the Kashmir issue had reportedly led Colombo to cancel his planned address to the Sri Lankan parliament. Some within the Sri Lankan government fear that allowing Khan to speak to parliamentarians against Delhi's policies of Delhi could harm the island country’s ties with India. "All we want is for the Kashmir dispute to be resolved according to the United Nations Security Council's resolutions, and this can only be achieved through dialogue," Khan said at the trade and investment conference. He also expressed hope that Pakistan could play its part in reducing rising tensions between the US and China. "We would much rather be a country that brings other nations and humanity together," he said. At the end of his address, Khan urged the Sri Lankan business community to participate in the over $60b-China-Pakistan Economic Corridor project. "It gives you the opportunity of connecting from Gwadar right up to Uzbekistan and the central Asian states," he said. "This is the connectivity that Pakistan offers."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/india-on-lips-pak-pm-plays-peace-card-in-lanka/articleshow/81204361.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 25, 2021||India||India on lips, Pakistan PM Imran Khan plays peace card in Sri Lanka||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan PM Imran Khan frequently referred to India during his two-day visit to Sri Lanka, projecting himself as someone who had always advocated dialogue as the way forward for the two neighbours even as New Delhi took two steps back. Addressing the Pakistan-Sri Lanka Trade and Investment Conference in Colombo on Wednesday, Khan said one of his first tasks after assuming office was to "explain" to PM Narendra Modi the need to resolve all differences through dialogue for the sake of peace and prosperity in the subcontinent. "I didn’t succeed, but I am optimistic that eventually common sense will prevail. The only way the subcontinent can tackle poverty is by improving trade relations. Let us live like civilised neighbours, just as the Europeans live," he said. "Germany and France have fought multiple times, but today it is unthinkable for them to have a conflict because they are so interlinked due to trade. Similarly, my dream for the subcontinent is that we resolve our differences," he said, adding that the Kashmir issue was the only reason for conflict in the region. Read AlsoTo avoid clash with India, Sri Lanka cancels Imran Khan's speech in ParliamentCOLOMBO: In an effort to avoid confrontation with India, Sri Lanka has cancelled a scheduled speech of Prime Minister Imran Khan in Parliament. According to a report titled 'Sri Lanka avoids clash with India by cancelling Khan's Parliament speech' by Dar Javed published in Colombo Gazette, theApprehensions about Khan raking up the Kashmir issue had reportedly led Colombo to cancel his planned address to the Sri Lankan parliament. Some within the Sri Lankan government fear that allowing Khan to speak to parliamentarians against Delhi's policies of Delhi could harm the island country’s ties with India. "All we want is for the Kashmir dispute to be resolved according to the United Nations Security Council's resolutions, and this can only be achieved through dialogue," Khan said at the trade and investment conference. He also expressed hope that Pakistan could play its part in reducing rising tensions between the US and China. "We would much rather be a country that brings other nations and humanity together," he said. At the end of his address, Khan urged the Sri Lankan business community to participate in the over $60b-China-Pakistan Economic Corridor project. "It gives you the opportunity of connecting from Gwadar right up to Uzbekistan and the central Asian states," he said. "This is the connectivity that Pakistan offers."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-on-lips-pak-pm-plays-peace-card-in-lanka/articleshow/81197391.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 25, 2021||India||PM Modi to e-inaugurate Khelo India Winter Games at Gulmarg tomorrow||SRINAGAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate the second edition of Khelo India Winter Games at Gulmarg on Friday. Around 1200 athletes from 27 states and Union Territories will participate in different categories of sports at the three-day event on the snow-bound slopes of J&K’s popular winter destination. Organised by the Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports in collaboration with J&K Sports Council and J&K Winter Games Association, the mega event — to be held from February 26-March 2 — is one of several efforts aimed to engage Kashmiri youth in positive, constructive activities, which include snowshoe racing, ice skating, ice hockey, skiing, Nordic skiing, snowboarding, ski mountaineering, etc., Council secretary Nuzhat Gul said. Athletes from the Army and Jawahar Institute of Mountaineering and Winter Sports will also participate in the Games, Gul added. Numerous cultural programmes will also be organised at the event, which will also showcase a plethora of ethnic food and local crafts. MoS youth affairs and sports, and other top dignitaries of the central government and Sports Authority of India will be physically present during the e-inauguration. J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha may also attend the occasion, said sources. The J&K administration has directed a special team of doctors and ambulances to be available round-the-clock. Besides, a special team of the State Disaster Response Force shall remain stationed at the venue for relief and rescue operations in case of an emergency. Meanwhile, LG Manoj Sinha on Tuesday evening visited Dal Lake where he interacted with several tourists from across the country. He asked them about their experience in Kashmir, and said, “Be the goodwill ambassadors of J&K and carry the message to your respective areas that the UT is an ideal and safe tourist destination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-to-e-inaugurate-khelo-india-winter-games-at-gulmarg-tomorrow/articleshow/81197467.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 25, 2021||India||Two terrorists slain in Anantnag encounter||SRINAGAR: Two unidentified terrorists were killed in an anti-terror operation in Shalgul forest area in Anantnag district’s Srigufwara on Wednesday. The firefight, which began in the morning, continued till the time of going to press, J&K Police confirmed on Twitter. Two to three terrorists were suspected to be still hiding in the area, sources said, adding that the slain terrorists were allegedly from Jaish-e-Mohammad. Based on intelligence inputs about the presence of terrorists in Shalgul, a joint team of Army’s 3RR, CRPF and J&K Police launched a cordon-and-search operation in the forest area. Seeing the security forces approach, holed in ultras opened fire at the search party, triggering a gunfight in which the terrorist duo was killed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-terrorists-slain-in-anantnag-encounter/articleshow/81197568.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 25, 2021||Goa||FC Goa have women’s state league & IWL in sight||FC Goa have been the most consistent teams in the Indian Super League and are now turning their attention to women’s football. After missing out on the Goa Women’s League (GWL) last year, FC Goa have returned to the fourth edition with an ambition of winning the state league and securing a berth in the Indian Women’s League (IWL). It will be their second season in the league after earlier participating in the 2018-19 edition. FC Goa have been training for the last three weeks under the watchful eyes of head coach Sugitesh Mandrekar with technical director Derrick Pereira overlooking their progress. They face Goa United SC in the opener at Duler Football Stadium in Mapusa on Sunday. “We always believe in promoting football whether it is boys or girls. This year we had the opportunity to participate, and although we were a bit late, the preparations are going well. We are always looking to do something for women’s football,” Pereira told TOI in an online interaction on Wednesday. Futebol Club of YFA, Sirvodem SC and Compassion FC are the other teams in the league. The league will be held on a home and away basis with the first leg concluding on March 11. The second leg will commence after a six-day break and the final round will be held on March 31 where the team which finishes on top of the table will be declared champions. The winners will have to wait for the All India Football Federation (AIFF) to declare dates of the IWL. Pereira, a former international, knows the lack of competition has always been the concern for the growth of women’s football. “It’s the same as how we have structure for the boys teams. There should be a long-term plan and a structure in place with competition for every age group. In future, the long-term plan of FC Goa is to see that a structure is in place to play at the highest level,” said Pereira. FC Goa have a squad with a healthy mix of youth and experience. From the first day of training, they have been told of the club’s philosophy: keep the ball, play from the back and enjoy your game. The defence looks rock-solid with the experience of Malvita Mascarenhas. They have signed Mumbai-based Kimberly Fernandes, who played for Bodyline FC in the IWL and was adjudged Mumbai District Football Association’s women’s league Player of the Tournament in their triumphant season in 2016. “The team is shaping up good. We have a lot of youngsters. We are gelling as a team and working on how the coach wants us to play. We are encouraging the youngsters to prove themselves,” said Malvita. Kusum Shaikh, who has represented Goa University in basketball, throw ball and cricket, is another bright prospect for FC Goa as she makes her debut in GWL. “It was difficult to catch up with stamina and everything, but we are doing it as a team since football is a team game. We are working hard as a team and doing great,” said Kusum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-have-womens-state-league-iwl-in-sight/articleshow/81197650.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
February 25, 2021||Goa||Churchill Brothers survive Neroca test, move on top of the I-League||Clayvin Zuniga put Churchill Brothers FC back on top of the I-League with a 1-0 win over Neroca FC at the Kishore Bharati Krirangan in Kolkata on Wednesday. Clayvin scored the all-important goal in the first session to take his goals tally to six. Neroca were unlucky, especially in the added time, when substitute Varun Thokchom’s header came off the horizontal bar. Churchill’s sixth clean sheet in nine games helped the two-time champions continue their unbeaten run. They are now on 19 points, two ahead of second-placed Real Kashmir FC. Neroca remained tenth with eight points from nine outings and will finish the season in the bottom six. The teams started on an equal footing and Neroca created the first chance when Nathaniel Garcia latched on to a long ball and got the better of Hamza Kheir by looping the ball over him. However, Nathaniel lost his balance at a crucial moment and Suresh Meitei cleared the threat. It could have been a different story if Neroca had scored at that moment because soon Churchill struck at the other end. Neroca’s defence was caught napping in the 16th minute when Clayvin completed a couple of step overs and played a one-two with Kingslee Fernandes. The Churchill midfielder cleverly laid the ball over the rival defence and Clayvin finished it neatly past Neroca custodian Bishorjit Singh. The goal changed the complexion of the game as Churchill started to dominate possession. Clayvin had missed some games due to a knee injury and was eager to boost his goals tally. The Honduran forward came close, only to see his curler miss the target. His strike partner, Luca Majcen, dropped deep to allow Clayvin break through, and at the half an hour mark the Serbian sent in a perfect ball inside the danger zone. However, Clayvin couldn’t keep it under control with only the goalkeeper at his mercy. Nercoa looked more determined and threatening in the second half. They came close just after the hour mark when Subash Singh crossed towards Judah Garcia, but Hamza left them frustrated. Churchill wanted another chance to ensure three points. The former champions thought they had another strike in the 70th minute when Bryce Miranda found Luka with a delightful through ball. Luka did shoot past Bishorjit, but the ball went agonisingly wide. The miss didn’t matter in the end as Churchill held on for full points, despite a late scare when Neroca substitute Varun Thokchom’s header came off the horizontal bar in added time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churchill-brothers-survive-neroca-test-move-on-top-of-the-i-league/articleshow/81190552.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
February 25, 2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra hits 129-day high of 8,807 fresh cases||MUMBAI: Maharashtra reported a significant jump in new Covid-19 cases and fatalities on Wednesday, continuing with the rise that started 10 days ago. A total of 8,807 cases, the highest in 129 days (since 9,060 on October 18) were added to the state’s daily tally. The state reported 80 deaths, highest in two months (since December 24, when 89 deaths were reported). With this, the total cases in the state jumped to 21,21,119 and the toll touched 51,937. Mumbai also saw a three-month high in daily Covid-19 cases. It reported 1,167 new infections, the highest in 119 days. The last time the city had more than 1,167 cases was on October 28, when 1,354 were detected and Mumbai was merely coming out of the peak. It is also after 88 days since November 28 (1,063) that the city has added over 1,000 cases in a day. The only silver lining for the city was that deaths continued to be in single digits (4). Mumbai’s total toll is now 11,458.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Of the 80 deaths in the state, 27 occurred in the last 48 hours and the rest are older than a week, the state update said. Intensivist Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid task force, said the rise in cases was “concerning”. “A rise in critical cases or deaths is seen 7-14 days after a surge in cases,” he said, adding that the next 10 days would be make or break for Mumbai. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said over 21,000 tests were carried out on Wednesday. “Yes, there is a jump in cases and in positivity rate, which is at 6%. We are keeping a close eye on the situation. We have asked all jumbo facilities to reactivate beds,” he said. Read AlsoCovid-19 vaccination for 60+ and above 45 with co-morbidities from March 1In a bold decision, the Centre has decided to allow administration of the Covid vaccine for a price of Rs 300-400 at private hospitals for persons aged 60 and above, as well as those above 45 with serious co-morbidities, in the next round of vaccination of a much larger target population that willThere was a detailed presentation in the state cabinet meeting where data on the Covid-19 surge and the ongoing vaccination drive was presented. Nawab Malik, minister for skill development, said CM Uddhav Thackeray instructed all districts to increase testing and contact tracing. The health department said in the meeting that despite a rise in average cases in February, the case fatality rate (CFR) is low. The daily average of cases in January was 2,973 and the case fatality rate was 1.7%. The daily average cases are 3,347 and total deaths reported in February are 775, taking the CFR to 0.4%.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Mumbai circle on Wednesday reported 2,018 cases, highest in the state, followed by Pune circle with 1,811 cases. Akola and Nagpur circles from Vidarbha region that is currently the eye of the storm saw 1,679 and 1,323 cases, respectively. The Nagpur municipal corporation reported a dozen deaths. Dr Shashank Joshi, another member of the state task force, said the coming 10 days will tell if the state was staring at a second wave. “This surge has started from Vidarbha, and it is hard to believe that mutant variants didn’t have a role to play,” he said. Another plausible explanation for the rise, he said, was that people who didn’t get infected in the previous months have all started moving freely. “Double masking is an absolute must to prevent coronavirus,” he said. From the MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli saw a sharp rise in Covid-19 patients. It reported 165 fresh patients and two deaths. There were 130 cases and two deaths within NMMC areas on Wednesday. The PCMC areas reported 55 fresh cases and one death on Wednesday. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta, Vijay Singh, BB Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-hits-129-day-high-of-8807-fresh-cases/articleshow/81199045.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 25, 2021||India||Centre deputes teams to 10 states with rising Covid-19 cases||NEW DELHI: In the wake of surge in daily new Covid-19 cases in some states, the Centre on Wednesday deputed high level multi-disciplinary teams to visit 10 states that have been witnessing a rise in the number of infections. The central teams will visit Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir to ascertain the reason behind the spike in cases. The teams will support the states in public health measures for targeted Covid response and management, the health ministry said. The Centre has advised states and UTs to undertake regular review of the emerging situation with concerned district officials to ensure that gains made so far in Covid management are not lost. The Centre has also written to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab and J&K. “The states should focus on undertaking aggressive measures to break the chain of transmission and to ensure that RT-PCR testing is amplified to flush out hitherto undetected cases from the population," health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in the letter. These states/UT have been advised to increase testing in a focussed manner in affected districts and ensure that all symptomatic negatives of antigen tests are compulsorily tested via RT-PCR tests. Those testing positive must be promptly isolated or hospitalised, all their close contacts should be traced and also tested without delay, Bhushan said. “Any laxity in implementing stringent measures to curb the spread, especially in view of new strains of the virus observed in certain countries, could compound the situation," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-deputes-teams-to-10-states-with-rising-covid-19-cases/articleshow/81199353.cms||---
February 25, 2021||India||‘For morning vaccination slot, got SMS alert later that noon’||It was already afternoon when Uttar Pradesh’s joint commissioner of police Naveen Arora received an SMS recently, informing him that his vaccination shot was scheduled for the morning at a hospital in Lucknow. Arora had to miss his chance under the drive for frontline workers this time. In Kolkata, field immunisation worker Tinku Banerjee could get her second dose of Covishield only after her name was included in the list via the “add beneficiary” feature. An anxious Banerjee, who got her first dose on January 18, rushed to a primary health centre on her own on February 21 when she did not receive any intimation on her Co-WIN app for the second dose. Like Arora and Banerjee, who are being inoculated in the second phase of the vaccination drive for frontline Covid workers, many across the country have faced problems as complaints about glitches in the Co-WIN app pour in — from SMS alerts not reaching on time, messages reaching wrong beneficiaries, names not appearing on lists to duplication of names, the portal slowing down, and data mismatch. “In the absence of prior communication, we sent our officers to vaccination centres to look for names mentioned in the lists. These officers then called those whose names figured in the list and asked them to get vaccinated as add-on beneficiaries,” said Arora, who is also the nodal officer for vaccination of police personnel in Lucknow. “There is a special button in the portal that allows you to send SMSes to all those getting the jab. But, many a times, the SMS would not reach many of them,” said a senior health officer of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palika. Bihar special secretary, health, Manoj Kumar said SMSes reaching late was leading to beneficiaries not reaching session sites on time. “For frontline workers who need to travel long distances, delay is causing a major problem,” said Dr Dhiraj Pathak, medical officer at Sonapur district hospital in Assam. “The software is sending messages to recipients who are not due for the second dose, while those who need them are being missed out, causing confusion,” said Punjab Covid nodal officer Dr Bhaskar. Health officers in Bihar too have complained of duplication of names. “In many cases, names of beneficiaries were registered more than once, leading to confusion,” said an IT official posted at one of the session sites in Jharkhand. In Maharashtra too, officials said duplication of names is an issue and the process of deletion is on. Beneficiaries in many states have complained of names not figuring in the list despite making entries. “Names of some beneficiaries who took the first dose did not appear in the portal when they returned for the second dose,” said Tamil Nadu joint director of public health Dr Vinay Kumar. Goa Indian Medical Association president Dr Vinayak Buvaji said there have been instances where healthcare workers were not enlisted as beneficiaries despite submitting data through appropriate channels. Dr N S Khatri, deputy chief medical superintendent of Government Doon Medical College in Dehradun, was told that he will get the dose on day one of the launch of the countrywide inoculation drive on January 16. But his name didn’t appear in the beneficiary details. It wasn’t there on day-two as well. He then had to get himself vaccinated by manual registration. “This is happening with many beneficiaries,” said Dr Khatri. Senior health officials in Pune too said many names had to be re-registered. Faced with this, many states, like Kerala and Karnataka, have now gone offline and have begun contacting beneficiaries rather than depending on SMSes. In many states, beneficiaries are using the “add-on” option. An official in Maharashtra, however, said the Centre denied state health minister Rajesh Tope’s request to allow “manual enrolment”. States have also complained of slow response and data mismatch. While Punjab officials said the software stops responding very frequently, affecting the pace of immunisation, Karnataka said when the vaccination drive began on January 16 in Bengaluru, the portal failed to schedule the list as the server crashed. In Odisha, officials complained of backlog not getting uploaded, forcing them to use Google Sheets to figure out the registered beneficiaries and schedule sessions. Karnataka officials said another problem was that the algorithm did not work according to the Co-WIN management team at municipal corporation levels. Health officials in Haryana were hit by random picks by the software to send SMSes. “There have been cases of persons at far off places getting little time to reach the vaccination sites,” said an official. Glitches in automatically selecting beneficiaries and synchronisation between Co-WIN dashboard and devices being used at vaccination sites have been reported from MPtoo. Internet connectivity remained a problem in very remote areas in states like Himachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. ( With inputs from Mumbai, Bhubaneshwar, Lucknow, Kochi, Goa, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Patna, Guwahati, Jaipur, Dehradoon, Chandigarh and Bhopal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/for-morning-vaccination-slot-got-sms-alert-later-that-noon/articleshow/81199484.cms||---
February 25, 2021||India||SC judges red-flag Bombay HC names for 22 new judges||The Bombay high court’s proposal for appointment of 18 advocates and four judicial officers as judges of the HC has run into serious problem in the Supreme Court collegium with senior SC judges red-flagging the “hasty” process of selection and the “integrity” of the candidates. The 22 names were sent to the SC collegium during the 39-day tenure of Justice Bhushan Pradyumna Dharamdhikari as chief justice from March 20 to April 27, 2020. The HC, the second largest after Allahabad HC, has a sanctioned strength of 94 judges but is functioning with 64 judges, including CJ Dipankar Datta. According to procedure, the three-judge SC collegium comprising CJI S A Bobde and Justices N V Ramana and R F Nariman sought views on the 22 proposed names from Justices A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and B R Gavai, as Bombay HC is the parent HC of all three. Khanwilkar and Chandrachud registered their strong opposition to the manner in which the 22 names were included in the list of prospective candidates for appointment as HC judges. They gave their views on the HC proposal through separate letters, both firm on sending back all the names to the HC for reconsideration. Justice Dharmadhikari was acting CJ of Bombay HC from February 20 till March 19 last year. He was the CJ from March 20 till his superannuation on April 27, 2020. Khanwilkar and Chandrachud said it was well nigh impossible for a chief justice to prepare a list of 22 candidates for appointment as HC judges in such a short span of time. They said shortlisting a candidate for appointment as a judge required the HC CJ to watch the performance of advocates, consult bar leaders and colleague judges about the integrity, ability and capability of each individual. Importantly, the two senior SC judges red-flagged the proposal on a very serious note — integrity of the candidates. Given the unprecedented nature of opposition to the entire list of names proposed by the HC, it would be difficult for the SC collegium led by CJI Bobde to overcome it and recommend the names to the Centre for their appointment as judges. Even if the collegium does so, the government would cite the consultee judges' opposition to return the proposal to the collegium. Khanwilkar and Chandrachud doubted the integrity of many people on the list. They said most of the recommended people were around 55 years old and appointing people of this age group would not be advisable as they would have a short tenure as HC judges, who retire at the age of 62 years. According to the two SC judges, most HC judges take at least two to three years to get acquainted with the art of writing judgments and adapting to the discipline intrinsic to the constitutional post. The two judges said it would be in the interest of the justice delivery system to return the 22 names for reconsideration to the Bombay HC where Justice Datta has been chief justice for nearly one year. They said the selection of candidates needed to be broad-based keeping in mind the hopes and aspirations of deserving advocates practising not only in Bombay HC but before its benches in Aurangabad, Nagpur and Panaji. However, Gavai conveyed his view approving names of deserving candidates from among the 22 names but agreed with Justices Khanwilkar and Chandrachud for returning the rest for reconsideration. Justice Gavai did not fault Justice Dharmadhikari for recommending a large number of people for appointment as HC judges. He said Justice Dharmadhikari was a judge of the HC since 2004 and had reasonable knowledge about the talent pool in the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-judges-red-flag-bombay-hc-names-for-22-new-judges/articleshow/81199667.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 25, 2021||India||SC: No extra chance for civil service aspirants||NEW DELHI: The SC on Wednesday dismissed the plea of a group of civil services aspirants, who have exhausted the permissible number of attempts and are also hit by the age bar, for one more chance to take the test saying they were not prepared for the exam held in 2020 because of the Covid pandemic. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Indu Malhotra and Ajay Rastogi said many exams were conducted successfully during the pandemic and it would have a cascading effect on other exams if the SC allowed the plea of students for one more attempt. “There are large number of candidates who appeared in the various exams in 2020 during the pandemic and this court can take a judicial notice that... what is being claimed and prayed for under the guise of Covid is nothing but a lame excuse in taking additional attempt to participate in the Civil Service Exam 2021,” the bench said. The court, however, clarified that its decision would not restrict the Centre in exercising its discretion in future to deal with the difficulties. The bench passed the order on a batch of petitions filed by candidates seeking one more chance to appear for exam on on the ground that they were “forced” to appear as the government turned down their plea to defer the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-no-extra-chance-for-civil-service-aspirants/articleshow/81199711.cms||---
February 25, 2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination for 60+ and above 45 with co-morbidities from March 1||NEW DELHI: In a bold decision, the Centre has decided to allow administration of the Covid vaccine for a price of Rs 300-400 at private hospitals for persons aged 60 and above, as well as those above 45 with serious co-morbidities, in the next round of vaccination of a much larger target population that will get under way on March 1 for which 20,000 private and 10,000 government hospitals are being roped in. The price under consideration is for the Oxford-AstraZeneca shot while that for Covaxin, the other vaccine cleared for emergency use authorisation in India, is likely to be finalised soon. It is understood that the price of Bharat Biotech’s shot might be a little more. It has also been decided, said sources, that there will be options other than the Co-WIN App to register for shots. Hospitals will also have a provision for non-registered beneficiaries given that elderly persons and the poor may not be fully conversant with or have access to smartphones and Apps. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on Coronavirus“It is like making a train reservation. If you want to travel, you have to make a reservation. Similarly, those who want to receive the vaccine have to fix an appointment or schedule it at a particular session. They can do it through web interface, Aarogya Setu, common service centres, IRF,” an official said. Read AlsoCovid-19: Maharashtra hits 129-day high of 8,807 fresh casesMaharashtra reported a significant jump in new Covid-19 cases and fatalities on Wednesday, continuing with the rise that started 10 days ago. A total of 8,807 cases, the highest in 129 days (since 9,060 on October 18) were added to the state’s daily tally. The state reported 80 deaths, highest inEach vaccination session site will have reserved and unreserved slots. While people will have to schedule appointments for a reserved slot, the possibility of walk-ins -- depending on vacant slots -- is being considered too. However, reserved slots will get preference. The decision to allow private scheduling and administration of the shots as India moves to vaccinate 27 crore persons aged 50 and above is significant as it allows those willing to pay an option other than government hospitals. So far, while private hospitals were involved in vaccinations, beneficiaries were health care and front-line workers whose shots are paid for by the government. Those without any co-morbidities in the 50-60 age group will need to wait a while with shots being first prioritised for seniors. Also the marker of age 45 for persons below 50 but with serious co-morbidities defines the second set of beneficiaries. Detailed guidelines are awaited to define co-morbidities and how they will be certified by medical practitioners. While persons can pay and schedule shots, vaccinations will be free of cost at government hospitals. Recipients will, however, not have the option to choose the vaccine (Covishield or Covaxin) though each session site will stock only one particular brand. The health ministry is in dialogue with vaccine manufacturers and hospitals to finalise the price to be paid by recipients at private hospitals, and it will be announced in two-three days, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said after a Cabinet meeting on Wednesday. The government plans to conduct around 50,000-60,000 sessions a day with some of the large hospitals conducting multiple vaccination sessions at the same time. As of now, an average 10,000 sessions are being held daily. TOI had earlier reported that the government is considering a protocol on the lines of a scoring system along with a framework criteria that doctors can refer to while certifying an individual for co-morbidities. Over 1.23 crore vaccine doses have been given through 2,63,224 sessions across the country till Wednesday evening. At present, the vaccination drive is limited to inoculation of first two priority groups – health and front-line workers. While around 65.24 lakh health and 43.60 lakh front-line workers have received the first dose of the vaccine, over 14.81 lakh healthcare workers have also got the second dose of the vaccines. While the countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16, front-line workers started receiving the jabs from February 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccination-for-60-and-above-45-with-co-morbidities-from-march-1/articleshow/81199774.cms||Sushmi Dey
February 25, 2021||India||Parental-side kin can inherit property of Hindu widow: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court has said family members on the parental side of a Hindu widow can’t be held to be ‘strangers’ and her property can devolve upon them under the Hindu Succession Act. Referring to Section 15(1)(d) of the Act, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy said the heirs of the father of a Hindu woman are covered under persons entitled to succession of property. Read AlsoWhat every woman in India must know about her inheritance rightsWhether you are a wife, daughter or mother, find out about your succession and property rights, and what to do if they are denied“A perusal of the Section indicates that heirs of the father are covered in the heirs (of the property), who could succeed. When heirs of father of a female are included as person who can possibly succeed, it can’t be held that they are strangers and not the members of the family qua the female,” the bench said. Read AlsoSupreme Court gives equal inheritance right to daughters from 1956The Supreme Court in a landmark judgment on Tuesday cleared the legal cobwebs to declare that daughters will have inheritance rights equal to those of sons from properties of fathers, grandfathers and great-grandfathers right from the codification of the law in 1956. Whether the father was alive orSection 15 says the property of a female Hindu dying intestate (not having made a will) shall devolve according to the rules set out in Section 16 — (a) firstly, upon the sons and daughters (including the kids of any predeceased son or daughter) and the husband; (b) upon the heirs of the husband; (c) upon the mother and father; (d) upon the heirs of the father; and (e) lastly, upon the heirs of the mother.” The court upheld the order of HC and trial court which allowed a childless widow to enter into a family settlement in favour of her brothers’ son. In this case, the woman named Jagno became the absolute owner after her husband’s death. She entered into a family settlement and settled the property in favour of her brothers’ sons. Her husband’s brother’s kids challenged the transfer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/parental-side-kin-can-inherit-property-of-hindu-widow-sc/articleshow/81199868.cms||---
February 25, 2021||India||Fine for medical college, social service for pupils||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday imposed Rs 5 crore as fine on a private medical college in Unnao for granting admission to students in violation of the Medical Council of India (MCI) regulations but allowed the 132 students to complete the MBBS course on a condition that they will do community service for two years after becoming doctors. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said Saraswati Medical College admitted 132 students without seeking a nod from the Director General Medical Education, UP, but said cancelling their admission at this stage would not serve any useful purpose as they have already completed the second year of the course. “Intentional violation of the regulations by the college while granting admission to 132 students... can’t be condoned. The petitioner-college is directed to deposit Rs 5 crore in the registry of this court within a period of 8 weeks from today,” the SC said. The court also directed the college not to recover the amount from the students in any manner. It directed the National Medical Commission to constitute a trust to manage the fine to extend financial assistance to needy students seeking admission to medical colleges in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fine-for-medical-college-social-service-for-pupils/articleshow/81199926.cms||---
February 25, 2021||India||Facebook cites right to silence, tells SC it cannot be forced to appear before any legislative panel||NEW DELHI: Facebook on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that it is agreeable and complying with all Indian laws but it cannot be compelled to subject itself to the jurisdiction of Parliament and assembly to appear before their panels probing misuse of social media and its right to silence cannot be taken away. Senior Advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Facebook, told a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy that the company and its representatives cannot be forced to appear before the legislative panel to give opinion, and the summons issued by Delhi assembly committee reeks of "constitutional arrogance". As the bench questioned the social media platform about its "hesitancy" to comply with summons of the committee of Delhi assembly which is looking into last year's communal riots in the capital, when its representative had earlier appeared before Parliament’s standing committee on information technology, Salve submitted that it was for the company to decide whether to appear before any committee. He said Facebook representatives appeared before the parliamentary committee voluntarily. "I went there for commercial compulsion. It is my choice where to appear. But I cannot be compelled. I have the right not to participate. It is my constitutional right to speech and silence," Salve replied. He further elaborated that the company did not wish to be a party to political feud over the riots as it merely provides a platform for debate without participating. "There is divide on what happened and who is responsible for Delhi violence. What is going on is a political battle and I do not want to be part of it," Salve said. The bench, however, observed that Facebook could not run away from the responsibility on what is happening on its platform. "You provide a platform where debate takes place. Can you then say that my hands are off? It is something which is troubling my mind," Justice Kaul said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta strongly opposed Salve’s contention and told the bench that the multinational company cannot take a stand that it could not subject itself to the jurisdiction of Parliament. He said the company had to appear even before competent jurisdiction of an assembly.. The SG, however, said the summons issued by Delhi assembly was wrong as law and order problem in Delhi comes within the Centre's jurisdiction. "It is bound to appear. It also must respect the assembly if it has jurisdiction," Mehta said. The bench thereafter reserved its order on Facebook's plea seeking quashing of the summons issued by Delhi assembly. Earlier, Delhi Assembly had told SC that being an elected representative, it was its duty to examine measures to prevent online mass hate and consequent violence in its geographical area and the company cannot take the excuse that peace and harmony comes within the Centre's list of public order. It had contended that the assembly "was giving value and stature" to Facebook by asking its official to appear before its panel but they were "insulting" themselves by refusing to appear and give inputs. The assembly said it was essential to understand how Facebook, which has lakhs of users in the NCT of Delhi, functions to explore ways to tackle hate speech and other similar challenges to social cohesion. The assembly panel on peace and harmony is looking into complaints on the “role or complicity of Facebook officials in the Delhi riots" that happened in February last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/facebook-cites-right-to-silence-tells-sc-it-cannot-be-forced-to-appear-before-any-legislative-panel/articleshow/81200074.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
February 25, 2021||World||Australia, Canada to coordinate on making tech giants pay for news||OTTAWA: Justin Trudeau and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison plan to coordinate their efforts to make tech giants pay media outlets for their content, a statement from the Canadian Canadian Prime Minister office said Ottawa said Tuesday after a conversation between the two leaders. “The prime ministers noted the growing cooperation between Canada and Australia on the regulation of online platforms,” the statement said. “They agreed to continue coordinating efforts to address online harm and ensure the revenues of web giants are shared more fairly with creators and media.” Their conversation, which took place on Monday, came after Facebook blocked Australian users from accessing news content on its platform in response to a regulatory bill being considered in the country’s Parliament. The US social media giant announced on Tuesday, however, it would remove the news ban after the move sparked outrage in Australia and internationally. The Australian bill, the first of its kind in the world, is vehemently opposed by tech titans thanks to provisions which would govern the online financial relationship between such companies and media. Canada, the European Union and others have also sought to regulate major tech sector players, especially Google, Amazon, Facebook and Apple, including via France's 2019 tech tax. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has led the effort to establish such a tax at the international level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/australia-canada-to-coordinate-on-making-tech-giants-pay-for-news/articleshow/81200163.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Business||Facebook to invest $1 billion in news industry after Australia row||Facebook Inc on Wednesday pledged to invest at least $1 billion in the news industry over the next three years, days after a high-profile stand-off with the Australian government over paying news outlets for content. The social network's commitment to the news industry follows Google's $1 billion investment last year, as technology giants come under scrutiny over their business model as well as the proliferation of misinformation on their platform. Facebook on Tuesday restored Australian news pages, ending an unprecedented week-long blackout after wringing concessions from the government over a proposed law that will require tech giants to pay traditional media companies for their content. The brief blackout shocked the global news industry, which has already seen its business model upended by the tech giants. In a blog detailing its version of the showdown, Facebook said the news ban was related to a "fundamental misunderstanding" of the relationship between the company and news publishers. It also acknowledged that some non-news content got inadvertently blocked when it banned all news content. Facebook said on Wednesday it has already invested $600 million in the news industry since 2018. The social media company added it was in active negotiations with news publishers in Germany and France for a deal to pay for content for its news product, where users can find headlines and stories next to a personalized news feed. Watch Facebook to invest $1 billion in news industry after Australia row||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/facebook-to-invest-1-billion-in-news-industry-after-australia-row/articleshow/81200185.cms||---
February 25, 2021||India||PM Modi sets target of Rs 2.5 lakh crore from asset monetisation||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that the planned privatisation of state-run enterprises will help free up resources for spending on welfare, development, empower the citizens and create jobs as he set a target of monetising 100 government-owned assets across sectors worth Rs 2.5 lakh crore. Reiterating his strong backing for privatisation and asset monetisation, the PM said the reforms, which have been launched, were aimed at ensuring that public money is spent judiciously to benefit the poor, in what was seen as a response to critics of the new policy unveiled in the Budget. “The money that belongs to the poor is used for such enterprises (PSUs). This puts a huge burden on the economy,” Modi told a webinar to draw up the roadmap for the implementation of Budget proposals on privatisation and asset monetisation. He said the government does not have to keep running public sector enterprises just because they have been running for decades or they were “pet projects of somebody”. Modi’s speech at the webinar on the implementation of the Budget more than built upon his strong push for privatisation and private enerprise in Parliament earlier this month. It also marked the hardening of what appeared to be an opportunistic push warranted by the pandemic into a strong belief, with Modi stressing that the government has no business to be in business at all. Rather, he went a step further and argued for the elimination of the government’s role in citizen’s life being restricted to only those spheres where it was essential. “Government’s absence should not be felt in areas where it is needed, but its influence should not be felt in other spheres.” The PM sought to fortify the thrust for private sector by linking the twin drives of privatisation and monetisation to the need for meeting the basic needs — from schools and roads to clean drinking water to the poor. Since coming to power in 2014, the NDA government has talked about the sale of PSUs, especially loss-making ones, such as Air India, but it has a poor track record. It sought to pass off the sale of state-run entities, such as HPCL to ONGC, another PSU, as strategic sale, drawing criticism even from the CAG. It is now trying to push it as a key reform initiative and has even added state-run banks and a general insurance company to the list, after specifying that only four strategic sectors — atomic energy, space and defence, transport and telecom, power and petroleum — will have PSUs. Even in the sectors, state-run firms can have a diminished presence. “This policy will go further from the annual disinvestment targets by preparing a medium-term strategic approach and also help in selecting individual companies. There will be a clear roadmap for investment as well,” said Modi, while clearly demarcating the role of state-run entities. “It is the responsibility of the government to support and encourage businesses and enterprises but it is not necessary for the government to run businesses or own them. That is why I say the government has no business to be in business,” Modi told the webinar attended by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, investors, private sector executives and government officials. “It is more important for the government to focus on welfare and development projects,” the PM said as he detailed shortcomings of the government’s direct involvement in running businesses. “It is our government’s endeavour to improve the living standards of the people while reducing the government’s unnecessary inference in their lives,” he said and emphasised that there should neither be too little, nor too much of government interference. Referring to the National Asset Monetisation pipeline, the PM said there were several underutilised and unutilised assets in the country. ”We have a target of 100 assets from oil, gas, airport, power, which we plan to monetise. This has the potential for investment opportunities of Rs 2.5 trillion. I can tell you this will continue in future also,” said the PM. “The mantra with which the government is moving ahead is monetise and modernise. When the government monetises, then that space is taken by the private sector,” said Modi, adding that the private sector brings investment, global best practices, which modernises and expands the sector and opens up job opportunities. But he also said that to ensure that this procedure is transparent and within rules, there is a need to monitor. “Therefore, through the ‘monetise and modernise’, we can usher in more efficiency across the economy. Whatever money comes from the government’s efforts can be used for welfare programmes,” Modi said, asserting that funds raised from asset monetisation and privatisation are used for building homes for the poor, rural roads, schools and many other welfare projects. He said privatisation will also open up opportunities for the youth, who will be able to showcase their talent. He said PSU assets have served the nation well and there are immense possibilities in future, too. “We have seen that whenever management changes, enterprises touch new heights. You must assess the value not on the basis of the present but the immense hidden possibilities of the future,” Modi said and urged investors to take advantage of the new policies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-sets-target-of-2-5l-cr-from-asset-monetisation/articleshow/81200196.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Business||Sensex rallies 1k pts to regain 50k on EU markets||MUMBAI: The sensex surged 1,030 points to close above the 50k mark again in Wednesday’s extended session after European markets showed some strength in early trades. In the process, the sensex has almost recovered Monday’s 1,145-point fall and closed the day’s session at 50,782. Wednesday’s four-digit rise in the sensex came despite strong selling by foreign funds, if one takes out the inter se transfer in Bosch worth nearly Rs 29,500 crore. According to market players, the rally came after the NSE reopened during the extended session following a day-long tech glitch that brought trading to a halt and speculators rushed to cover their short positions. These positions were taken earlier in the session as most Asian markets were showing a weak trend with the Hang Seng in Hong Kong down over 3% due to a hike in tax on stock trading. However, since speculators could not square off their positions during the glitch on the NSE, they rushed in during the one and half hours of extended trading session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-rallies-1k-pts-to-regain-50k-on-eu-markets/articleshow/81200208.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Business||Indian arm of Mexican company buys Modern Foods||CHENNAI: Modern Foods, the company behind the iconic bread and bakery brand ‘Modern’ breads — is changing hands once again. Singapore-based private equity firm Everstone Capital has sold Modern Foods to Mexico’s Grupo Bimbo and its Indian subsidiary Ready Roti India. The financial details of the deal were not disclosed. Grupo Bimbo, the world’s largest baking company, operates in 33 countries, including India, and has a portfolio of over 13,000 products and more than 100 brands. Everstone, through its bread and bakery platform Everfoods Asia, acquired Modern from Hindustan Unilever (HUL) in 2016 and gave the brand a face lift, relaunching it in 2017. Modern Foods, established in 1965, was the company to sell branded bread in the country. It later became first PSU to be sold under the government’s disinvestment programme. In 2000, HUL (the erstwhile Hindustan Lever) had acquired the government’s 74% stake for Rs 105 crore. The objective behind this acquisition was to bolster its foods portfolio. After three years, this was followed by HUL acquiring the balance government stake for Rs 44 crore. With 14 production units across the country then, Modern was a popular brand. Bread, a low-entry product, did face its own share of competition from healthier options on the breakfast table. However, even after HUL invested in the business and turned it around while also enhancing its productivity, Modern no longer fitted with HUL’s food portfolio growth strategy. HUL then decided to sell the business in 2015. “We are a private equity investment firm and our business is to create substantial value in our portfolio companies, lead them into the next phase of growth and eventually find them another home where they will prosper further. Grupo Bimbo, being the largest baking company in the world, ticked all the boxes for us and we wish Modern a flourishing future,” Everstone Capital Asia managing director Roshini Bakshi said on Wednesday. When Everstone acquired the brand from HUL, it reportedly had a turnover of around Rs 250 crore. It was acquired at the same price as the turnover, according to reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-arm-of-mexican-co-buys-modern-foods/articleshow/81200272.cms||---
February 25, 2021||India||Globalising a protest isn’t a crime: Muluk in bail petition||NEW DELHI: Simply talking to people from outside India to “internationalise” a protest can’t be criminalised, climate activist Shantanu Muluk has argued in his anticipatory bail plea to a Delhi court. Muluk, one of the accused in the toolkit case, said he had no intent — political or religious — other than to express sympathy for the farmers in their campaign to get the new agri-marketing laws repealed. He claimed to have learnt about the toolkit being shared with Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg only from others. The bail plea has been listed for hearing by the court of additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana on Thursday, a day before Muluk’s transit anticipatory bail from Bombay HC is scheduled to lapse. Denying any association with Khalistani groups, Muluk’s bail plea seeks to highlight there was nothing unlawful in the toolkit. “There may be differing views on ‘internationalising’ a protest, but the same is certainly not illegal,” it says. Muluk’s bail application states that he along with others helped create a platform displaying information about the farmers’ protest. Members of the group were essentially youths concerned about environmental issues, and “consequently” got interested in the farm protests. “There is not a single instance where any of them suggested anything illegal... The material of their chats... as well as the ‘toolkit’ clearly shows that there is no connection with their support for the farmers’ protests and any violence whatsoever.“||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/globalising-a-protest-isnt-a-crime-muluk-in-bail-petition/articleshow/81200298.cms||Aamir Khan
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand gets all-women anti-terrorism commando squad||DEHRADUN: Twenty-two women now form Uttarakhand’s first all-women elite commando force for anti-terrorist and counter-insurgency operations. On Tuesday, Uttarakhand Police formally inducted the all-women Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), ready for its first deployment at the Mahakumbh in Haridwar. “Uttarakhand is now the fourth state in the country to have an elite women commando force,” Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said at the induction ceremony at police lines here. The first all-women commando force was Delhi’s ATS SWAT team, inducted in 2018. Earlier this month, Karnataka started training its first batch of all-women Garuda commandos, the state’s own anti-terror force. “This will inspire other women to join the force and serve the country,” the CM added. Uttarakhand’s all-women ATS squad is the first to be trained in VVIP security "on a par with the National Security Guard", the elite counter-terrorism unit under the Union ministry of home affairs, the administration said. The squad has been trained in jungle warfare, counter-insurgency, weapon handling, tackling IEDs and in Krav Maga, an Israeli self-defence martial art developed by its defence forces. "It's an elite force and its members have been recruited from regular police and PAC battalions who had undergone rigorous training to take on hostage crisis and terror strikes," said Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar. On the basis of physical strength, endurance and weapon handling, 27 women commandos were initially selected for the two-week pre-commando training at the Arms Training Centre (ATC) in Haridwar. Of them, 22 women commandos were shortlisted on the basis of their performance in the pre-commando training. Rajeev Swaroop, DIG of the Police Training Centre (PTC) at Narendra Nagar in Tehri, said, "They are now undergoing two months’ advanced commando training. They have completed the first phase.” Their first major assignment, DGP Kumar added, will be at the Mahakumbh in Haridwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-gets-all-women-anti-terrorism-commando-squad/articleshow/81200311.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 25, 2021||India||After second dose of jab, docs say after-effects are relaxed mind, lighter heart||It’s not because his father has spent the last 11 months tending to Covid and non-Covid patients at Bombay Hospital that Dr Gautam Bhansali’s five-year-old son, Aarav, calls him Superman. The unofficial title was conferred on the physician on February 15 when he returned home, exhausted from a long day’s work yet radiant from receiving his second dose of vaccination. Five days into the jab that gave him no major side-effects except a dull muscle pain that he wished away with a pain-killer, the PPE kit-sporting Superman is coughing over the phone. But unlike earlier, he’s not anxious. “It’s probably a viral and not the virus,” says Bhansali, adding his wife--often reduced to tears last year by his risky job --too feels strong enough to don her new invisible cape as the in-house WonderWoman. Read AlsoCovid-19: Maharashtra hits 129-day high of 8,807 fresh casesMaharashtra reported a significant jump in new Covid-19 cases and fatalities on Wednesday, continuing with the rise that started 10 days ago. A total of 8,807 cases, the highest in 129 days (since 9,060 on October 18) were added to the state’s daily tally. The state reported 80 deaths, highest inNot invincibility or complete immunity but a relaxed mind and lighter heart seem to be among the most palpable after-effects of the second dose on medicos in the city who got their first jab in the days following the vaccination rollout on January 16. Even as Mumbai completes two lakh vaccinations of frontline workers, some doctors--who have experienced no side-effects except for a fleeting localised muscle pain--have even posted pictures of their second jab on social media with the same righteous fervency as voters showing off their inked finger. While their cheerful posts have emboldened patients, it has also made a few wonder about the reason for vaccine hesitancy among a section of healthcare workers. “If the doctor himself is hesitant to take the vaccine, how can we feel confident?” some patients ask cancer surgeon Dr P Jagannath, who confronted a similar question from resident doctors at the vaccination centre after his “seamless” second jab. This apprehension among frontline workers stabs at the heart of the cancer surgeon who finds the debate over which vaccine is safer “irrelevant”. As one of the “privileged” healthcare workers to receive the vaccine in its first phase of rollout and with a 94-year-old father at home, the guilt of making senior citizens--the next subset in line for the vaccine --wait gnaws at him: “We need to ramp up the drive before the second wave sets in.” Read AlsoCovid-19 vaccination for 60+ and above 45 with co-morbidities from March 1In a bold decision, the Centre has decided to allow administration of the Covid vaccine for a price of Rs 300-400 at private hospitals for persons aged 60 and above, as well as those above 45 with serious co-morbidities, in the next round of vaccination of a much larger target population that willHis sense of urgency resonates with Dr Ragini Parekh, HOD of ophthalmology at JJ Hospital, who has seen many peers grapple with survivors’ guilt after losing their parents to the virus they brought home. After receiving her second dose last week, going home to her ageing parents is no longer fraught with the fear of being a carrier. Though she still wears a double mask and follows safety protocol at work, the fear that would ambush Parekh every time she leaned close to strangers’ eyeballs and they would instinctively pull down their masks in reflex has diminished. “Our faith in the vaccine helps build faith in the community,” says Dr Sameer Sadawarte, head, paediatric intensive care, Fortis Hospital, Mulund, stressing the need to continue with “Corona-appropriate behaviour” even after being vaccinated. “2 doses of faith. 2 doses of trust in science. 2 steps towards our confidence in serving our patients better” obstetrician and gynaecologist Dr Mukesh Gupta wrote on Facebook, while sitting at the vaccination centre after his second jab on February 20. “We now feel safe,” patients tell Gupta, whose waiting room bears a poster announcing his team’s inoculated status. Gupta feels it’s his moral duty not only to make his patients feel secure at the hospital but also to “brainwash” them out of vaccine hesitancy. Bhansali--who knows technical issues with certain vaccination apps, and not hesitancy, have delayed the second shot for some of his peers--advocates “surgical strike of mass vaccination” to achieve herd immunity in the wake of rising cases in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-2nd-dose-of-jab-docs-say-after-effects-are-relaxed-mind-lighter-heart/articleshow/81200356.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
February 25, 2021||Business||Demand moves beyond affordable homes as buyers seek more space: Survey||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: A survey of potential homebuyers by Magicbricks has shown that demand is shifting beyond the Rs 30-lakh affordable home category as customers are looking at bigger houses due to work from home (WFH). According to the poll, 46% of the consumer preference is now in the range of Rs 30 lakh-Rs 1 crore and above category, with most of the demand being generated from the key residential markets of Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Delhi. “Thanks to the recent initiatives by the central and the state governments, we are witnessing a rise in demand for home loans for mid-segment and high range properties. With WFH being the latest norm and good deals and discounts available, our latest data suggests that the majority of home buyers have retained their preference for size/BHK and hence are in search of bigger houses,” said Magicbricks CEO Sudhir Pai said. Magicbricks is a property portal that is part of the Times Group, which publishes The Times Of India. He added that this demand is prominent in the major residential markets of Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Mumbai, Pune, Gurugram, and Noida. “The market sentiment seems to be well aligned to the demand and reflects the same as consumer search data on Magicbricks Home Loans suggests that around 38% of the demand is between Rs 30 lakh and Rs 1 crore and the average loan amount searched on the platform is Rs 34 lakh,” said Pai. Consumer behaviour on Magicbricks Home Loans also suggests that most of the demand is being generated from the key residential markets of Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Delhi, Mumbai, and Pune. According to the Magicbricks Home Loans Consumer Report, the average loan against property amount searched in Hyderabad is Rs 35 lakh, Rs 45 lakh in Delhi NCR, Rs 50 lakh in Mumbai and Kolkata and Rs 70 lakh in Bengaluru. Similarly, the average balance transfer amount searched in Bangalore is Rs 60 lakh, Rs 35 lakh in Delhi NCR, Rs 32 lakh in Pune, Rs 40 lakh in Hyderabad, and Rs 80 lakh in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/demand-moves-beyond-affordable-homes-as-buyers-seek-more-space-survey/articleshow/81199043.cms||Mayur Shetty
February 25, 2021||Allahabad||Owaisi-Shivpal meet in Azamgarhsignals new equations for ’22 polls||Varanasi: All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen chief Asaduddin Owaisi reached Azamgarh to attend the wedding of the daughter of his party’s state head and was seen immersed in one-to-one discussion with Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party president Shivpal Yadav signaling new political equations brewing in the state ahead of the assembly elections next year. Owaisi remained tight lipped in Azamgarh and also skipped reporters at LBS International Airport in Varanasi on Sunday. Shivpal also sidetracked queries on what had transpired between them, but reiterated his call to all like-minded and secular parties to unite to defeat BJP. Suheldeo Bharatiya Samaj Party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar, who had accompanied Owaisi during his January 12 Azamgarh visit, was conspicuous by his absence this time, but said their front for forthcoming UP elections will start taking shape after panchayat polls. Almost 40 days after his last visit to Azamgarh, the Lok Sabha constituency of Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, Owaisi had arrived to attend the wedding of AIMIM state president Shaukat Ali’s daughter at Rafi Nagar Colony on Saturday. Few minutes later, Shivpal also arrived at the venue and joined Owaisi, following which the security personnel did not allow anyone near them while they were seen engrossed in discussion as the Nikah rituals were on. On coming out, Shivpal said, “I had come to attend the wedding and met Owaisi. I have been saying that all like-minded parties and secular forces should unite to defeat BJP.” “I have also asked Akhilesh for formation of an alliance. All family members and Samajwadis should join hands,” said Shivpal, once again signaling that he is not mulling his party’s merger with SP. Unlike his January 12 visit, when he had attacked Akhilesh for not allowing his entry in UP several times as CM, Owaisi preferred to remain tight-lipped in Azamgarh. When reporters gathered at Varanasi airport, he skipped them and entered the lounge, where he offered namaz and boarded his flight. When TOI contacted Rajbhar on Sunday, he said, “I got late due to pre-scheduled party events and could not reach Azamgarh to attend the wedding, but our efforts of bringing like-minded parties under one umbrella are continuing. It is evidently clear that even SP and Bahujan Samaj Party cannot defeat BJP alone and hence we are keeping options open for them too for joining our front, the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha.” The outcome of these efforts will be clear after the panchayat polls, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/owaisi-shivpal-meet-in-azamgarhsignals-new-equations-for-22-polls/articleshow/81199417.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Vijayawada||Naidu in Kuppam today to analyse party’s debacle||Amaravati: TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu will visit his constituency Kuppam on Thursday. Naidu is expected to stay there for three days and interact with the party’s field level leaders to take stock of the latest political situation. The visit assumes significance considering that TDP supporters could win only 14 sarpanch posts in Kuppam constituency in the just-concluded panchayat polls. Candidates backed by YSRC supporters won as many as 75 villages, including in pockets which are traditionally considered TDP strongholds. Ruling party supporters secured an overall majority of close to 29,000 votes in the 74 villages they won in Kuppam, which is 2,000 votes less than the winning margin of Naidu in the 2019 assembly elections. Naidu is a seven-time legislator from Kuppam where he has remained undefeated since 1989. Though TDP cadre believe Naidu’s bond and base with the electorate is still strong, the party chief wants to know what went wrong in the panchayat elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/naidu-in-kuppam-today-to-analyse-partys-debacle/articleshow/81196170.cms||Samdani MN
February 25, 2021||Business||Tata co exempted from open offer||Mumbai: Sebi has given a conditional exemption to a Tata Sons subsidiary from making an open offer to public shareholders of Tata Communications in which the government plans to divest its 26% stake. The Centre plans to sell 10% in Tata Communications (earlier known as VSNL) to Tata Sons and the remaining 16% via the offer for sale (OFS) mechanism. If the price discovered in the OFS falls within the prescribed range, the transaction will be eligible for automatic exemption. However, in the event that the discovered price is not within the prescribed range, the transaction will not be eligible for automatic exemption, Sebi said in an order on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-co-exempted-from-open-offer/articleshow/81199161.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Madan Sahni’s ‘unparliamentary’ remark on CPI-ML stalls House||PATNA: A united opposition in the state assembly on Wednesday stalled House proceedings in the post-lunch session over "unparliamentary" remark made by social welfare minister Madan Sahni. The opposition members stormed the Well of the House seeking an apology from the minister for his remarks against CPI(ML) saying the party thrived on "cuts" from people who receive old-age pension from the state government. Sahni made the remark while responding to a listed call attention question put up by CPI(ML) legislature party leader Mahboob Alam and 12 others on non-payment of old age pension to a chunk of people above the age of 60. The noisy scenes created by the agitated opposition members on Sahni’s remarks led to the adjournment of the House by Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on three occasions – once in the pre-lunch session and twice in the post-lunch session as a result of which two listed businesses could not be transacted. The government’s listed business for the day was tabling the second supplementary budget by deputy CM-cum-finance minister Tarkishore Prasad in the post-lunch session, which he did amid noisy scenes right after the House met. The second business was the two-day House debate on the Rs 2.18 lakh crore state budget presented by Prasad on Monday. The debate could not take place as opposition members entered the Well and shouted slogans against the government insisting on an apology from the minister, who sat stiff and remained unyielding. Repeated pleas of the Speaker, parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary and JD(U) chief whip Shrawan Kumar to the opposition members to return to their seats went unheeded. CM Nitish Kumar was present in the House in the early part of the post-lunch session, while the leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav was absent. The old-age pension is given at the rate of Rs 400 per person per month, Sahni said in his reply, adding that the state and central old-age pension is given to 69 lakh people (men and women), and there was 3 lakh other left out beneficiaries whose papers regarding the claims they had made for the payment of old-age pension was being processed. Responding to the reply given by Sahni, CPI(ML) members Alam and Satyadeo Ram separately informed the House that there were several others across the state who had been paid the old age pension but had been discontinued for some reasons. Sahni, in turn, suggested that the introduction of the DBT method had deprived them (read the CPI-ML) of fattening on the cuts from the beneficiaries, which elicited a sharp, noisy and censorious reaction from the opposition members belonging to CPI(ML), CPI, CPM, RJD and Congress. The Speaker immediately adjourned the House. Before the House met for the post-lunch session, the Speaker called a meeting of the leaders of all political parties as well as ministers Vijay Kumar Choudhary and Shrawan Kumar to resolve the matter. But after the House met, the noisy scenes resumed. Intervening in the situation, parliamentary affairs minister Choudhary expressed his apology by saying sorry for what Sahni had said, insisting that he had done it taking the collective responsibility of the government, but even this did not satisfy the opposition members, who insisted on an apology from Sahni, whereby the House was adjourned the second time. After the House met again, Alam from the CPI(ML) said that his party had come under repeated attack even on the floor of the House from the treasury benches for winning 12 assembly seats for the first time. The Speaker adjourned the House for the day at 3.18 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ministers-unparliamentary-remark-on-cpi-ml-stalls-house/articleshow/81195588.cms||Abhay Singh
February 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar Assembly to pass 2.18 lakh crore budget today||PATNA: The state assembly on Thursday will pass the Rs2.18 lakh crore budget for the 2021-22 fiscal. The second supplementary budget worth Rs19,370.03 crore will also be passed the same day to meet expenditures during the current financial year. While the two government businesses will be conducted in the post-lunch session, the House debate on them could not be conducted on Wednesday, as the opposition members adopted the obstructionist stance, seeking an apology from social welfare minister Madan Sahni for making unparliamentary remarks against the CPI(ML). The second supplementary budget for the current fiscal, ending March 31, has three components. As much as Rs9,530.27 crore is under the scheme expenditure head, while the allotment for the establishment and committed expenditure is Rs9,399.98 crore. Further, Rs439.77 crore has been earmarked to be spent on providing state share in the central sector schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/house-to-pass-budget-today/articleshow/81195846.cms||Abhay Singh
February 25, 2021||Kolkata||1 lakh vaccinations in Bengal in one day||KOLKATA: On Wednesday the state clocked the highest ever turnout at vaccination sites during the inoculation programme in Bengal. Of the targeted 1,03,615 recipients, 97% got inoculated on Wednesday, a day ahead of the mop-up round deadline for the first dose for healthcare workers. No AEFI was reported. “We achieved the 1 lakh vaccination milestone on a single day on Wednesday when 10,00,174 people got inoculated at 998 vaccination sites across the state,” said state director of health services Ajay Chakraborty. Earlier, 87% had been the highest turnout, recorded on January 22, when 30,517 healthcare workers got the vaccine against a target of 35,100 recipients across 351 sites. Since then, there had been a gradual decline with the turnout slipping to as low as 34%. The percentage started bouncing back only a couple of days ago. So far, the state has inoculated 8.9 lakh people — a mix of healthcare and frontline workers, as well as some polling officials — in the 33 days. Of those vaccinated on Wednesday, 14,090 were administered Covaxin, taking the number of Covaxin recipients to 69,919 in the state. In addition to this, another 17,577 healthcare workers were given their second dose of Covishield.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1l-vaccinations-in-bengal-in-one-day/articleshow/81196517.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar opthalmologist Rajvardhan Azad nominated to WHO development group||PATNA: Noted ophthalmologist Rajvardhan Azad has been nominated to the World Health Organisation (WHO) development group for the package of vitreoretinal interventions, according to a message received here on Wednesday. The WHO Vision Programme is in the process of developing a priority package of eye care interventions. The development of this package is aligned with the recommendations of WHO World Report on Vision (2019) and aims at facilitating the integration of eye care within Universal Health Coverage (UHC). Azad, who is the chairman of Bihar State University Service Commission, has been nominated to the group owing to his expertise in the area of vitreoretinal disorders. He is well known among his peers across the world for his scholarly and outstanding contributions as an able administrator, educationist, researcher and a vitreoretinal surgeon. He pursued his academic career at the Dr R P Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences at AllMS, New Delhi, and rose to become the chief of the centre from where he superannuated in the year 2014. He is currently a visiting professor at Zhongshan Ophthalmic Centre, Sun Yat-sen University, and also adviser to the Laboratory Guangzhou, the main research hub for ophthalmology in China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/azad-nominated-to-who-devpt-group/articleshow/81195868.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Vadodara||Jeweller stabbed, robbed in showroom on posh OP Road||VADODARA: Shockwaves ran through the trader fraternity in the city after a jewellery showroom owner on the busy Old Padra Road was stabbed by a robber, who took away all ornaments kept on the display. The incident happened at around 12:40pm in the showroom of victim, Rajesh Kumar Soni, located on the first floor of Rajvi Towers, a commercial complex that witnesses continuous movement of people. captionSoni was alone at his showroom Ma Krupa Jewellers when the robber walked in at round 11.30 am. He lingered around for about half-an-hour under the pretext of checking different designs. “The robber posed as a customer and struck a conversation with Soni. He claimed that he wanted to buy some ornaments and demanded to see different designs. Soni showed him different gold ornaments,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, deputy commissioner of police (crime). He waited for an opportune moment to corner Soni and he got it soon when the latter walked in the strong room of the shop. The robber followed Soni, caught hold of him from behind and stabbed him in the neck. Soni fell on the floor profusely bleeding. The man then walked out of the room and latched it from outside. He then calmly picked up the gold and silver ornaments kept on display and put them in his bag. Police have started scanning CCTV footage of the crossroads nearby. Soni somehow managed to come out of the strong room after about 20 minutes and immediately called his family. He was rushed to a private hospital with stab injuries on his neck. “He suffered multiple injuries and was operated upon. Once Soni regains consciousness, we will be able to get more information from him,” said Shamsher Singh, city police commissioner. Investigating officials said that the robber had worn a cap and covered his face with a piece of cloth, making it difficult to ascertain his identity. But CCTV footage showed that he walked till Manisha Crossroads which is about half-a-km from the showroom. He then took an auto from there. “It seems he had done a recce of the shop before committing the loot on Wednesday,” Jadeja told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/jeweller-stabbed-robbed-in-showroom-on-posh-op-road/articleshow/81197290.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Business||ReNew to list on Nasdaq via merger, gets valued at $8 billion||MUMBAI: ReNew Power, founded by Sumant Sinha, son of former Indian finance minister Yashwant Sinha, is going for a US listing through a merger with the Nasdaq-listed blank-check firm RMG Acquisition Corporation II. The deal gives ReNew an enterprise valuation of $8 billion. This is the first De-SPAC Indian transaction since 2016, according to merger adviser Bank of America. A blank-check company, also called SPAC (special purpose acquisition company), has no commercial business. It raises money through an IPO with an aim to acquire or merge with an operational firm. De-SPAC is an event through which a SPAC gets merged with an operating outfit and stops being an acquisition vehicle. ReNew, the country’s largest independent clean energy player, had earlier looked at an Indian IPO but dropped the plan due to market volatility. The transaction will be financed with cash proceeds of $1.2 billion, including $855 million in investments from serial dealmaker Chamath Palihapitiya and other global investors. ReNew will receive $610 million in net proceeds, which it will use to retire debt. Founded in 2011, ReNew owns and operates more than 100 wind and solar energy projects in India. Sinha will continue to be the chairman and CEO of the proposed merged entity, which will be named ReNew Energy Global and will list under the symbol RNW on the Nasdaq. Earlier, online travel services firm Yatra and Videocon DTH got listed in the US through deals inked with blank-check companies. “The (ReNew-RMG) transaction re-emphasises strong investor interest in Indian renewable energy sector with massive growth potential. The deal saw participation from some of the world’s top ESG investors and opens the door for many more SPAC transactions from India across sectors,” said Gaurav Singhal, managing director-investment banking (India), Bank of America. The proposed merger comes at a time when India, the world’s third-largest emitter of greenhouse gases, is ramping up green energy capacity. It has set a target of achieving 450 gigawatts of clean energy capacity, or 40% of aggregate capacity, by the end of the decade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/renew-to-list-on-nasdaq-via-merger-gets-valued-at-8bn/articleshow/81199117.cms||Reeba Zachariah
February 25, 2021||Business||NSE faces over 5-hour tech glitch, puts traders on edge||MUMBAI: The National Stock Exchange (NSE), India’s largest bourse, suffered an over five-hour tech glitch from about 10am on Wednesday. The incident prompted the markets regulator Sebi to step in and extend trading hours by an hour and half till 5pm. This is the third major glitch on the NSE in the last five years and came just a day before the expiry of the February F&O contracts as turnover surged. Sebi also asked the NSE to carry out a root-cause analysis of the glitch and submit a report. Wednesday’s tech glitch, one of the longest ever on the NSE, happened even as the regulator was working on a plan to put in place a mechanism to compensate investors for the losses they incur due to such outages. On the BSE, uninterrupted trading continued till 5pm. Brokers said that at 10.06am, they stopped receiving data feed from the NSE for the Nifty, Bank Nifty and other indices. From around 11.15am, data feed for NSE’s F&O segments also faced a glitch and, finally at 11.40am, the exchange halted trading in all the segments. As brokers, especially speculators and day traders, panicked since they could not square off the positions they had taken earlier in the session, NSE officials put the trading mechanism back on track. Sebi and NSE officials were also engaged in hectic parleys through the day. Finally at 3.17pm, NSE announced the resumption of trading with the day’s session extended till 5pm. Soon after trading was stopped on the NSE, the bourse said that two telecom providers it engages with failed to connect with brokers. Market players, however, pointed out that if it was a problem with telecom service providers, it was unlikely that while data feed from the cash segment was disrupted at about 10am, that for the F&O segment continued for the next one hour. They also pointed out that NSE’s disaster recovery mechanism failed to kick in on Wednesday when it was needed the most. Since the tech glitch took place a day before the expiry of derivatives contracts for the current month, panic had set in among traders and speculators. Usually as expiry day nears, trading volumes pick up and traders, speculators and hedgers try to re-organise their strategies. With trading on the NSE suspended for most of Wednesday, a large number of day-traders were stuck with their buy or short-sell positions in the cash and F&O segments of the bourse, which were executed early in the session. About 3pm, several brokers helped their clients to square off their speculative positions in the cash segment of the NSE with counter trades in BSE’s cash segment. However, since trading volumes in BSE’s F&O segment is nearly negligible, similar positions taken on the NSE could not be squared off like they did for cash positions. Thankfully, after the NSE announced re-opening of trading from 3.45pm, day traders were relieved, market players and social media posts indicated. Last week in its annual report, Sebi said it was working to put in place a compensation mechanism for investors for losses incurred due to such tech glitches. Incidentally, as the glitch on the NSE continued, a report about the resignation of the chief of Tokyo Stock Exchange due to a day-long tech glitch in November 2020 did the rounds on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nse-faces-over-5-hour-tech-glitch-puts-traders-on-edge/articleshow/81199076.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar dry run on February 27-28 for third phase vaccination||PATNA: The Bihar health department will conduct dry runs on February 27 & 28 for the third phase of the vaccination announcement made by the Centre on Wednesday. "From March 1, people above 60 years of age and those above 45 years of age with comorbidities will be vaccinated at 10,000 government and over 20,000 private vaccination centres. The vaccine will be free at the government centres," Union health minister Prakash Javadekar said while making the announcement on Wednesday. State health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said they have geared up for the coming phase of vaccination and they will first carry out a dry run to see how many session sites and vaccinators are required for the implementation of the third phase vaccination. Asked about the date for Bihar, Amrit said, “Announcement made by the central government is applicable for all states.” He further said all public health facilities from tertiary level medical colleges to sub-centres are being made ready for this drive. Currently, the second dose of vaccination for healthcare workers and the first dose of vaccination for frontline workers are being given across the state. As per data shared by the State Health Society, 6,689 frontline workers took their vaccine shots on Wednesday. So far, a total of 1,40,787 of them have taken the jab, and they account for 51.6% of the total beneficiaries falling in the category of frontline workers. The health department has targeted to complete their vaccination by Monday. Apart from the frontline workers, 221 healthcare workers took their first dose, and 897 took the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine 327 session sites created on Wednesday. A total of 3,99,228 healthcare workers have got the first dose of vaccine since the vaccination started on January 16 across the state, and a total of 60,418 of them have got their second dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-dry-run-on-feb-27-28-for-3rd-phase-vaccination/articleshow/81196064.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 25, 2021||Patna||‘Women police personnel need special arms & armour’: Renuka Mishra||PATNA: Bihar has the maximum 25.3% women in the police force compared to any other state across the country. However, a lot is yet to be done for the optimum utilization of their efficiency, said Renuka Mishra, ADG (promotion and recruitment board) of Uttar Pradesh while addressing a special session on ‘Women in police: Issues, challenges and solutions’ on the third day of the Bihar Police Week on Wednesday. Renuka put forward several important points before senior officers of the state police in order to make the best use of women personnel by bringing about some necessary changes as per their requirement. She said her suggestions were based on the feedback received from 14 state police and CAPF on the women personnel issues. Consolidated ideas on the basis of feedback were given to the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) during the ‘National conference for women in police’ held in 2016. Several recommendations were made to the Union ministry of home affairs on her suggestions to bring about the required changes. The senior IPS officer highlighted the need of specific firearms, equipment and armour for women personnel as their physical specifications are different from males. “Body armour like bulletproof vests should be as per the women’s physique so that they can deliver their best on duty. Women feel suffocated in male body armour,” she said. Renuka said the physical aspect should be kept in mind also in firearms purchases. “Make weapons handy for women personnel. Their grip should be as per female specifications. There should be a woman officer in the procurement committee to understand such needs,” she said, adding gender budgeting in police department should be introduced along with yearly state level conference for women personnel. The ADG said while a company of men has standard strength of 137 personnel, their study showed a women company’s strength should be at least 175 for leave arrangements. “This is so because women need more leave. Allow them maternity and other leave as per rules without questioning much,” she emphasized. Citing an example of a VVIP programme held in Delhi, Mishra said officers, including women, were not allowed to take any bag or purse inside the venue. “At least one should understand that several women officers may be going through periods. They need sanitary pads to be carried and disposed,” she said, urging senior IPS officers of state police to install sanitary pad dispensers and bins or incinerators at the police headquarters, police stations and other establishments where women police personnel are deployed. ADG (CID) Vinay Kumar, ADG (special branch) JS Gangwar, ADG (law and order) Amit Kumar, ADG (training) R Malar Vizhi, ADG (EOU) Nayyar Hasnain Khan, ADG (weaker section) Anil Kishore Yadav, IG (Mithila range) Ajitabh Kumar, IG (prohibition) Amrit Raj, IG (Tirhut range) Ganesh Kumar, DIG (CID) Garima Malik besides several other IPS officers, DSPs and others were present during the session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/women-police-personnel-need-special-arms-armour/articleshow/81196159.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar: CPI(ML) holds dharna for Valmikinagar MLA’s arrest||BAGAHA: A day-long dharna by Grand Alliance parties including CPI-ML led by Parshuram Yadav was held at the Ambedhakar Statue near the sub-divisional headquarters at Bagaha on Wednesday, to protest against the murder of Zila Parishad member and contractor Dayanand Verma. Three persons including JD(U) MLA from Valmikinagar Rinku Singh alias Dhirendra Pratap Singh have been made named accused in the FIR (Naurangia PS 09/2021) on February 14, 2021. The protesters shouted slogans against the deteriorating law and order in Nitish government and also demanded immediate arrest of the Valmikinagar MLA. A public meeting was also organised at dharna ground. After conclusion of the dharna, a delegation led by former minister and Congress leader Rajesh Singh, Erashad Hussain, Bhikhari Prasad and others met ASDM Bagaha Sarfaraz Nawaj and handed him over a memorandum containing five-point demands including arrest of the MLA, suspension of Bagaha SDPO Kailash Prasad and Naurangia police station SHO, speedy trial of the case at Bettiah instead of Bagaha, Rs 20 lakh compensation and a government job for the widow of Dayanand Verma and education expenses of deceased Verma’s children. The same delegation also met the DSP headquarters Ashok Choudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cpiml-holds-dharna-for-valmikinagar-mlas-arrest/articleshow/81195860.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Patna||Modi government trying to make farmers labourers: Congress||KORHA (KATIHAR): Former Union minister and Bihar Congress incharge Bhakta Charan Das on Wednesday led a padyatra of around 800 party workers and supporters from Charkhi Mor to Gerabari Chowk under Korha block of the district against the controversial three farm laws passed by the Centre. The padyatra caused traffic snarl on Gerabari-Katihar road as well as on NH-31 for a brief period, causing inconvenience to the commuters. Congress legislature party leader Ajeet Sharma, party’s state president Madan Mohan Jha, party MLA Shakeel Ahmad Khan among others accompanied Das. The Congress workers carried placards with slogans like ‘Hum kisano ke saath hain’ (we are with farmers). Talking to this newspaper, Das said, “India is the land of farmers. Over 62 crore people in the country have been employed in the agriculture sector, which is the prime source of traditional income for them. But, the Modi government is trying to make farmers majdoors (labourers). Introduction of contract farming will make farmers labourers.” Criticizing the state government policy on paddy procurement, Das said, “Mandis and marketing boards in Bihar were abolished. Now, the government has no responsibility to procure paddy and other foodgrains. The primary agriculture cooperative societies (PACSs) procured just one per cent of paddy in the state last year. Now, the matters related to farming will be referred to a revenue court, which is controlled by officials, who will not give judgement in favour of farmers. The law court will be the only forum for redressal of farmers’ grievances,” he said. “The civil court’s jurisdiction is being abolished. The country’s economy is being relegated to a few favourite corporate hands of the Modi government,” Das alleged. Earlier, a minor ruckus took place between two groups of the Congress supporters over remarks on party’s Manihari MLA Manohar Prasad Singh. Later, the issue was resolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/modi-govt-trying-to-make-farmers-labourers-cong/articleshow/81195844.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 54 more test coronavirus positive, 92 recover||PATNA: Altogether 54 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Wednesday, taking the tally to 2,62,357. During the last two days a slight dip has been witnessed in the number of new cases and infection rate. For instance, Bihar had registered 59 cases on Tuesday and 94 on Sunday. Besides, 92 patients recovered from Covid in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,60,310 and recovery rate to 99.22%. One death was also reported in Saran after which the state’s toll reached 1,538. According to health minister Mangal Pandey, the department is keeping tabs on the new cases and the situation is under control in Bihar. Considering a rise in the number of corona cases in other parts of the country, district magistrates have been instructed to observe the trend carefully. Meanwhile, out of the 1,260 RT-PCR tests done at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna, not a single Covid positive case was detected on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/54-more-test-covid-positive-92-recover/articleshow/81196128.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Patna||BJP MLC Sanjay Prakash seeks censure motion against Rahul Gandhi||PATNA: BJP MLC Sanjay Prakash demanded a censure motion against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in the Vidhan Parishad on Wednesday for the Congress leader’s remarks “insulting” north Indians. At a gathering in Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala recently, Rahul had said, “For the first 15 years, I was an MP in the north. I had got used to a different type of politics. For me, coming to Kerala was very refreshing as suddenly I found that people are interested in issues and not just superficially but going into detail in issues.” However, Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra refuted the allegation and said a censure motion could not be passed against anyone who is not a member of this House. A war of words broke out between BJP MLC Rajnish Kumar, JD (U) MLC Neeraj Kumar and RJD MLC Subodh Kumar. Acting chairperson Awadhesh Narain Singh intervened, after which the question hour began. Congress MLC Mishra during the question hour raised the issue of the low ranking of Patna and other cities of Bihar in the cleanliness survey. He said funds allocated under Smart City and Swachh Bharat Mission were not utilized and people could not get clean drinking water. Replying to his question, deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad said in the past one year the state has witnessed improvement in cleanliness and waste management. He said the Centre had allocated Rs 510 crore under the smart city scheme and around Rs 338.70 crore under the Swachh Bharat Mission, a total of Rs 469.79 crore had been spent. Giving other data, Prasad said the door-to-door waste collection was being done in 3,351 out of 3,396 wards in 142 urban local bodies and it was 98.67%, which is more than the national average which stands at 97%. He further said in 2,380 wards, waste was being segregated at the source itself. This was 70% of the total target, while the national average was 78%. Regarding unfit drinking water, Prasad said this problem was due to damaged pipelines and he assured a survey will be done and old pipelines will soon be replaced. RJD MLC Ram Chandra Purbey raised the issue of the problem faced by common people over land mutation. He said out of 1.5 lakh applications for 23 circles of Patna, 70,000 had been resolved. Members across the party line demanded this problem to be resolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-mlc-seeks-censure-motion-against-rahul/articleshow/81195690.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Not-so-remote hamlet under GVMC waits for mobile connectivity||SAMBHUVANIPALEM: Sambhuvanipalem may be situated just four kilometres from PM Palem, but the tribal hamlet offers an altogether different world from the hustle of Vizag city. Located in the midst of Kambalakonda Wildlife Sanctuary, the village, which lacks phone connectivity, transportation and medical facilities, is disconnected from the urban chaos of its surroundings. A forest checkpost has been set up about two kilometres outside the village to restrict the entry of outsiders. While one guard is deputed to this base camp during the day, two personnel are posted at night as part of wildlife conservation efforts. The nearly two-km-long road, which leads from the base camp to the tribal hamlet, passes through hilly terrain, dense forst cover and along the Tummidigedda reservoir. Surrounded by forests, the vilage records freezing temperatures in winter and has a pleasant climate in summer. The tribal hamlet is home to about 300 people, of whom a majority eke out a living through manual labour. Other than personal vehicles, four autorickshaws operated by villagers is the only means of mobility for inhabitants travelling to PM Palem. When TOI visited the hamlet on Wednesday, which is going for municipal polls on March 10 as it is part of the GVMC, locals complained of inadequate infrastructure and demanded roads and the drainage network be upgraded. Sunkara Somu Naidu, who was bicycling from Sambhuvanipalem to PM Palem, said students of the village have to join hostels run by the welfare department for higher studies as the village school only offers primary education. “With no decent cellular network, mobile phones do not work,” said Somu Naidu. The growing reach of technology and communication, however, has meant that each household owns a television set. Kadarasi Ganesh, a local youth, complained about the lack of medical facilities and mobile network. “Recently, five students of the village have been selected as ward volunteers and secretaries. The villagers grow only vegetables and other small crops,” said Ganesh. A Satya Rao, an elderly resident, said the lack of transportation facilities raises problems whenever there is an emergency and at night. “We have been settled in this village for at least five generations but villagers have to go to PM Palem for groceries, medicines and other consumables,” said Satya Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/not-so-remote-hamlet-under-gvmc-waits-for-mobile-connectivity/articleshow/81195792.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 25, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: With seniors set to get on list, govt hospitals plan more sites||KOLKATA: With the central government announcing the rollout of Covid-19 vaccination for the general population, first with those above 60 and above 45 with co-morbidities, the state health department has started working on its plans. Though the state is yet to get a guideline for this phase of vaccination, it has decided to expand the number of immunization sites. “Currently we have around 1,000 vaccination sites where Covid vaccination is being dispensed. We will be scaling up the number of sites to facilitate the inoculation of citizens above 60 and above 45 with co-morbidities,” said an official at Swasthya Bhawan. Senior health officials had a virtual meeting with officials of the central health ministry on Wednesday morning where they were told to start preparing for the third phase of inoculation. Sources at Swasthya Bhawan said the state has the capacity to increase the number of sites to 10,000. “Increasing the number of sites is not an issue. The main issue is the process of registering the beneficiaries. We are yet to get a guideline on this. But once we get more clarity, we will start working on this,” said Ashim Das Malakar from the state health and family welfare department. March 1 was announced as the date for commencing the programme, but state health officials are hopeful poll-bound Bengal will be given a relaxation of two to three days as polling officials are being vaccinated from most sites at present. The teaching medical colleges in the city are operating four to six vaccination sites. Though each site is assigned 100 recipients per session, with time and hands-on experience, hospital officials said each site can handle up to 200. “All we require is a clear protocol, especially on how we get the recipient list. Our vaccination officers, supervisors and AEFI teams are confident and will be able handle more recipients,” said an official at RG Kar Medical College and Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-seniors-set-to-get-on-list-govt-hosps-plan-more-sites/articleshow/81196510.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 25, 2021||Allahabad||Kushinagar Airport gets DGCAlicence for international flights||Gorakhpur: The Kushinagar Airport has been granted the licence to operate international flights and has now become the third such airport in Uttar Pradesh after Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport in Lucknow, and Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport in Varanasi. The airport got all necessary clearances from Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and its director general Arun Kumar handed over the licence to Kushinagar Airport director A K Dwivedi in New Delhi on Tuesday. “Kushinagar Airport has become the third international airport of Uttar Pradesh and the 87th in India,” airport director AK Dwivedi told TOI. “Kushinagar Airport has been issued a 4C license from DGCA and now both domestic and international flights would operate from the airport. We are in contact with a number of airlines and discussions are on. We are ready for the flights and it is up to the Union Government now to decide the date of the airport’s inauguration,” Dwivedi added. Three months ago, a DGCA team had visited Kushinagar Airport and pointed out 21 points on which the airport was lacking, DGCA had informed Airport Authority of India (AAI) and asked it to take necessary corrective action. All the objections raised by DGCA were addressed after which the application for licence was filed again. The DGCA team inspected the airport and gave clearance for issuing the licence. Union minister for civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri said in a tweet, “Kushinagar Airport gets necessary clearances from DGCA to become the third licensed international airport of UP. Will boost tourism in the region and facilitate travel on the Buddhist Circuit by providing direct aviation connectivity to the city where Lord Buddha attained Mahaparinirvana.” The operation of international flights will create employment opportunities in Kushinagar, which holds an important place in the Buddha Circuit. The airport is likely to be inaugurated soon. On August 10, 2020, a media group of Sri Lanka had confirmed that the Indian government has invited Sri Lanka for the first flight at International Airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kushinagar-airport-gets-dgcalicence-for-international-flights/articleshow/81193821.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Vijayawada||Anantapur collector receives PM Kisan Samman award||Amaravati: Anantapur district collector Gandham Chandrudu on Wednesday received the PM Kisan Samman national award from Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in New Delhi. The district was adjudged to have had the best performance across the country in implementation of PM Kisan scheme for 2020-21. Under the scheme, the Centre has been granting Rs 6,000 to each eligible farmer in three spells every year. For this, the Centre directed all district collectors to take up physical verification of beneficiaries in order to weed out bogus claimants and extend the programme to more eligible farmers. Anantapur district administration, led by district collector Chandrudu, achieved 99.6% progress in the physical verification of beneficiaries. “We have completed physical verification of almost all 28,505 beneficiaries identified under the scheme in the district and ensured financial assistance reached them,” Chandrudu told TOI. Anantapur district had also bagged prestigious Skoch award for bringing Kisan rail to the district which helped upland area farmers export their stocks to big mandis in the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had lauded district collector Gandham Chandrudu for the initiative to empower girl children who officiated government offices on International Girl Child Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/anantapur-collector-receives-pm-kisan-samman-award/articleshow/81196067.cms||Samdani MN
February 25, 2021||Visakhapatnam||VPT chair calls for youth participation in MIS 2021||Visakhapatnam: Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) chairman K Rama Mohan Rao called upon the youth to make use of the employment opportunities at the upcoming Maritime India Summit (MIS) 2021. Addressing a gathering at Port Kalavani auditorium here on Wednesday after the roadshow held as a curtain-raiser to the summit next month, the VPT chairman said the summit would be conducted on a virtual platform and asked the youth to register in order to avail of the facilities. The chairman also encouraged the general public interested in developments in the Indian maritime sector and employment opportunities to register. MIS 2021 is the perfect platform to attract domestic and international investments and position India at par with international ports in the maritime sector, the chairman said. The summit will be held from March 2-4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vpt-chair-calls-for-youth-participation-in-mis-2021/articleshow/81196214.cms||Siva G
February 25, 2021||Business||Axis-Max Life deal gets Irdai’s nod||Mumbai: Max Life on Wednesday said that the insurance regulator had approved a 12% stake purchase in the life insurance company by Axis Bank and its subsidiaries — Axis Capital and Axis Securities. The approval paves the way for Axis Bank to be a joint venture partner in a deal that was first announced in April 2020. The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) has allowed Axis Entities to buy up to 19% stake in Max Life, of which Axis Bank proposes to acquire up to 9%, and Axis Capital and Axis Securities together propose to acquire up to 3%. Axis Entities can also in future acquire an additional stake of up to 7% in Max Life, in one or more tranches, which they intend to acquire over the course of the next few years. Max Life Insurance MD & CEO Prashant Tripathy said that since all other approvals are already in place, the transaction will be concluded soon. Max Life is the fourth-largest private life insurer in India, while Axis Bank is the third-largest private bank. Axis Bank, under Shikha Sharma, had signed up a bancassurance deal with Max Life nearly a decade ago. Since then, the private bank has generated a premium of over Rs 40,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/axis-max-life-deal-gets-irdais-nod/articleshow/81198921.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Business||Sensex rallies 1k pts to regain 50k on EU mkts||Mumbai: The sensex surged 1,030 points to close above the 50k mark again in Wednesday’s extended session after European markets showed some strength in early trades. In the process, the sensex has almost recovered Monday’s 1,145-point fall and closed the day’s session at 50,782. Wednesday’s four-digit rise in the sensex came despite strong selling by foreign funds, if one takes out the inter se transfer in Bosch worth nearly Rs 29,500 crore, BSE data showed. According to market players, the huge rally in the sensex came after the NSE reopened during the extended session following a day-long tech glitch that brought trading to a halt and speculators rushed to cover their short positions. These positions were taken earlier in the session as most Asian markets were showing a weak trend with the Hang Seng in Hong Kong down over 3% due to a hike in tax on stock trading. However, since speculators could not square off their positions during the glitch on the NSE, they rushed in during the one and half hours of extended trading session. According to traders, markets across Asia fell on Wednesday as fears about rising inflation may lead central banks to hike rates. Additionally, the rising US bond yields weighed on investor sentiment, market players said. In early trades on Wednesday, the yield on the 10-year treasury bonds in the US rose to over 1.4% — more than a year-high level. In the backdrop of such weaknesses, market players feel the day’s up-move was a correction after a five-session fall and not the start of another uptrend. In Wednesday’s market, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC and RIL led the rally, while selling in TCS and Power Grid limited the gains, but only marginally. Of the 30 sensex stocks, 23 closed higher, BSE data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-rallies-1k-pts-to-regain-50k-on-eu-mkts/articleshow/81198894.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Motera stadium named after PM||Ahmedabad: One of the oldest cricket stadiums in the country – the iconic Motera – which stood witness to several milestones in Indian cricket including Sunil Gavaskar reaching the 10,000-run mark in Tests, Kapil Dev claiming his 432nd Test wicket to become the highest wicket-taker in the world and Sachin Tendulkar completing his 18,000 runs in international cricket, was given a new identity on Wednesday. The ground, which was earlier known as the Sardar Patel Gujarat stadium and more popularly as the Motera, has now been renamed after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and will be called the ‘Narendra Modi Stadium Ahmedabad’. President of India, Ram Nath Kovind, digitally inaugurated the world’s largest cricket stadium, which has been rebuilt at an estimated cost of Rs 800 crore, hours before the start of the pink-ball day/night Test between India and England here. The Narendra Modi Stadium, which can accommodate 1.32 lakh spectators, is hosting its first-ever international cricket match since its reopening. It hosted the knockout stages of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy in January this year. The ground in its previous avatar as the Sardar Patel stadium was closed for renovation in 2015. The stadium will be part of the proposed Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave in the city, the ground-breaking ceremony of which was performed by Kovind in the presence of union home minister Amit Shah, sports minister Kiren Rijiju, Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin bhai Patel, governor Acharya Devvrat and other political leaders. The complex, spread across 236 acres, will have sports facilities for disciplines like football, hockey, basketball, kabaddi, boxing and lawn tennis. The announcement to name the stadium after PM Modi caught everyone by surprise. There was a general impression that Modi would come to inaugurate the refurbished stadium on the opening day of the Test match. But when Kovind was announced as the official chief guest days ahead of the ceremony, it was thought that the PM’s busy election schedule campaigning in poll-bound states might have kept him busy. On Wednesday, when the stadium was rechristened after Modi, the surprise element was lifted and his absence was decoded. A year back, the stadium hosted the ‘Namaste Trump’ event, jointly attended by Modi and then US President Donald Trump. Expectedly, the renaming also triggered a war of words between leaders from the ruling BJP dispensation and opposition Congress party in the state, with both sides fighting over Sardar Patel’s legacy. The stadium will host the third and fourth Tests between India and England as well as the five-match T-20 series between the two sides. “When I was on an official tour to Australia in November 2018, I visited the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) which at that time was the world’s largest cricket stadium with 90,000 spectators. Today, we can proudly say that we have a cricket stadium with a capacity of 1.32 lakh spectators. “The stadium showcases the aspirations and capabilities of New India that has made a strong mark on the world stage. The dominance that India has achieved in cricket reinforces the belief that not only in other sports but also in the areas of development, our country has potential to achieve a higher position in the world,” the President said. Shah said that it would not be fair for him to talk about the stadium and not discuss Modi’s long term vision about sports. “Narendra bhai had told me once that ‘we should stop thinking small about Gujarat. Gujarat me sirf bada hoga’ (think always big about Gujarat). The PM first made this a heritage city and now we will become a sports city as well. Once ready we will be able to host major meets in the future be it the Commonwealth Games, Asian Games and Olympics,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/motera-stadium-named-after-pm/articleshow/81198631.cms||Sabi Hussain
February 25, 2021||Rajkot||ONGC identifies new onshore blocks in Kutch||Rajkot: Arid Kutch could be the new treasure for oil and gas exploration. State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) has identified new onshore blocks and their exploratory drilling is expected to start by May. Last week, the public sector company had a brainstorming session with geologists and experts from Kutch University and Pandit Deendayal Energy University (PDEU). Both the academic institutes have joined hands with ONGC to help in study and research of rocks. “ONGC has completed seismic sounding process. Now, they will start exploratory drilling in which they will make nearly 100 holes on the ground. There is a possibility that oil and gas can be found on the land of Kutch. The block identified is in the western part of Kutch which is a huge area,” said professor M G Thakkar, head of department of environment science at Kutch University. Teams will extract core by digging the block at various places while geologists will do a geochemical study of the core. “Kutch University and PDEU will help in quantification of oil and gas. Technocrats from Delhi, Dehradun and other parts of India and senior officials of Bombay high basin also joined the conference,” Thakkar said. “Onshore exploration of ONGC is in the initial stage. We have to study geological features to identify oil and gas. It is like water in a sponge which is not seen till you squeeze it. Even in these rocks, oil and gas will flow if we carry out certain procedures,” said Bhawanisingh Desai, associate professor at PDEU. In the second stage, resource estimate and economic effectiveness of the exploration will be carried out using advanced technologies. “Government has allotted ONGC one onshore block in which exploration will start,” said Rakesh Kumar Vij, who joined as director of PDEU, after retiring from ONGC. “Currently, ONGC’s oil exploration from four projects is nearly 5 million tonnes. Kutch’s prospect is more than that. If we work both onshore and offshore in Kutch, we will get the same production which we are getting from four projects,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ongc-identifies-new-onshore-blocks-in-kutch/articleshow/81197814.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
February 25, 2021||Goa||Mining front against mines auction and corporation||Bicholim: The Goa Mining People’s Front (GMPF) on Monday warned against any moves to form corporation or auction the mines in the state to resolve the mining imbroglio. “It would only lead to litigation and the issue will be kept pending for several years rather than finding a solution,” GMPF president Puti Gaonkar said addressing a meeting of mining dependents near Pale panchayat recently. The mining dependents warned the government that they would march to the chief minister’s residence at Panaji with the mining machinery on March 16 if the government fails to resolve the imbroglio by March 15 “We feel that government should take immediate decision on resumption of mining issue and that it should not adopt delaying tactics,” Gaonkar said, adding, “The government must be having ulterior motives to assign the mine to someone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-front-against-mines-auction-and-corporation/articleshow/81199695.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Amaravati||Now, discoms must clear dues to purchase power||AMARAVATI: In a move that could push the already beleaguered power distribution companies into more trouble, the Centre has brought changes to the Electricity Act to suspend discoms from buying power if they fail to clear dues to generation companies beyond six months. The Centre has also brought in a clause in the Act to impose penalties on the discoms for late payment of dues. The Centre on Monday issued a notification by amending the Electricity Act, 2003, to make discoms clear the dues on time. As per the new guidelines stipulated by the Centre, discoms cannot escape from paying dues to the Gencos (PPAs) and Transcos (TSA) beyond one month. “Discoms will be penalised with a 0.5% penalty on the total due to the firm from which it procured power, either Genco or private power developer, in case it fails to pay the dues after 30 days. This is aimed at making the discoms cough up at any cost and push them into more debts and losses,” said AP Assistant Executive Engineers (AEEs) Association president Vamsi Srinivas. Similarly, the penalties would keep growing for six months as the Centre has capped the maximum penalty at 3%. Surprisingly, the Centre has given liberty to the transmission company or the power supplier (private developer) to stop the supplies to the particular discoms and force the company to pay the dues. The Centre will debar the distribution companies from purchase of power even from online exchanges or other sources through open access. This would effectively end the discoms’ options on short term purchases through the exchange. “Although it looks like that the measures are aimed at making the discoms more disciplined and accountable, it is actually aimed at stifling their finances to privatise the power distribution sector,” said a senior official of Central Power Distribution Company Limited (CPDCL) who did not wish to be quoted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/now-discoms-must-clear-dues-to-purchase-power/articleshow/81195807.cms||Samdani MN
February 25, 2021||Kolkata||Pvt hosps welcome move to inoculate ‘vulnerable’ group||Kolkata: Many senior citizens who seek health consultation at private hospitals have been enquiring about when they will be getting the Covid vaccine. Private hospital administrations felt the announcement on Wednesday to allow private hospitals to inoculate 60-plus and 45-plus people with co-morbidities will bring a sense of relief to this vulnerable group. They are now waiting for the protocol from the state. “Since the rollout on January 16, many of my senior patients have been asking when their turn will come,” said Arindam Biswas, internal medicine specialist at Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. All major private hospitals in Kolkata are part of the vaccination programme for healthcare and frontline workers. Some of them are even inoculating polling officials. “It is a positive move to let private hospitals take part in community vaccination. We are ready to extend all support to the government and the general population. We have sufficient storage facilities and the necessary infrastructure to run such an exercise,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. “We expect more clarity in the form of instructions from the state. We will start preparing once that comes,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. Those who take the vaccination at private hospitals will be charged a capped price, which has not been finalized. “This change in policy was needed for wider access to the vaccine, which will expedite the process of inoculating the masses. The policy makers should come out with a more flexible process for recipient registration,” said clinical trial expert Santanu Tripathi, former professor at School of Tropical Medicine. “We need to prevent a second wave and vaccinating the general population is a step towards it,” said internal medicine specialist Syamasis Bandyopadhyay, director medical services at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals. “We can even scale up our infrastructure and manpower for this phase of inoculation if required,” said Alok Roy, chairman Medica Group of Hospitals. Sources said close to 65% of the urban population seeks treatment in the private healthcare sector and can afford to buy the vaccine. They would prefer to get vaccinated at private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-welcome-move-to-inoculate-vulnerable-group/articleshow/81196506.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 25, 2021||Patna||Begusarai villagers ransack house, shop of ‘murder’ accused||PATNA: Irate villagers ransacked the house and a shop belonging to two brothers on Wednesday for their alleged involvement in the murder of a physically challenged man over a land dispute at a village in Begusarai. The killing took place around 10 pm at Rachiyahi village under the Singhaul police station area of Begusarai on Tuesday. The slain person was identified as 55-year-old Shatrughan Rajak. Sinhgaul police station SHO Deepak Kumar said villagers ransacked the house and a shop owned by accused Anil Rai and Munna Rai. “Apart from the two brothers, two more persons Pankaj Rai and Arvind Rai were also involved in the killing. All four along with family members had fled the village leaving behind their house after the killing,” he said. SHO Kumar said villagers were holding a meeting on the issue of dispute over a piece of land on which a temple is built. “Anil and Munna used to tie their cattle on the plot while villagers used to claim that the land belonged to the temple. The meeting had just ended around 10 pm when four persons opened fire and Shatrughan received a bullet injury in his back which resulted in his death,” he said. SHO said the slain person didn’t have any role in the dispute and had only reached the meeting to attend it as a resident of the village. “This killing angered the villagers after which they ransacked the shop owned by the brothers and partially damaged their house too. However, police reached on time and prevented further violence,” he said. He further said Shatrughan's body was handed over to the family after post-mortem on Wednesday. The SHO said an FIR had been registered against Anil, Munna, Pankaj and Arvind in connection with the killing. “Further investigation is on and raids are being conducted at several locations to arrest them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/begusarai-villagers-ransack-house-shop-of-murder-accused/articleshow/81195831.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Varanasi||ASQ-2020: LBS Airport ranks first in nation||Varanasi: The Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport has ranked first among 24 airports of the country in the Airport Service Quality (ASQ) survey-2020 Conducted by Airports Council International (ACI), the worldwide association to represent common interests of airport operators around the world. The LBS Airport has also taken a leap of 20 ranks in global ranking, and now stands at 29 from 49 earlier. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, LBSI Airport director Flt Lt Akash Deep said, “Annual result of the ACI-ASQ survey for the year 2020 for 24 Airport Authority of India’s airports was released today. It shows LBSI Airport of Varanasi on the top rank in India. Our airport has ranked 29th in the world under one to five million passenger category.” LBSI Airport achieved the highest ASQ rating of 4.94 followed by Ahmedabad, Lucknow and Amritsar, he said, adding that this ASQ rating of 4.94 is average of four quarters of year 2020. ASQ is a global airport survey based on passengers’ satisfaction by taking their feedback while they are at the airport. The ACI involves independent agency to conduct survey on 33 parameters by random checking of airport services, the airport director said, giving credit to LBSI Varanasi team for this achievement. He said that he was pleased to share this achievement and thanked all the stake holders and the entire airport team, including all airlines, ground handling agencies, CISF, all AAI officers and the staff in achieving this ranking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/asq-2020-lbs-airport-ranks-first-in-nation/articleshow/81195530.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Vijayawada||Court hears Jana Sena’s PIL||Vijayawada: The high court heard the PIL filed by Jana Sena seeking renotification of ZPTC and MPTC elections on Wednesday. The JS counsel told the bench, headed by Justice DVSS Somayajulu, that when SEC Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar himself wrote a letter to the Union government stating that unanimous elections took place in many places in an unusual manner, how can he change his stand and continue the poll process with the old notification. The counsel urged the court to cancel the old notification and start the ZPTC and MPTC election process afresh. The SEC’s counsel argued the petition is not eligible as the election process has already started. The matter will be heard again Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/court-hears-jana-senas-pil/articleshow/81195826.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||SC: Place fresh charge sheet on record in Palghar case||New Delhi: Supreme Court on Wednesday asked Maharashtra police to place on record the second supplementary charge sheet filed in the case related to the alleged lynching of three people, including two seers, in Palghar district in April 2020. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy was informed by the counsel for the Maharashtra government that a second supplementary charge sheet has been filed in the case. The bench said the fresh charge sheet shall be placed before it on record in two weeks and posted the matter for further hearing thereafter. On September 7 last year, state police had informed the top court that it has punished “delinquent” policemen for dereliction of duty in the case. The top court on August 6 last year had asked state police to apprise it of the inquiry and action taken against the errant police personnel in the case. Police had said 18 police personnel have been awarded varying punishments and some dismissed from service or retired. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sc-place-fresh-charge-sheet-on-record-in-palghar-case/articleshow/81198540.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar second in tobacco tax violations||PATNA: As per a report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, Bihar had the second-highest number of tobacco tax violations after Uttar Pradesh, which topped the list. The maximum tax evasion from tobacco industries has been observed in two big cities of the state, Patna and Muzaffarpur, and the companies associated with this industry use different ways such as a short levy on products, illicit trade practices and non-payment of taxes. Several loopholes related to illicit tobacco trade were stated in a report released by the Bihar Institute of Economic studies with Research Action for Tobacco Control (REACT) on Central Excise Day on Wednesday in Patna. The data was taken from CAG (2009-2018), Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (2018-20), Central Board of Indirect Tax and Customs (2020) and Parliament Reports (2017-2020). The CAG report further stated that pan masala, gutka, kattha and supari were the most illegally traded products across the country, involving transactions worth nearly Rs 234 crore. This is followed by tobacco worth Rs 87.19 crore, zarda Rs 41.68 crore, cigarette Rs 22.62 crore and bidi Rs 4.61 crore. Focussing on Bihar, it was found that tax evasion of over Rs 97 crore was reported against tobacco companies as per a government record. It stated that interstate borders were a major route of illicit trade of tobacco, especially illicit cigarettes. Also, most of the illicit cigarettes were seized at Pataliputra railway station. In the report, experts stressed the need for strengthening the surveillance system, strict enforcement of GST laws and heavy penalties, strong intelligence gathering, tax cases against tobacco companies to be fast-tracked and vendor licensing of tobacco products to be implemented. This report was jointly released by Patna University former dean (faculty of social science) Nawal Kishore Choudhary, REACT director Pyare Lal, SEEDS executive director Deepak Mishra and Sandeep Pandey from ADRI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-second-in-tobacco-tax-violations/articleshow/81196036.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 33 get jobs on compassionate grounds in PPU||PATNA: The Patliputra University (PPU) compassionate ground appointment committee headed by its chairman PPU acting VC Prof Surendra Pratap Singh approved the appointment of 33 applicants at the meeting held at the university headquarters here on Wednesday. The compassionate ground appointment was long pending at the university. Speaking on the occasion, acting V-C Prof Singh said several cases were pending for about six to seven years even before PPU was established. However, after the bifurcation of Magadh University in March 2018, these cases related to the present PPU colleges were transferred from MU to PPU. "It is a great relief that PPU has finally disposed of the long-pending cases and their appointments on compassionate ground will not only fill vacant posts but will increase the strength of the depleted staff of the university and colleges also," he said. "The university set up a compassionate ground appointment committee, which scrutinized all applications thoroughly. The committee finalized the process in consultation with the state government and education department representatives to maintain transparency in the appointment process," PPU media incharge B K Manglam said. According to Manglam, PPU registrar Jitendra Kumar handed over appointment letters to 33 candidates out of whom seven were women. While the College of Commerce, Arts and Science and Kisan College at Sohsarai were given four postings each, the M M College at Bikram, R R S College, Mokama, SGGS College, Patna City and S M D College, Punpun was given three appointments each, Mangalam said. Two applicants each got posting at BD College, Patna, Nalanda College, Biharsharif and R K D College, Kankarbagh in Patna on the occasion, he added. Besides, the university handed over appointment letters to one candidate each of ANS College, Barh, B S College, Danapur, G J College, Bihta, M D College, Naubatpur, Nalanda Mahila College, Biharsharif and R L S Y College, Bakhtiarpur. Expressing great relief Saumaya Kriti and Sashi Ranjan Choudhary, both from BD College, Patna, said their fathers who taught at the economics and political science department of BD College had died prematurely leaving their families in dire needs. Other successful applicants echoing similar views said better late than never.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/33-get-jobs-on-compassionate-grounds-in-ppu/articleshow/81196144.cms||Kumod Verma
February 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Action plan for beautification of Bhagalpur discussed||BHAGALPUR: A meeting of the advisory committee of Bhagalpur Smart City Limited (BSCL) was held here on Tuesday which deliberated on several issues related to the beautification of the town area. BSCL CEO Sanjeet Kumar Pandey said that action plan for several issues were discussed at the advisory committee meeting which included beautification of Bhairwa pond near Tilkamanjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU). “Members also suggested to introduce boat ride facility in the pond, construction of jogging track alongside the pond, installation of high mast tower lights, fountain etc,” Pandey added. Other issues taken up included development of ‘Jan Suvidha Kendra’ under the BMC area, smart construction of roads in and around Bhagalpur airport areas, multi-level parking besides underground parking facilities at Teachers’ Training College compound near Ghanta Ghar Chowk, Tilkamanjhi Chowk etc, development of Barari Ghat, renovation of Lalit Bhavan, Sharda Sangeet Sadan near Town Hall etc. The advisory committee also discussed the progress related to integrated command and control center (ICCC) building besides making a financial bid for construction of 100-bed night shelter home at Mayaganj, automatic traffic signals at roundabouts, selection of five schools–Zila School, Mokshada School, Zila Girls School, Saro-Sahnu School and Sharda Jhunjhun Vidayalaya--for renovation and introduction of information technology cell and installation of CCTVs in classes. Another issue discussed was the inclusion of Bhagalpur railway station areas under the area-based development (ABD) by expanding the ABD jurisdiction, which is spread in 699 acres from ward numbers 18 to 23 of Bhagalpur Municipal Corporation (BMC). “ABD is an innovative approach towards sustainable development and growth by targeting defined geographical areas in regions, which are characterized by a set of common development problems,” said a BSCL official.  Bhagalpur was selected under the ‘Smart Cities Mission’in the second list for smart cities released in May 2016. Those who participated in the meeting included BMC Mayor Seema Saha, BMC commissioner-cum-managing director Prafulla Chandra Yadav, deputy commissioner Satyendra Prasad Verma, BSCL CEO Sanjeet Kumar Pandey, former deputy mayor Preeti Shekhar, Bhagalpur College of Engineering principal Dr Shashank Shekhar, members of Eastern Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/action-plan-for-beautification-of-bhagalpur-discussed/articleshow/81195914.cms||Kumar Rajesh
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Kuldeep Yadav’s brother shot||AHMEDABAD: The brother of Kuldeep Yadav, a Chandkheda resident who has been languishing in a Pakistani jail since 1994 on charges of being an Indian spy, was allegedly shot by his sister’s former lover over an old dispute. Sanjay Yadav, a 47-year-old resident of Jantangar locality, told police that he had been shot by Jitendra Sharma, a resident of Delhi. Sanjay’s elder sister Rekha, who has been constantly fighting to bring their brother back to India, had joined the BSF in 2018. In his FIR, Sanjay, who works with a security firm, said: “Around four years ago, we rented a room in our house to Sharma, who was a friend of our relative. Sharma was working with a plywood firm then. After some time, he fell in love with Rekha.” He said, “When my family got to know of their relationship around three years ago, we evicted Sharma from the house. We have no information about him since.” On Wednesday morning, when Sanjay was riding his bicycle to work, he saw Sharma walking towards him. “Sharma came closer, took out a countrymade revolver and fired at me. I tried to dodge but one of the sub-projectiles hit my left thumb while another hit my stomach,” he said. The 47-year-old said that he tried to grab Sanjay, but he managed to flee. Sanjay then called his elder brother Dilip who told him to call the police. Chandkheda police have registered a complaint of attempted murder with charges of Arms act and Gujarat police act against Sharma, who is on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kuldeep-yadavs-brother-shot/articleshow/81199086.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Business||Centre lifts embargo on private banks for government business||MUMBAI: The Centre on Wednesday announced that it has lifted the embargo on private sector banks for the conduct of government-related banking transactions, such as taxes and other revenue payment facilities, pension payments, and small savings schemes. Although a few big lenders like ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank already get a share of the government business, the Centre saw this as a sign that they would get more. Shares of private banks gained sharply following this announcement. HDFC Bank gained 5%, Axis Bank rose 4.6%, and ICICI Bank 4.4%. “This step is expected to further enhance customer convenience, spur competition and higher efficiency in the standards of customer services. Private sector banks, which are at the forefront of imbibing and implementing latest technology and innovation in banking, will now be equal partners in development of the Indian economy and in furthering the social sector initiatives of the government,” the Centre said in a press statement. It added that there is now no bar on the RBI for authorisation of private sector banks (in addition to public sector banks) for government business, including government agency business. Speaking to TOI, a senior banker said that the main revenue was the fee-based business from the government. Bulk of the government’s float money is with the State Bank of India, which is unlikely to lose its premium position as banker to the government as it offers treasury services in places where the government does not have infrastructure. Bank unions pointed out that private banks are susceptible to failure. Incidentally, last year the Maharashtra government decided to shift all its deposits to public sector banks from private banks after the Yes Bank collapse. “Does it mean that in the eventuality of its (private bank’s) collapse, government will come to their rescue or will insure the amount over and above Rs 5 lakh which the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) guarantees?” asked Devidas Tuljapurkar, general secretary, Maharashtra State Bank Employees Federation. “Hope now the government will entrust the share in all government initiatives such as Jan Dhan, MUDRA, Swadhan or crop loan to those private sector banks,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-lifts-embargo-on-pvt-banks-for-govt-biz/articleshow/81198970.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: School shuts down after teacher contracts Covid-19; 28 students to get tested today||KOLKATA: A government-aided school in Kasba had to be closed on Tuesday after a teacher tested Covid positive. Kasba Chittaranjan High School will send 28 students who had attended the classes of the teacher to a government hospital for test on Thursday. The school education department has made all the necessary arrangements. But some of the parents have expressed their desire to get their wards tested at a different medical lab. However, teachers are not on the list for those who have to be tested. Education minister Partha Chatterjee said, “I have instructed Kartick Manna — chairman of DPSC — to sanitize the campus. The school will remain closed till further orders. Also, I have requested the school education department to issue a circular among all schools, asking them to strictly follow the security and safety measures laid down by the government.” The school has issued a notice to inform the guardians. On Wednesday, school headmaster Anindya Chatterjee also met the parents and teachers. The Covid-positive teacher had taught students of classes XI and XII up to Monday. Until then, she did not complain of any symptoms. On Tuesday, she informed Chatterjee that she was suffering from fever. “Since the teacher has a child and a senior citizen at home, she immediately went for testing. Unfortunately, the report turned out to be positive. When she sent us the message, we contacted the school education department. All measures have been put in place and our classes have been suspended till further orders from Tuesday,” said Chatterjee. He added that the school has conducted thorough sanitization of its campus. “We informed the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) about the case according to the instructions from the department. The KMC workers arrived on Wednesday morning and meticulously disinfected and sanitized the campus. On Wednesday, I sent the list of students who are yet to show any symptom to the department,” the headmaster said. The teacher was present in the school on Monday between 10.30am and 3pm. There are, however, conflicting reports about the teacher attending class. “We have heard that she visited the school last week. But we are probing the matter as we need to know if the school was following the Covid protocol,” said a school education department official. Since reopening the physical classes, the school has maintained the SOPs which had been distributed by the state government. “We have sanitized the school premises and will repeat the exercise after two weeks depending on the necessity when the school reopens,” a KMC solid waste management department official said. “We are keeping vigil over the school and have advised that it stay shut for some days to prevent the spread among the students. We will also arrange for Covid test of teachers and students who came in close contact with the infected teacher,” a civic health department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/school-shuts-down-after-teacher-contracts-covid-19-28-students-to-get-tested-today/articleshow/81196573.cms||Somdatta Basu
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Two arrested after gunfight in Noida||Noida: Two men allegedly involved in multiple cases of phone snatching in Delhi-NCR were held after a gunfight with police in Noida on Thursday. Additional DCP Ranvijay Singh said the encounter broke out in the morning near Gijhod village under Sector 24 police station. One of the accused was held after he got injured in retaliatory firing by police, while another was nabbed during a combing operation, he said. “The duo was on a scooter when they were intercepted for checking. Instead of stopping, they sped away. An alert was issued to all police posts nearby and the duo surrounded near Gijhod village, after which the accused opened fire on the police party,” Singh said. “One of them, Rishabh Dayal, got injured and was held. The other, Chhotu, had escaped from the spot but was held during a combing operation,” he said. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-arrested-after-gunfight-in-noida/articleshow/81217656.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||N corpn officials get 10 days to give info on weekly mkts||New Delhi: After the issue of nuisance created by weekly markets/tehbazaris by occupying more than the permissible space, shifting locations, etc was raised by members of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation standing committee, the chairman gave 10 days to the zonal commissioners to submit a detailed report in this regard. The zonal commissioners of the six zones were also asked to submit details of changes in locations of the weekly markets, their numbers, etc in the past four years in the next meeting. “We might conduct a random visit to the markets,” said standing committee chairman Chhail Bihari. The leader of the House said the number of weekly markets officially registered was fewer than those actually being set up. Also, permission slips were being issued to a large number of vendors. He sought details about days of weekly markets, revenue earned and the target of yearly revenue. Officially, there are 106 weekly markets organised in all six zones on seven days, including eight in City-Sadar Paharganj, 11 in Karol Bagh, 16 in Keshavpuram, 10 in Civil lines, 38 in Rohini, and 23 in Narela. Officials said Rs 15 per day was charged from vendors putting up stalls in colonies under category A-D and Rs 10 for E-H since January 2010. Vipin Malhotra, councillor from Moti Nagar, said there were many instances of slips of Rs 10 being issued to vendors, but Rs 100 being collected from them. “It is important to earmark their boundaries, streamline issuing of slips and keep records properly,” said Tilak Raj Kataria, a member of the standing committee. AAP councillors argued that the system was on for 14 years, but it took the BJP-led corporation a long time to take action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-officials-get-10-days-to-give-info-on-weekly-mkts/articleshow/81198551.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 25, 2021||Bareilly||HC to hear contempt plea against railways’ plan to run tourist train through Dudhwa Tiger Reserve||Pilibhit: The railways’ plan to run a tourist train -- equipped with advanced Vistadome coaches offering 180-degree view-- in the core area of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) appears to have run into rough weather as Allahabad high court has accepted a contempt petition against it, while the state's forest department has said it hasn't been told about the move which it said is an "infringement of the set norms". The petitioner has said that during the hearing of a PIL filed by him in 2018 on the same issue, the then principal secretary of forest in UP, Kalpana Awasthi, had filed an affidavit in the high court asserting that “no activity is being visualized in future in the form of heritage train/toy train as adventure or tourist programme.”The Lucknow bench, comprising justices Shabihul Hasnain and Chandra Dhari Singh, had observed on March 8, 2019, “Since statement has been made by a senior most officer, we do not find that any further orders in this regard are necessary.”On Monday, Lucknow-based wildlife activist, Kaushlendra Singh, filed the contempt petition. Singh said, “I was compelled to knock at the court’s door after the railway authorities announced a new plan of operating this sophisticated train from April onwards.”The government is planning to run the train on an old metre gauge track between Mailani and Nanpara, which cuts deep into the Dudhwa’s core portion. A passenger train used to run on the route before the lockdown, carrying locals of the area. The railways are already laying a broad gauge track circumventing the forest’s core area, which will take the load off the metre gauge line.But, earlier this month, divisional railway manager of North Eastern Railway (NER), Lucknow, Monica Agnihotri, had said, “Vistadome coaches will be used for Dudhwa national park tour.”Petitioner Singh said, “As a fresh plan to the same effect is an open defiance of the HC order as well as the retraction of the forest department from its own commitment filed on oath, the contempt petition had become inevitable to protect the wildlife from fatal accidents on the railway track.”The PIL in question had been filed in the high court in 2018 after the state forest authorities with the railways had decided to operate an air-conditioned heritage train in over 100-kilometer long stretch of core forest area. “The two departments had entered into an agreement that the broad gauge railway line will be laid outside the core forest area and the existing meter gauge track will be used for the operation of a heritage train instead of uprooting it. But after the principal secretary filed an affidavit in the high court saying that the plan of heritage train had been dropped, the matter had been put to an end,” the petitioner said.When asked about it, senior divisional manager of NER at Lucknow, Monica Agnihotri, confirmed to TOI that “the operation of the tourist train is expected to begin from April this year. It is awaited till the Vistadome coaches are made available to the division.”She said that the railway authorities were not required to seek any prior permission from the forest department for the said operation as the railway was the sole owner of the railway track.However, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) of UP, Pawan Kumar Sharma, said that the railway authorities had brought nothing to his notice about the development regarding the heritage train. “The department will abide by the order of the high court in this matter,” he asserted.“The operation of any tourist train by railway in core forest of Dudhwa and Katarnia Ghat wildlife sanctuary will also be deemed as the infringement of the National Tiger Conservation Authority’s guidelines which essentially requires its prior permission even if the 20% of the core forest area earmarked for the jungle safaris is modulated,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hc-to-hear-contempt-plea-against-railways-plan-to-run-tourist-train-through-dudhwa-tiger-reserve/articleshow/81194111.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 25, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra forest department to focus on fire mitigation in April||PUNE: Forest department officials said their main focus would be on preventing forest fires in the division by appointing nodal officers in every department and conducting an all stakeholders’ meeting. They have asked citizens to be vigilant and contact them if they detect a fire or any activity that can lead to a fire. Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forest, also spoke about the department’s focus on removing encroachments in forest land in the coming months. “The forest area within and outside the city is not completely under the forest department. For example, in Pune, parts of hills (tekdis) are owned by private parties and local administration. But when the fire starts, it is important to act in the golden hour, otherwise containing its spread becomes difficult. Hence, talks are on about appointing a nodal officer in each department to help coordinate with each other when a fire is reported,” said Patil. He further said a conference would soon be organised where stakeholders from all fields, such as the government, NGOs and citizens, will be called to discuss the best way to prevent fire. “During a fire, precious biodiversity is lost and cannot be retrieved. Here citizens can help by ensuring their activities don’t cause a fire,” said Patil. Talking about the crowd on Sinhagad fort and lack of medical assistance or traffic management, Patil said that they were working on a long term solution to the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/forest-department-to-focus-on-fire-mitigation-in-april/articleshow/81198490.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Man steals Rs 1.5 lakh left at railway station, footprints he left at shop nail him||MUMBAI: An electronics professional has been arrested for allegedly stealing cash lying in a bag that a businessman had forgotten at Grant Road railway station recently. The accused, Sharad Rupnar, was nabbed after the railway police tracked him down by following a backward trail and nabbed him in 12 hours. On February 13, businessman Shankar Patel was carrying Rs 1.5 lakh. Around 7pm, Patel sat on a bench at the station with the bag beside him. In his hurry to board a train, he left the bag. It was only beyond Dadar that he realised it. He got off at Bandra and returned, but by then the bag had disappeared. He then lodged a complaint. After checking CCTV footage, the police found that the bag had been on the bench for some time. “A woman sat there and checked the bag but did not take it. Later a man in his thirties sat on the bench,” said senior inspector Pradeep Salunke of Government Railway Police at Churchgate. “As he got up, the bag vanished.” The railway police followed the trail of surveillance footage backwards and found that the man had reached the platform from a foot over-bridge that leads to Lamington Road. After visiting about two dozen shops in the area and checking CCTV footage of the shops, they found out that he had visited an electronics shop. Rupnar had picked up part of the supplies required for a work project. “We posted our men at the shop. When his work partner arrived to pick up the remaining supplies, we enquired with ed him. He led us to the suspect at Bandra,” said Salunke. “The cash was recovered from him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-steals-rs-1-5l-left-at-rly-stn-footprints-he-left-at-shop-nail-him/articleshow/81198498.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 25, 2021||Trichy||BDU to conduct varsity rank exam||Trichy: Bharathidasan University(BDU) will conduct the university rank examination (URE) for top-ranking undergraduate and postgraduate students in autonomous and non-autonomous colleges affiliated to BDU. The URE is scheduled to be held on March 13 for the post graduate students and on the next day undergraduate students. The first rank holders in each undergraduate program of autonomous colleges and the top 20 rank holders in each discipline in the non-autonomous colleges are eligible to participate in the exam. The candidates should have passed their examinations without arrears. The URE consists of two question papers with objective type questions, covering core subjects in each of the disciplines followed by both autonomous and non-autonomous streams and also those programmes which are offered in more than one autonomous college. The application form should be duly filled in by the toppers and signed by the principal and sent to the controller of examinations, Bharathidasan Universitiy, on or before March 1. S Srinivasaragavan, controller of examination, BDU, said that second and third rank holders from autonomous college can also appear for URE provided they obtain no objection certificates from the college and those who have secured ranks above them. The students clearing the exam will be awarded gold medals. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-to-conduct-varsity-rank-exam/articleshow/81199706.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Trichy||BDU student bags Unesco fellowship||Trichy: A student of Bharathidasan University (BDU) has bagged a fellowship from the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco) to work on reframing education system globally by identifying the shortcomings. Sushmita Krishnan, 22 who pursues integrated M Sc life sciences was among the six-youth selected globally for writing a policy brief together on education. They will work in consultation with the policymakers and officials of Unesco. It will be submitted to Unesco headquarters in November this year. Sushmita was part of a global dialogue titled ‘Talking across generations on education’ (TAGe) in September last year organized by Mahatma Gandhi Institute for Education and Peace (MGIEP) – a category 1 research institute of Unesco. Sushmita was among three candidates from India to be selected for TAGe fellowship to work closely working with the Unesco MGIEP officials and the senior policymakers to vet a policy brief titled ‘reimagining education’ Stressing on making education to be a joyful experience to face the 21st-century challenges, Sushmita emphasized the need for youth to rethink education from the perspectives of emotional resilience and mental wellness. Sushmita, an aspiring ecologist said that she was motivated to study what makes her happy and joined life sciences. But the same is not the case with everyone. “There are people focusing only on academics and they don’t find joy in what they do. One should be happy to study and learn. But they are doing it for the sake of earning, getting marks, passing and getting degrees. We are revolving around fixed things predefined by a university or education board which has to change,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-student-bags-unesco-fellowship/articleshow/81199710.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Goa||BBSM to highlight govt U-turns||Panaji: Bharatiya Bhasha Suraksha Manch (BBSM) has planned a massive public meeting on March 14 to raise awareness about the U-turns of the BJP government in the state, former Goa RSS chief Subhash Velingkar said. One thousand workers of the political party will participate in the meet, he said. “On the day, 1,000 karyakartas from all units across the state of BBSM will participate in a maha melava. All 19 units are carrying out meetings till February 28 to prepare for the maha melava. From April, we will hold awareness programmes in every village in the start,” said Velingkar. He said chief minister Pramod Sawant has been curiously silent over the provisions of the new National Education Policy which recommends that education in the mother tongue be practiced at the primary school level. Velingkar said the Bhaskar Nayak committee’s recommendations have also been trashed by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bbsm-to-highlight-govt-u-turns/articleshow/81198532.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chennai||Construction equipment industry picks up speed on exports||CHENNAI: The $6.5 billion construction equipment industry in India sees an export as the new BS4 emission standards have opened up opportunities to tap developed markets like North America, Europe and UK. Said Sandeep Singh, MD Tata Hitachi and president of Indian Construction Equipment Manufacturers Association (ICEMA): "So far we were selling Tier 2-3 machines in India but with BS4 which is equivalent to BS6 of the auto industry, a number of developed markets will open up for us. We can now look beyond the Middle East and Africa to Europe, North America and the UK in terms of export opportunities." Indian companies -- both local and MNC -- have so far been exporting 12-13% of their produce but that is now set to change. Export of CE machines and components hit a high of Rs 5,300 crore in FY18-19 but fell sharply to Rs 3583 crore in FY19-20 on global cues shows data from ICEMA. Now CE companies are planning to ramp up export of both machines and parts even as domestic demand picks up. Take JCB. According to CEO & MD Deepak Shetty, the company is constructing a Rs 600-700 crore factory in Vadodara focussed on export including components to UK, US and Brazil. "We already export machines to 110 countries and have exported 60,000 mt tonne fabricated components from our Pune facility," he said. "We will also start exporting engines and transmissions to UK, US and Brazil." Alongwith Europe, India is the largest market for JCB. Others like Schwing Stetter are also planning to tap into the export pick up. Said V G Sakthikumar, MD, Schwing Stetter India: "After 2012 exports fell sharply due to global cues but now we are exporting to North and South America, West and East Europe, Asean and Africa." The company which is setting up its new Rs 300 crore factory in Cheyyar in Tamil Nadu is also putting in place an R&D centre there to focus more on exports. "There are some global changes happening which is aiding exports from India," said Sakthikumar. "Earlier Turkey used to dominate the Gulf but now India controls that market." The Indian CE market has been hobbled by the fact that the bigger machines are imported from China, Korea and Japan. And many of the lighter machines popular in India like backhoe loaders do not sell anywhere else, said Singh. But with focus on developed markets and the shift in emission standards that will change he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/export-a-new-opportunity-for-construction-equipment-industry/articleshow/81198545.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to set up cyber crime units at district level||CHANDIGARH: Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta on Wednesday said the state police would recruit around 200 cyber crime and digital forensic experts and establish cyber crime units in all 22 districts of the state to curb such incidents. “Amid the Covid-19, we are living more of our lives in the cyber world and many people using online banking and students attending online classes still are not aware about the term cyber crime,” he said while addressing the concluding ceremony of Cyber Surakhya — an online awareness campaign via webinar. The three-month cyber awareness campaign was the joint initiative of the Punjab Police and Cyber Peace Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/state-to-set-up-cyber-crime-units-at-dist-level/articleshow/81196755.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Provide CCTV footage of Feb 19 to SIT, court complex in-charge told||BATHINDA: Taking up the application moved by the special investigation team (SIT) investigating Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan cases for obtaining February 19 CCTV footage of the court premises, the court of Faridkot district and session judge Sumeet Malhotra on Wednesday directed the district court complex in-charge to provide the same to the investigators. The SIT on Tuesday had filed application praying to collect the CCTV footage of February 19 when suspended IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal and other accused had appeared for court hearing. It was stated in the application that many unidentified persons had accompanied Umranangal that day aiming to put pressure on witnesses and the SIT members. The SIT, however, took back the portion of the application wherein it had prayed to the court to take action against those unidentified persons, who accompanied the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/provide-cctv-footage-of-feb-19-to-sit-court-complex-in-charge-told/articleshow/81196747.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra plans survey of out-of-school students up to age 18 from March 1||PUNE: The state education department will join social justice, woman and child development and public health departments to survey out-of-school children in the age group of 3-18 in the state from March 1 to 10. Migration of families is a major reason for children not being enrolled in schools which have remained closed for months due to the pandemic. The rising rate of child labour and child marriage due to jobs and social insecurity and fear in the minds of parents are other challenges. The search will be conducted in every village and town as well as in the surrounding areas, crowded settlements, railway stations, bus stands, rural markets, huts, out-of-town tents, brick kilns, stone quarries, large constructions, migrant families, huts, sidewalks, selling flowers and other items on signals/trains and on the streets, begging children, folk artisans, temporary shelters, nomadic tribes, child labourers. Committees at all levels should make arrangements so that supervisory officers, teachers of all schools, anganwadi workers, helpers and other government department staff can reach out to all these places and search for out-of-school children and take them to school. Those from children’s homes, observation homes and special adoption institutions under Women Child Development would also be included in this campaign. The search should be completed at all levels, the colony, settlement, village, ward, taluka and district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-plans-survey-of-out-of-school-students-up-to-age-18-from-march-1/articleshow/81198525.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 25, 2021||Goa||CM galvanises karyakartas, promises more devpt funds||Margao: In a pep talk to party workers at Margao on Wednesday, chief minister Pramod Sawant assured to bring in all the required funds from the Centre to turn Goa’s urban areas into smart cities if all the municipal councils are brought under BJP’s sway during the forthcoming civic polls. “When all the urban bodies elsewhere in the country are ruled by BJP, why should Goa be any exception? Winning the municipal elections will be our gift to Prime Minister Narendra Modiji. This will also ensure a much faster pace of development for the state,” Sawant said, or words to that effect, while addressing party workers in a closed-door meeting at the BJP office. With specific reference to the Margao municipality, Sawant exhorted party workers to work unitedly to bring the council under its belt. “Once we win the municipality elections in Margao, all other issues of the city will get resolved,” he is learnt to have told party workers. For the last three terms, BJP has remained out of power in the Margao municipality. He said that apart from the Rs 300 crore already assured by the Centre for Goa, Sawant said that during his talks with the Centre, he has been assured of providing all the necessary financial support for the development of the state’s cities. He spoke about the possibility of bringing up to Rs 1,000 crore from the Centre for the development of the state if BJP is able to win the municipal polls. Speaking to reporters, Sawant, in a reply to a query over the opposition to the proposed police quarters at Curtorim, said that an appropriate decision in the matter will be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-galvanises-karyakartas-promises-more-devpt-funds/articleshow/81198564.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Woman dies after falling off auto||New Delhi: A 20-year-old woman mysteriously died after falling off an autorickshaw she was travelling in near Sarai Kale Khan on Thursday evening. Police said her boyfriend, who was also with her in the vehicle, had slapped her multiple times following a fight before the incident. According to police, information was received around 6.30 pm regarding a woman being brought dead at a hospital. The deceased, Paramjeet Kaur (20), was pursuing a beautician course. The body was later shifted to AIIMS. During inquiry, it was found that Kaur was having an affair with Hritik (21). “Kaur went to see Hritik at a park near Ashram Chowk and then went to a PG for a short stay. Later, both had altercation when they were about to board an auto near Ashram Chowk. The couple fought over, Siddharth, her ex-boyfriend, who also arrived at the spot. Later Hritik slapped her several times,” said RP Meena, DCP (South-East). Meena added that the victim threw her mobile phone out of the auto while they were on their way. “They then got out to pick up the phone and continued their journey. Later, when the auto reached NH24 flyover, the woman fell out of the vehicle, as told by auto driver Shamshul Ali and Hritik. Both Hritik and Siddharth, who was following the couple, admitted Kaur to a hospital in Pandav Nagar. Legal action is being taken. Both the men are being questioned to ascertain the sequence of events,” added Meena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-dies-after-falling-off-auto/articleshow/81217771.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cricketing spirit beats covid hands down||Ahmedabad: The two tier mammoth cricket stadium at Motera with its bright orange seats was the preferred choice for most spectators who came to watch the 3rd cricket Test match between India and England on Wednesday. The usual traffic jams ahead of the entry was missing this time after the elaborate security arrangements now mandates spectators to walk almost 1.2 km to reach the stadium. “This time because of the security arrangement, it did not make sense to bring our vehicles to the venue,” says Prathik Tank, a second year BSc student. Another spirited spectator, Bhagwan Rabari, came in the traditional Gujarat attire. “I thought of watching the match in my traditional attire. Since the match is in Gujarat let the world know what we wear,” he said. I am a Virat Kohli fan and I came here to watch him play. In fact, had the Test match been right in the middle of my annual exams, I would have come here for a few hours to watch Virat play then too. Covid was not a dampner for me as I am taking adequate precautions Kavi Shah | Student I recently sustained injuries while working on a project, but I could not resist coming to the stadium to watch this match. I am a die-hard cricket fan. How can anyone miss such an opportunity when some of the world’s best teams are playing in your city Dinesh Patel | Electrical shop owner There are restrictions in UK owing to the Covid pandemic. We feel safer here. We could not have missed this opportunity so we flew down to watch the Test match. In fact, we have already booked our tickets for the New Zealand-England match as well Parthiv Patel & Nilay Patel | Students from UK||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cricketing-spirit-beats-covid-hands-down/articleshow/81198663.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Goa||‘Assembly coinciding with Holy Wk, postpone it’||Margao/Panaji: Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat and Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai on Wednesday expressed their disapproval over the assembly session that has been convened from March 24 to April 12, coinciding with the Holy Week of the Christian community, with one of the working days falling on Maundy Thursday. “Goa is known for communal harmony and respecting all religions. BJP must learn to respect all religions,” Kamat said in a press note. Alleging that the BJP government had “once again shown its insensitivity towards the people of Goa”, Kamat said, “It is the duty of every government to work towards maintaining communal harmony and sentiments of every religion.” Kamat further said that as there were eight holidays during the schedule of the session, effectively only twelve days of legislature business will take place during the period. “Congress party had consistently demanded that a full-fledged session of 21 days needs to be convened wherein the opposition should get enough time to raise issues concerning the people of Goa. It is now evident that the BJP government wants to suppress the voice of the people.” Sardesai said that just like the “mischievous Good Governance Day” and the BJP’s “apathy towards beef scarcity”, the latest development was yet another “cunning and premeditated attempt” to hurt Catholic sentiments and “endear itself to the BJP” top brass. He demanded that the budget session be postponed and be held after Holy Week and Easter festivities. Sardesai accused the chief minister and BJP of “trying to destroy the secular fabric of Goa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/assembly-coinciding-with-holy-wk-postpone-it/articleshow/81198584.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Bareilly||Girl, 11, charred to death as fire engulfed five thatched houses||Bareilly: An 11-year-old girl was charred to death in a midnight fire that gutted five thatched houses in Gunara village of Jalalabad tehsil in Shahjahanpur district on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The girl — Raina — was sleeping on the floor when the fire engulfed her house and all her family members got busy dousing the fire and forgot Raina, who got trapped inside the burning house, said her family. Villagers made every possible effort to put out the fire but it turned into ashes the five thatched houses and all belongings, said locals, adding that a spark in the overhead electric wires resulted in the fire. A team of revenue officials, meanwhile, visited the village and assured the victims of compensation. Jalalabad police station SHO Jasveer Singh said, “Five thatched houses gutted and a minor girl died in the fire. A fire fighting team rushed to the spot, but it was too late and the girl couldn’t be rescued. We have sent the body for autopsy. The family has been assured of compensation under the state disaster fund.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-11-charred-to-death-as-fire-engulfed-five-thatched-houses/articleshow/81194126.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 25, 2021||Nagpur||16-year-old pregnant afterbeing raped; accused held||A 31-year-old man has been arrested on the charges of raping and impregnating a 16-year-old girl in Mouda town of Nagpur district, police said on Wednesday. The girl’s father had lodged a police complaint against the man, following which Vishal Meshram was arrested on Wednesday, Mouda police said. Five months ago, the accused Meshram, who works in a cement factory, had forcefully entered into the minor’s house, tied her with ropes and raped her after threatening to kill her, the police said, citing the complaint. Recently, the girl developed some complications related to her health. When she was admitted to a nearby private hospital, where doctors conducted her medical examination and found her pregnant. Later, the victim’s family approached the police and filed an FIR against Meshram. The police have arrested him and obtained his two-day custody from the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/16-year-old-pregnant-afterbeing-raped-accused-held/articleshow/81195573.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Transport, de-silting agencies lined up for tree-trimming, scrap tender: BJP||MUMBAI: The BMC has shortlisted 24 de-silting and transport agencies that do not have any tree experts for tree-trimming contracts, said the opposition BJP and demanded that the tenders be scrapped as such organisations would end up harming the green cover of the city and jeopardising lives. BMC officials admitted the contractors have offered to do the work for 40% less than its estimated cost of Rs 62 crore a year, raising suspicions about shoddy execution. Times ViewTree-trimming is important to prevent tree falls which could imperil lives, but it must be ensured trees are not hacked under the pretext of trimming, as we have seen in so many cases. For the pruning to be scientific and professional, the BMC must engage experienced agencies and not transport contractors, as it does often. As another level of check, the presence of an arborist or horticulturist on the work site is a must.BJP alleged that with no arborist or tree expert, these tree-trimmers turn into tree-hackers. “The contractors go about hacking trees, claiming to trim them without any expertise or scientific method. Perfectly fit trees are hacked to death and wood is sold by the contractors; many dangerous trees are left behind, whose branches fall even after BMC claims to have completed trimming. It should be made mandatory to have an arborist or horticulturist on the site before every trimming,” corporator Vinod Mishra, BJP party leader in the BMC, has written to additional municipal commissioner Ashwini Bhide, seeking scrapping of the tenders. An arborist on board was included as a special condition in the tender this time, and not a must. A senior civic official pointed out that in 2019, tenders had mandated that each contractor must have an arborist on board. But the clause was withdrawn as very few qualified arborists are available in the city. “We had floated seven tenders for seven zones. We will appoint 24 contractors, one contractor for each ward. However, the tenders have not been finalised yet,” the official added. “All 24 contractors are either transport companies or de-silting contractors... Not a single one has any arborist or botanist who can scientifically identify weak branches and dead trees,” Mishra said in his letter. Jitendra Pardeshi, BMC’s superintendent of gardens, was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/transport-de-silting-agencies-lined-up-for-tree-trimming-scrap-tender-bjp/articleshow/81198608.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 25, 2021||Chennai||Indian arm of Mexican co buys Modern Foods||Chennai: Modern Foods, the company behind the iconic bread and bakery brand ‘Modern’ breads — is changing hands once again. Singapore-based private equity firm Everstone Capital has sold Modern Foods to Mexico’s Grupo Bimbo and its Indian subsidiary Ready Roti India. The financial details of the deal were not disclosed. Grupo Bimbo, the world’s largest baking company, operates in 33 countries, including India, and has a portfolio of over 13,000 products and more than 100 brands. Everstone, through its bread and bakery platform Everfoods Asia, acquired Modern from Hindustan Unilever (HUL) in 2016 and gave the brand a face lift, relaunching it in 2017. Modern Foods, established in 1965, was the company to sell branded bread in the country. It later became first PSU to be sold under the government’s disinvestment programme. In 2000, HUL (the erstwhile Hindustan Lever) had acquired the government’s 74% stake for Rs 105 crore. The objective behind this acquisition was to bolster its foods portfolio. After three years, this was followed by HUL acquiring the balance government stake for Rs 44 crore. With 14 production units across the country then, Modern was a popular brand. Bread, a low-entry product, did face its own share of competition from healthier options on the breakfast table. However, even after HUL invested in the business and turned it around while also enhancing its productivity, Modern no longer fitted with HUL’s food portfolio growth strategy. HUL then decided to sell the business in 2015. “We are a private equity investment firm and our business is to create substantial value in our portfolio companies, lead them into the next phase of growth and eventually find them another home where they will prosper further. Grupo Bimbo, being the largest baking company in the world, ticked all the boxes for us and we wish Modern a flourishing future,” Everstone Capital Asia managing director Roshini Bakshi said on Wednesday. When Everstone acquired the brand from HUL, it reportedly had a turnover of around Rs 250 crore. It was acquired at the same price as the turnover, according to reports. On acquiring Modern, Everstone had set an audacious target of quadrupling its turnover to Rs 1,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/indian-arm-of-mexican-co-buys-modern-foods/articleshow/81198590.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Goa||Turf war erupts over mining transportation at Panchwadi||Margao/Ponda: Tension gripped Panchwadi Wednesday afternoon following clashes between rival groups of truck owners over issues concerning transportation of e-auctioned iron ore from Tollem mines in Sanguem to Capxem jetty at Panchwadi. While intervention of power minister Nilesh Cabral failed to calm frayed nerves on the road, a meeting called by sub-divisional magistrate, Ponda, Pradeep Naik, later in the evening, also failed to resolve the deadlock. Trouble began when locals prevented a number of mining trucks loaded with iron ore from Tollem mine from being unloaded at the Capxem unloading point, protesting the certain restriction imposed by the mining firm on taking tare weight of trucks at the weighbridges, which, they said, affected their business. “We are allowed to take tare weight of out trucks at Tollem only on Mondays. If we miss going there on Monday, our trucks stand to remain idle for the rest of the week. Our demand is that the tare weight of our trucks be taken every time before loading the vehicles,” a protestor explained, adding that the restriction prevented them from engaging their trucks for transportation at other mines in the mining belt. Sensing that the situation could go out of control, Cabral chose to intervene; however the protestors failed to see reason, prompting Cabral to make a retreat. At the meeting called at the office of the SDM Ponda later to resolve the impasse, only a single group of people from Digas-Panchawadi registered their presence. However, deputy collector Pradeep Naik directed the mining firms not to transport any ore until the issue is resolved. He also issued directions that the trucks loaded with ore be emptied at the unloading point immediately. Complying with the orders, the trucks were unloaded late evening. Sources said that the issue is a fallout of a turf war with locals objecting to truck owners from other villages from being engaged in mining transportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/turf-war-erupts-over-mining-transportation-at-panchwadi/articleshow/81198599.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||WPL 1090 to warn child porn viewers through pop-up alerts||Lucknow: After launching digital outreach programme — ‘Hamari Suraksha’ — to create awareness among 11 crore internet and social media users against child pornography, Women Power Line 1090 has now started pop-up warnings to those viewing child porn content through predictive analysis. The pop-ups will caution the user that viewing child pornography is a crime in India and downloading such content invites penal action and criminal proceedings under Information Technology Act. A senior official said some digital news platforms have written that a SMS will go to the user who browses child porn sites which is incorrect and misleading. “We will, at no point of time, breach the privacy of any individual,” he said. ADG, WPL 1090, Neera Rawat said the objective is to create a system of security and safety among women/girls both on real and virtual mediums. “All our initiatives are driven to create awareness and not to harass or breach privacy. We ensure all our actions are backed up in the legal framework,” she added. Anyone viewing child porn sites will find pop-ups warning that Section 67B of the IT Act entails punishment for publishing or transmitting material depicting children in sexually explicit act in electronic form is an offence, that is all, she said. This is just a part of the wide digital outreach security campaign for security and safety of women, girls and children, said Rawat. “We have also developed a dedicated cyber forensic lab where complaints relating to morphing photos of girls, women on social media are tackled by experts. Anyone can reach us if they face cyber bullying or are blackmailed or threatened after morphing their photos,” the ADG said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wpl-1090-to-warn-child-porn-viewers-through-pop-up-alerts/articleshow/81199652.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||HC raps state for delaying reply to PIL on violence||Mumbai: A bench of Chief Justice Deepankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni of Bombay high court on Wednesday came down on the state government for seeking more time to file a reply to a PIL. Advocate Nitin Deshpande told court government departments had not filed a reply to a PIL by Dr Rajeev Joshi for judicial intervention to curb violence against healthcare professionals and institutions. He submitted statistics that Maharashtra has maximum violence. He pointed out two cases in Maharashtra, of which one was in Hadapsar, Pune. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare sought two more weeks. The court said four months had passed since the earlier order, when the court said the matter was of seminal importance. It expressed displeasure and gave the state a last chance to file a reply or it would direct the state chief secretary to appear personally in court. HC posted the matter on March 10, while government must reply before March 6. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-raps-state-for-delaying-reply-to-pil-on-violence/articleshow/81198628.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Varanasi||Kingpin of railway e-ticket racket arrested||Gorakhpur: Basti police and RPF, in a joint operation, arrested the mastermind of a railway e-ticket racket, Hamid Ashraf, in Bengaluru and brought him on transit remand to Basti on Tuesday. He was then sent to Gonda jail. He is wanted in several cases in Basti and Gonda, informed Basti SP Hemraj Meena. Police recovered Rs 1,55,000, some cash in dirham worth Rs 1,76,000, an iphone of Rs 1,30,000 and an iwatch from his possession, said the SP. “Hamid was under pressure after the arrest of his father Zameerul Hasan.When the process of attachment of his property worth Rs 15 crore began in Kaptanganj area of Basti, and his gang members were arrested last year, he escaped to Dubai. When he returned to Bengaluru on February 16 this year, he was held during immigration. After getting information, a joint team of Basti police and RPF arrested him on February 17 in Bengaluru. On Tuesday, he was brought to Basti on transit remand,” said the SP. “We had earlier issued a lookout notice and application to cancel his passport. Our team and the railway teams of Gonda, Basti and Haraiya were working on the case,” he added. Hamid is native to Ramwapur village under Kaptanganj police station in Basti district. The CBI arrested him in 2016. However, after getting bail, he started an illegal trade of railway e-ticket through an illegal software, and had around 1,500 agents across country. He used to make Rs 1-1.5 crore per month. As of January, 2020, he had a property of around Rs 50 crore,” said SP Meena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kingpin-of-railway-e-ticket-racket-arrested/articleshow/81193864.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Kanpur||Unnao girl’s condition improves, statement recorded||Revised Kanpur:The statement of the 17-year-old Unnao girl was recorded under 164 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) before the magistrate on Tuesday in connection with the case wherein she and her two minor relatives —aged 15 and 14— were found in an unconscious state in an agriculture field in Unnao’s Babuhara village under Asoha police station area by the locals on February 17 night. The three were then rushed to hospital, where two of her relatives were declared brought dead. The 17-year-old girl was rushed to a district hospital in Unnao and later referred to a private hospital in the Kakadeo area of the city where she is undergoing treatment. Additional superintendent of police Unnao Vinod Kumar Pandey confirmed to TOI that the girl’s statement was recorded under 164 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) before the magistrate on Tuesday. The minor, in the last two days, had shown considerable progress and was put off the ventilator. The police officials said her statement was recorded only after the doctors at the private hospital, where the girl is undergoing treatment, confirmed that there was considerable improvement in her medical condition. A police official, requesting anonymity, said that the girl has disclosed that she had come in touch with the main accused Vinay Kumar alias Lambu, whose field was situated nearby, during the lockdown period. “On February 17, after purchasing ‘namkeen’ packets from a shop in the village, she along with her two minor relatives had gone to the field to collect fodder when Vinay accompanied by his friend approached her. After saying sorry to her, Vinay offered her a water bottle. Her minor sisters had consumed the water first. Later, they (minor sisters) gave the water bottle to her. However, as soon as she drank water from the bottle, she was knocked out of her senses. What happened thereafter, she could not recollect,” the officials further added. The girl also revealed that as the water filled from a nearby handpump by Vinay was already poor in taste, therefore they had no inkling that the water they were consuming could be mixed with poison. The water was also colourless. To recall, Vinay soon after his arrest had confessed that he wanted to kill the 17-year-old by making her drink water spiked with insecticide but the other two also drank from the same bottle and he couldn’t do much about it. According to police, families of three girls, who are related, and Vinay have farm land situated close by at Baburaha village. They developed friendship when all four started visiting their field more frequently during the lockdown period. However, Vinay in a one-sided affair had started getting inclined to the 17-year-old. On Valentine’s Day (Feb 14), Vinay had even approached her and asked for her phone number but she refused point-blank. After being spurned, he made a plot to kill the girl.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/unnao-girls-condition-improves-statement-recorded/articleshow/81196687.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Dog bites 11-yr-old boy inside Dwarka society, negligence case against owner||New Delhi: An 11-year-old boy has been bitten by a dog inside a residential apartment in Dwarka and a case of negligence has been registered against its owner. Police got a call on Monday that a boy had been attacked by Tyson, a German Shepherd, inside Bharat Vandana Apartments in Sector 19, Dwarka. A team reached the spot and the victim, Ritesh Gupta, was taken to a nearby hospital for medical examination. Doctors confirmed that Gupta had dog bite injuries, police said. He was discharged after treatment. The parents of the boy then filed a police complaint against the owner, alleging that the dog was not on a leash and attacked their son unprovoked when he was playing in a park inside the society. As he cried for help, many residents rushed to the spot and scared the dog away. Based on the complaint, a case was registered against the dog owner under IPC Section 289 that deals with negligent conduct with respect to animals, said a senior police officer. The cops are trying to find out the reason behind the attack, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dog-bites-11-yr-old-boy-inside-dwarka-society-negligence-case-against-owner/articleshow/81198611.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Imposter emails: Hrithik likely to be summoned||Mumbai: The criminal intelligence unit (CIU) of the crime branch is likely to issue summons to actor Hrithik Roshan to record his statement in his complaint against an unidentified imposter who had allegedly been emailing actress Kangana Ranaut through a bogus email ID. The FIR was registered with Oshiwara police in March 2016, but as there was no progress in the case, it was recently transferred to the CIU. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/imposter-emails-hrithik-likely-to-be-summoned/articleshow/81196816.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Goa||Sanvordem teenager to get national bravery award||Margao: Yash Prahar Sanvordekar, a teenager from Sanvordem, has been selected as one of the awardees for the Indian Council for Child Welfare (ICCW) National Bravery Award 2020. In view of the Covid-19 situation, the date of presentation of awards and the venue has yet not been finalised and will be communicated as soon as it is decided, ICCW said in its letter to Sanvordekar. In 2018, Sanvordekar had rescued a youth from getting drowned in a river at Pali when he was only 13 years of age, an act of bravery for which he was widely appreciated. A good swimmer, Sanvordekar had also won the Bal Vidnyan Puraskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanvordem-teenager-to-get-national-bravery-award/articleshow/81199739.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||6 daily wagers test Covid positive in Lucknow school; 330 others await result||LUCKNOW: In a massive contact tracing drive, samples of more than 330 employees including officers, teaching and non-teaching staff and a few students of a prominent inter college on Kalidas Marg were collected on Wednesday. District health officers tested them for Covid-19 through RT-PCR method. The exercise was carried out a day after six persons tested Covid-19 positive during random sampling in a camp held outside the college campus on Tuesday. Those found positive for the infection were four daily wagers working in a construction site on the college campus, an employee of the college’s hostel and his seven-year-old son. All were asymptomatic and have been asked to stay in home isolation. According to health officers, 110 people living and working in the area were tested through rapid antigen method in the camp on Tuesday. The camp was part of the ongoing targeted sampling drive to assess the prevalence of novel coronavirus infection among people employed in various professions including school employees. Of the total tested, six came back positive. Immediately, fresh samples of all the people were taken and sent for confirmatory tests through RT-PCR method to KGMU. While the result of the six who tested positive will come on Thursday, the remaining were found to be negative in RT-PCR test as well. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said that as precautionary measure, samples of 332 persons including all employees of the college— principal and teachers—and all 13 students in the hostel were taken on Wednesday for testing through RT-PCR method. The results will come on Thursday. “The college principal informed us that nobody on the campus has a travel history,” he said. “As the four daily wagers were residents of a colony in Aashiana, teams were sent to collect samples of their family members and neighbours for testing. The entire area will be sanitised,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, CMO office spokesperson. The CMO also said that there is no need to panic because those found positive had no direct contact with students. The health department has so far tested staff members of 15 schools, but barring this case, all were found to be negative. According to school officials, only classes 6-12 are being run on campus with full safety protocols and that too with 50% attendance on alternate days. The daily wagers who tested positive had no direct interaction with the main campus, hence there is no need to worry for parents. Besides, they added, classes are sanitized twice daily. The college principal said, “The RT-PCR test reports are awaited. CMO Lucknow and senior health officials were present during collection of samples on Wednesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/6-daily-wagers-test-covid-in-school-330-others-await-result/articleshow/81199639.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||1,200 crumbling school buildings in UP to be razed to avert tragedies||LUCKNOW: The UP government is all set to demolish nearly 1,200 dilapidated government primary and upper primary schools which face the ominous possibility of collapsing any time. While the government had identified over 8,000 such buildings running schools, the state and Centre have sanctioned funds for demolition of 1,194 buildings in the academic session 2020-21. The demolition, said basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi, will happen in phases. “These are rickety buildings which pose a threat to the safety of students. Next year too, we will seek funds from the Centre with matching grants from the state for demolition,” Dwivedi said. According to the list, 176 schools in Chandauli, 144 in Mirzapur and 104 in Banda will be demolished. After demolition, children will be shifted to new buildings which are either already constructed or are in the process of construction. “Some schools already have a new building but the dilapidated one still stands, which will be demolished,” said director general, school education, Vijay Kiran Anand. In February last year, the government had directed basic education officials to identify school buildings which are old, have a weak foundation or are unfit for use, and initiate the process of demolition. The schools to be demolished were shortlisted after basic education officers sent details like year of construction, cost incurred, book value, etc, to a technical committee headed by the district magistrate. After demolition, the debris will be auctioned through a committee. The revenue generated will be deposited in the bank account of the respective school management committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1200-crumbling-school-buildings-in-state-to-be-razed-to-avert-tragedies/articleshow/81199679.cms||Isha Jain
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||UP bags first prize in implementation of PM Kisan scheme||Lucknow: Amid ongoing farmers’ agitation against three farm laws, the Centre adjudged UP as the best performing state in achieving the fastest take-off on PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, entailing an annual support of Rs 6,000 — in three instalments of Rs 2000 each — essentially to small and marginal farmers. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar gave the award to UP agricultural minister Surya Pratap Shahi at a function in Delhi to commemorate completion of two years of the scheme. Speaking to TOI, additional chief secretary (agriculture) Devesh Chaturvedi said under the leadership of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the state managed to provide benefits to around 2.40 crore farmers since the scheme’s launch exactly two years ago by PM Narendra Modi at a rally in Gorakhpur in the run-up to 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Agricultural department officials said, around Rs 27,134 crore has been granted to farmers under the Centre’s flagship scheme that seeks to lend financial support to farmers in time of crisis. The money is transferred in bank accounts of farmers through direct benefit transfer. “District magistrates in the state and officials of the agriculture department worked tirelessly in implementing the scheme,” said Chaturvedi. Experts said, the award for fastest implementation of the scheme may come in handy for BJP, which seeks to allay apprehensions of farmers, particularly in west UP that has been feeling the ripples of the farmers’ unrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-bags-first-prize-in-implementation-of-pm-kisan-scheme/articleshow/81199572.cms||Pankaj Shah
February 25, 2021||Goa||Not in favour of any alliance for civic polls, says Francisco Sardinha||MARGAO: Amid talk of an alliance between Congress and Goa Forward Party (GFP) for the Margao civic polls, South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha on Wednesday said he wasn’t in favour of any tie-up between political parties as the elections weren’t being held on party lines. “Good candidates will enjoy our support. Where’s the question of any coalition when the elections are not held on party lines?” the South MP told reporters in reply to a question. He also expressed his disapproval over the manner in which reservation of seats were done for the municipal elections, stating that it went against the very purpose for which the government of India had brought in the concept of reservation. “The government of India had brought in reservation so that the concerned people like SCs and STs get their representation. These people have cut them into bits so that their own people get the advantage. Instead of representing them, the way it is being done, they may well be misrepresented,” Sardinha said. He urged the state government to ensure that these sections are adequately represented. As regards the controversy of jurisdiction of ports over Major Ports Authority Bill and Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP), Sardinha demanded a white paper over the issue. “If the issue is brought to my notice, I can raise it in the Parliament,” he said. As regards illegal sand mining, Sardinha demanded that the state government earmark the sites for sand extraction and issue permits for the purpose “so that skyrocketing prices are brought down”. He also expressed his objections to the proposal of setting up police quarters at the old leprosy hospital site bordering Curtorim and Macazana. “Set up a cancer hospital or a virology institute instead, facilities that aren’t available in Goa,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-in-favour-of-any-alliance-for-civic-polls-says-sardinha/articleshow/81198616.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Olympian ambition laid for Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday laid the foundation stone of the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave, an ambitious project that will span 215 acres along the Sabarmati riverfront inMotera. A war of words, however, erupted between the leaders of the ruling BJP and the Congress when the stadium was named after Narendra Modi. The venue is popularly referred to as Motera Stadium and was formally named as Sardar Patel Stadium Gujarat when it hosted the ‘Namaste Trump’ event in 2019. One of the oldest cricket stadiums in the country, Motera has stood witness to several milestones in Indian cricket including Sunil Gavaskar reaching the 10,000-run mark in Tests, Kapil Dev claiming his 432nd Test wicket, and Sachin Tendulkar completing his 18,000 runs in international cricket. Now named the Narendra Modi Stadium, the new facility can accommodate 1.32 lakh spectators. As India took on England at the stadium, political parties fought over Sardar Patel’s legacy. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the BJP for rechristening the stadium even as top BJP figures such as Prakash Javadekar reiterated that Narendra Modi Stadium was part of the larger Sardar Patel Sports Enclave. Rahul Gandhi sparked off the political war of words. He tweeted, “Beautiful how truth reveals itself. Narendra Modi stadium. Adani end. Reliance end. With Jay Shah presiding. #HumDoHumareDo” As for the ceremonies, at the foundation stone laying event of the enclave, Union home minister Amit Shah said it will be the largest multi-sports facility in the country. “It will position Ahmedabad as a sports city and enable it to bid for international sporting events such as the Olympics, Commonwealth Games, and Asian Games,” Shah said. To be constructed at the cost of Rs 4,600 crore, the facility will be built in line with international standards. “The government contribution to the project will be Rs 3,200 crore, private entities will spend the remaining Rs 1,400 crore,” Shah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/olympian-ambition-laid-for-ahmedabad/articleshow/81198650.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Cops chargesheet 2 from terror outfit arrested in Sept||New Delhi: Delhi Police Special Cell has filed a chargesheet against two alleged operatives of Babbar Khalsa International, a banned terrorist outfit, who were arrested from north Delhi’s Burari in September last year. The two accused were identified as Bhupinder Singh (41) and Kulwant Singh (39), who belong to Ludhiana. Two phones, seven pistols and 45 cartridges were seized from them at the time of arrest. Many videos, documents and photographs related to the Khalistani movement and their propagators were also seized from them. According to the chargesheet, the two were planning to kill targets in various north Indian states on the directions of ISI-sponsored Khalistani leaders. Earlier, Bhupinder had a Red Corner Notice against him. He was lodged at Nabha Jail for six months after being deported from Abu Dhabi in 2019. He was wanted by Punjab Police too. In the chargesheet, his handlers have been identified as Jagdish Bhoora from Khalistan Zindabad Force, who is based in Belgium, and Dhanna Singh of Khalistan Liberation Force, who is based in the UK. “Through Facebook, he came in contact with a module comprising Harbinder Singh, Amritpal Kaur, Randeep Singh and Jarnail Singh, who were arrested by Punjab Police in 2017 for being BKI members. Bhupinder was inspired by Dilawar Singh Babbar, who had assassinated Beant Singh, so he adopted that alias. He has inimical feelings towards people speaking against Sikh gurus and the religion,” the chargesheet says. Police have said in their report that the operatives felt strongly against the Satluj-Yamuna link canal and were planning to kill engineers working on the project. The duo had also hoisted a saffron flag with Khalistani insignia on a water tank at the Raikot tehsil office, says the chargesheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-chargesheet-2-from-terror-outfit-arrested-in-sept/articleshow/81217884.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||Niti vice-chairman meets Yogi Adityanath, lauds infra projects & micro turnaround of UP||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday met Niti Aayog vice-chairperson Rajiv Kumar and discussed implementation of flagship schemes in the state, including nutrition, health, education, rural development, drinking water and sanitation, irrigation, industries and agriculture. Kumar lauded the state’s achievements over four years and mentioned the Kayakalp Abhiyan for primary schools and infrastructural development, including progress of Purvanchal, Ganga and Bundelkhand expressways. He said, implementation of prahari app in public works department had brought about a significant change. The chief minister informed Kumar the state government undertook several projects to achieve the goal of ‘ease of living’ and this included water and power for each house, roads in villages, water for each field, jobs for everyone and banking facilities in every locality. He said, projects were being implemented in eight aspirational districts in the state to link them with mainstream development. To bolster industrial growth, 20 sector-wise policies had been hammered out to encourage ‘Make in UP’. Talking about Metro rail projects in the state, the CM said, work was in progress in Kanpur and Agra projects. Similarly, work was also taking place on Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor. Under Namami Gange programme, approved projects were being implemented so that they could be completed within deadline. “The state is promoting plantation of fruit trees along the Ganga and providing a push to organic farming. Ganga parks and nurseries are also being prepared. Plans are afoot to revive extinct rivers and promote tourism, cultural activities and sports along the Ganga,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/niti-vice-chairman-meets-yogi-lauds-infra-projects-micro-turnaround-of-up/articleshow/81199712.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Kanpur||Retired armyman in Kanpur surrenders after killing wife||KANPUR: A retired army personnel allegedly shot her 65-year-old wife with a country-made pistol at their house in Shivli area of Kanpur Dehat district on Wednesday. Later, he surrendered before Shivli police and confessed killing his wife Renu. The accused Hari Krishna Tripathi, a retired army personnel, and a resident of Azad Nagar area of Shivli has been arrested and investigations are on, said the police adding that Tripathi’s son Kulbhushan said that his father had initially entered into an argument with him over some family issue. “When his mother Renu intervened, he went inside his room and returned with a country-made pistol from which he opened fire on his mother killing her on the spot,” said additional superintendent of police Ghanshyam. Renu’s family members alleged that Hari Krishna was an abusive man and often resorted to violence. “Hari Krishna reached the police station and confessed his wife’s murder. He also handed a country-made pistol to policemen. A police team was sent to his home, where his wife’s body was found lying in a pool of blood,” said ASP further. “A case of murder was registered and Hari Krishna was arrested. The body was sent for autopsy. We are trying to ascertain that from where the accused had procured a country-made pistol,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/retired-armyman-surrenders-after-killing-wife/articleshow/81196147.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 25, 2021||Allahabad||Allahabad High Court, all courts to resume normal working from March 1 with some curbs||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad High Court and its Lucknow Bench will start functioning as usual and all courts will function in routine manner from March 1 with all judges and their supporting staff like private secretary, bench secretary and peon attending in full strength. Earlier, various restrictions had been imposed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. Though the restrictions have been removed, but certain precautions will still be maintained during court proceedings to check Covid spread. Registrar (protocol) Ashish Kumar Srivastava said all the modalities and arrangements have been approved by the Chief Justice Govind Mathur. As per the notification, the chambers of advocates in high court premises will also open from March 1. The canteens of advocates and employees in the high court premises will also function in routine manner. “The judges and lawyers will wear robes and coat as prescribed in routine manner,” the notification read. However, the advocates appearing in court will wear mask and adhere to all conditions prescribed for social and physical distancing. “Not more than six advocates will be permitted to remain in the court room at any given time. The advocates shall leave court room immediately after hearing of their cases,” the notification added. Now, the advocates will file their cases in e-mode or in physical form as per arrangement prior to the lockdown. “There shall be no requirement of urgency applications for listing of listed matters,” it said. The photo-affidavit centre will also start functioning in routine manner from March. Any person desirous of joining court proceedings through video-conferencing will have to send an e-mail mentioning mobile number, case details and email ID with a request for being provided a link to join court proceedings virtually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/high-court-all-courts-to-resume-normal-working-from-march-1-with-some-curbs/articleshow/81195686.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||Kunal’s all-round heroics help Colts thrash Whites||Lucknow: In a one-sided match, Lucknow Colts drubbed Lucknow Whites by a huge margin of 211 runs in a C&D division match of the 3rd Leela Ghosh Memorial Cricket Tournament at GP Ground on Wednesday. Kunal of Lucknow Colts stole the show with his all-round performance wherein he scored 82 runs and claimed two wickets for his team. Lucknow Colts set the target of 334 runs at the loss of six wickets in stipulated 35 overs. In reply, Lucknow Whites were bowled out for 123 runs in 24.5 overs. Brief score: Lucknow Colts: 333/6 (Kunal 82, Ahmed 75, Abhishek 68; Dharmendra 3 wkts, Priyanshu 2 wkts); Lucknow Whites: 123 in 24.5 overs (Ghanshyam 42, Dharmendra 28; Kunal 2 wickets); Man of the match: Kunal Central Club excel Satyam Pandey's unbeaten 86-run knock helped Central Club beat Gear Club by 147 runs and enter the next round of the Babu Banarasi Das Prize Money Super League on Wednesday. Brief score: Central Club: 245/7 (Satyam 86, Harsh 55; Jitendra 2-34, Mridul 2-63); Gear Club: 98/8 (Siddhant 70; Naman 2-9, Rahul 2-20); Man of the match: Satyam Mansarovar Football Cup Aided by Mustafa's superb goal, Brian XI defeated Hellars Club 1-0 in the quarter finals of the 24th Mansarovar Football Cup-2021 at La Martiniere Polo Grounds on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kunals-all-round-heroics-help-colts-thrash-whites/articleshow/81199916.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Goa||Guv convenes 12-day session, budget to be presented, debated||Panaji: Ignoring the opposition’s demand for a lengthy assembly session, governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday issued an order summoning a 12-day session of the state legislative assembly. The session, which begins on March 24, will see chief minister Pramod Sawant present the budget. The state cabinet had recently cleared the proposal to convene the fourteenth session of the House from March 24. The twelve-day budget session will continue till April 12, with two public holidays in between aside from weekends. “The governor of Goa, Bhagat Singh Koshyari, has summoned the legislative assembly of the state of Goa to meet at assembly hall on Wednesday, March 24, at 11.30am,” the government said in a notification. The house will not have a sitting on Monday, March 29, on account of Holi, and Friday, April 2, which is Good Friday. The opposition, particularly Congress MLA Digambar Kamat, has consistently demanded that a full-fledged session of 21 days needs to be convened so that the opposition gets enough time to raise issues concerning people of Goa. The state legislative assembly has met for just seven days in 2020, and will have met for just 17 days in the current financial year. The CM has already begun holding meetings with various departments and private organisations to prepare the state budget, but the budget date is yet to be announced. Sources suggest that the state budget could be presented either on the first or second day of the session. Speaker Rajesh Patenkar is likely to call for a business advisory committee meeting in the coming weeks to finalise the schedule for the budget session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/guv-convenes-12-day-session-budget-to-be-presented-debated/articleshow/81198633.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||10L state truckers may take part in Bharat bandh||Mumbai: Bombay Goods Transport Association (BGTA) on Wednesday said more than 10 lakh truckers from Maharashtra will join the Bharat bandh called by traders’ body, CAIT, on February 26 by keeping goods vehicles off roads. It will impact transportation of essential and non-essential goods to the city for a day. Although there was no hike in fuel prices on Wednesday, diesel in Mumbai peaked to Rs88.44 a litre, while petrol is now Rs97.34. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/10l-state-truckers-may-take-part-in-bharat-bandh/articleshow/81198658.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||IIM-L records 100% placement; Rs 56 LPA highest package||Lucknow: In a year marred by Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian Institute of Management-Lucknow recorded 100% placements for the 2019-2021 batch of students. The highest salary package for postgraduate programme in management, offered by a domestic recruiter, was Rs 51 lakh per annum (LPA). In international recruitment, the highest package offered was Rs 56 LPA. The average salary package stood at Rs 26 LPA. Held virtually, the drive saw a host of domestic and international recruiters offering a gamut of roles to candidates in domains such as consulting, finance, general management, IT and analytics, and sales and marketing. During the final placements, legacy recruiters such as Accenture, American Express, Asian Paints, Avendus Capital, Bain & Company, Citi, GEP Consulting, Goldman Sachs, ICICI, Kearney, Kotak, KPMG, Mahindra Group, MasterCard Advisors, McKinsey & Company, Nestle, Reliance Industries, State Street, Tata Administrative Services, Tata Sky, Boston Consulting Group and Wells Fargo participated. International offers were extended by companies such as African Industries Group, Landmark Group and Noon. Firms like Amagi, Angel Broking, Bayer, Comviva, FMC, HDFC Securities, Indus Insights, Jana Bank, Morgan Stanley, Navi Technologies, Red Fort Capital, Sabre Partners and Zynga were among first-time recruiters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/iim-l-records-100-placement-rs-56-lpa-highest-package/articleshow/81199644.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Robbers strike at pharmacy||New Delhi: Two men robbed cash from a pharmacy in south Delhi after holding the salesman at knife-point on Wednesday afternoon, police said. The incident took place in Chirag Delhi and cops at Malviya Nagar Police Station were informed at 3.30pm. The pharmacy employee, Raisen, told police that around 3pm, two men came to the shop and asked for sleeping pills. As Raisen refused, one of them held him at knife-point while the other took out Rs 3,500 from the cash box. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/robbers-strike-at-pharmacy/articleshow/81198664.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||Unlawful conversion bill passed in UP assembly by voice vote amid protest||LUCKNOW: In a significant development, the UP Assembly passed the Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion Bill, 2021 by a voice vote on Wednesday. The bill will now be sent to the UP legislative council for its approval before it becomes an Act after a formal nod by the governor. The ruling BJP doesn't have a majority in the upper house, so it would be a real test for its floor managers to get the bill through. The bill was put forth in the assembly by parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna for voting. The opposition leaders, however, demanded that the bill be referred to the select committee for its consideration. The demand was raised by BSP legislative party leader Lalji Verma and Congress legislative party leader Aradhana Mishra. Khanna, however, maintained that the government was not against religious conversion provided it is not done unlawfully through mis-representation, force or undue influence. Times ViewIn the past, the courts have demolished the bogey of love jihad. In Nov 2020, the Allahabad high court equated “the right to choose a partner, irrespective of religion,” to “right to life and personal liberty.” The law should not be treating some marriages as prima facie suspect merely because the two people getting married do not belong to the same religion.The state government had promulgated an ordinance to this effect in November last year making unlawful religious conversion a cognisable and a non-bailable offence. The ordinance was tabled in the UP assembly on the first day of the ongoing budget session. The ordinance on religious conversion invited a jail term of not less than one year, extendable to five years, with a fine of Rs 15,000. However, if a minor, a woman or person belonging to the Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribes communities was converted through the said unlawful means, the jail term would be a minimum of three years and could be extended to 10 years with a fine of Rs 50,000. Several states, including Arunachal Pradesh, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, and Uttarakhand, already have in place "anti-conversion laws" that regulate religious conversion. In January, the Allahabad high court, while hearing a petition moved by an interfaith couple, had asserted that nobody can interfere in the life of two adults residing out of their own free will. The UP government, however, had contended that community interest trumps an individual’s right to choose a life partner and the foremost duty of a secular state is to protect citizens from unlawful conversions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unlawful-conversion-bill-passed-in-assembly-by-voice-vote-amid-protest/articleshow/81199678.cms||Pankaj Shah
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya a symbol of national pride, to be tourism hub: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath recited a couplet from the ‘Ramcharitmanas’: “Awadhpuri Sam Priya Nahi Sou; Yah Prasang Janai Kou Kou” in his motion of thanks in the assembly on Wednesday to stress that Ayodhya is a symbol of national pride and asked how can anyone have a problem with the construction of Ram Temple there. Once the Ram Temple gets constructed, Ayodhya will become one of the best tourist attractions across the globe, the CM said, adding the verdict in the case was the victory of faith in the country’s judicial system. “Ayodhya is among the most ancient cities in the world. It was the land of Suryavanshi kings. While Lord Ram is worshipped across the world, there are still some people here who are against him, just like rakshas or demons were his enemies in those days. What problem can someone have with the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya,” the chief minister said. In the 2021-22 budget, we have made special allocations for Ayodhya’s development, including Rs 101 crore for construction of airport, Rs 140 crore for Suryakund and integrated development of the city, he added. “We have decided to develop Ayodhya as a smart and safe city. Rs 175 crore has been earmarked for Ayodhya and six other nagar nigams in budget and Rs 300 crore for construction of approach road to Ayodhya Dham. Rs 100 has been proposed to beautify the city and promote tourism,” Yogi said. The CM attacked the Opposition for misleading farmers and said the laws had been formulated after taking the opinion of farmers. “The rights of farmers are totally safe. Their land will remain theirs. The agreement will be only for produce and even that is optional. No mandi will close in UP and purchase will be done on MSP,” he said. All these years, the Opposition only viewed farmers as a vote bank and is unable to digest all that the government is doing for farmers, Yogi added. The mandis are being modernised and under one nation-one mandi, farmers now have the freedom to sell their produce wherever they want. “The state is developing 27 mandis as modern mandis. The mandi fee has been reduced from 2% to 1%. During Covid-19 days, when half of the country’s sugar mills were closed, all 119 mills in UP were functional and farmers were paid Rs 5,954 crore for sugarcane,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-a-symbol-of-national-pride-to-be-tourism-hub-cm/articleshow/81199669.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Kanpur||Man, wrongly convicted by trial court, is set free by high court after remaining in jail for two decades||Done/ALVI Jhansi: After a long drawn legal battle, a 43-year-old man from Lalitpur, lodged in Agra jail since the past two decades, after being convicted for rape under IPC and the SC/ST Act, was finally set free by a division bench of Allahabad high court here on Wednesday. On September 16, 200, a scheduled caste woman, a native of village Silawan under Mehroni police station of Lalitpur district, had accused Vishnu Tiwari, who was then 23 years old, of raping her. Police had booked the accused under sections 376, 506 of IPC and section 3 (1) (xii), 3 (2) (v) of the SC/ST (Prevention) of Atrocities Act. The case was investigated by the then CO Narhat, Akhilesh Narayan Singh, who submitted his report against Vishnu. The accused was sentenced to life imprisonment by the sessions court under the SC/ST Act. He was later shifted to Agra jail where he is currently lodged and waiting for his release. Vishnu appealed against the sessions court’s judgment in the Allahabad high court in 2005 but somehow the case remained defective for 16 years and could not be heard. During this period, his parents and two brothers died but he was not allowed to even attend their last rites. Later, the state legal service authority appointed Shweta Singh Rana, advocate as his defence counsel. A division bench of the high court, comprising Justice Kaushal Jayendra Thaker and Justice Gautam Chaudhary on January 28, stated in its order “In view of the facts and evidence on record, we are convinced that the accused had been convicted wrongly, hence, the trial court’s judgment and the impugned order has been reversed and the accused is acquitted”. The accused-appellant, if not warranted in any other case, be set free forthwith, the court ordered. Talking to TOI, defence counsel Shweta Singh Rana said, “Vishnu has been set free by the high court. The local administration has to complete the legal formalities before he is set free”. On the other hand, Vishnu’s nephew Satyendra told TOI, “My uncle’s wrong conviction has shattered our whole family both financially and socially. I lost my father, uncle and grandparents who died due to shock and social stigma. A major portion of our family land had to be sold to contest the case. As far as my uncle Vishnu is concerned, his entire life has been shattered as he had to spend the best time of his life in jail and that too for no fault of his own”. The justice has come but very late, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-wrongly-convicted-by-trial-court-is-set-free-by-high-court-after-remaining-in-jail-for-two-decades/articleshow/81196169.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Goa||Open park today, Khaunte tells PWD||Panaji: A science and community park conceptualised by former chief minister Manohar Parrikar has been locked and construction has been stopped by the PWD, Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte said. He said that if the lock is not opened by Thursday, locals will break it open by evening and use the facility without waiting for the inauguration. Khaunte celebrates his birthday on Thursday. Stating that the land belongs to the Penha de Franca panchayat, Khaunte said a case would be filed against PWD for locking the property. “The assistant engineer told me that the executive engineer has given instructions to stop the work and lock the site for the science park,” Khaunte told reporters, adding that the PWD has no right to lock the property without checking with the panchayat. The PWD is yet to complete works like landscaping and furnishing, but the local panchayat had planned to setup a free WiFi facility at the park. PWD principal chief engineer Uttam Parsekar said that he was unaware of these developments, but added that as a general principal, till a project is handed over, the PWD is responsible for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/open-park-today-khaunte-tells-pwd/articleshow/81198666.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||AK Banerjee electedTTFI secretary general||Lucknow: Arun Kumar Banerjee of Lucknow was elected unopposed to the post of secretary general of the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) during the annual general meeting at Panchkula (Haryana) on Wednesday. He replaced MP Singh. Banerjee, who earlier worked as the treasurer of the federation, is also the secretary of UP Table Tennis Association (UPTTA). Thanking the federation for reposing faith in him, Banerjee said, “I will strive for the progress of the game in the country.” “Lucknow District Table Tennis Association (LDTTA) will organise a programme to welcome Banerjee on his return to the city on February 27,” LDTTA secretary NK Lahiry said. Deputy CM of Haryana Dushyant Chautala retained the post of TTFI president for four-year term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ak-banerjee-electedttfi-secretary-general/articleshow/81199478.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||Primary class children not alert about taking precautions, won’t send them to school: Parents||Lucknow: A number of parents whose children are studying in classes I to V in prominent city schools said that they will not send their wards to school from March 1, as the pandemic has not yet subsided and it is difficult to make little ones follow safety norms. Following government directions, schools for classes I to V will reopen on March 1. Their decision was fortified after some school employees were confirmed to be Covid-19 positive in Allahabad and in a few schools in south India. “The moment I received an email from school authorities asking for consent to send my child to school, I said no. Little children are not comfortable wearing masks for hours,” said Tripti Trivedi, whose daughter studies in class I. She recalled how her daughter had removed her mask at the dentist’s clinic 45 minutes into the visit, complaining of discomfort. “After cases of employees getting Covid-19 in school, I am not ready to send my child,” she added. Paras Yadav, whose son studies in class I, said, “I had taken my son to shop for school shoes but he was uncomfortable wearing a mask as his spectacles fog up. Now, I have changed my decision of sending him to school.” He said that at home, family members would help him clean his glasses and ensure that his hands are sanitized before he removes his specs. However, this is not possible for a teacher to do in school with so many students to look after, Yadav said. “Little children are not that alert on following safety norms and in excitement to play and meet their friends after a year, they will forget everything,” he added. Many parents also fear travelling in public transport with their children. Taking private cabs everyday is not feasible for many. “Public transport is unsafe. My elder son is attending school and I book a cab for his safety so that he doesn’t commute in autorickshaw or other public transport,” said Kamna Pandey, a single parent. Now, she is worried how her daughter, who is in class III, will go to school as booking two cabs at different timings is something her budget will not allow. President of Unaided Private Schools’ Association Anil Agarwal said, “City schools have been running offline classes for senior students since October and no cases of Covid-19 outbreak have been reported till date. Wherever cases have been reported, it is non-teaching employees who have been infected. They do not have any direct contact with students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/primary-class-children-not-alert-about-taking-precautions-wont-send-them-to-school-parents/articleshow/81199633.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||AAP to play up Surat result in UP panchayat polls||LUCKNOW: Upbeat over its performance in the Surat municipal elections where it won 27 seats out of 120, coming second after BJP, the Aam Aadmi Party aims to showcase its victory in Gujarat in its campaign for the upcoming panchayat polls in UP. Party officials say Gujarat was seen as an unbreachable fort of BJP and now AAP, not Congress, is being seen as an alternative. The party says not contesting panchayat polls on party symbols is a disadvantage to new parties like AAP that are keen to establish its symbol ahead of 2022 assembly elections. Party spokesperson Vaibhav Maheshwari said AAP’s performance in Surat is a great achievement. “It is now clear that people are liking AAP’s model of development. In Delhi, we have set an example for the entire country. The results of Surat elections have given a huge moral boost to party workers and we will use it during the upcoming panchayat polls to tell people that AAP’s work has been recognized even in Gujarat,” he said. “We have moved beyond Delhi and party convener Arvind Kejriwal is emerging as an alternative at national level. Congress is now only cutting anti-BJP votes. Even those who are voting for it know it is not winning so why should anyone waste their votes on the party,” he said. Another key takeaway for AAP from Surat election is that Congress is no longer being viewed as an alternative to BJP, Maheshwari added. AAP was banking on the use of its party symbol in panchayat elections to prepare ground for the assembly polls next year. However, this year too, the panchayat elections will not be contested on party symbols. “This is a drawback for new parties like us. It would have been a great opportunity for AAP to familiarize people with its symbol, but we will have to wait,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aap-to-play-up-surat-result-in-panchayat-polls/articleshow/81199709.cms||Neha Lalchandani
February 25, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Groceries scam: Two con ‘wholesale dealers’ held||MUMBAI: Two men who posed as wholesale provision suppliers and allegedly duped owners of newly launched grocery stores have been arrested. Dhananjay Chaurasia (27) and Pappu Gupta (43) have conned retailers in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Palghar, the police said. The latest case was reported in Goregaon (west) where a woman was setting up a new shop. Chaurasia and Gupta landed up and said they were taking orders for bulk buying and would deliver stocks at her doorstep. The woman placed an order of Rs 1 lakh. The two got at least seven big boxes to the shop. Later, she found a few biscuits packs inside. She lodged a complaint at Goregaon police station. One of the accused had given his number. After checking CCTV footage and tracking call records, Chaurasia and Gupta were nabbed. Police have urged shop owners to complain if they too have been duped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/groceries-scam-2-con-wholesale-dealers-held/articleshow/81204977.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Thane||Groceries scam: Two con ‘wholesale dealers’ held||MUMBAI: Two men who posed as wholesale provision suppliers and allegedly duped owners of newly launched grocery stores have been arrested. Dhananjay Chaurasia (27) and Pappu Gupta (43) have conned retailers in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Palghar, the police said. The latest case was reported in Goregaon (west) where a woman was setting up a new shop. Chaurasia and Gupta landed up and said they were taking orders for bulk buying and would deliver stocks at her doorstep. The woman placed an order of Rs 1 lakh. The two got at least seven big boxes to the shop. Later, she found a few biscuits packs inside. She lodged a complaint at Goregaon police station. One of the accused had given his number. After checking CCTV footage and tracking call records, Chaurasia and Gupta were nabbed. Police have urged shop owners to complain if they too have been duped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/groceries-scam-2-con-wholesale-dealers-held/articleshow/81204976.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Varanasi||Varanasi: Lane separators to be used in Ganga for traffic regulation as boats increase||VARANASI: The gradual increase in the number of cargo, cruise, speed, big and small boats in the Ganga with waterway for public transport system becoming a reality has necessitated introduction of rules and lane separators to prevent any accident and avoid loss of lives. The tourism department officials have been asked to consult the Prayagraj administration to collect details of using lane separators during Kumbh-2019. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal told TOI on Wednesday, “The Ganga, which was initially used for boating by pilgrims and tourists mainly for site seeing is now going to be used for public transport also. The waterway for public transport system is being developed. As the Ganga in Varanasi is also part of National Waterway-I on which movement of cargo vessels has started and cruise boats are being introduced, various kinds of big and small motorized and manually operated boats is increasing. Hence, ensuring safety to prevent accidents is responsibility of the administration.” The pattern of boat movement was observed after which the decision to introduce lane separators was taken, he added. “Lanes will be separated to ensure cargo vessels, cruise, speed boats and traditional ones move in separate lanes and accidents are prevented. The lane separators will be placed by giving sufficient passages to boats crossing the river to reach opposite bank,” the commissioner said. Since lane separators had been used during Kumbh-2019 at Prayagraj, the tourism officials have been asked to collect the specifics to chart plan for Varanasi, he added. The role of river police will also increase with the beginning of water traffic regulation, said commissioner adding, floating picket points will also be the part of this project. The officials are also exploring the possibility of bringing floating bathing platforms near ghats thronged by people. The floating platforms will have seating arrangement and changing rooms. People can reach the floating platforms for bathing by boats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/lane-separators-to-be-used-in-gangafor-traffic-regulation-as-boats-increase/articleshow/81195560.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||BBAU to adopt NEP from new session||Lucknow: To promote quality research work, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University will sign a memorandum of understanding with top institutions in the coming years. The university will also adopt the National Education Policy from the new academic session, said vice-chancellor Sanjay Singh on completion of two years in office on Wednesday. Releasing the annual report, he said that infrastructure development such as construction of hostels and departments is also on the cards. “This year, we have introduced courses in Sanskrit and yoga. In the coming years, we plan to offer more new streams,” he added. Elaborating on online learning, the V-C said that BBAU had taken various initiatives such as providing online audio-visual content to students and introduction of remote access system by the central library so that students and teachers could access it from home. He added that the university has also worked towards water harvesting, plantation and cleanliness. “The result is that BBAU is compliant with International Green Building Standards 14001 and has the distinction of being a certified campus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bbau-to-adopt-nep-from-new-session/articleshow/81199533.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Kanpur||Spurious liquor claims two lives, two in hospital||Times News Network Kanpur: Two persons died and two have been hospitalized in a critical condition after allegedly consuming spurious liquor in Orai in Jalaun. The incident took place in Dadri village in Aata police station area of the district on Tuesday night. An FIR has been lodged against a local Ramhet, accused of producing spurious liquor. He is currently absconding. Besides, action has been taken against three policemen for dereliction of duty in this regard. Efforts are on to arrest Ramhet and further investigations are underway, said police. According to reports, four persons purchased liquor from Ramhet and after consuming it returned to their homes on Tuesday night. After two to three hours, they started vomiting and their condition worsened. Devendra (36) and Mahendra Pal (32) of Dadri village died while two Dharam Singh (30) and Karan (40) were hospitalised. Jalaun superintendent of police Yashveer Singh said, after preliminary findings it appears that that the two persons died after consuming spurious liquor produced by one Ramhet of the area. “We have lodged an FIR against the accused under relevant sections of IPC. Separate teams have been formed to conduct raids and arrest him. Action has been initiated against three policemen in this regard,” he added. “Aata police station incharge Sunil Singh was sent to lines, while chowki in-charge Sheetala Prasad and beat police constable Brijesh Kumar have been suspended for alleged dereliction of duty,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/spurious-liquor-claims-two-lives-two-in-hospital/articleshow/81196154.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||Biggest round today in Lucknow; jabs for 10k beneficiaries||LUCKNOW: In the biggest Covid vaccination exercise in a single day so far, the district health department would inoculate nearly 10,000 targeted beneficiaries at 117 booths in 44 centres across the city on Thursday. The beneficiaries include 6,970 healthcare who will be given their second dose of vaccine for developing immunity against Covid-19 and about 3,000 healthcare and frontline workers who missed the first dose in the 13 rounds of Phases I and II since January 16. Earlier, maximum 114 booths were set up in 35 centres for vaccination on February 15. Of 1.04 lakh healthcare and frontline workers, 72,594 have been given the first dose so far. Health officials said about 20% of the workers have not taken jabs because of health and personal reasons, which means that there are about 10,000 workers who have not got their first shot yet. The first and second doses are given four weeks apart. Around 800 healthcare workers were given second dose in a round held earlier. The remaining will be given booster shots in the upcoming rounds. The health department has decided to give another chance to 10,000-odd workers who missed their first shot along with those who are being called for their second dose, said chief medical officer, Lucknow, Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar. “Our effort is to vaccinate all those who were left out and want to get inoculated. For the purpose, hospitals, police department, civic agencies, officials of paramilitary forces, revenue, Lucknow Municipal Corporation are being informed to pass the message to their employees who haven't received any vaccine dose yet,” the CMO added. Those who are due to get second doses are being informed separately through SMSes and phone calls, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/biggest-round-today-jabs-for-10k-beneficiaries/articleshow/81199630.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Groceries scam: Two con ‘wholesale dealers’ held||MUMBAI: Two men who posed as wholesale provision suppliers and allegedly duped owners of newly launched grocery stores have been arrested. Dhananjay Chaurasia (27) and Pappu Gupta (43) have conned retailers in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Palghar, the police said. The latest case was reported in Goregaon (west) where a woman was setting up a new shop. Chaurasia and Gupta landed up and said they were taking orders for bulk buying and would deliver stocks at her doorstep. The woman placed an order of Rs 1 lakh. The two got at least seven big boxes to the shop. Later, she found a few biscuits packs inside. She lodged a complaint at Goregaon police station. One of the accused had given his number. After checking CCTV footage and tracking call records, Chaurasia and Gupta were nabbed. Police have urged shop owners to complain if they too have been duped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/groceries-scam-2-con-wholesale-dealers-held/articleshow/81196841.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Kanpur||‘Odourless, colourless herbicide used by accused to poison girls’||Kanpur: The report of chemical analysis of the viscera of the two girls aged found dead on February 17 night, released by Forensic Science laboratory (FSL), Lucknow, has revealed presence of Sulfosulfuron, a herbicide in their vital organs. SP Anand Kulkarni said the FSL report, received late Tuesday evening, revealed the presence of Sulfosulfuron. A senior official said the accused used Sulfosulfuron, which is an odourless herbicide, to poison the water. “It was due to this that the girls did not realise they were being poisoned. Besides, the water of the hand-pump from which the bottle was filled is poor in taste,” he added. SP said police will find out from where the accused had bought Sulfosulfuron. The incident took place in Babuhara village on February 17 when the girls had gone to collect fodder for cattle and were found lying unconscious by their family members. The third girl, who is recuperating at a private hospital, said in her statement to police and magistrate that the accused Vinay did not indulge in any kind of sexual assault but had them a packet of chips which they refused. He then offered his bottle and they were knocked out of their senses soon after drinking the water in it. The girl said the water of a nearby hand pump tastes poor, hence they did not suspect anything wrong.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/odourless-colourless-herbicide-used-by-accused-to-poison-girls/articleshow/81196164.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 25, 2021||Kanpur||2 cops, 2 undertrials hurt in accident on Agra-Lko e-way||Kanpur: Four persons including two undertrials and two constables were injured after an ambulance carrying them to Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow from Mathura overturned at Pachore village under the limits of Kotwali police station in Kannauj on Agra-Lucknow Expressway on Tuesday morning. Police report said an ambulance carrying ailing undertrials Kuldeep Singh (22) and Dhruv Pal Singh (33), who were accompanied by constables Uday Bhan (50) and Rakesh Babu Baghel (50) from district jail of Mathura after crashing into the divider overturned at 186 milestone near leaving all the four injured. They have been admitted to Tirwa Medical college. “The incident apparently took place in the early hours of Tuesday after the driver of the ambulance dozed off. After preliminary treatment all the four including two undertrials and two constables have been sent to SGPGI, Lucknow in a separate vehicle of Mathura district jail. Further investigations are underway in this regard,” said Inspector Kotwali police station Shailendra Kumar Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-cops-2-undertrials-hurt-in-accident-on-agra-lko-e-way/articleshow/81196691.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Varanasi||Nadda on two-day visit to Kashi from Feb 28||Varanasi: Bharatiya Janata Party president J P Nadda will arrive in Varanasi, the parliamentary cnstituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on a two-day visit from February 28. It will be Nadda’s first visit to varanasi after taking over the reins of the party. Nadda will also inaugurate the newly-constructed party office of the Kashi region unit at Rohania. After holding a meeting to finalise the preparations for Nadda’s proposed visit, Kashi region unit president Mahesh Chandra Srivastava said, the party’s state unit co-organising general secretary Bhawani Singh discussed the events proposed during BJP national president’s visit and assigned responsibilities to office-bearers and cadres. “As Nadda ji is coming to Varanasi for the first time after assuming the charge of party president, he will be accorded a grand welcome on his arrival. After the welcome, he will proceed to Rohania where he will inaugurate the new office of the party’s regional unit,” he added. The party president will stay here for two days and will take part in many events, Srivastava said. Sources in BJP said that Nadda will also attend the divisional unit working committee meet and visit the home of a booth-level president during his stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/nadda-on-two-day-visit-to-kashi-from-feb-28/articleshow/81195553.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Allahabad||HC lawyers to abstainfrom work today also||Prayagraj: Working in the Allahabad High Court came to standstill on Wednesday as lawyers abstained from judicial work in protest against the Education Service Tribunal Bill, which provides for setting up of the principal bench of the tribunal at Lucknow. As per a resolution passed by the Allahabad High Court Bar Association (HCBA), the lawyers of Allahabad high court will continue to abstain from judicial work on Thursday, February 25, 2021 as well. Since the last two years, the HCBA has been demanding that the principal seat of this tribunal be set up in Prayagraj and its bench at Lucknow, but the bill was passed in the state assembly during the current budget session. HCBA joint secretary press Rajendra Kumar Singh said office-bearers at a meeting on Wednesday discussed the issue and resolved to continue their boycott of judicial work on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-lawyers-to-abstainfrom-work-today-also/articleshow/81195570.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||Vaccination drive for 60+ likely to begin on March 4 in UP||LUCKNOW: More than 1.8 crore persons in the 60-plus age group are most likely to be targeted in UP in the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination. According to sources, the drive to vaccinate the elderly is likely to begin on March 4 when the second dose will be given to health workers who took the first shot on February 4. A meeting to draw a detailed plan for the third phase took place in the state health department on Wednesday. “The guidelines from the Union ministry of health and family welfare are awaited, but we are also exploring different options to extend seamless service to the elderly,” said a senior officer in the state health department. Sources stated that since the Union government has announced that the vaccination of the elderly must begin in the first week, UP too will launch the drive around the same time. “Äs of now, March 4 appears to be the most convenient date for the soft launch of the drive in UP. Sessions to give the second shot to health workers, who took the vaccine on February 4, are already scheduled the same day,” they said. UP had done the exercise to vaccinate the 50 plus population and therefore it is prepared with the list of the 60 plus. However, it will have to work hard on the list of people in the 45-50 years age group. “UP has an estimated population of 1.80 crore 60 plus persons. But the work on the 45-50 age bracket needs to be done. Also, we await clarity on what to do about the people in the 51-59 age group many of whom may also be having comorbid conditions,” sources said. Once the outline from the Union government is clear, UP will shape up its strategy to facilitate registration for the vaccination of such a large group. “Vaccinating such a large group of population is a mammoth task… the number is bigger than the entire population of some countries of the world,” remarked a senior consultant engaged by the state health department for the purpose. He added, “The government may opt for camp based approach and facilitate pre-registration and on the spot verification for the same.” They added that the state is likely to hold Covid-19 vaccination day for three times a week in wake of the load and it may take up to 15-20 weeks to vaccinate the targeted population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vaccination-drive-for-60-likely-to-begin-on-march-4-in-up/articleshow/81199574.cms||Shailvee Sharda
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||Congress pursuing same divisive politics that led to India's partition, says Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Leading the charge against former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi for his comment about the difference between the nature of politics of Kerala and the north India, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that the divisive politics of the Congress had already led to the partition of the country, but the party was still pursuing the same destructive politics. Speaking on the motion of thanks in the legislative assembly on Wednesday, Yogi said that the Congress leader was creating a divide within the nation by praising the southern region and criticising the north, which had elected him an MP four times in the past, without naming Rahul Gandhi. Again targeting the Congress leadership, he said, “They tell the US ambassador that the real danger is not from Lashkar-e Taiba but from organisations within the country,” adding "they have no right to sully the image of the country outside." He also said that when Indian jawans were fighting against China on the borders, the Congress questioned the bravery and valor of the Indian army. "This will not be tolerated," he said in his 2.34-hour speech, claiming that it was unfortunate that Uttar Pradesh was being criticized by the Congress leadership which had given so many leaders to the party in the past. Next, targeting Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, he said “she does tweets only from Delhi and then she retreats and deletes after she realizes her fault.” Referring to her recent visits to UP, he said: “What kind of political sanskar is this that you remember temples say that you will save Vrindavan only when you visit the state," he said. Referring her offer of providing 1,000 buses to ferry migrant labourers who are stranded owing to a countrywide Covid-19 lockdown last year, he said, “This mentality worries me. The offer of buses was a joke in the midst of a pandemic.” “I was very happy about the offer but upon inquiry revealed that the registration numbers of buses provided (by Congress) belonged to scooters, three-wheelers,” he said. If the Congress was serious about providing transportation, why did it fail to bring back students of the state from Kota, Rajasthan, he said, asking if any particular individual or family had the freedom to joke with the people during a pandemic. Questioning her support for agitating farmers, the CM said: "She does not know even the difference between a mango tree and sugarcane." He also accused the Congress leadership for giving shelter to the mafia don Mukhtar Ansari in a Punjab jail. Addressing the leader of opposition and SP veteran Ram Govind Chaudhary, the CM said "he (Chaudhary) should abandon the red cap and to be respected as a gentleman, he should sport a “pagdi”. He said that the people of the state have repeatedly voted to power one family (the Yadav clan), but instead of caring for the public this powerful family colluded with the criminal and mafia dons and shielded them and their interests." The chief minister read out the NCRB data to substantiate his claim that the law and order has drastically improved in his regime. While strongly defending the three farm laws, the CM claimed that the laws were dedicated and exclusively meant to protest the interests of farmers and those criticising them was akin to committing a sin. Yogi also gave a detailed data how the MSP of the wheat and paddy had drastically improved in the past four years of his government and also increased in the purchase by the government and the government has disbursed Rs 1.24 lakh crore to 45 lakh cane cultivators in the past four years . The chief minister also attacked the Opposition parties for their “worrying” behaviour during the Governor Anandiben Patel's address. “Governor is the constitutional head of the state and if the House does not pay proper respect to its constitutional head, it would pose a serious danger before the democratic system. “Such behaviour raises questions over the legislature and we are regarded as untrustworthy,” he said. Besides being Governor, she is also a woman, at least the opposition should have respected that, the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-pursuing-same-divisive-politicsthat-led-to-indias-partition-says-yogi/articleshow/81199707.cms||Subhash Mishra
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||98% dues of last crushing season paid: UP Cane Ministry||LUCKNOW: The state government told the assembly on Wednesday that Rs 35,217 crore, which adds up to more than 98% of cane dues of 2019-20 has been paid to farmers. Cane minister Suresh Rana’s submission came after Congress MLA Naresh Saini raised the issue of non-payment of dues of the previous crushing season even as the new season touched the half-way mark. Rana told the house the state government was committed to 100% payout to cane growers. “We will be paying the balance of Rs 680 crore soon,” Rana said. The Opposition has been upping the ante against the BJP government for not raising the state advisory price (SAP) on cane purchase and pending dues in the current crushing season. Saini sought to know the state government’s stand on paying dues with interest after a delay of 14 days, while specifically seeking details of dues of the last crushing season. Responding to the query, Rana said, the government’s proactive approach had catapulted Uttar Pradesh to top the cane acreage chart along with dues payment and sugar production over three years. The cane minister divulged the previous Samajwadi Party regime had paid Rs 95,215 crore in its five-year rule. “But in last four years of BJP government, Rs 1,24,193 crore has already been disbursed, which is the highest paid by a state government since independence,” he said, adding the state government was committed to development and welfare of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/98-dues-of-last-crushing-season-paid-cane-min/articleshow/81199894.cms||Pankaj Shah
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||Why is CM afraid of red caps, asks Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Taking strong exception to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s jibe at the red cap worn by Samajwadi Party leaders and workers, former UP CM and SP national president Akhilesh Yadav questioned why the CM was so scared of the red cap. Speaking in the Assembly on the role of the Opposition during the Governor's address, chief minister Yogi Adityanath narrated an instance where he had gone to attend an event at a school and ‘some people staged a protest to obstruct the event’. “There was a two-and-a-half-year-old child who saw a protestor wearing a cap and identified him as a goon,” he said. The CM then advised the leader of the opposition and SP veteran Ram Govind Chaudhary to avoid wearing a red cap and suggested a safa (type of turban) instead. Shortly thereafter, responding to a media query on the CM’s comments, Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav came down heavily on him. “Why is he so scared of the red cap” he said adding: “He himself has worn red caps ….“. Thereafter SP’s IT team rolled pictures of CM wearing caps at various events including one in which he had a red cap on. The SP chief once again attacked the UP CM for his statements on the floor of the house. “No other chief minister has ever used the words patak ke maarna chahiye … thok do … but our CM has,” he said adding that it is ironic that the same CM can never be heard talking about super critical thermal plants. He said the CM does not talk of giving laptops to students because he himself does not know how to use one. Taking the ruling BJP over the claims of reaching out to one and all during the lockdown, Akhilesh said the UP CM always talks of deploying buses to ferry people during the pandemic but does not talk of 90 labourers who died while heading home on foot during the lockdown. “The SP leaders and workers contributed whatever we could to help such families who lost their loved ones while heading home on foot for days without food and water,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/whys-cm-afraid-of-red-caps-asks-akhilesh/articleshow/81199685.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Municipal Corporation to augment production of cow urine phenyl by 100 times||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has decided to scale up the production of ‘Gonyle’ (phenyl made from cow urine or ‘gomutra’) by 100 times from the existing 1,000 litre to 1 lakh litre per month. “Our product is cheap and its demand is also high. We have decided to increase the production of Gonyle by 100 times by August,” LMC chief veterinary officer Arvind Rao said. According to officers, LMC is manufacturing about 33 litres of Gonyle daily (1,000 litres/month) using 2.4 litres of cow urine (72 litres/month). The civic body hires 25 workers for packing, labelling and storage of the product. Now, LMC will use about 7,200 litres of cow urine to achieve the target of 1 lakh litre in a month. For this, the number of workers will be increased to 150. A new mixing machine which has the manufacturing capacity of 1.2 lakh litre per month has already been purchased at the cost of Rs 2.5 lakh. The number of bovines at Kanha Upvan are around 10,000 that produce 1.3lakh litres urine daily. “Besides bringing in more revenue, the move will also generate employment. One litre of ‘Gonyle’ costs Rs 35-40 as compared to local brands which are available at Rs 50-55 per litre,” said Rao. The civic body had started manufacturing phenyl using cow urine as a pilot project in May 2019 at its bovine shelter home, Kanha Upvan. Initially, the product was used only at LMC offices and buildings but soon found takers in private and government hospitals as well as in open market. To produce the phenyl, cow urine is passed through the process of fractional distillation and condensation to obtain the extract, called ‘gomutra ark’. The extract is then mixed with pine oil, citronella and fragrance in different proportions to manufacture the final product.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-to-augment-production-ofcow-urine-phenyl-by-100-times/articleshow/81199691.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||Unnao survivor says accused offered snacks & water, denies sexual assault||LUCKNOW: The lone 17-year-old survivor, who was one of the three girls poisoned by a youth and his accomplice in Asoha village of Unnao last week, has denied sexual assault on them and informed the police that she and her cousins were offered snacks and water laced with some poisonous substance. In her statement to the police, the girl said that the accused, Vinay, 25, had proposed to her on February 14 but she opposed his advances. Superintendent of police, Unnao, Anand Kulkarni said: “For the next couple of days, Vinay tried to convince the girl for marriage but she did not pay heed to him. On the day of the incident, the accused approached her and apologized for harassing her with his proposal. He then offered the girl and her two cousins snacks and water. The girls did not accept the snacks but drank water and fell unconscious.” The SP said that the survivor had confirmed that Vinay was accompanied by another boy. She informed the police that since March last year, the accused and his accomplice had been following her to the fields where she used to work with her cousins. Later, they started talking to the girls and often shared food and snacks with them. “However, Vinay’s behaviour suddenly changed in February. He started teasing me with comments that soon I would be working in my father-in-law’s (Vinay’s father) fields. Such statements made me uncomfortable. When he proposed to me on February 14, I was caught off guard and got very annoyed,” she said. The girl said Vinay approached her again and asked for forgiveness. On February 17, he brought packets of snacks and water bottles for them. “We refused to take the snacks but took the water. As soon as we drank the water, we fell unconscious. I don’t know what happened after that,” the girl said in her statement. Denying sexual assault, she said the accused did not ever force himself on her. The Unnao SP said the crime scene recreation reports were awaited after which the details would be matched with the statements of the girl and the accused. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault) Watch Accused offered snacks, water: Unnao survivor recalls poisoning incident||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unnao-survivor-says-accused-offeredsnacks-water-denies-sexual-assault/articleshow/81199432.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
February 25, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt docs oppose plan to begin outreach centres||Thiruvananthapuram: With the government gearing up to provide Covid-19 vaccines for the general public from next week, government doctors urged the state health department not to begin outreach centres for Covid vaccination. Vaccinations should be allowed only at hospitals, they said. “We understand there is a plan to set up outreach centres for Covid vaccination. This can turn out to be counterproductive given the chance of likely complications during vaccination. Lack of facilities at these places for active intervention in such an eventuality will definitely draw the wrath of the public,” said Dr G S Vijayakrishnan, state president of Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA). The association, in a letter to the health minister, made it clear that all such issues have to be taken into consideration while charting the plan for rolling out vaccination to non-medical personnel and general public. Not just this, the number of beneficiaries is going to be huge and this is sure to pose a very heavy workload on the system. Apart from being available at vaccination centres, doctors are also receiving frequent calls regarding adverse effects following immunization. These calls are bound to increase with non-medical personnel and general public becoming vaccine beneficiaries, said Dr T N Suresh, state secretary of KGMOA. The association leaders who met health minister K K Shailaja and principal secretary (health) Rajan N Khobragade put forward certain suggestions for the smooth conduct of the vaccination. Vaccination should be done only at a healthcare facility during its routine working time. More doctors should be posted under National Health Mission so that more vaccination booths can be constituted. Private hospitals should be involved in a better way. The doctors have also urged the government to set up a two-tier district-level call centre for attending calls and queries following vaccination. Service of NHM employees recruited for Covid duty can be utilized for this along with junior public health nurses and junior health inspectors. “Swab collection, being a procedure where a doctor’s skill is not mandatory, may be entrusted exclusively to paramedical staff. This will enable the doctors to be involved better in patient care, vaccination duty and other routine work,” said Dr Vijayakrishnan. There is an acute shortage of doctors in health services and the situation has become very serious now, with an increasing number of patients relying on government hospitals for both Covid and non-Covid treatment, said the association leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-docs-oppose-plan-to-begin-outreach-centres/articleshow/81195649.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Trichy||Mukilan slams govt haste over project||Trichy: Coordinator of the Tamil Nadu Environmental Protection Movement Mukilan on Tuesday approached the Karur district collector against the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar river linking project. He said that chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami and deputy CM O Panneerselvam have set a wrong precedent by laying the foundation stone for the project without obtaining consent from the ministry of environment, forest and climate for the project. He said people who have contradictory opinions about the project may hesitate to raise their voice in the public hearing after the CM and deputy CM laid the foundation stone in such a grand ceremony. Seeking to postpone the public hearing planned in the next few days, he said it’s unfair on the part of the CM to lay the foundation stone for the project in a hurry without conducting public hearing. Public hearing should be conducted only after releasing a detailed report of the project in Tamil language. It should also be conducted in places where land parcels are to be acquired for the project, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mukilan-slams-govt-haste-over-project/articleshow/81199753.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ten flights delayed, four cancelled||Ahmedabad: The departure of ten flights was delayed from SVPI airport in Ahmedabad on Saturday. These include flights to Jaipur, Goa, Varanasi, Bengaluru, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Amritsar, Delhi, Pune and Chennai. Besides these, three other flights to Bagdogra, Lucknow, Delhi and Mumbai were also cancelled. Operations of these flights were impacted due to operational constraints, said airport authorities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ten-flights-delayed-four-cancelled/articleshow/81198718.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Peon nabbed by GRP for stalking his former wife||MUMBAI: A 40-year-old man was arrested by Borivli GRP after his former wife complained of stalking. He is a peon at a nationalised bank, police said. The 35-year-old woman on Monday boarded the ladies coach of a train from Borivli to head to Andheri, where she works. She noticed him following her and boarding the general compartment of the train. At Andheri, he alighted after her. She complained to her partner, who took him to Andheri police station. “Andheri police directed her to GRP,” said a Borivli GRP officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/peon-nabbed-by-grp-for-stalking-his-former-wife/articleshow/81198706.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Students of 600+ schools to use Narendra Modi Stadium||AHMEDABAD: Union home minister and Gandhinagar MP Amit Shah said on Wednesday that students of over 600 schools who do not have playgrounds will use the facilities of the Narendra Modi Stadium. Shah said that students of schools of Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar districts will spend a day at the stadium. “The PT periods of the schools will be adjusted in such a manner that the kids can come to the stadium, spend time, play, and have their food here,” Shah said. “The students will be brought to the stadium in 24 buses.” Shah added: “I have been working closely with Narendra Modi in governance since 2003 and we have been working together for the party for the past 30 years.” He went on to say: “He always tells me that our youth will contribute to the country in a big way if they excel in sports.” Shah requested parents to encourage their children to take up sports as a career option.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/students-of-600-schools-to-use-stadium/articleshow/81198698.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Cop shot at outside post during check||New Delhi: A Delhi Police constable was reportedly shot at by criminals right outside a police post during checking in outer Delhi’s Bhalswa Dairy on Thursday evening. His condition is stated to be serious. Around 6pm, constable Sandeep, who was on picket-checking duty, flagged down a speeding motorcycle at the barricade. As the bikers tried to get away, the constable managed to corner them and asked them to come to the nearby police post. But they tried to flee again and shot at Sandeep when he attempted to stop them. The accused then left their bike and fled on foot. The accused fired twice at the cop, local people said, adding that while one bullet missed Sandeep, the other hit him in the belly. “There were three men on the bike. They had pistols. There was some argument regarding the numberplate and the cop asked them to accompany him. They then confronted the policeman and shot at him. He fell down as they ran away,” said a shopkeeper. The gunshots caused panic in the area with many passersby running for cover. Sandeep was initially taken to a local government hospital, but later referred to Max Hospital. He is under observation, doctors said. The crime and forensic teams have examined the scene of crime, and several teams have been formed to track the criminals. The Crime Branch and the Special Cell have also been asked to trace the shooters. An FIR under attempted murder and other related sections has been registered. The police are using the bike’s registration and other details to identify the criminals. The cops said they were in the process of obtaining the footage from CCTV cameras installed in the area. The Crime Branch is probing if any of the organised gangs functioning out of outer Delhi was behind the attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cop-shot-at-outside-post-during-check/articleshow/81217993.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Goa||State to have dry weather this week||Panaji: After unseasonal rain and thunderstorms lashed the state for nearly a week, the moisture incursion has significantly reduced over Goa. The India meteorological department (IMD), Goa, has given a dry weather forecast for the next five days. Parts of the state were overcast until Tuesday. Gradual fall is likely in the minimum temperature, but the day temperature with decreased humidity may continue at around 35 degrees Celsius for two days, the IMD said. The state had witnessed hail and thunderstorm over the weekend, unheard of in Goa in winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-have-dry-weather-this-week/articleshow/81198682.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Goa||Civic polls: HC reserves order on reservation pleas||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Wednesday reserved the order on multiple petitions challenging reservations and delimitations carried out for municipalities for the elections scheduled on March 20 . Advocate general Devidas Pangam argued that the elections are imminent and that the court shouldn’t interfere as this would result in delay in election. However, counsels argued that the election would be imminent in ordinary circumstances, but that, in this case, elections were due last year and delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic. When asked about discrepancies in reservation for women in municipalities and whether it would ask the state government to rectify this, the state election commission (SEC) stated that it has taken a stand that it cannot tell the government about this and that it is helpless. One counsel argued that if the elections continue with discrepancies in reservation, they will allow someone unconstitutional to sit there for five years. The court issued notice to the government in yet another petition filed challenging the delimitation for elections to the Corporation of the City of Panaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/civic-polls-hc-reserves-order-on-reservation-pleas/articleshow/81198703.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||Work on 100 km stretch of Bundelkhand Expressway done in a year: UPEIDA||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh Expressway and Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) on Wednesday claimed to have completed 100-km stretch of Bundelkhand Expressway within one year. The 296-km long expressway connecting Chitrakoot and Etawah on Agra-Lucknow Expressway, is expected to be completed by the end of next year. While 18-km stretch has been completed under package-1, the stretch of 13 km has been made under package-2. Likewise, stretches of 10 km, 24 km, 22 km and 13 km have been completed under subsequent packages. Chief executive officer, UPEIDA, Awanish Awasthi said, “While carrying out the construction work, the authority has ensured that the quality has not been compromised. The work of construction of bridges on Yamuna and Betwa rivers are being carried out at a fast pace.” He said the authority had completed 45% of the work on the expressway. “In fact, 96% work of grubbing and clearing has been completed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/work-on-100km-stretch-of-bundelkhand-e-way-done-in-a-yr-upeida/articleshow/81199717.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Counselling classes for students before exams||KOCHI: As CBSE’s Class X and XII board exams near, the Council of CBSE Schools Kerala (CCSK) will start a series of counselling sessions for students to help reduce their mental stress, caused by the changed learning scenario in the wake of the pandemic, and motivate them to write exams confidently. ‘Prayukthi-Exam Series’ is expected to give insights into the conduct of exams, clarify doubts and further boost the morale of the student. The series will be held virtually from Friday and the first talk will be delivered by Sanyam Bhardwaj, controller of examinations, CBSE. Students of all CBSE schools in Kerala are expected to attend the session hosted by experts. Indira Rajan, secretary general, National Council of CBSE Schools, said that the series envisions a stress-free, positive mindset for students to approach the board exam with more focus and vigour. The series, which has the theme ‘Motivational webinars in the context of CBSE board exams 2021’, will be hosted with the help of CBSE and the sessions are organized in association with campus field resources. “Prayukthi series, which is exclusively for the students of grade 10 and 12, is launched with the intention to relieve the stress and apprehensions in the context of board exam as students had been attending school virtually. Invitations have been sent to more than 14,000 CBSE-affiliated school in state,” said CCSK in a statement. Students, who are interested in participating in the programme and want to share queries regarding CBSE board examinations commencing from May 4, can register through their respective schools. A google doc has been launched for the registration and sharing queries and schools have to fill it. Only those queries shared to CCSK, through the link, will be answered during the session. “During lockdown, CCSK conducted various virtual outreach programmes like Prashikshan – Training The Trainers and Friday Talk series, which impacted teachers, educators , parents and students in a very positive and insightful manner,” said the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/counselling-classes-for-students-before-exams/articleshow/81195676.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||From poetry to anecdotes: Yogi Adityanath’s different strokes to make his point||LUCKNOW: From Ramcharitmanas chaupai to Hindi poetry and anecdotes, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had dollops of them during his 2.5-hour speech. He began his by recalling an interaction with former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee about 18 years ago. “While the meeting was on, an MP came running. Apologizing for his late arrival, the MP narrated that when a politician told public about his party, people started beating him and that he somehow saved the poor man. The MP asked Vajpayeeji to explain why such an incident took place,” the CM said. Citing the former PM’s reply, he added: “Vajpayeeji quoted a line from Agyeya’s poem in reply "Saanp. Tum sabhya toh kabhi hue nahin, nagar mein basna bhi tumhe nahin aaya. Ek baat puchhoon? (uttar doge?) Tab kaise seekha dansna, vish kahan paya? As the searing lines from Sachchidananda Hirananda Vatsyayan Agyeya left the house looking for answers in silence, the CM added: “We must think if our actions were damaging the constitutional system…” Similarly, Yogi used a Ramcharitmanas chaupai to question the people who have problems with government’s work in Ayodhya. “Avadhpuri sam priya nahi sohu, yah prasang jane kou kou,” Yogi said as members of the ruling party echoed along with him. Giving a context to the verse he said: “what is wrong in talking about the significance of Avadhpuri (Ayodhya) - the importance of which is globally known and acknowledged? Why some people have a problem with the name of Ram even as it is a matter of national pride for India. I fail to reason the animosity in present times and wonder what demons in times of Lord Rama did…” Later, in a reference to describe the valour of King Suheldev, the CM referred to lines from Ramdhari Singh Dinkar’s 'Rashmirathi'. “Mool jaanana bada kathin hai nadiyon ka, veeron ka, dhanush chhor kar aur gotra kya hota hai randheeron ka? Paate hain samman Tapobal se bhutal pr shoor, jati jati ka shor machate kewal kayar kroor."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/from-poetry-to-anecdotes-yogis-different-strokes-to-make-his-point/articleshow/81199663.cms||Shailvee Sharda
February 25, 2021||Trichy||K N Nehru pitches for Trichy West seat again||Trichy: DMK principal secretary K N Nehru on Wednesday submitted his application to the party headquarters in Chennai seeking ticket to contest from Trichy West constituency again. Being the incumbent MLA of the constituency since 2016, Nehru expressed his interest in contesting from the seat for the fifth time. Going by records, Nehru has been keeping Trichy West constituency, formerly known as Trichy II, as his favourite ground after his first victory against AIADMK’s Mariam Pitchai in 2006. Since then, Nehru has contested four times (2006, 2011, 2011 and 2016) in Trichy West including a by-election. Out of the four elections, Nehru won twice in 2006 and 2016. Nehru was defeated by AIADMK candidate Mariam Pitchai in 2011. The death of Mariam Pitchai in a road accident near Perambalur hours before him taking oath as a minister necessitated a by-election in the same year when AIADMK’s M Paranjothi won against Nehru. A senior party man said that the anti-incumbency and various negative factors resulted in his defeat in 2011 but he managed to win again the constituency in 2016 defeating AIADMK’s R Manoharan. Nehru’s maiden victory as a legislature was from Lalgudi constituency in 1989 where he contested elections three times in 1991, 1996 and 2001. Among the four elections, he lost in 1991 and 2001 after which he switched to Trichy West.  He also deputed his son Arun Nehru to work with the local partymen and local people after his elevation as the principal secretary of the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/k-n-nehru-pitches-for-trichy-west-seat-again/articleshow/81199777.cms||Gokul Rajendran
February 25, 2021||Kolkata||BJP-TMC clash on Amherst St, cars vandalized||Kolkata/Barrackpore: A clash broke out on Amherst Street on Wednesday as a BJP road show, led by BJP leaders Arjun Singh, Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee, reached the area in the afternoon and was confronted by Trinamool supporters, who allegedly showed them black flag and brooms. Soon a clash ensued and several cars and two-wheelers were vandalized. As the conflict escalated, traffic on Amherst Street had to be shut down for over half an hour, leaving commuters headed for Sealdah in a lurch. The clash did not remain cintained to Amherst Street but spread up to Santosh Mitra Square, where several BJP leaders were waiting. Cars of the BJP leaders were ransacked, as bricks were hurled allegedly by Trinamool men. One of the BJP supporters there was reportedly injured on his head. As the police stepped in to disperse the mob, a brick was hurled at a cop vehicle, damaging it. Later, Trinamool supporters staged a road block in protest against BJP workers, claiming the party workers had attacked some students of City College, which had led to the showdown. Rajib Banerjee later questioned, “Is the Trinamool wanting a Holi of blood as they are attacking our men and talking about a match? Irrespective of the goal keeper, BJP will witness a thumping victory with a large margin.” Trinamool MP Saugata Roy, however, said that the demonstration staged by the party supporters was spontaneous as the BJP men had attacked them. At Kanchrapara, at least eight BJP leaders and supporters, including Bijpur MLA Subhranshu Roy and BJP Barrackpore district unit president Rabin Bhattacharya, were injured when a clash broke out between party supporters and police over the BJP’s Paribartan Yatra. In protest against the reported assualt on his party supporters, BJP leader Kailas Vijayvargiya staged a sit-in demonstration and BJP supporters put up a road block on Kanchrapara-Kampa Road adjacent to Kalyani Expressway at Kampa More for an hour. Trouble broke out around 4pm, when the BJP flagged off its Paribartan Yatra from Kampa More but police set up a barricade on Kampa Road. As the BJP men tried to pull down the barricade to move forward, a clash ensued with the cops. The BJP alleged police deliberately resorted to lathi-charge on BJP workers and leaders. “We took permission from Bijpur police station for the rally. Still, police deliberately blocked our way and resorted to lathicharge, on being instructed by Trinamool leaders,” said MLA Roy, who recently switched over to BJP. Police, however, claimed the BJP supporters did not follow rules. “There were restrictions on taking out the procession in some of the narrow roads. But the supporters tried to enter those restricted areas forcibly and scuffled with the cops,” a senior police officer at the Barrackpore commissionerate said. The road block severely disrupted traffic on Kampa Road, Ghoshpara Road and Kalyani Expressway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-tmc-clash-on-amherst-st-cars-vandalized/articleshow/81198730.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Culture department director files complaint against secretary in-charge of dept accusing him of harassment||Dehradun: Beena Bhatt, director of the state culture department has accused IAS officer Dilip Jawalkar, presently serving as secretary (tourism and culture) of “bias and harassment at the workplace.” In a complaint given to additional chief secretary Radha Raturi, Bhatt alleged that the secretary has misbehaved with her, pressurised her to give contracts to favoured individuals and also attempted to pose a hurdle in her appraisals. She said that the harassment was “going on for over 3 years.”  The 4-page letter goes on to allege that the secretary used indecent language against her and tried to embarrass her by raising questions about her competence and character in front of co-workers. This, Bhatt alleged was an offence under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. Further, it was alleged by Bhatt, an officer from PCS allied services, that her promotion file was delayed for over two years and when she finally got the promotion in September 2020 following orders of the high court, the IAS officer created a post of director general in the department and appointed another IAS officer there. This, she alleged, was done to ensure she doesn’t become head of the concerned department in which she has been working since 2013. When contacted, secretary Dilip Jawalkar said that he has no information about any complaint letter sent against him. “If there is any complaint against me, I will respond to the government when asked to,” he added. Meanwhile, additional chief secretary Radha Raturi has sought a detailed report on the entire matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/culture-department-director-files-complaint-against-secretary-in-charge-of-dept-accusing-him-of-harassment/articleshow/81195652.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Colleges, universities in U'khand to reopen from March 1||Dehradun: The state higher education department has announced the reopening of all degree colleges and universities in Uttarakhand from March 1. It is after a gap of almost a year that the higher education institutions will be allowed to conduct offline classes. The order will be applicable to both private and government higher education institutes. Earlier, the department had issued an order in December 2020 in which it stated that first or final semester students will have their offline classes getting operational from December 15, 2020. Also, only students of those courses which had both theory as well as practical classes were allowed to be covered in the December 2020 order. Students of some other semesters or theory-oriented courses were not covered in the order and didn’t see their offline classes being conducted from December 15, 2020. The demand for reopening the colleges and universities was constantly growing especially after the offline classes in schools for students of Classes 6-9 and 11 had started earlier this month. The offline classes for students of board classes had started in November 2020, but received below-average response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/colleges-universities-in-ukhand-to-reopen-from-march-1/articleshow/81195670.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Tourism back in limelight||By allocating Rs 500 crore to the Tourism Development Fund, the state seems to have put its money where its mouth is. More importantly, Rs 200 crore of the corpus would be spent for marketing and promotion. For a long time, the package evaded the industry which was first to get hit by the pandemic and is still struggling to stand on its feet. In the series of relief measures announced under Atmanirbhar package, the sector was given a step-motherly treatment. The Union Budget was announced earlier in February also paid no heed to their crying needs. As clamour for government support grew to bail out the sector from a collapsing situation, first set of relief measures came in the excise policy. Now, the state Budget has followed suit. Kuldeep Singh Chandela, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Rajasthan said, “Finally, the government has realized the importance of tourism. The allocation of Rs 500 crore to the sector put life back into the sector that has been severely hit.” The fate of sectors like handicraft and textile, hotel industry, tour operators and local artists, among others, are tied to the performance of the sector. Lakhs of people depend on tourism. Covid has robbed many of their livelihoods. “The thrust of setting up tourist complexes in Jaisalmer and Pushkar, creating new circuits and promoting building of new infrastructure with viability gap funding will go a long way in resurrecting the sector,” added Chandela. The Budget proposed to develop Shekhawati circuit, Godavan Tourism Circuit, Dhola Maru Tourist Complex, pilgrimage places of all religions and religious tourism circuits. In order to promote day tourism, adventure tourism, rural and tribal tourism, the chief minister has proposed to prove viability gap funding for investors creating infrastructure. For film shootings, the government will also provide GST exemptions. However, Chandela, who is also president of Rajasthan Associationof Tourism Operators said government should have given benefits of industry tourism sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourism-back-in-limelight/articleshow/81198742.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Pension scam: Man dupes Nair hospital of Rs 9.9 lakh||MUMBAI: The Agripada police on Wednesday arrested a 32-year-old clerk attached to Nair Hospital for alleged forgery and cheating. Accused Prasad Gosavi manipulated the family pension and gratuity for two deceased persons. Gosavi was booked on Monday for defrauding the BMC of Rs 9.9 lakh between July and September in 2020. The matter came to light during an internal audit of the hospital. The police said that Gosavi has returned the money to the government body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pension-scam-man-dupes-nair-hosp-of-rs-9-9l/articleshow/81198756.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Patna||Bihar Government seeks CBI probe into Rs 8 crore fraud in SBI||PATNA: The state government has recommended CBI investigation into the fraudulent transfer of Rs8 crore from the Manpur branch of State Bank of India (SBI) at Gaya. The forgery case was lodged with Muffasil police station of Gaya on July 18 last year. The case is presently being investigated by the state police. The home department notification said the governor of Bihar is pleased to accord his consent to the members of Delhi Special Police Establishment to investigate/supervise and inquire into the Muffasil police station case number 267/2020, which relates to fraud in the State Bank of India, Manpur branch, Gaya. The notification was signed on February 18 and it has now uploaded to the home department website. When asked, Wazirganj SDPO Ghuran Mandal on Wednesday said at least eight persons involved in the forgery were evading arrest. “Orders have already been issued to arrest the accused,” Mandal said. Branch manager Sujeet Kumar Das had lodged an FIR against field officer Priti Singh and accountant Doman Chaudhary, who were posted in the same branch. As per the FIR, whose copy is with TOI, Das alleged that after Priti with connivance of Doman opened 60 fake accounts and transferred Rs7,96,00,916 (Rs7.96) crore into them from other legitimate bank accounts without permission of the account holders. In the FIR, it is mentioned that Priti opened 12 accounts in her name. Similarly, she opened accounts in the name of Vijay Kumar, Rinku Kumari, Urmila Singh, Shravan Kumar Singh, Vivek Singh and Shubham Kumar to transfer the money. Das had also alleged that all these persons were close relatives of Priti. Priti, Vijay and Rinku belong to Narayangarh under Rampur police station area while Urmila is from Purani Godam locality in Gaya. Vivek is a resident of Lalganj in Varanasi, Shravan and Shubam hail from Telmar in Nalanda while Doman is from Navinagar in Nawada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-seeks-cbi-probe-into-rs8cr-fraud-in-sbi/articleshow/81196888.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Staggered work timings for staff at Mantralaya||MUMBAI: A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked the state administration to stagger working hours of state secretariat employees to ensure social distance without hampering routine work, the chief secretary issued an order, asking department secretaries to decide on the form of staggered timings at their convenience. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar issued an order asking all department secretaries to consider the staggered time schedule that could be either an alternate-day work, thrice a week, weekly shift or staggering working day hours. Kumar’s order states that in the wake of rising number of Covid cases in Mumbai and the state and in order to facilitate adherence to social distancing norms and to ensure that crowding is avoided, staggered work hours may be initiated at the state secretariat. Secretaries of departments can decide on what form of staggering to adopt subject to maintaining of social distancing and other Covid protocol while ensuring that work is not affected. —SujitMahamulkar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/staggered-work-timings-for-staff-at-mantralaya/articleshow/81194537.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 25, 2021||Trichy||Horticulture dept to develop onion seedlings to stabilize price||Trichy: The horticulture department in Trichy has planned to distribute onion seedlings to farmers as an alternative to onion bulbs as the demand for small onion is growing. Onion seeds are being readied in the farms maintained by the horticulture department as part of a special scheme under the national horticulture development programme following the rise in onion price in the past few days. Once all the farmers start to use seedlings, price fluctuations in the market can be stabilized. The department has an action plan for nurturing the seedlings in 500 acres in Trichy. Preparations are on to raise seedlings at the state horticulture farm located at Thorakkudi in Manikandam block and at the centre of excellence for tropical fruits in Marungapuri in Trichy district, officials said.The government is providing Rs 20,000 subsidy per hectare to onion farmers under the scheme of hybrid vegetable area expansion under the national horticulture mission. Farmers will be given two lakh onion seedlings per hectare for the subsidy. On a trial basis, we have already raised onion seedlings in 25 acres,” deputy director of the horticulture department, Trichy C Vimala told TOI.“Farmers store a major portion of onion bulbs as seed every year. However, due to natural calamities like rain, they could not keep them safe for a long time. This would create demand for the seed as well as scarcity in the market for culinary purpose. When farmers start to use seedlings instead of the bulbs – the traditional method of cultivating small onions, they need not keep a major portion of their produce and also avert revenue loss,” she further stated.While seedlings are given, the farmers could save nearly 30 days. Normally it would take 70 to 80 days for the bulb to become mature for harvest, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/horticulture-dept-to-develop-onion-seedlings-to-stabilize-price/articleshow/81199800.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 25, 2021||Kolkata||A day after high drama, Rakesh home wears a deserted look||Kolkata: Orphangunge Road in Alipore, which witnessed intense drama for over three hours on Tuesday, wore a deserted look on Wednesday. Nearly 200 police personnel, including officers of Watgunje, Garden Reach and Alipore police stations and officers of the detective department, had converged on BJP leader Rakesh Singh’s home on Tuesday, leading to a stand-off with Singh’s children. The cops waited till the court denied Singh’s plea and only after that, were they allowed to enter the house around 5.05pm. On Wednesday, however, the scene was completely different. Only a couple of police officers reached Singh’s home to inform his daughter that her father had been arrested and that he was in Lalbazar. When Singh was at Alipore court, he stopped for some time to hug his daughter. The deserted entrance to Singh’s residence on the narrow road located about 500 metre from the Alipore Zoo-Zeerut bridge crossing and dotted with a mix of residences and trading units, stood out. A lone CAPF man, along with an office boy, were found outside the home. After Singh joined BJP in March 2018, he was provided with Y-category security by the Centre. Santosh Singh, a neighbour, said he had seen the rise of Singh. “Today he might be moving around with Y-category security, but he has been popular in the area since a long time, since his Congress days,” Santosh said. “He had provided some local youths with jobs.” In 2016 assembly elections, Singh had unsuccessfully contested on a Congress ticket from the Port area. Singh’s brush with law came as no surprise to his neighbours. But among some people, whom he had helped in some way or the other, he still holds strong loyalty. State advocate-general Kishore Datta, during his submissions in Calcutta High Court on Tuesday had referred to Singh as a “history sheeter” with 56 criminal cases against him, some lodged even a decade ago. Singh had earlier told TOI that he was not bothered even if the number of cases against him was 555. “I have been slapped with numerous cases over the years, but they haven’t been able to prove even one of them,” Singh had said. In politics for the past 17 years, Singh’s career has seen him being accused in a number of serious offences, including in a hospital arson case, the Vidyasagar bust vandalism case and finally, the attack on BJP president J P Nadda’s convoy. Singh rose through the ranks within a few years after he took control of the workers’ union at Alipore zoo. Over the years, he took control of employees’ unions at multiple private hospitals in the Alipore-Ekbalpore area, the Kolkata racecourse, and nearby hotels. Even on Wednesday, he remained his usual self. “I am not like any other leader who can be forced upon, I will not buckle, but stand with the truth,” Singh claimed while speaking to his lawyer in the court lockup.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-day-after-high-drama-rakesh-home-wears-a-deserted-look/articleshow/81198746.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 25, 2021||Nashik||Top cop helps Nepal trader get back Rs 6.5L||Nashik: A Nepal-based trader was recently helped by Nashik Range IG (Special) Pratap Dighavkar in getting his Rs 6.5 lakh that was stuck with an onion exporter in Chandwad. The Nepalese trader, claiming that the onion trader was not exporting the produce for which the payment was already made, but was also not returning the money. The police soon swung into action and ensured that the complainant got his money back within 24 hours. The trader from Nepal, Rajaram Muktinath Regmi, had sought onion from the exporter after getting an assurance of a good deal. However, despite Regmi paying Rs 6.50 lakh, the exporter did not keep his word. Learning from various sources that Dighavkar is very serious about such cheating cases, the trader came all the way to Nashik at the office of the IG (Special) to submit his complaint. Regmi gave an application to Dighavkar on February 16 and the IG (Special) immediately instructed Lasalgaon police to take action. The Lasalgaon police team, comprising API Rahul Wagh, PSI Ramkrushna Sonawane and constable Pradeep Ajge, swung into action and called the exporter to the Lasalgaon police station. The police then held a meeting between the two parties and warned the exporter that he could be booked for cheating if he did not return the money. The exporter then immediately handed over the money to Regmi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/top-cop-helps-nepal-trader-get-back-rs-6-5l/articleshow/81194806.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Trichy||AIADMK, AMMK cadres flex muscles on Jaya birth anniv||Thanjavur: Tension prevailed near Thanjavur railway station when a few AIADMK and AMMK cadres removed each other’s party flags, while they gathered there for garlanding the statue of former chief ministers J Jayalalithaa and M G Ramachandran on the formers birth anniversary on Wednesday. However, police brought the situation under control. According to police, both the AIADMK and AMMK functionaries had fixed their party flags around the statues. AMMK functionaries and cadres arrived there in the morning and garlanded both the statues. Subsequently, police asked them to remove the party flags stating that the AIADMK functionaries would follow them to pay their respect to the late leaders. But the AMMK cadres were reluctant to do so, and in return urged police to remove the AIADMK flags. At the same time, the AIADMK functionaries and cadres also arrived at the spot. Some of them removed the AMMK flags and threw them on the road. In retaliation, the AMMK cadres also removed the AIADMK flags, police said. However, police intervened and pacified both the party workers, police sources said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aiadmk-ammk-cadres-flex-muscles-on-jaya-birth-anniv/articleshow/81199808.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Kochi||Kerala Speaker unveils KM Mani’s statue||KOTTAYAM: On March 13, 2015, P Sreeramakrishnan and his party MLAs did not want finance minister KM Mani to present the budget in the assembly. They had then alleged that he was involved in the bar bribery case. Speaker N Sakthan was prevented from entering his chambers and slogans were raised against Mani by Sreeramakrishnan and others. On Wednesday, Sreeramakrishnan, who is the present speaker of the assembly, was in Pala to unveil the statue of Mani reminding everyone that nothing is permanent in politics. After the incident in 2015, lots of incidents happened in state politics. Mani passed away, his party Kerala Congress (M) split and the faction lead by his son, Jose K Mani, joined LDF. On the occasion of unveiling Mani’s statue, Sreeramakrishnan said that Mani was a visionary and had occupied a unique position in Indian politics. Mani, who had coined a new ideology, had humility, would listen to others and was tolerant, he said. The 8.5ft statue of Mani wearing white ‘mundu and jubba’ – unveiled in the heart of Pala town –was made using cement and marble stone powder. It was Kerala Youth Front (M), the youth wing of Kerala Congress (M), which took up the initiative of making the statue. Auxiliary bishop of Pala Mar Jacob Muricken presided over the function. Prominent personalities from various fields attended the event. Mani’s wife Kuttiyamma, son Jose K Mani and his wife Nisha were among those who took part in the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/speaker-unveils-km-manis-statue/articleshow/81195687.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 2 beaten in fight over public urination||AHMEDABAD: A man from Sabarmati area on Wednesday filed a complaint against four men who attacked him and his nephew following an altercation over public urination late on Tuesday night. Bharat Thakor, 50, a resident of Saraswatinagar Society in the New Ranip locality, states in his FIR with Sabarmati police that he saw two men urinating in public in front of his house on Tuesday night. He told them not to urinate in public and to go somewhere else as it is unhygienic and it does not look proper as there were women living around. This did not go well with the two men who began abusing Thakor and called two more friends of theirs. The four men began abusing Thakor in front of his wife, sister and two nieces. Thakor objected to this and told them not to abuse him. The four men, who were armed with sticks, then attacked Thakor. When Thakor’s nephew Karan Thakor, 20, tried to rescue him, the four held him and thrashed him too. Both Thakor and his nephew suffered head injuries and some neighbours rushed in and rescued them from the four men. Some locals called the police control room but before the cops could arrive, the four men fled while threatening Thakor with dire consequences. After a while cops arrived and took Thakor and his nephew to Sabarmati police station where a complaint of assault, use of abusive words, criminal intimidation and abetment was lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-beaten-in-fight-over-public-urination/articleshow/81198789.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Unemployment allowance raised by Rs 1k||Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday, while presenting the Budget 2021-22, announced that unemployment allowance for youths under CM Yuva Sambal Yojana will be increased by Rs 1,000 and the allowance will now be provided to 2 lakh youths in the state. He also announced that there will be recruitment on more than 50,000 posts in various departments (12) over the next two years. The departments include agriculture (1674), animal husbandry (836), ayurveda (890),education (19,000), forest (1700), home (8438), medical education (336),medical health (5000), PHED (3838), PWD (1538), revenue (1100), Other departments (8,000).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unemployment-allowance-raised-by-rs-1k/articleshow/81198750.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Glitches in Co-Win app in U’khand, allege health dept workers||Dehradun: Health department workers in Uttarakhand are pointing out what they claim are technical glitches in the Centre’s Co-Win app. The health workers said that in several cases, the app is not sending registration messages to the beneficiaries while in others, the details of the beneficiaries are incorrect. Till now, the state has managed to achieve 78% inoculation targets for healthcare workers while 65% of frontline workers have been vaccinated so far against the target. Vinay Negi (name changed), staffer at Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) in Dehradun was told that he will get the first dose of Covid-19 vaccination in the initial few days of the inoculation drive that started countrywide on January 16. To his surprise, his name didn’t appear in the beneficiary details for more than a fortnight. He later volunteered himself and got the shot after manual registration. In case of second dose of the vaccine, Negi again didn’t receive any SMS alert. “This is happening with many beneficiaries. In some cases, their details on the app are wrong and hence it is becoming difficult to contact them. In other cases, the SMS that goes to the beneficiary wasn’t received by him and hence he didn’t turn up to the camp. We have to manually keep track of the turns and inform the people personally,” said Dr NS Khatri, deputy medical superintendent at GDMC. Rohit Verma, a contractual staffer at GDMC, added that complaints of incorrect data are coming more frequently in the case of frontline workers. “The difficulty is that it takes a lot of time to contact their departments and then take their contacts and rectify them as the Co-Win app only opens when the combination of your registration, DOB and other details matches,” he added. Dr Saroj Naithani, director of National Health Mission (NHM) who is heading the Covid-19 vaccination drive in Uttarakhand said that the issue of missing names from the Co-Win app was fixed since government allowed walk-in and voluntary vaccination but technical glitches like wrong details and SMS delays are still being reported in large numbers. “We are able to handle this as of now since just healthcare and frontline workers are being vaccinated presently. We mostly know them or know people who know about their details. But during public immunisation, there will be a problem in tracking beneficiaries,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/glitches-in-co-win-app-in-ukhand-allege-health-dept-workers/articleshow/81195680.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Drunk man kills wife after argument||New Delhi: A 30-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing his wife in north Delhi’s Sant Nagar. Police said that the accused, Raj Kumar, slept through the night next to the woman’s body. Kumar works as a plumber. Police said that he was an alcoholic and often quarrelled with his wife, Hashika, on petty issues. On Wednesday night, the accused came home drunk and started arguing with his wife over his drinking habit and strangled her to death. He woke up later and fled the house in the early hours. The family members later informed police, who found him at his sister’s house. He has been arrested and sent to Tihar Jail. Kumar told cops that earlier he used to work as a photographer in Kotla Mubarakpur. During lockdown, he had no work and shifted to his in-law’s house six-months-ago along with his wife and son. They were living on the fifth floor of the building. He started working as a plumber and his wife opened a small grocery shop near the building. On Tuesday, the two went to their room around 11pm after dinner. The murder happened around 11.30pm, police said. Kumar woke up around 4.30am and realised that Hashika had died, following which he packed his bags and went to his sister’s house in Nangloi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drunk-man-kills-wife-after-argument/articleshow/81218039.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Countrywide bandh on Friday unlikely to hit Delhi markets||NEW DELHI: The nationwide bandh called by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Friday may not have much impact on Delhi markets as most traders’ associations have decided to keep their shops open. However, the associations have announced their support to the cause and have given a representation to the GST council and the government for making the GST system simpler and trader friendly. Traders’ associations of Sadar Bazar, Kucha Mahajani and Kamla Nagar had announced on Wednesday that the markets will remain open. About 20 other prominent markets in the city, like Connaught Place, Janpath , Karol Bagh , Khan Market, Main Road Chandni Chowk, South Extension Part 1, South Extension Part 2, Aurobindo Market , Gaffar Marke , Tank Road Readymade Garments Wholesale Marke , Lajpat Nagar, Green Park , and Greater Kailash 1 and 2 made similar announcements after a joint meeting on Thursday. The associations claimed that the CAIT didn’t consult them before calling the bandh, but they are also against the existing GST rules. CAIT general secretary Praveen Khandelwal, however, said that the decision was convened four days back in a meeting where representatives of all market associations were present. “We have called the bandh against arbitrary provisions under GST, including the recent amendment, imposition of huge penalties even for a small unintentional error that will make life miserable for the business community. Except for a few markets, we are expecting 100% bandh in Delhi and other states, because our demand to review the GST system and tax slabs is genuine,” said Khandelwal. “Closing the shops will have a direct implication on the economy and customer sentiments. Also, the bandh was called without a prior consultation with traders in Delhi by CAIT,” said Ashwani Marwah, general secretary, traders’ association Lajpat Nagar. Many traders associations have decided to give a presentation to the GST council and government bodies concerned to get a solution on the issue. “Members of Bhartiya Udyog Vyapaar Mandal (BUVM) has called a meeting on Wednesday and decided to meet the minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur for simplifying norms for GST,” said Rakesh Yadav, general secretary of BUVM and president, Sadar Bazar traders’ association. “Presently, there is provision for a 200% penalty if any mistake is found in e-way bills. Further, our accounts will get seized in addition to imposition of penalty if GST submission is considered wrong,” said Rakesh Yadav, general secretary of Bhartiya Udhyog Vyapaar Mandal (BUVM) and president, Sadar Bazar traders’ association. Yadav said that in the present circumstances, traders become bank defaulters and overdraft limits from banks may also get cancelled. “We are in favour of one nation one tax, but then these norms should be traders friendly too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/countrywide-bandh-unlikely-to-hit-city-mkts/articleshow/81218081.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 25, 2021||Patna||Liquor smugglers gun down SI in Sitamarhi||PATNA/SITAMARHI: A police sub-inspector and one alleged liquor smuggler were killed while a village chowkidar received gunshot injury during an encounter at Kuaari Madan village under Majorganj police station area of Sitamarhi on Wednesday. Slain sub-inspector Dinesh Ram (34) of 2009 batch belonged to Lakhaura near Motihari in East Champaran district. Chowkidar Lal Bahadur Paswan was undergoing treatment at a private hospital. One of the liquor smugglers, identified as Mukul Singh (32), was arrested while his cousin Ranjan Singh (25) was killed in the firing, police sources said. Sadar SDPO Ramakant Upadhyaya said Mukul and Ranjan were wanted in two liquor smuggling and one extortion cases registered with Majorganj police station. He said the two were hiding in the house of one Sudha Devi (45). “When the police team entered the house, the duo fired at least ten rounds and tried to flee towards Nepal. The villagers started chasing them. It was during this chase that Mukul opened fire on the villagers, but two bullets hit his cousin Ranjan in the head and waist,” he said. The SDPO said Mukul was nabbed from Burha Chhatauna village, which is hardly 50 yards away from the Nepal border, he said. Sitamarhi SP Anil Kumar said liquor smuggler Ranjan’s body was recovered from a banana orchard, which is at least 3km from the village where police had gone to conduct the raid. The SP said the police team led by the SI had actually gone to the village to arrest Ranjan, Mukul and their associates in an extortion case. He said at least four-five persons were hiding in the house where police conducted the raid. “As soon as they entered the house, the criminals opened fire in which the SI and chowkidar received bullet injuries. The SI died on way to the hospital,” he said. Another chowkidar Dharmajeet Kumar, who was also a part of the raiding team, told this newspaper over phone that Mukul and Ranjan also tried to kill him but missed the target. “Both attacked me after opening fire on SI and Paswan. We all got into a fist-fight after which they fled towards Nepal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/liquor-smugglers-gun-down-si-in-sitamarhi/articleshow/81196961.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Kailash Mansarovar Yatra likely to be on hold this yr too||Pithoragarh: Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam (KMVN), nodal agency for the Kailash-Mansarovar yatra on the Indian side, has said that preparatory meetings for the annual pilgrimage, which are usually organised by the ministry of external affairs (MEA) in the first week of February, have not been held yet this year. Sources said that no updates had been received regarding the yatra, leading to speculations that it might be cancelled for the second year in a row. Last year, the yatra had been cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Every year, a preparatory meeting regarding the yatra is organised in the first week of February by the MEA in Delhi but this year, there has been no information. Last year when the yatra was cancelled, KMVN lost out on revenue to the tune of Rs 4 crore,” said Ashok Joshi, general manager (tourism), KMVN. KMVN also organises the Adi Kailash yatra on the same route as the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra on the Indian side. Joshi said that in the absence of Kailash Mansarovar Yatra, pilgrims don’t come for Adi Kailash Yatra also. “We have received some inquiries, but no confirmed bookings for the Adi Kailash trek. Unless Kailash Mansarovar Yatra is confirmed, people don’t prefer taking this pilgrimage,” Joshi said. The Kailash Mansarovar Yatra organised by KMVN passes through several areas of Kumaon before the yatris cross over to China-held Tibet. “Residents of the areas through which the yatris pass eagerly await the annual pilgrimage as it is a major source of income for locals. If the yatra is not held, it will be a big blow,” said Rakesh Tiwari, a local resident. Since it started in 1981, the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra was put on hold for the first time last year. In 2019, nearly 1,000 pilgrims had taken the pilgrimage in 18 batches. Apart from KMVN, the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) as well as the Pithoragarh district administration are the other agencies which co-ordinate the yatra on the Indian side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kailash-mansarovar-yatra-likely-to-be-on-hold-this-yr-too/articleshow/81195684.cms||Prem Punetha
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||After HC rap, state says FIR in a week in 2-year-old case||Mumbai: After the Bombay high court pulled up the Thane Anti-Corruption Bureau for delaying registering a first information report (FIR) against an advertising contractor who caused financial loss to the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), the state said the FIR shall be lodged within a week. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni heard a public interest litigation (PIL), filed in December 2018 by activist-lawyer Pravin Wategaonkar, to direct an FIR against Solutions Advertising Pvt Ltd, which was given a contract to construct and maintain 470 bus shelters in Thane city in lieu of advertising rights. Wategaonkar explained that the contractor cheated the TMC by making deficit payments towards advertising fees due to it. According to the TMC, it was paid a deficit of nearly Rs 5 crore and had levied a penalty five times the amount on the contractor. Its survey showed that while 55% bus shelters displayed commercial advertisements, the contractor paid advertisement fees of only 2.5 % of the display area. After the PIL was filed, the state kept seeking time. The high court in December 2019 granted three months to complete an inquiry and take a decision. Wategaonkar said thereafter the pandemic followed and nothing was done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-hc-rap-state-says-fir-in-a-week-in-2-year-old-case/articleshow/81198816.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 25, 2021||Aurangabad||Tree-plantation drive atThackeray memorial today||Aurangabad: The civic body has announced a tree-plantation drive at the site of memorial of Balasaheb Thackeray in the Cidco area on Thursday amid criticism that the green cover has taken a hit due to the project. Jansahyog Foundation, the NGO appointed by Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court to monitor the green-cover at the site, has submitted negative observations during the latest hearing of a PIL in the court. In its affidavit, the NGO stated that many trees and plants at the site were in “brunt condition” and 50% of the plants “dried out” due to lack of watering. It highlighted many empty pits at the site that were supposed to have plants and inadequate security at the site. Advocate Sunny Khivansara, appearing for the petitioner Raosaheb Bharsakhale and others in the PIL, said over 1,200 trees and plants at the memorial site have been cut over the last three years. “The NGO is expected to submit actual count of trees and plants at the site during the next hearing scheduled for February 26. The petitioners seek stay on the construction of the memorial as the site upon which it is coming up is a biodiversity rich area,” he said. Earlier on Tuesday, AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey visited the memorial site, which is also known as Priyadarshini garden. The AMC said in a statement quoting Pandey that the condition of the garden was satisfactory. “The trees which are transplanted at the garden are also in good condition. In order to improve the green cover at the garden, we appeal to citizens and nature-lovers to take part in the tree-plantation drive at the garden on Thursday.” The proposed memorial had courted controversy in the past over cutting of trees, prompting chief minister UddhavThackeray to give an assurance that the green cover at the site would not be harmed for the sake of the memorial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tree-plantation-drive-atthackeray-memorial-today/articleshow/81194824.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Ludhiana||Lodhi Club member complains against SMS by candidates||Ludhiana: In an unusual complaint, a member of Lodhi Club has now demanded that those candidates contesting elections of the club should be disqualified who are sending bulk SMS, Whatsapp messages to him seeking vote as it is leading to mental harassment to receive so many messages daily from them. In his complaint sent to the Varinder Kumar Sharma, club president-cum-DC, complainant Rohit Sabharwal, who is also an RTI activist, has said, “The elections of the Lodhi Club are scheduled to be held on March 7 and due to these upcoming elections I am receiving SMS and Whatsapp messages in bulk from various candidates on my mobile number, asking me to vote for them in the elections, which is annoying and harassing. I know for whom I will vote, so it will be appreciable if the other candidates do not bother me.” The complaint further says that, “I request you that directions be given to the candidates who are contesting the elections of the Lodhi Club to stop sending SMS and Whatsapp messages in bulk on my mobile number for asking me to vote for them in the elections. In case they fail to do so, then for harassing the members they should be disqualified from participating in the elections.” As of now, no action has been taken by the president with regard to this complaint and the contesting candidates are furious over the complaint and are of the opinion that they are doing nothing wrong in their campaigning via SMS and Whatsapp. Speaking to TOI on condition of anonymity, one of the contesting candidates, said “The system of campaigning on social media has been going on for years. If someone does not likes receiving the messeges he can mute or block the sender. However, if any decision is taken by our president, we will definitely comply with it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lodhi-club-member-complains-against-sms-by-candidates/articleshow/81195689.cms||Mohit Behl
February 25, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Gopikrishnan wins Guruvayur race||THRISSUR: Elephant Gopikrishnan won the aanayottam (elephant race) held at Guruvayur on Wednesday. Only three elephants could participate in the race, which is held on the flag-hoisting day of the ten-day long Guruvayur Utsavam festival, due to Covid protocol. Usually 15 to 25 elephants participate in the race. Gopikrishnan has won the race the second time. Elephant Gopikannan, which had won the race several times in the past, had to be satisfied with second place this time. The race was held amidst tight security. Only a few people were allowed to accompany the elephants while they were running. However, a large number of people had lined up behind barricades on either side of the track, to watch the race. Interestingly, an “anayilla seveli” (seeveli sans parading of elephants) was held in the morning as a programme to remember the past period when the devaswom did not possess any elephants. Currently, the devaswom maintains 47 elephants at its elephant yard ‘aanakotta’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gopikrishnan-wins-guruvayur-race/articleshow/81195701.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Facebook friend who raped woman in 2020 held||MUMBAI: A 28-year-old man was arrested on Sunday by the city crime branch for raping a 27-year-old woman he had befriended on Facebook. The accused, Ganesh Chandrabhan Gite, a Goregaon resident, was on the run. In October 2020, Gite took the woman to a restaurant, spiked her drink, took her to a lodge in Powai and sexually assaulted her. The complainant woman, who is married, said that after accepting Gite’s friend request, they chatted for some time and met once before the incident. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fb-friend-who-raped-woman-in-2020-held/articleshow/81198821.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 25, 2021||Pune||Covid -ve report must for Karnataka visitors to Solapur||PUNE/KOLHAPUR: Solapur guardian minister Dattatray Bharane on Wednesday said no passenger from Karnataka would be allowed to enter the western Maharashtra district without a Covid-19 negative test report. “Passengers not carrying the Covid negative reports will not be allowed entry into Solapur city and district. The decision has been taken to stop further spread of Covid-19,” he told the media after a Covid review meeting in Solapur. Bharane’s statement comes within days of the Karnataka government announcing that people from Maharashtra must carry with them negative RT-PCR test reports for entering the southern state. In the absence of a negative RT-PCR report, the passengers would be sent back to Maharashtra. On Wednesday, at least 30 Karnataka-bound buses of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) from the Kolhapur depot, as well as those from the Konkan region passing through Kolhapur, were cancelled due to the strict travel curbs. Officials said a huge number of private buses headed for cities such as Belagavi, Bengaluru and Mangaluru in Karnataka have also been cancelled. “Some of our buses were sent back on Tuesday evening, following which we decided to cancel our services. We have also communicated about the situation at the Karnataka entry points to other depots from Konkan, Pune and Mumbai. Every day, over 900 passengers travel from the Kolhapur depot to various towns and cities in Karnataka,” MSRTC’s Kolhapur depot manager Ajay Patil told TOI. Officials at the MSRTC headquarters in Mumbai, however, said no official order on cancelling the buses has yet been issued. “The mandatory RT-PCR negative report demanded by the Karnataka government has been causing problems,” an official with the traffic section of MSRTC in Mumbai told TOI. Officials in Kolhapur said the Karnataka police have deployed personnel at the Kognoli toll booth, the entry point of the state along Pune-Bengaluru National Highway-48, and were sending passengers from Maharashtra back if they didn’t have the test report. Kolhapur resident Mahadeo Katkar, who was to travel to Belgavi for a wedding, waited with several others at Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Hospital on Wednesday morning for an RT-PCR test. “We have decided to travel by private car on learning that buses have been cancelled. The wedding is on Friday and we are told that we can get the test report by Thursday evening. But the situation is very frustrating. How can people be told to return to their places of origin in the absence of an RT-PCR test report.” The private bus operators in Kolhapur said they had to stop their services for now. “We have stopped accepting bookings though passengers prefer private buses for long-distance travel to cities such as Bengaluru and Mangaluru,” said Satishchandra Kamble, owner of Shefali Travels. In Pune too, a representative of VRL Travels said most of their trips were getting cancelled. “We have told passengers not to book seats in Karnataka-bound buses if they don’t have the RT-PCR negative reports. Many passengers have cancelled their trips,” he said. Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai has sent a letter to the Maharashtra chief secretary, seeking immediate intervention and citing a possible law and order issue at Kognoli. He said it was the responsibility of the local administration of the destination to get a passenger’s Covid-19 test done. Checks at Chhattisgarh-Maharashtra border too The Chhattisgarh government has also announced checks of passengers from Maharashtra. “Though we are yet to receive a written order about the formalities to be followed, thermal checking of the passengers reaching Chhattisgarh from Maharashtra is on. We are also sending passengers with any illness resembling Covid-19 symptoms to local hospitals for tests,” said a senior police officer from the Rajnandgaon district of Chhattisgarh. Rajnandgaon shares a border with Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/now-solapur-says-covid-ve-report-must-for-travellers-from-ktaka/articleshow/81196972.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 25, 2021||Ludhiana||SAD protests against rising fuel prices, distributes fuel in small bottles||Ludhiana: The Youth Akali Dal (YAD) on Wednesday staged a protest against rising prices of fuel and LPG in the country. The party blamed both state and central governments for the rising prices and distributed small bottles of petrol among people near Jagraon bridge. Scores of workers of YAD, led by district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha, also raised slogans against the state and centre government. Speaking on the occasion, Gosha said, “The rates of petrol, diesel and LPG have sky-rocketed in the last few months and if the situation remains the same, then people will have to take loans to fulfil their needs for refuelling their vehicles or buy LPG cylinders for their homes. Moreover, petrol, which is Rs 100 per litre in other states, is inching towards this mark here also and in the coming days people will have to buy petrol in small bottles. Therefore, we distributed petrol among people in small bottles to make them accustomed to this in advance, so that they don’t feel odd while doing so in the future. During our protest, we also exposed the Centre and state government by educating people on how both governments were collecting 70% tax on fuel prices. If we talk of the central government, it has already put huge burden on the people by first introducing demonetisation and then GST and now by lifting control on the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG.” Gosha added that, “What is even worse is that the government is not ready to bring fuel under the ambit of GST and allow people to claim GST on purchase of fuel. It is shameful that before coming to power the BJP had been hitting the roads every now and then to protest against rising prices of fuel and even made it an election issue. But now after remaining in power for seven years BJP leaders have closed their eyes and are preferring to look the other way. On the other hand, Punjab’s Congress government is playing game on the prices of petrol and diesel as in other states their party is protesting against high fuel rates, while in those states the rate is even less than Punjab, but no Congress man is speaking here. Whether its the Centre or state, both are on looting spree and want to rob businessmen, middle class by putting huge burden on them through increased fuel and LPG prices.” Besides YAD, Shiromani Akal Dal (democratic) too staged a protest against the rising prices of fuel and gathered outside the mini-secretariat. Senior leaders of the party and workers with placards in their hands marched till the deputy commissioner office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-protests-against-rising-fuel-prices-distributes-fuel-in-small-bottles/articleshow/81195697.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Bypolls: Kejriwal says will change face of civic bodies||NEW DELHI: Seeking votes to “change the face of the municipal corporations”, Aam Aadmi Party national convener and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday campaigned for party candidates for the bypolls in Shalimar Bagh and Bawana wards. Bypolls in five wards will be held on Sunday. At Bawana, Kejriwal announced that his government would sanction Rs 100 crore for laying sewers in the locality. “I came to know that people have been requesting for a sewer line in Bawana. It is my promise that I will sanction Rs 100 crore for the project,” he added amid loud cheers from the public. He said, “Our government is recognised the world over for providing 24-hour free electricity.” Talking to the residents, Kejriwal said his government had done work in various sectors, including infrastructure development. “I remember coming here before the assembly elections three years ago. It was pouring and the road was filled with potholes. I had promised you that if AAP won, we would make this road. We fulfilled our promise. I promised you that I would improve schools and hospitals, and my government did it,” he added. “If you vote for any other party, they won’t let me work or let this area get developed. They will fight with me, as you must have seen often with BJP. I have fulfilled all promises made in the last elections. It is your responsibility to make AAP win for the development of your Delhi,” said Kejriwal. Addressing the residents of Shalimar Bagh, Kejriwal said that Aam Aadmi Party had fulfilled all its promises made in the last elections, including the provision of free 24x7 electricity and improvement of roads, schools and hospitals. “It is the responsibility of the people to make AAP victorious in these by-elections to change the face of the municipal corporations,” added the CM. “Together, the people of Delhi have defeated Covid-19. The pandemic had created havoc in the lives of people. We have elections on Sunday and you all must go and vote for AAP. Free electricity round the clock only exists in Delhi and nowhere else in the country. In the last six years, we have worked to improve the city with better schools, hospitals and availability of electricity and water. BJP has put the municipal corporations in shambles,” Kejriwal said at the Shalimar Bagh roadshow. Kejriwal was accompanied by Sunita Mishra, the candidate from Shalimar Bagh North ward, Ram Chander (an ex-MLA), the candidate from Rohini ward, and several MLAs. AAP has fielded Dhirendra (Bunty Gautam) from Kalyanpuri, Vijay Kumar from Trilokpuri East and Mohammad Isharaq Khan (a former MLA) from Chauhan Bangar. AAP functionaries have been actively campaigning for their candidates seeking votes for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bypolls-kejriwal-says-will-change-face-of-civic-bodies/articleshow/81196950.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Kolhapur||Covid -ve report must for Karnataka visitors to Solapur||PUNE/KOLHAPUR: Solapur guardian minister Dattatray Bharane on Wednesday said no passenger from Karnataka would be allowed to enter the western Maharashtra district without a Covid-19 negative test report. “Passengers not carrying the Covid negative reports will not be allowed entry into Solapur city and district. The decision has been taken to stop further spread of Covid-19,” he told the media after a Covid review meeting in Solapur. Bharane’s statement comes within days of the Karnataka government announcing that people from Maharashtra must carry with them negative RT-PCR test reports for entering the southern state. In the absence of a negative RT-PCR report, the passengers would be sent back to Maharashtra. On Wednesday, at least 30 Karnataka-bound buses of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) from the Kolhapur depot, as well as those from the Konkan region passing through Kolhapur, were cancelled due to the strict travel curbs. Officials said a huge number of private buses headed for cities such as Belagavi, Bengaluru and Mangaluru in Karnataka have also been cancelled. “Some of our buses were sent back on Tuesday evening, following which we decided to cancel our services. We have also communicated about the situation at the Karnataka entry points to other depots from Konkan, Pune and Mumbai. Every day, over 900 passengers travel from the Kolhapur depot to various towns and cities in Karnataka,” MSRTC’s Kolhapur depot manager Ajay Patil told TOI. Officials at the MSRTC headquarters in Mumbai, however, said no official order on cancelling the buses has yet been issued. “The mandatory RT-PCR negative report demanded by the Karnataka government has been causing problems,” an official with the traffic section of MSRTC in Mumbai told TOI. Officials in Kolhapur said the Karnataka police have deployed personnel at the Kognoli toll booth, the entry point of the state along Pune-Bengaluru National Highway-48, and were sending passengers from Maharashtra back if they didn’t have the test report. Kolhapur resident Mahadeo Katkar, who was to travel to Belgavi for a wedding, waited with several others at Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Hospital on Wednesday morning for an RT-PCR test. “We have decided to travel by private car on learning that buses have been cancelled. The wedding is on Friday and we are told that we can get the test report by Thursday evening. But the situation is very frustrating. How can people be told to return to their places of origin in the absence of an RT-PCR test report.” The private bus operators in Kolhapur said they had to stop their services for now. “We have stopped accepting bookings though passengers prefer private buses for long-distance travel to cities such as Bengaluru and Mangaluru,” said Satishchandra Kamble, owner of Shefali Travels. In Pune too, a representative of VRL Travels said most of their trips were getting cancelled. “We have told passengers not to book seats in Karnataka-bound buses if they don’t have the RT-PCR negative reports. Many passengers have cancelled their trips,” he said. Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai has sent a letter to the Maharashtra chief secretary, seeking immediate intervention and citing a possible law and order issue at Kognoli. He said it was the responsibility of the local administration of the destination to get a passenger’s Covid-19 test done. Checks at Chhattisgarh-Maharashtra border too The Chhattisgarh government has also announced checks of passengers from Maharashtra. “Though we are yet to receive a written order about the formalities to be followed, thermal checking of the passengers reaching Chhattisgarh from Maharashtra is on. We are also sending passengers with any illness resembling Covid-19 symptoms to local hospitals for tests,” said a senior police officer from the Rajnandgaon district of Chhattisgarh. Rajnandgaon shares a border with Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/now-solapur-says-covid-ve-report-must-for-travellers-from-ktaka/articleshow/81200875.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Don’t destroy natural forest cover in Doon for developing parks, wildlife museums, say environmentalists||Dehradun: Local activists and environmentalists in Dehradun have opposed projects coming up in Jhajra, Tarla Nagal and Purkal areas of the city, saying there is no point in taking up such projects which are destroying the forest cover. Tarla Nagal is a small village in the Raipur block of Dehradun. The proposed city park land in Tarla Nagal near the Sahastradhara Helipad was under the gram sabha but now comes under the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC). Environmentalists say it is a forest area in the records. The protected tree species — which were planted by the villagers under the World Bank Jalagam Yojana to increase ground water level and protect river banks of Nala Pani Ki Rao river that flows through this forest patch — are being destroyed in the process of making a public park, they added. The rich biodiversity of the Tarla Nagal spreads over a 12.5 hectare area and comprises trees like khair and teak. Anand Van in the Jhajra Forest Range Complex, which has been developed as a part of the central government’s scheme to develop 200 urban forests across the country with collaborations between forest departments, municipal bodies, NGOs, corporations and educational institutes, has also drwan the ire of environmentalists. Similarly, a site in Purkal off the Mussoorie Road is to be developed for an ecotourism park and wildlife museum which residents say is an ironic move since the forest cover was being destroyed here, too, to set up a park. Speaking to TOI, Reenu Paul, Doon-based conservation activist and lawyer, said, “It is ironic to destroy the natural habitat of wildlife species to construct parks and wildlife museums. I hope these areas are not disturbed for such construction activities. Destruction of natural forests and habitat is not acceptable and the trend should stop immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dont-destroy-natural-forest-cover-in-doon-for-developing-parks-wildlife-museums-say-environmentalists/articleshow/81195695.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Reconstruct Chandni Chowk temple: Harsh Vardhan to LG||New Delhi: Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan had written to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal seeking reconstruction of the Hanuman temple demolished by civic authorities in Chandni Chowk last month.The minister, who is the Lok Sabha MP from Chandni Chowk, said religious sentiments of locals have been “deeply hurt” by the demolition. Vardhan said many people, including traders, have contacted him for reconstruction of the temple on the central verge of main Chandni Chowk.The Hanuman temple at Kucha Mahajani in Chandni Chowk was demolished in January after a court order, to pave way for a redevelopment project being carried out by PWD of Delhi government.“The people have demand construction of the Hanuman temple on the central verge, where an electric transformer has been set up and the space is vacant. This space can be utilised for establishing the temple,” the minister stated in his letter to the LG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/reconstruct-chandni-chowk-temple-harsh-vardhan-to-lg/articleshow/81196979.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Customs officer held for Rs 2 lakh bribe||CBI arrested a Customs superintendent for allegedly demanding and accepting Rs 2 lakh for clearing a consignment that came through courier.  The arrested officer was Neeraj Kumar Singh. The agency also detained an assistant commissioner of Customs, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/customs-officer-held-for-rs-2l-bribe/articleshow/81198889.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Minister orders strict action against squatters||New Delhi: Social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Thursday ordered strict action against encroachment and illegal occupation in northeast Delhi’s Seemapuri. He added that ambulances and other emergency services were unable to use the roads due to the number of encroachments in the area. Gautam, who is an MLA from the Seemapuri constituency, convened a meeting with senior officials of East Delhi Municipal Corporation, Delhi Traffic Police, Public Works Department and Delhi Police on Thursday and gave instructions to take stringent action. He asked officials of PWD and other agencies to come together and work out a viable solution to end encroachment permanently. Since the area comes under PWD, Gautam directed the officials to coordinate and work with concerned agencies. Stating that the encroachment was a cause of anger in the locals, which also hampered free movement of emergency service vehicles, Gautam said he would not tolerate any illegal occupation or encroachment in his constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minister-orders-strict-action-against-squatters/articleshow/81218144.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Rs 10,001 for brides in Uttarakhand who refuse to serve alcohol at weddings||DEHRADUN: Devprayag police in Tehri Garhwal district has decided to reward the brides who take a stand against serving alcohol at their weddings. The initiative has been taken in collaboration with gram pradhans who have been tasked with identifying such brides. The reward amount — Rs 10,001 — would be provided by the police personnel after pooling in money. Talking to TOI, Mahipal Singh Rawat, station officer, Devprayag police station, which has around 22 personnel, said that the cases of domestic violence, misbehaviour with women and enmity were rising in the area. “In view of this, gram pradhans of all the 101 villages — that fall under the jurisdiction of the police station — were called for a meeting. Police officials and gram pradhans, after several rounds of discussion, concluded that liquor consumption was leading to a rise in crimes in the villages,” he said. Rawat added that “it was also noticed people are increasingly serving alcohol at weddings in villages.” “After mulling various steps that can be taken to stop youths from consuming liquor, we felt that it would be great if women raise their voice against this malpractice,” said Rawat, who mooted the idea of rewarding the women who take a stand against serving alcohol at their weddings. Mukesh Singh Bedwal, headman from Bhadni village, who was also present in the meeting, praised the initiative by Devprayag police and said that pradhans will certify if the claim of the bride is true or not. “Pradhans will not only certify the claims of the brides but also give a separate reward, from village funds, to the family that shuns the use of liquor in wedding. The aim is to create awareness among youths against liquor, which destroys their lives and families,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rs-10001-for-brides-who-refuse-to-serve-alcohol-at-weddings/articleshow/81195709.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Undertrial’s murder: HC slams Tihar, says ‘only seen in fiction’||New Delhi: A shocked Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought a detailed explanation from Tihar Jail authorities on the alleged murder of an inmate, saying such things are seen “only in fiction.”The high court was hearing a plea for compensation from the family of a man, who had been knifed to death inside the prison. “I don’t know how something like this can happen. It’s shocking. We see such things only in fiction,” Justice Prathiba M Singh remarked, while hearing a plea seeking Rs 5 crore as compensation for custodial death.The court directed prison authorities and Delhi Police to file a report indicating whether an FIR had been filed in the case and the status of investigation. It further said the report should also indicate if CCTV footage of the cell, where the victim was housed, had been preserved.The court also said that the victim’s father, Ali Sher, be kept informed about the developments in the investigation or trial of the case, posting the matter for March 5. It was informed by the counsel for the state that there were nine wounds on the victim’s body.Sher in his plea submitted that his son, Dilsher Azad, was an undertrial prisoner at Tihar since September 2019. On November 30, 2020, he received a call from police officers informing him about the death of his son. However, when he reached the jail, prison authorities did not cooperate with him and he was not informed about the actual cause of death.After Sher called a lawyer, he was informed that his son had been stabbed to death with knives. The petition further claimed that Sher filed complaints and sent representations to various authorities for action against the erring officials and for compensation, but till date nothing had been done or communicated to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/undertrials-murder-hc-slams-tihar-says-only-seen-in-fiction/articleshow/81196973.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Kolkata||Health panel asks hosps to pay fines for service lapses||Kolkata: A hospital in Tollygunge was asked to furnish a compensation of Rs 1 lakh to a woman, whose husband had died in the hospital during Covid-19 treatment. In November beginning, Anushka Deb Burman, a resident of Varanasi had written to the Bengal CM to inquire if anything was amiss in the death of her 36-year-old husband.Her husband had fallen ill during a work trip to Kolkata and was later found Covid positive. He was then admitted to RSV Hospital on October 5. He died 16 days later. The deceased left a note accusing some staff of not tending to him and had sent messages to his wife. The wife later lodged a complaint with the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC).The commission found the patient was not being helped by his attendant, when he needed him in the ICU. The RMOs and the nurses did not intervene. The patient was made to sleep on a soiled bed overnight. The health panel told AMRI Hospital, Mukundapur to Pay Rs 3 lakh to the parents of a 7-year-old boy after the commission found communication and counselling lapses on the hospital’s part . The boy died on July 12, four days after admission. Midland Nursing Home was warned to deposit Rs 5 lakhs with the commission till it disposed off the complaint by parents of Subhrajit Chatterjee (18), who allegedly was refused treatment. The boy from Icchapur died later at Medical College Hospital in July. The commission asked the Belghoria hospital to deposit the amount in September but it has not been complied yet.“If the nursing home fails to do so by March 15, we will proceed towards cancellation of its license,” said WBCERC chairman Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee. Dr Paul’s at Salt Lake was asked to refund the entire 1.04 lakh it had charged from a 41-year-old man, who had gone for hair transplant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/health-panel-asks-hosps-to-pay-fines-for-service-lapses/articleshow/81198855.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 25, 2021||Aurangabad||Nanded collector warnsagainst child marriages||Aurangabad: Nanded district collector Vipin Itankar has sent notices to cooks, pandal/event service providers, priests as well as printing press firms asking them to abstain from playing any kind of role in child marriages. The move follows a state government directive to curb gatherings due to a surge in Covid-19 cases. Many parents who could not afford inviting large number of guests or give dowry preferred performing marriages of their minor daughters during the lockdown period last year as it saved them from dowries as well as from catering to long list of guests. “In any case, a minor cannot be married because it is illegal. Anyone playing personal or professional role in performing child marriage will be prosecuted. It will be everyone’s responsibility to ensure that those getting married are adults,” he said. This is for the first time in the state that any district administration has gone to the extent of considering to book all the marriage-related service providers, including marriage hall proprietors, decorators, photographers, videographers, catering services and even guests attending the child marriage events. “Usually the trend has been to book the bridegroom, his parents and the minor girl’s parents. If we go through the law carefully, there is scope for booking every person or professional playing a role in child marriage,” said Itankar. Notices have been issued under section 10 and 11 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, through the ZP chief executuve officer, superintendent of police and the Nanded Waghla municipal commissioner, as well as gram sevaks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-collector-warnsagainst-child-marriages/articleshow/81194835.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 25, 2021||Ludhiana||Admn to identify, train drug abuse victims for jobs||Ludhiana: In a unique step aimed at helping the drug dependents to lead a normal life by bringing them into the mainstream, the district administration has directed 50 officials of various departments to identify 10 drug dependants each, or 500 such persons in all, to provide them job opportunities through skill development or other training programmes. Presiding over a meeting in Bachat Bhawan, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the state government has launched ‘Mission Red sky’ to save the state’s youth from drug abuse by skilling them and providing them placements. He said that under this mission, each of the 50 officials would identify 10 drug dependents, who are getting treatment from Out Patient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) Centres and provide job opportunities to them by enhancing their capabilities through skill development/ training programmes at the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE), so that they can earn a livelihood like others. He said that each of the deputed officials has been tasked for this cause, so that the drug dependents do not face any kind of problem in getting the employment alongside their treatment. He asked them to achieve the target and help the drug dependants become active partners in the socio-economic growth of the state. He also formed a committee to also hold meetings with the industry associations for preparing details of the jobs. The deputy commissioner said the massive crackdown on the peddlers by the state government and large-scale awareness programmes including DAPO, Buddy and others have yielded positive results, as these movements have created awareness among the general public. He said the administration would continue its efforts until the entire district is made free of drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/admn-to-identify-train-drug-abuse-victims-for-jobs/articleshow/81195716.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Pune||Sudden travel cancellations worry private bus operators||The average income per school bus was around `75,000 a month PUNE: Rajan Junawane, a private bus operator and vice-president of the Pune Bus Association, was in for a shock to see all 17 bookings he had for trips to places such as Mahabaleshwar, Konkan and Nashik getting cancelled one after another within a gap of few days. “It all happened after the chief minister’s message to the state. People are suddenly reluctant to travel, unless there’s an emergency. The kind of losses we have been facing ever since the lockdown was introduced last year is huge. The situation had barely started to improve of late, when this slump has suddenly hit us. If people were flouting the Covid-19 protocols, why did the law enforcement agencies not crack down on the violators?” Junawane said. CM Uddhav Thackeray had warned the people on Sunday of another lockdown if Covid- related norms were not followed. He had also directed the local administration to crackdown on people and establishments for not following Covid norms and standard operating procedures. Balasaheb Khedekar, president of the Pune Luxury Bus Owners Association, said, “Around 30 buses would come to Pune from Indore daily. The number is now down to 10. Another round of lockdown will be a diaster for us.” Nishant Sareen, who works at an IT firm in Kharadi and whose parents are in Indore, said, “I chose a bus trip to reachIndore due to dearth of other options. I decided to cancel my trip as I cannot go home, get stuck if there’s a lockdown and lose my job.” Bank employee Amlendu Kashyap, who cancelled his trip to Gujarat, said, “I haven’t gone home for over a year. Why didn’t the state government tell officials to stay alert and keep a continuous eye on people not following regulations?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sudden-travel-cancellations-worry-private-bus-operators/articleshow/81196981.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 25, 2021||Ludhiana||Special camps for vendors to avail loan through Atam Nirbhar Scheme||Ludhiana: In what could be termed as good news for street vendors who are unable to arrange funds to meet their working capital requirements, they will now be able to avail a loan of Rs 10,000 under the Atam Nirbhar Nidhi Scheme of the central government. The state government is now encouraging the vendors to take benefit of this scheme and for this purpose special camps in banks in Ludhiana and other cities have been planned by the government. On Wednesday, DC Varinder Kumar Sharma appealed to the street vendors of Ludhiana to take benefit of the scheme of the Centre. Giving more information, he said, “Street vendors can easily avail loan to the extent of Rs 10,000 under the Prime Minister street vendor’s Atam Nirbhar Nidhi Scheme. On the directions of chief secretary Vini Mahajan, we will organise special camps in the banks to receive the applications from the street vendors every Saturday, for which the instructions have already been issued to all branch managers of the banks. The street vendors need to get certificate of street vendor from the MC in the district, which will have to be submitted along with the application.” The DC added that, “Vendors can avail of a working capital loan of up to Rs 10,000, which is repayable in monthly instalments in one year. On timely or early repayment of the loan, an interest subsidy of 7% per annum will be credited to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. We appeal to all street vendors of Ludhiana to take maximum benefit of the scheme, which is aimed at reviving their business affected due to Covid.” Hailing the scheme, senior Congress leader Gurpreet Gogi said, “This scheme can help the street vendors to come out of the financial problems and also expand their businesses. This is a win-win situation for them as on one side they will be able to meet their working capital requirements and expand their businesses and when they repay their loan on time they will get an incentive in terms of interest subsidy. We will organise a camp in our area to help the needy street vendors to complete the formalities and apply for the loans under the Atma Nirbhar Nidhi Scheme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/special-camps-for-vendors-to-avail-loan-through-atam-nirbhar-scheme/articleshow/81195728.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Travellers from 5 states need Covid all-clear||NEW DELHI: Delhi Disaster Management Authority will make it mandatory for travellers arriving in Delhi from Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab to carry Covid-negative certification from February 26 to March 15. The surge in Covid cases in these states was discussed at the DDMA meeting on Monday and it was decided that curbing the spread of the coronavirus necessitated checks on arrivals in the city. The order in this regard wasn’t issued by Wednesday evening as expected, but a DDMA official said that it would be published before February 26 for implementation from Friday. It is likely that those entering Delhi by road in personal or hired vehicles will be exempted, but those travelling by train, air or by public buses will be required to carry the negative test reports. A government official said the decision was taken following a spike in daily Covid cases in these states. Recently, the central government had advised the five states to increase the number of daily RT-PCR tests and monitoring of mutant strains, and to focus on strict surveillance and stringent containment measures in selected districts. The Union health ministry recently stated that over 74% of the country’s active cases were in Kerala and Maharashtra. Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab have seen a surge in new Covid cases in the past few days. Thousands arrive in Delhi from across the country every day. A government official, who did not want to be identified, said that implementation of the DDMA order would be challenging. “Since a large number of people arrive from these states daily, it will be very difficult to keep an eye on each of them,” the official said. “Due to lack of awareness in the originating states, many people may end up in Delhi without the Covid-negative papers.” Checking the documentation of people travelling by buses would be extra challenging because of the sheer volume. The government will create awareness about the new travel norms and urge people to follow it for their own safety and the safety of others. The implementation strategy may be clarified in the DDMA order. It is not yet known if the government will penalise violators for not possessing the new travel papers. The pandemic is largely under control in Delhi, which has been reporting around 0.2% infection rate for some weeks now despite the number of daily tests being continuing between 50,000 and 60,000. There have been quite a few days in the recent past when the capital reported zero Covid deaths. Even densely populated districts like North-East have shown a huge decline in positivity. The district didn’t log any Covid case on two days last week. Several of the 11 districts haven’t reported any Covid deaths for the past few weeks. On February 17, 13 and 9, none of the 11 districts reported any person succumbing to the pandemic. Delhi saw three Covid waves in 2020. As of February 24, Delhi has reported 10,903 Covid deaths, 6.3 lakh positive cases and had conducted 1.2 crore Covid tests. Currently, the capital has only 1,054 active Covid cases. The government is keeping a close watch on the situation and taking precautionary steps because the pandemic risk hasn’t abated yet and any laxity can reverse the gains made in effort to contain the novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/travellers-from-5-states-need-covid-all-clear/articleshow/81197004.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC directs Union environment ministry to decide on activist’s representation against Rudraprayag hydel project within two months||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday allowed activist Bharat Jhunjhunwala to make a representation before Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF) as well as the Ministry of Jal Shakti, highlighting the concerns about the Singoli-Bhatwari hydroelectric project, a 99 MW run-of-river plant on Mandakini river in Rudraprayag. According to Jhunjhunwala, the project’s environmental clearance has expired and its Head Race Tunnel (HRT) has developed a leakage, which would prove fatal once the project starts generating electricity. L&T, the firm constructing the project, had strongly dismissed these claims, saying that the allegations had ulterior motives. Meanwhile, the court has directed both ministries to consider Jhunjhunwala’s representation and pass a “reasoned order” within two months. The direction came from the bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma. The bench has now disposed of Jhunjhunwala’s public interest litigation (PIL). Jhunjhunwala had alleged that a tunnel of the project had developed a leakage, that its design was faulty and it has affected the local ecology. The petitioner had further claimed that despite being an expert on hydel projects and making representations before the two ministries (MoEF and water ministry) detailing his concerns, neither of them had responded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-hc-directs-union-environment-ministry-to-decide-on-activists-representation-against-rudraprayag-hydel-project-within-two-months/articleshow/81195719.cms||Prashant Jha
February 25, 2021||Delhi||CM thanks Gujarat for AAP’s performance||New Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party national convener and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal thanked the people of Gujarat for the party’s landslide victory in Surat Municipal Corporation. The party bagged 27 seats in Surat, emerging as the main opposition party.“People of Gujarat have rejected the centuries-old politics of Congress and chosen AAP as the main opposition party, which proves that they want politics of development and work in the state,” said Kejriwal in a video message.Kejriwal will be reaching Surat on February 26 to meet and thank the people there for voting for Aam Aadmi Party. Kejriwal said that all AAP volunteers and members in Gujarat would fulfill their responsibilities with full honesty and serve the people.AAP has breached Bharatiya Janata Party’s citadel in Surat by bagging 27 seats. “AAP has performed exceptionally well in the Gujarat local body polls. I would like to thank the people of Gujarat from the bottom of my heart. The people of Surat have handed over the responsibility to AAP as the main opposition party and rejected the 125-year-old Congress,” Kejriwal said.“I want to assure you that every volunteer of ours will fulfill each of his responsibilities with full honesty and dedication. Gujarat has introduced a phase of new politics, which is politics of honesty, politics of work, politics of improved schools and hospitals, and politics of 24x7 free electricity,” the chief minister said, adding that together with the people of the state, Aam Aadmi Party will work to change the face of Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-thanks-gujarat-for-aaps-performance/articleshow/81196984.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Nashik||General body restructures standing panel||Nashik: The general body of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Monday restructured the 16-member standing committee by increasing one member of Shiv Sena and decreasing a member of the BJP — as per the Bombay high court directive. Accordingly, the strength of Shiv Sena has increased from four to five members, while the strength of BJP has reduced from nine to eight. Now, MNS, Congress and NCP have one member each in the standing committee. Mayor Satish Kulkarni during the general body meeting on Wednesday announced the name of 11 new standing committee members — seven from the BJP, three from Shiv Sena and one from MNS. Of the 16 members, BJP replaced seven of the eight members except outgoing standing committee chairperson Ganesh Gite, while Shiv Sena retained Sudhakar Badgujar and Satyabhama Gadekar and appointed three new members. Congress and NCP retained Rahul Dive and Samina Menan, respectively. The 11 new members appointed are Ranjana Bhansi, Madhuri Bolkar, Himgauri Adke, Yogesh Hire, Indubai Nagare, Pratibha Pawar and Mukesh Shahane from BJP, Jyoti Khole, Ratnamala Rane and Keshaw Porje from Shiv Sena, and Salim Shaikh from MNS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/general-body-restructures-standing-panel/articleshow/81194857.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 25, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Lodges & eateries on highways to cater 24X7||PUNE: District collector Rajesh Deshmukh has passed an order allowing licensed hotels, restaurants and lodges along state and national highways to operate all day to avoid inconvenience to long-distance travellers and truck drivers, particularly during night hours. All such establishments are required to secure a fresh permission from the respective sub-divisional office or the police station concerned. Deshmukh said, “The objective is to ensure that long-distance travellers and truck drivers face minimum hassles at night when they may be in need of food or lodging facility. We have asked owners of these facilities to ensure that they strictly adhere to Covid-19 guidelines. Any violation will attract action.” Superintendent of police, Pune rural, Abhinav Deshmukh said, “There are about 50 such establishments across rural areas. We have asked night patrol teams of our police stations to monitor their activities and visit these establishments. If they come across any wrong practice, the police team will take appropriate action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lodges-eateries-on-highways-to-cater-24x7/articleshow/81196985.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 25, 2021||Pune||Credai seeks zero RR rate hike, stamp duty waiver||PUNE: The Confederation of Real Estate and Developers Association of India (Credai) has called for zero increase in the Ready Reckoner (RR) rate and extension of the stamp duty waiver till the year-end. The developers’ association stated that there was no need for increase in the RR rate, as it was last hiked in September. The association said the stamp duty waiver, given in two phases till March, should be extended till the end of 2021. On Wednesday, representatives from the industry met revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat to put forth their demands. Pune Credai (Metro) president Suhas Merchant told TOI that they favoured zero increase in the RR rate and extension of the stamp duty waiver, as there has been a momentum in the realty sector in the last few months. Citing the example of the Delhi government, which has decided to reduce the circle rates in the capital by 20% for residential, commercial, industrial and other properties for the next six months, Merchant said they have requested the Maharashtra government to reduce the RR rate, especially in areas where it has been increased. Shantilal Kataria, national vice-president, Credai, said, “We want the stamp duty waiver of 3% to continue, Footnote revision in the RR rate is a must.” Earlier last month, Thorat had cited huge loss to the state exchequer and stated that the “waiver announced was temporary”. TOI reached out to him on Wednesday. But he was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/credai-seeks-zero-rr-rate-hike-stamp-duty-waiver/articleshow/81197012.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Rs 5cr for new roads in each constituency||Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday announced the introduction of a New State Road Policy –2021 and said every assembly constituency would be provided Rs 5 crore each for construction of non-patchable and missing link roads.The state government has allotted a total budget of Rs 1,000 crore for 2021-22 to work on missing link and non-patchable roads in the all 200 assembly constituencies.“We will talk to other states (with regard to the state road policy) and after studying the policies adopted by them, we will introduce it here. We will focus on equitable, need-based and evidence-based development planning in drafting the road policy. We will also focus on the number of villages that are required be connected under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) and what should be the population base of these villages,” said Rajesh Kumar Yadav, principal secretary, Public Works Department (PWD). “On the construction of missing link and non-patchable roads, we will consult all the MLAs and roads up to 30-35 km can be constructed,” he added. Moreover, the state budget has allocated Rs 1,900 crore for the renovation of three prominent roads in each district and another Rs 3,880 crore for development of 27 state highways. Under PM Gram Sadak Yojana-3, rural roads covering 2,841 km will be developed at an expenditure of Rs 1,425 crore. It has also allocated Rs 1,000 crore for major repair works of roads in Nagar Nigams (30 km), Nagar Parishads (20 km) and Nagar Palikas (10 km) areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-5cr-for-new-roads-in-each-constituency/articleshow/81198919.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi records 200 Covid-19 cases in a day, highest since January 29||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 200 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the highest in 26 days. Earlier, on January 29, the city had recorded 249 new cases. The positivity rate of infection also increased significantly, from 0.25% on Tuesday to 0.36%, a worrying trend that public health specialists have been warning against in view of increase in cases in other states like Maharashtra and Kerala. A total of 56,168 tests, including 34,634 RT PCR and 21,534 rapid antigen tests, were conducted the previous day. Two more deaths were reported due to the infection in the last 24 hours. The total number of cases in the national capital has touched 6,38,373 while the death toll is 10,905. The number of active cases is 1,137 of which 499 are recuperating at home and 437 are under treatment at hospitals. Most of the beds reserved for Covid-19 patients at hospitals are vacant, data shows. At Lok Nayak Hospital, for example, 277 out of 300 such beds are vacant. Experts say Delhi needs to be on high alert to detect the emergence of any new clusters of Covid-19 and to act promptly to prevent the spread of disease. “With trains and flights operating in near-full capacity, public movement has increased across states. Therefore, there is heightened risk of the disease spreading again in the national capital from affected regions,” AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria told TOI on Tuesday. “Health authorities must step up surveillance to identify new clusters, if any,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-records-200-cases-in-a-day-highest-since-jan-29/articleshow/81197033.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Nagpur||Dist caseload in 24 days of Feb more than Jan||Nagpur: The district registered 1,181 Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day spike after a span of 148 days. On September 29, the district had reported 1,215 cases. This also increased the cumulative positive cases in 24 days of February, taking them past the caseload registered in January. The district had reported 10,507 cases in January. The case count has swelled to 11,441 in 24 days of February.TOI had on Monday reported that from the second week of February, the district is seeing a trend of increase in Covid cases which is at par with second week of August 2020 when the district headed towards peak of the pandemic.After reporting the first positive case on March 11, the cases in district were low till August. After over 500 cases per day in first and second weeks of August, the tally cases crossed 1,000 on August 18. Thereon, the case count was always over 1,000 per day and even increased to 2,200 per day in September.Cases started declining from the first week of October, and the fall continued till first week of February.Now, more than 500 cases per day have been registered for last nine days. On February 19, 754 cases were registered. On Monday, guardian minister Nitin Raut had announced the district is experiencing second wave. Instead of imposing full lockdown for some days or on weekends, he announced various types of restrictions till March 7. February has also reported more cases than in November (8,979). The caseload was 12,002 in December. With four days remaining in February, the month’s case count is likely to cross the December tally.Thus, February is on the path to recording highest cases after August, September and October. February has also seen more tests being conducted as compared to the last three months.Test positivity rate (TPR), which means cases as against total number of tests, in February is 8.53% which too is high as compared to January (7.87%), December (8.23%) and November (5.94%). TPR in October was 9.6%. The highest TPR was in September (24.63%) and August (13.78%).The number of deaths as well as case fatality rate (CFR) is low in February as compared to the last six months. CFR is 1.23% in February while it was 2.17% in January, 2.15% in December, 3% in November, 3.55% in October, 3.02% in September and 3.8% in August.Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde had predicted that cases will continue to increase this week. Dr Shinde had said the current surge might continue till second week of March, followed by a decline.On Wednesday, active cases also increased to 7,184 in the district. As per data provided by the civil surgeon, 4,826 positive patients were in home isolation and 1,177 in hospitals and Covid care centres. The status of 1,181 patients detected on Wednesday will be known the next day.Dr Shinde said transmission seems high but infection is not severe when compared to conditions that prevailed in August and September.The NMC has facilitated testing at 50 centres and collecting swab samples by sending mobile swab collection centres to flat schemes, offices, establishments etc which are registering more than five cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dist-caseload-in-24-days-of-feb-more-than-jan/articleshow/81197029.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||State higher edu dept criticises protest by a section of teachers of govt-aided colleges||Dehradun: Even as several protests are being held by the teachers of the government-aided colleges, the state higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat has assured the payment of the salaries of the last two months after a section of teachers met him in Dehradun. The primary teachers’ body of government-aided colleges, GRUTA, has been protesting for a while on different issues against the higher education department. One of them was — non-payment of their salaries for the past two months i.e December and January. Meanwhile, the higher education department has issued a statement dismissing the accusations imposed by the teachers on them. The higher education directorate office has said that the payment of salaries has been duly done for the staffers of 15 out of 18 government-aided colleges in the state. The department further said that the salaries of the staffers of the three government-aided colleges have been put on hold due to the non-submission of the attendance record book from the college’s end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-higher-edu-dept-criticises-protest-by-a-section-of-teachers-of-govt-aided-colleges/articleshow/81195747.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Allowing private hospitals to vaccinate will boost process, says AIIMS director||NEW DELHI: The director of AIIMS, Dr Randeep Guleria, has welcomed the Centre’s decision to allow private hospitals to vaccinate people against Covid-19. The move will help expedite the immunisation process, he said on Wednesday. “We need to develop a strategy where we can keep our death rate down. Therefore, vaccinating people above the age of 60 or those above the age of 45 with comorbidities will be a good step, also opening it up for the private sector,” Dr Guleria said. India has a huge target to vaccinate at least 30 crore people even in Phase I, he pointed out. Calling the decision to involve private players pragmatic, Dr D S Rana, chairman of board of management at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said, “This will help us cover maximum people in the shortest time.” Dr Rana added that the middle- and upper-class people were willing to bear the cost of vaccination and they just wanted the process to be hassle-free. “This will also reduce the financial burden on government resources.” The private sector is now running 2,000 centres where vaccines provided by the government are administered free of cost to healthcare and frontline workers. In the next phase, sources said, the number of centres in the sector will go up to 20,000. The eligible beneficiaries seeking to get the jab at a private facility may also have to pay, but the cost of vaccines is not clear yet. Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director of Apollo hospitals, said the government’s decision to increase the number of vaccination centres in the private sector showed its faith in the role the sector would play in the next phase when 27 crore Indians were to be vaccinated. A total of 1.14 crore doses of vaccines have been administered till Monday evening through 2,44,071 sessions across India. Three states and one Union territory — Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Lakshadweep — have vaccinated more than 75% of the registered health and frontline workers with the first dose. In Delhi, the rates have been lower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/allowing-private-hospitals-to-vaccinate-will-boost-process-says-aiims-director/articleshow/81197045.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Nashik||Ahmednagar tops in PM-Kisan scrutiny||Nashik: Ahmednagar district has emerged on top across the country for carrying out 100% physical verification of farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sanman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) Yojana. During a programme organised in New Delhi, district collector of Ahmednagar Rajendra Bhosale was awarded by union minister of agriculture and farmers welfare Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday for completing the process within the stipulated time. Resident deputy collector Sandeep Nichit and superintendent of agriculture Shivajirao Jagtap along with Bhosale accepted the award. State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse was also present at the programme. Under the PM-KISAN Yojana all eligible small and marginal farmers having combined land holding of up to two hectare are given yearly assistance of Rs 6,000 per family in three instalments. “We have 10.78 lakh farmers in the district out of which 6.98 lakh are registered under the PM-KISAN Yojana. The important thing was the verification of the 5% of the registered farmers which we have completed in stipulated time,” Bhosale said. The district had received a target of verifying 28,802 farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ahmednagar-tops-in-pm-kisan-scrutiny/articleshow/81194859.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Vadodara||Railway hospital chief booked for molestation||Vadodara: The chief medical superintendent (CMS) of Divisional Railway Hospital was booked by Makarpura police for allegedly molesting an employee working under him. The woman lodged a complaint on Tuesday even as an inquiry is being conducted by the railways against the superintendent Dr Brahm Prakash. The woman alleged that from December 1, 2018 till Tuesday, the CMS had made lewd comments at her and had made obscene demands. She said that Prakash used to pass comments whenever she used to wear sleeveless dresses. In her complaint, she also alleged that he had grabbed her hand on his birthday in August 2019. On September 22 last year, the woman had even given a formal complaint to the railways. She also alleged that the day she made the complaint, an unidentified biker followed her and knocked her down before threatening to kill her. “We lodged the offence immediately after the woman gave the complaint. An investigation has been initiated and we are collecting evidence and questioning people,” said inspector R A Patel of Makarpura police station. Vadodara divisional railway manager Amit Gupta said, “We had received the complaint and as per the Vishakha guidelines, a committee had conducted a probe and submitted its report to the competent authority. However, the authority had queries in some areas, so the probe is still underway,” said “Since the matter is confidential, we don’t have much details but as the woman wanted to approach police, she filed a complaint,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/railway-hospital-chief-booked-for-molestation/articleshow/81197316.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Pune||Boy falls from 7th floor flat, dies||Pune: A 12-year-old boy died after he accidentally fell from the balcony of his flat in Pimpri on Wednesday evening while playing with his brother. An officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad police said, “The boy’s mother took him to a hospital, where the doctors pronounced him dead.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/boy-falls-from-7th-floor-flat-dies/articleshow/81197041.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Pune||Woman held for kidnapping infant in Maharashtra||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Wednesday rescued a four-month-old baby girl from the clutches of her kidnapper following the arrest of a 30-year-old woman from Ambajogai in Beed district. The baby was kidnapped from Chakan on February 17. “The probe revealed that the kidnapper wanted a child after her miscarriage. After kidnapping the baby, she went to her native village in Beed district and introduced the baby as her own,” Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said. He said Rajendra Nagpure (53) lodged a kidnapping complaint. Nagpure had recently shifted his house in Chakan and was looking for a babysitter. “The suspect came to know about it and started working as babysitter from February 16. Senior inspector Ashok Rajput said she fled with the baby girl the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-held-for-kidnapping-infant/articleshow/81197039.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Bengaluru||7,000 fresh MBBS graduates set to begin 1-year rural service in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Nearly 7,000 MBBS graduates who have completed their internship in Karnataka over the past few months are set to be assigned for mandatory rural service for one year. The service, which was mandatory for only government-quota candidates, is now being extended to private, management and NRI quota candidates for the first time this year. If doctors want to take up higher studies, then they must submit a bond for Rs 30 lakh to Rs 50 lakh, stating their willingness to serve later. Karnataka is the only state where private, management and NRI quota candidates are required to do the mandatory rural service. On February 15, the director of medical education, Dr PG Girish, sent a letter to heads of all government and private medical colleges in Karnataka asking them not to release the original documents to those who have completed undergraduate, postgraduate degree/diploma, super-specialty courses in various disciplines. The letter quoted the Karnataka Compulsory Service Training by Candidates Completed Medical Courses Act, 2012. No clarity: Director of medical eduYou are requested not to release original documents unless you receive NOC/instructions to release the documents collected at the time of admission, from this office. This may be scrupulously followed,” the letter, a copy of which is with TOI, read. Though the compulsory one-year rural service bond is being taken by the government since 2012, enforcement had not taken place so far. Till now, MBBS graduates used to file an affidavit before KMC stating they would return and work for one year in government-specified hospital, and were given KMC registration to work as doctors. From this year, fresh MBBS graduates are not being issued KMC registration certificate. “The matter is before the government. MBBS graduates will have to complete the one-year government training service before seeking the registration,” said Dr H Veerabhadrappa, president, KMC. DME Dr PG Girish said there is no clarity whether the rural service is applicable to students who have studied under private-quota seats in private colleges and deemed-tobe varsities. “We’ve asked private and government medical colleges to send the list of graduating MBBS students. We will share data with the health department, which will issue appointment letters via counselling,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/7k-fresh-mbbs-grads-set-to-begin-1-year-rural-service-in-state/articleshow/81200508.cms||Sunitha Rao R
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||DGP summoned in Pragya case||The Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission (MSHRC) has summoned the Director General of Police (DGP) on April 6 after a plea was submitted by a lawyer alleging that 2008 Malegaon blast accused and BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur was tortured during her incarceration. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dgp-summoned-in-pragya-case/articleshow/81199007.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Pune||Prolonged online classes stress out many teachers, some even quit jobs||PUNE: The pandemic has made school teachers work twice as hard adapting to technology, keeping the interest of students intact, troubleshooting glitches in communication and learning from scratch some methods of imparting education online. A few senior teachers in the city said they had nervous breakdowns during the initial period when they could not catch up with the technology, and some resigned from their jobs when they were unable to handle the pressure. Many sacrificed personal lives to ensure that there were no gaps in teaching and they were more alert, more active, well-planned and available. Senior teacher Savita Prabhune, who worked for 38 years, resigned from her job in a private school as a science teacher last September. Prabhune said, “I love my profession and if there is an opportunity I would still take it up, but I am averse to online education. I was glued to the desktop for over 15 hours trying to figure out the nuances of the new software that the school had subscribed to. The entire school and students were on that platform, but I found it difficult to use it.” The daily classes she conducted for nearly six months looking at the screen made her uncomfortable. “I just could not connect with the students when the majority of them looked disinterested, sleepy and least bothered about my teaching. The diagrams, chemistry formulas, concepts are best taught face-to-face. I realised that I was not doing justice to my profession and had barely three years left for retirement. So with the consent of my family member is resigned,” Prabhune added. Co-ordinator of City Pride School, Mrinalini Gholap, said many senior teachers have resigned owing to the challenges involved in working in the new scenario. They have health issues that are rising, she added. Gholap said teachers have been working doubly hard since the lockdown was declared as they had to learn and are continuously learning new ways to reach their students effectively. “Many teachers were not tech savvy and they learned from scratch and tried their best to be more interesting, entertaining and informative to students. They had a bigger challenge, that of sustaining the interest of students during the class and making learning less mechanical and artificial. This all meant that teachers had to be more alert, more active, well-planned and available,” Gholap said. Geometry teacher Alka Purohit, who teaches at a private school, said she had taken a three-month break from teaching and the school had granted her the leave due to excess pressure. “I did not have a family life as we were constantly trying to create videos, take feedback, record our voice, draw charts and such things that I had not done in 15 years of my experience. Every day, I would go to bed with a severe headache. I was always worried about what would happen in class the next day and once I even broke down before my family. I had to consult our family doctor and he advised me to take a break as I was taking on too much stress.” Director of Rosary Education Group, Vinay Aranha, said, “The teachers have been working twice as hard during this academic year, and have successfully completed the curriculum. The most difficult part for them and the students was learning and adapting to new technology. The laxity and lack of seriousness in students have been handled by constant effort put in by the teachers to guide them in online classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prolonged-online-classes-stress-out-many-teachers-some-even-quit-jobs/articleshow/81197070.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Rules on flyers from UK unclear, Delhi HC allows family home stay||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Wednesday said the guidelines by the Centre and Delhi government on institutional quarantine for the United Kingdom returnees were contradictory. It directed that a family sent to 7-day institutional quarantine after returning from the UK, despite testing Covid-negative, be sent home to undergo quarantine for seven days. Justice Prathiba M Singh remarked that there was “no clarity” in the notifications on quarantine of passengers coming from the UK and directed Delhi government to instruct IGI Airport to prominently display on its website the standard operating procedures (SOP) so that no confusion was caused to the travellers. While the Centre said its guidelines only mandate 14-day home quarantine for the UK returnees if they test negative, and institutional quarantine was not advised, the AAP government cited a January 29 central government SOP, which stated that all the flyers sitting close to a traveller, who test positive, had to be sent to institutional quarantine. “All these notifications are contradictory. There is no clarity whether the January 29 SOP continues to be in operation. Since there is confusion about it, and the petitioners (family) include two minors below 10 years, they shall remain in home quarantine instead of institutional, and shall strictly adhere to the norms,” the court observed. It then disposed of the plea by the family challenging the action taken against them. The petition said all the members were tested for Covid-19 on arrival on February 20, and despite testing negative, they were “illegally and unlawfully” sent to institutional quarantine. It added that before starting from the UK, the family had undergone a test and were issued a “'fit-to-fly” certificate. After arriving at the capital, they were again tested and found negative, despite which they were sent to institutional quarantine at their cost in a five-star hotel instead of home quarantine, as sought by the petitioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rules-on-flyers-from-uk-unclear-court-allows-family-home-stay/articleshow/81197071.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Aurangabad||Burglary rumours on social media send cops in a tizzy||Aurangabad: City police had a tough time on Wednesday morning after a report on the social media went viral claiming that the house of a Pratap Nagar-based dentist was broken into and the burglars decamped with Rs 10 lakh cash along other valuables, including 1 kg gold. The social media post also claimed that the alleged incident took place on the first day of the night curfew imposed by police. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Rahul Girhe claimed that though a burglary was reported at the bungalow in Pratap Nagar, no ornaments or cash were stolen. Taking cognisance of the house break-in report that went viral on the social media, Osmanpura police station inspector Dilip Tare rushed to the spot, followed by a crime branch team led by inspector Avinash Aghav. Later, Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Ashok Navle, Girhe and commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta also rushed to the spot. The viral report also caught the attention of the state intelligence authorities, who forwarded the report to their bosses and it was followed by an alert to the Director General of Police’s office. Due to this DG control room made at least half-a-dozen calls to Gupta as well as Tare, who had a hard time convincing that nothing was lost in the break-in at the at the bungalow belonging to an industrialist and his dentist wife. “Based on the complaint lodged by a family friend Narendra Meghrajani, we have registered a case under IPC sections 457 (for house breaking at night, 380 (for theft in any infra used for human dwelling) and 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offence punishable with life imprisonment),” Tare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/burglary-rumours-on-social-media-send-cops-in-a-tizzy/articleshow/81194870.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||A law to be enacted for overall devpt of SC/ST||Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday announced that a special ‘Rajasthan Pattern’ will be implemented in the state for the overall development of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, under which Rajasthan Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Development Law will be enacted. He also announced that sanitary napkins will be distributed to women under ‘CM free medicine scheme’ and for which Rs200 crore has been allocated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/a-law-to-be-enacted-for-overall-devpt-of-sc/st/articleshow/81198946.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||CM proposes cashless treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh for each family in state||Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday proposed launching of the ‘universal health coverage’ under which all families in the state will get cashless treatment up to Rs 5 lakh per year. If the scheme is launched, Rajasthan will become the first state in the country to introduce such a scheme which has potential of transforming entire healthcare services. Around 1.10 crore families, accounting for two-third of the state’s population, are already covered and getting benefit of casheless treatment under Ayushman Bharat- Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojna. Among those are beneficiaries of social and economic census 2011 and National Food Scurity Scheme. The government is paying a premium of Rs 1,662 per family to the insurance company. Now, Gehlot has announced to include small and marginal farmers and contractual workers for free cashless treatment in empaneled hospitals. For rest of the families, Gehlot has proposed Rs 850 premium per family to avail the benefit of cashless treatment up to Rs 5 lakh in empaneled hospitals.“We welcome the universal health coverage initiative of the state government. We are with the government to make it successful. But, the state government should implement it taking along doctors’ association to finalise rates of packages, conditions of payment of bills and other rules and regulations. The payments of the hospitals are still pending of Bhamashah insurance schemes. The scheme is good but how it will be implemented on the ground level, it should be a major challenge,” said Dr M N Thareja, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), state unit. The state government has proposed ‘universal health coverage’ in the state aiming to reduce ‘out of pocket’ expenditure, which people have to spend for medical treatment. Health minister Raghu Sharma said, “The 3,500-crore universal health coverage scheme will transform the healthcare sector.”Recently, the state government had launched the new phase of Ayushman Bharat–Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojana 2021-2023 (AB-MGRSBY) under which 1,576 health packages are covered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-proposes-cashless-treatment-of-up-to-rs-5-lakh-for-each-family-in-state/articleshow/81198978.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Pune||JEE Main 2021 Paper 1 Analysis, Feb 24: Aspirants find maths lengthy, but physics much easier||PUNE: The engineering joint entrance examination (JEE) Main started from Wednesday and the students found the paper easy. Experts said the paper has been the easiest in the recent years. Although, there was crowding outside the exam centre in Hadapsar, the arrangements inside the exam centre were good. The exam was conducted in two shifts in the morning and the afternoon. A candidate who did not wanted to be named said, “Maths was lengthy and physics was simple. Arrangements inside were good, considering the pandemic, enough distance was maintained. But they made students sign and stick the photo during the exam which ate into our valuable time. Also traffic issues while reaching the Hadapsar centre are huge.” The exam pattern for JEE Main has changed this year and director of IITians Prashikshan Kendra, Durgesh Mangeshkar, said, “The exam was on the easier side. It was easier than the previous year’s papers as per the students. The numerical section had a pattern change this year which was pre-announced by the National Testing Agency and went off as expected. But then it is easy for all students. So higher marks would be needed to score a specific percentile.” Sanskriti Gangwal, a candidate who appeared for the exam, said, “The exam was easy to moderate level, but it was lengthy especially maths. physics had more formula-based questions and easy numerical questions while in chemistry most were from organic chemistry subjects.” Arun Jain, centre head of Allen Pune, said, “Chemistry was of moderate difficulty according to our students while maths was lengthy and physics comparatively easy.” Another student, Kavya Ravi, said physics had a few lengthy questions. “Chemistry was mostly information based from NCERT but the numerical section had only physical chemistry questions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jee-main-aspirants-find-maths-lengthy-but-physics-much-easier/articleshow/81197097.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 25, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Traders to support Friday bandh||AURANGABAD: Extending their support to the country-wide strike called by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Friday, Aurangabad Vyapari Mahasangh — the parent body of traders and businessmen — on Wednesday announced it will participate in the bandh called against the GST and other policies of the central government. The CAIT along with other organisations have been demanding a review of the GST provisions which, according to them has, become a source of harassment for small and medium traders. As many as 72 different organisations are part of the Mahasangh that has announced that all the shops will remain closed till 6 pm on Friday. The body also blamed the BJP-led government of reintroducing license Raj through GST and arbitrary acts that eventually makes life miserable for the businessmen. In Aurangabad, the bandh will be observed under the leadership of Ajay Shah, one of the senior office bearers of CAIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/traders-to-support-friday-bandh/articleshow/81194880.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Active cases of Covid-19 in U’khand now down to 400||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 47 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday. With this, the case tally shot up to 96,820 in the state. Also, 80 more people recovered from Covid-19, taking the number of cured cases to 93,348 in Uttarakhand. On Wednesday, the number of active cases came down to 400 in the state. According to the report released by the health department, 7,598 Covid-19 samples tested negative on Wednesday. The maximum of 26 Covid-19 infections were recorded in Dehradun, followed by nine in Nainital, eight in Udham Singh Nagar, two in Haridwar, and one each in Almora and Chamoli districts. In some relief, the hill states of Bageshwar, Champawat, Pauri, Pithoragarh, Rudraprayag, Tehri and Uttarkashi recorded no new infections. In another important development on the day, the authorities of Uttarakhand Medical University and Government Doon Medical College and Hospital, in collaboration with Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), launched a one-year diploma course in hospital management. The first-of-its-kind course will start in the government medical college and offer training in managing hospital affairs to non-medicos. Dr Hem Chandra, vice-chancellor, Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna Uttarakhand Medical Education University, said that the diploma will be beneficial for those who wish to enhance their capabilities in their field of healthcare. “The interested candidates can apply online on ingouflip.samarth.edu.in and or write at pgdhhm.gdmc@gmail.com,” said the V-C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/active-cases-of-covid-19-in-ukhand-now-down-to-400/articleshow/81195767.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 25, 2021||Pune||Counsellor a must for ICCR endorsement||Pune: The Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) will recommend foreign students selected under various scholarship programmes to only those institutions where a counsellor is available, president of ICCR Vinay Sahasrabuddhe said. Sahasrabuddhe was speaking to reporters after signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) under an initiative called UTIKS or Universalisation of Traditional Indian Knowledge System which aims to disseminate traditional Indian knowledge across the world. “We have decided to recommend students to only those institutes that have a counsellor available with them. Many students come from countries like Afghanistan and a counsellor helps them adjust with the atmosphere and address problems if any,” said Sahasrabuddhe. He has written to the education ministry urging it to consider SPPU’s name in the list of Institutes of Eminence declared by the ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/counsellor-a-must-for-iccr-endorsement/articleshow/81197096.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 25, 2021||Aurangabad||PUC operators booked for cheating||Aurangabad: Operators of two different Pollution Under Control (PUC) centres along with owners of three vehicles have been booked by the city police on charges of cheating and forgery after the certificates issued were found already issued to other vehicles that were seized by the regional transport office (RTO). Based on a complaint lodged by RTO assistant inspector Shaikh Feroz, Vedantnagar police have registered an offence against the five suspects. Police now suspect that many of other mobile as well as stationary PUC centres are involved in issuing of these certificates without carrying out the mandatory tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/puc-operators-booked-for-cheating/articleshow/81194887.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 25, 2021||Pune||Project Sanjeevani offers to educate 60 rural students, build their careers||Pune: A project to help students in government schools in rural Maharashtra has been launched jointly by Shyamchi Aai Foundation and Uday Gujar Foundation. `Project Sanjeevani’ is a mentoring and scholarship programme that would support higher secondary students academically as well as financially to achieve career goals. The Shyamchi Aai Foundation has supported the state government to conduct free interest and aptitude tests for 17 lakh standard X students in the last five years. At least 290 of these students from rural government schools have shown a very high aptitude in all measured areas. “We want to select 60 students across the state and mentor them for the next three to four years to pursue education and be self-reliant. They will get equal access, resources and opportunity to higher education linked to their interest and aptitude leading to meaningful careers,” Uday Gujar, director of the foundation, said. Raghunath Mashelkar is chief patron and adviser to Project Sanjeevani. A three-day residential programme will be conducted thrice a year for mentoring the students and provide scholarships.  The first residential workshop will be conducted in April and May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/project-sanjeevani-offers-to-educate-60-rural-students-build-their-careers/articleshow/81197123.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Nashik||Two robberies reported in Nashik city||NASHIK: Two robbery cases were reported in the city at different police stations wherein the unidentified suspects managed to steal cellphones and cash from the complainants. In the first incident, a 19-year-old boy and his friend were looted of their cellphones and Rs 500 cash by three suspects near the civic body’s filtration plant in Tapovan. The duo was travelling on their motorbike when they were waylaid by the suspects and assaulted. In the second incident, Rs 48,000 cash and a cellphone was robbed from a man by three unidentified suspects in Bhadrakali area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-robberies-reported-in-nashik-city/articleshow/81194895.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Ludhiana||Big benefits of farm movement so far||JALANDHAR: The final fate of the farmers’ movement, notwithstanding extremely negative propaganda against it before and after January 26 events, is still very unclear. However, there have already been gains that are crucial for Punjab and Sikhs. Economists and agriculture experts can keep on debating for and against the farm laws or take a nuanced position but there already have been some big takes from this movement. It is indisputable that largelyPunjab farmers, most of them Sikhs, are at the core of this agitation and Sikhs across the country and world, irrespective of their professional or urban/rural backgrounds, are rallying behind them as the community perceives the three contentious farm laws as an attempt to harm a significant number of them. They have gained strength as Jats of Haryana and Western UP along with people of other communities, ideologies and states are supporting them. Two communities suffered together in the Partition, but communal fault lines at political level between Hindus and Sikhs created by anti-Punjabi language propaganda under the guise of ‘nationalism’ soon after had divided them and then the 1980s widened the gulf. They can be seen together at Darbar Sahib in Amritsar, but politically they have espoused contrasting stances, especially during every agitation. However, this time many are speaking up strongly for the (Sikh) farmers and to foil attempts to divide Punjabi Hindus against “Sikh farmers’ movement”. If the communal binary is partially failing, diverse castes have also come together despite attempts to sharpen the differences. Several Dalits have already joined the protests on the ground, others are supporting them online. Dalit preachers, activists and singers have already been to the protest. As Jat Sikhs, Dalits and people of different castes have been staying and dining together at the morcha, this brings out the reality of Punjab. Now farm groups have announced to celebrate Guru Ravidas’s birth anniversary at Singhu border. If on one side, the farm agitation has largely united the people of Punjab, bitterness between Punjab and Haryana has already turned into bonhomie at the level of people. Before Operation Bluestar and the massacre of November 1984, normalisation of ‘othering’ of Sikhs started from Haryana, when under then CM Bhajan Lal’s watch community members passing through the state were openly humiliated during the Asian Games in November 1982. Exactly 38 years later, Jats from Haryana have played the most crucial role in ending the isolation of Punjab farmers. They did not just join hands with Punjabis in removing the barricades from roads in Haryana but also provided the first protective cover when time-tested stratagem of raising the bogey of separatism or terrorism was brought into play to discredit any demand or agitation largely involving Sikhs. After January 26, Jats of western UP, led by Rakesh Tikait, have also played that crucial role. Some can question this proposition of “ending of isolation” by arguing that it was never there. But facts speak for themselves. For the first time ever, the issue of targeting of Sikh activists by any security or intelligence agency caught national attention when NIA issued notices to Sikh activists supporting the farmers’ movement. Such wrongful targeting has not taken place for the first time. The only difference is that silence on large scale and serious human rights violations, misuse of special laws in Punjab was normalised a long time back. Whatever is now being called “new normal” in the case of minority groups is actually “old normal” for Punjab, including manipulation of media in building narratives. It is an occasion to understand how games were played in Punjab by the establishment in the past. Selective silence was considered in the national interest. However, events since the last week of November 2020 have changed the ‘old normal’. Credit for this primarily goes to the farmers of Haryana, Western UP, Rajasthan, and other states, who in their native languages/dialects have demolished narratives built over the years in Hindi and English. They made the talking/shouting heads in certain studios look stupid. A large number of other Indians from across communities followed the Jats of Haryana and Western UP in challenging the narrative peddled by television anchors and the IT cell-wallas. The state got the tag of Udta Punjab, but that has already disappeared into thin air. Punjab feels more energetic, argumentative and articulate, its capacities are more synchronised and cooperative. In fact, the farmers’ movement has imparted positive energy in the state. People from other states are defeating the propaganda to isolate it. This movement is rewarding when one looks at these gains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/big-benefits-of-farm-movement-so-far/articleshow/81199001.cms||IP Singh
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Civil judge from Almora suspended after allegations that his family used car of man accused in criminal case||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Tuesday suspended Abhishek Kumar Srivastava, civil judge (senior division) who was serving as judicial magistrate, Almora, after allegations surfaced that he along with his family was using the private vehicle of an accused for personal works and had also travelled to places like Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad using the vehicle. The order comes after the court had received complaints against the judge and initiated disciplinary proceedings. A criminal case against the accused, Chandra Mohan Sethi had been pending before Srivastava and it has been alleged that the judge extended favours to Sethi as well. “The perusal of records reflects that the officer is favouring the accused,” read the memorandum issued on the orders of Chief Justice of the Uttarakhand high court RS Chauhan and signed by registrar general Dhananjay Chaturvedi. The memo said that the conduct of the civil judge casts doubts on his integrity, “amounts to grave misconduct” and “is unbecoming of a judicial officer”. It added that the conduct is also in violation of the Uttarakhand Government Servants’ Conduct Rules, 2002. The court further said that during his suspension, Srivastava will receive half of his salary as subsistence allowance along with DA. The salary will be paid to him only after he furnishes a certificate that he is not involved in any business or other employment. “During the period of suspension and until further orders, Abhishek Kumar Srivastava shall remain attached with the district judgeship’s headquarter Dehradun and he shall not leave the station without obtaining the prior permission of the court,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/civil-judge-from-almora-suspended-after-allegations-that-his-family-used-car-of-man-accused-in-criminal-case/articleshow/81195779.cms||Prashant Jha
February 25, 2021||Pune||Spotted deer rescued from trench after road mishap||Pune: The Warje Malwadi police and the Pune fire brigade, early on Wednesday, rescued a spotted deer from a 15ft trench — dug for laying a pipeline — near Dukkar Khind after it was hit by an unknown vehicle on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. “The adult male deer was badly injured in the accident. It fractured its hind leg and is currently undergoing treatment at the RESQ Wildlife Treatment and Transit Centre in Bhugaon,” Sumedh Tarde, the rescue and media coordinator of the organisation, told TOI. The spotted deer is a protected species under the Wildlife Protection Act. Police marshal Dnyaneshwar Gujar of the Warje Malwadi police said, “Around 1.30am, a commuter alerted the police about an injured deer frantically running on the bypass near Dukkar Khind. The caller also informed that the deer was being chased by a pack of stray dogs and some men.” Gujar said he and his teammates quickly went to the spot. They managed to procure a torch from a scrap vendor and began searching for the deer in the jungle. “After an hour-long search in the dark, we found the deer in a 15-foot-deep trench,” Gujar said. Pune fire brigade’s Tande Shivaji Mujumale, who was part of the rescue team, said, “We used a net and safely rescued him around 5.30am.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/spotted-deer-rescued-from-trench-after-road-mishap/articleshow/81197126.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: In a first, separate agri budget from next year||In a first, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday announced a separate agriculture budget from next year and a separate power distribution company (Agri-discom) for exclusively catering to agriculture connections. The chief minister said agriculture has huge potential and it calls for a separate budget to tap its full potential. But the nomenclature of separate discom for agriculture has not been explained. Domain experts say it is an impractical proposal. “There is no provision in the electricity Act for discom for sector-wise connections. Connection could be given only by the licensee on its own network. Currently, all the three discoms have their network area wise while farmers are spread across the state. It seems an impractical announcement,” said R G Gupta, former chairman and managing director of JVVNL. Chief minister said the state government had waived off Rs 14,000 crore of farm debt in the cooperative sector including Rs 6000 crore announced by the BJP government. He said since the state government had received no reply from the Centre on its proposal for a one-time settlement of agriculture loans of farmers from commercial banks, it would approach the state-level bankers committee (SLBC) for the same at its level. He said despite the pandemic and difficult economic situation, Rs 16,000-crore interest free crop loans would be distributed with the inclusion of three lakh new beneficiaries. The chief minister also announced a new scheme ‘Mukhya Mantri Kirshak Sathi Yogana,’ which includes distribution of bio-fertilizers, bio-agents and micro nutrients to 3 lakh farmers, high quality seeds to 5 lakh farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-a-1st-separate-agri-budget-from-next-yr/articleshow/81199151.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Nagpur||Poharadevi mahant, who accompanied minister Rathod, is positive; 229 students of school infected||Nagpur: A total of 19 people, including mahant Kabirdas Maharaj of Poharadevi Jagdamba temple, have tested positive for Covid-19. All three members of Kabirdas Maharaj's family have also contracted corona. Also, 234 persons, including 229 students, of a residential school have tested positive in Washim district. Kabirdas Maharaj and family were tested on February 21, ahead of forest minister Sanjay Rathod’s visit to the Poharadevi temple. As rapid antigen reports came negative, their samples were referred for RT-PCR test to Amravati. Reports of all three family members of the mahant and some 19 others in temple premises came positive on Thursday, said a senior official from the Washim district health department. Sources at the Poharadevi temple also confirmed that reports of mahant and his family are positive. The mahant had accompanied minister Rathod during the entire power show held at the temple on Tuesday. Defying Covid-19 norms, more than 10,000 supporters of Rathod had gathered in the temple premises to support him on Tuesday, when the minister made his first public appearance after two weeks. Rathod is facing allegations in Puja Chavan death case since last two weeks. After visiting Poharadevi temple, Rathod attended the district health department meeting in Yavatmal, then travelled to Mumbai via Nagpur and attended the cabinet meeting on Wednesday in Mumbai. He also reportedly met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray separately after the cabinet meeting. Washim civil surgeon Madhukar Rathod said the health department is still getting details of the Poharadevi reports. “As per the norms, tests were conducted at Poharadevi but we are still to get reports. Generally, reports reach on WhatsApp number of the tested individuals first. Secondly, the reports reach district health office. We are taking further information of how many of the family and temple premises are positive,” he said. Washim has Vidarbha’s lowest number of Covid-19 cases but the present surge has affected the district badly. The district has 8,240 Covid-19 positive cases out of which 800 cases were detected in last 7 days. On Wednesday, Washim reported highest ever 319 new cases out of which 229 were students and staff of a residential school in Risod tehsil of the district. Four teachers, one non-teaching staff and 229 students living in a dormitory at a residential school at Degaon in Risod taluka of Washim district have been found to be corona positive. District collector Shanmugarajan S immediately visited the residential school and took stock of the situation. He also instructed proper treatment and other necessary facilities to the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/poharadevi-mahant-who-accompanied-minister-rathod-is-positive-229-students-of-school-infected/articleshow/81208469.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 25, 2021||Pune||Pune: Six members of Marne gang in net||PUNE: The city police on Tuesday night arrested six more aides of gangster Gajanan, alias Gaja Marne, in a case related to a car rally brought out by them in a show of strength after Marne was released from Taloja jail on February 15. The Kothrud police issued a statement identifying the arrested suspects as Sameer Patil (29), Atul Sasar (34), Rahul Ube (36), Sagar Hulawale (32), Ramdas Malpote (34) and Kailash Padwal (32), all residents of Kothrud. Three police teams from Kothrud, Warje Malwadi and crime branch were formed for taking the suspects into custody from various places. Marne and eight others were arrested on February16. They were released on bail the next day. Police later arrested eight suspects on February 19. Two more were held on the next day. Deputy commissioner of police (zone III) Pournima Gaikwad said on Wednesday, “Altogether 29 people have been arrested in Marne’s case so far. We have seized 15 vehicles from the suspects. Police teams are on the lookout for other suspects on the run.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-members-of-marne-gang-in-net/articleshow/81197135.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Lakha Sidhana goes live, hours after Bathinda rally||BATHINDA: Gangster-turned-activist Lakhbir Singh alias Lakha Sidhana again went live on late Tuesday night, hours after attending a rally at Mehraj village in Bathinda and reiterated his appeal to farmer leaders to give a programme to ensure big mobilisation in farmer protests to put pressure on the central government. In his 5.47-minute clip put on his social media page, Lakha assures thousands of youths from Punjab will head towards Delhi borders if a call is given by the farm leaders. He also said the way central government and Delhi Police are indulging in high-handedness, by conducting raids, making arrests and sending notices, the leaders need to give a befitting reply. If the leaders remained mum, the police will think they will get away with it, he added. Lakha said the youth of Punjab, may be with him, but they are more concerned for the well-being of Punjab and are ready to fight it out. To safeguard their rights and the rights of Punjab, they are on the roads and ready for bigger fight, he added. He also said blamed Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is spreading rumours that the mobilisation in the rally was arranged by the Congress. He claimed that youngsters come on their own. Enthused by the big turnout in the Tuesday rally, Lakha thanked the people, especially residents of Mehraj village, who arranged everything for the rally. Lakha was booked by Delhi Police after the violence on January 26. A reward of Rs 1 lakh was also announced for information about him. Despite this, Lakha showed up for the rally. He also goes online in the nights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lakha-sidhana-goes-live-hours-after-bathinda-rally/articleshow/81199019.cms||Neel Kamal
February 25, 2021||Pune||Aides booked for Covid rules violation||Pune: The Vishrambaug police on Tuesday night booked Rupesh Marne, a key aide of gangster Gajanan, alias Gaja Marne, and others on the charge of disobedience and rioting by assembling in large numbers on Shivaji Road in violation of Covid-19 norms on February 14, this year. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/aides-booked-for-covid-rules-violation/articleshow/81197138.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||In a week, active Covid cases jump to 33 in Dharavi||MUMBAI: The city’s largest slum pocket, Dharavi, reported 10 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, a slight increase compared to the last few days. Dharavi had last reported 10 cases on January 17. Active cases there are also rising. On Wednesday, active cases stood at 33, that is up from 19 on February 17. Assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar (G North ward) said it cannot be called a spike as of now. “We need to observe the number of cases for few days. These cases are mostly from buildings in the area,” he said. Civic officials said over the past few days even though cases were in single digit, as a precautionary measure they were sending out mobile testing vans, especially for pockets in the slum cluster from where positive cases are being traced lately. This, they said, was to curb another spread in the congested locality, where 80% of the population depends on community toilets. Covid-19 had entered Dharavi on April 1 last year, and there were days when over 80 cases were reported. On May 3 last year, 95 cases were reported in a day, while on May 15, there were 84 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-a-week-active-cases-jump-to-33-in-dharavi/articleshow/81197160.cms||Richa Pinto
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Now, farmer in Muktsar ploughs crop on 3 acres||BATHINDA: After a couple of farmers ploughed the standing wheat crop in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, a farmer from Pakki Tibbi village in Lambi block of Muktsar district in Punjab ploughed his wheat crop on three acres to showcase anger against the central government. Farmer Rakbir Singh Sandhu had sown wheat on six acres, but ploughed half of it on Wednesday. Rakbir, whose brother Mehma Singh is the former sarpanch of the village, is an activist of farm organisation Lahoria Kisan Mazdoor Ekta. The outfit is not part of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), but supporting the morcha and some of its activists are on the Tikri border. Rakbir said his extended family owned over 50 acres, but they were faming on six as the remaining land had been leased out to farmers. “Going by the adamant attitude of the central government for not agreeing to repeal three contentious farm laws, we decided to plough the standing crop. We wanted to showcase our annoyance,” he said. He advisedother farmers not to follow suit as the main source of income of most of the farmers was crops only. He said they would continue staying at protests till the government did not listen to farm organisations. Mehma said the central government must repeal farm laws, so farmers could come back from protests and take care of their fast maturing crop. A day before, a farmer in Haryana’s Karnal district was ploughing his wheat field when activists of Bhartiya Kisan Union intervened and made him stop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-farmer-in-muktsar-ploughs-crop-on-3-acres/articleshow/81199049.cms||Neel Kamal
February 25, 2021||Pune||Pune: Externed criminal, 8 others held||PUNE: Externed criminal Roshan Lokhande (28) and his eight accomplices were arrested on Wednesday after a video showing him and others dancing with firearm, weapons and sticks in Narhe went viral on the social media. Many police personnel received the video clip. The police are verifying when the video was shot. The police had externed Lokhande six months ago from the city and the district. The Sinhgad Road police registered the case under sections 188, 269, 270 and 141 of the IPC, and the Indian Arms Act. Inspector Pramod Waghmare of the Sinhagad Road police said, “The video went viral in last two days. We took its cognisance as it showed the suspects with sharp weapons and the firearm. We have recovered a sharp weapon and search is on for the firearm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/externed-criminal-8-others-held/articleshow/81197141.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Ludhiana||Morcha gives call to celebrate Guru Ravidas birth anniversary||JALANDHAR: Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has announced to celebrate Guru Ravidas’s birth anniversary at Singhu border on February 27 and also urged the farmers back home to participate in celebrations in their villages. When “kisan-mazdoor ekta” has already become the main slogan of farm movement, this move is likely to bring closer Dalits, especially Ravidassia community members, and farmers. Dalits have been participating in the protest at Delhi and now farm groups appear to be reciprocating. After Guru Gobind Singh’s anniversary and anniversary of martyrdom his four sons and mother had been held at Delhi border, celebrating Guru Ravidas’s anniversary is likely to send a message to Dalits across the country. Announcing this here on Wednesday, SKM constituents Bharti Kisan Union Doaba general secretary Satnam Singh Sahni, BKU Qadian district president Jasveer Singh Litt and Kandhi Kisan Sangharash Committee vice-chairman Jarnail Singh Garhdiwal said SKM had already taken a collective decision to celebrate the anniversary at Singhu border and appealed to people to reach Singhu border for celebrating the anniversary. “Farmers who are back home should participate in nagar kirtans and other functions related to Guru Ravidas anniversary in their villages or towns. Social bonds between farmers and Dalits have always been strong, and it is time to reaffirm these ties,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/morcha-gives-call-to-celebrate-guru-ravidas-birth-anniversary/articleshow/81199087.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Amritsar||At protest sites, unions mark day against repression||BATHINDA: Farmer unions observed an ‘anti-repression day’ on Wednesday across their protest sites on the Delhi borders and in Punjab to oppose the arrest of their fellow agitators since the Republic Day violence. They want information about the missing protesters and ask the government to stop sending arrest notices and opposing the bail petitions. They accuse the central government of using police to scare the protesters. The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) sent copies of this memorandum to its units in Punjab. Addressed to the President, it puts four demands—the release of their comrades, the cancellation of cases against them, their supporters and those still not arrested, no Delhi Police or National Investigating Agency (NIA) inquiries, and the lifting of barricades from the Delhi borders. Darshan Pal and Prem Singh Bhangu of the SKM said that since the January 26 happenings, a sword of arrest hanged over the farmers, as 44 were booked, 122 arrested, and many others, including protest commanders, told to join investigation. At the district and tehsil headquarters, the copies of the memorandum were handed over to the administrative officials. The SKM appreciated the release on bail of Disha Ravi in the toolkit case and welcomed some observations that judge Dharmendar Rana had made in the orders. The morcha called for action against Delhi Police instead and accused its special cell of intimidating Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation’s Delhi state secretary Ravi Rai and going in pursuit of Navkiran Natt of the Trolley Times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/at-protest-sites-unions-mark-day-against-repression/articleshow/81199057.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||In Kaithal, protesters strip over DC’s absence||KAITHAL/JIND: When Kaithal deputy commissioner Sujan Singh didn’t reach the spot to receive a memorandum from farmers who were observing ‘daman virodhi diwas’, the protesters staged a dharna in mini secretariat and started stripping off as a mark of protest. Farmers said the government and its officials were not concerned about the plight of farmers who had been camping at Delhi borders since November 27 against the Centre’s three agri marketing laws. Later, farmers pasted a memorandum of their demands at the gate of the deputy commissioner’s office and went away while raising slogans against the government and administration. Vikram Singh, one of the protesters, said, “BJP leaders have forgotten their time when they used to protest before 2014 by removing their clothes. Therefore, we also did the same by holding a half-naked protest to make them remember their time. Even the district administration’s officials ignored us and didn’t come to receive our memorandum. Now, officials are acting on the directions of the government and trying to instigate farmers. Every promise of BJP leaders has been exposed before the public. Farmers will not step down until the laws are repealed,” he added. In Jind district, officials reached the protest site at Khatkar toll plaza. Two SDMs of Uchana and Jind city reached the spot and took the memorandum. Farmers submitted their demands of withdrawal of cases registered against farmers and media, repeal of three farm laws, cancellation of FIRs, and handing over of tractors seized during January 26 tractor parade. Farmers claimed that they forced officials to walk to the protest site. Kaithal DC could not be reached despite several attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-kaithal-protesters-strip-over-dcs-absence/articleshow/81199083.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Pune||Water release for crops starts from Khadakwasla||PUNE: The irrigation department has initiated the second rotation of water release for rabi crops from the Khadakwasla dam. An irrigation department official said 3.5 TMC water was expected to be released in the next two months. The water discharge is unlikely to impact Pune’s water supply because the four dams supplying water to the city had over 21 TMC (71% of total capacity) in stock. This is 2 TMC more than last year’s stock. The Bhama Askhed dam, which is a new water source for the city’s eastern parts, also has 80% stock. The official said, “We have initiated the second rotation following a demand from the rural parts. The water sources and ponds in Indapur, Daund and Haveli areas will be filled on a priority”. Sources in the Pune civic body said any curtailment in water supply was unlikely till the end of summer, as the stock in the dams was adequate. The civic body lifts about 1,460 MLD water from Khadakwasla and will need 8 TMC till the arrival of monsoon. A meeting was recently held under the chairmanship of divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao to discuss a proposal to fetch water from the Mulshi dam for the city. Senior Congress corporator Aba Bagul said, “The divisional commissioner has told the civic administration and irrigation department to jointly conduct a study of the proposal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-release-for-crops-starts-from-khadakwasla/articleshow/81197146.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Rawat to ask UP CM for additional security deployment for Kumbh||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat will meet his UP counterpart Yogi Adityanath and ask for the deployment of 1,000 police personnel and 20 companies of PAC for Kumbh from April 5 to April 15. The mela is scheduled to commence on April 1 and the period between April 5 and 15 will be crucial for the grand religious event. The CM on Wednesday reviewed the ongoing projects at Haridwar for Kumbh Mela. During the meeting, he directed state officials to complete all the works — both permanent and temporary in nature — by March 15. Rawat also gave instructions to ensure effective arrangements for the Kumbh Mela in a safe and systematic manner. The CM also gave instructions for effective implementation of all necessary approvals, quality and usefulness of works for Kumbh Mela. Taking into account the Covid-19 scenario, the CM called for strict compliance of social distancing norms and SOPs issued by the Centre and the state. Rawat also directed all the departments concerned to complete the permanent construction works at the earliest and also the temporary works by March 15. He added that “there should be no difficulty in completing the Kumbh works”. He also stressed upon ensuring wide public awareness regarding the Kumbh. Secretary, urban development, During the meeting, Shailesh Bagoli informed the chief minister about the permanent and temporary construction works being undertaken under the arrangements of Kumbh Mela. Notably, the Haridwar Kumbh — which was earlier supposed to continue for four months — has been cut short to a duration of 28 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rawat-to-ask-up-cm-for-additional-security-deployment-for-kumbh/articleshow/81195815.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 25, 2021||Ludhiana||Public hearing for Delhi-Katra expressway deferred in Sangrur amid protest||PATIALA: Amid the ongoing protest against the land acquisition of Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway by farmers, the district administration in Sangrur has deferred public hearing till further orders. The hearing was supposed to take place on February 25 by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on the expressway and greenfield connectivity. Farmers whose land has been notified for the acquisition in Punjab are protesting against it for few months. Earlier this month, the protesters joined the agitation against this acquisition near Tikri border where farmers from Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Delhi are protesting against acquisition for national highways under Bharat Bhumi Bachao Sangharsh Committee being headed by Ramesh Dalal. Bhawanigarh sub-divisional magistrate, Karamjeet Singh, said, “We have postponed the public hearing till further orders.” The protestors want the land acquisition proceedings halted till the issue of three agricultural laws is resolved and farmers of Punjab are back home. The protestors claimed that they would open the talks over the compensation only after the issue of three agriculture laws are resolved. Earlier, the public hearing was scheduled on December 7 last year but it was postponed by the presiding officer at the request of participants. PPCB member secretary Karunesh Garg said earlier the public hearing meeting was postponed in Sangrur, Patiala and Gurdaspur. However, he said he had no information about the postponement of February 25 meeting. Delhi Katra Expressway Kisan Sangharh Committee coordinator Harmanpreet Singh Jeji said, “Punjab CM is with the central government on this. The state government panel headed by a Punjab minister recently assured us to get the proceedings halted, but it has sped up proceedings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/public-hearing-for-delhi-katra-e-way-deferred-in-sangrur-amid-protest/articleshow/81199109.cms||Bharat Khanna
February 25, 2021||Goa||UK strain landed in Goa in Dec, state expecting to see more: Bandekar||Panaji: Goa Medical College dean and the head of the state’s Covid-19 hospitals, Dr S M Bandekar, said on Wednesday that the UK strain of the virus arrived in Goa in December, and that the state is expected to see more such cases. At least four persons who arrived from the UK in December, and who were isolated at ESI hospital as per protocol, tested positive for the UK variant of the virus after their samples were sent for genomic sequencing to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. “We are likely to get more people with the UK strain because a lot of Goans are settled in the UK. The best part is that the UK mutant strain is not fatal, it is only highly infectious. People must follow social distancing and wear masks when travelling to crowded places,” Bandekar said. He also recommended the use of face shields. Sources told TOI that by the time the results were received from Pune, the patients were already discharged after they tested negative. After the 68 people who returned in December were isolated at the ESI hospital and flights to and from Goa were stopped, only one woman is now at the hospital, awaiting results from the genomic sequencing. She had returned from the UK on February 7 to Mumbai and developed a fever. She was tested at Victor Hospital on February 13, found positive, and shifted to ESI hospital. According to the current SOPs for the UK returnees, once a person tests positive for Covid-19, they are isolated at ESI hospital and the person’s sample is sent to NIV for genomic testing. Whether the results are received within two weeks or not, the person is subjected to an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 on the 14th day, and if negative, they are sent home. Even if the person’s report comes back positive for the new strain before two weeks, the person will be tested on the 14th day and if negative, sent home, said Bandekar, adding that isolation is the most important thing so that the variant doesn’t spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/uk-strain-landed-in-goa-in-dec-state-expecting-to-see-more-bandekar/articleshow/81199140.cms||Lisa Monteiro
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to amend Prison Act to strengthen security, curb crime in jails||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday decided to amend the Prison Act, 1894, to strengthen security in prisons and curb criminal acts by inmates through more stringent punishment for major offences like rioting, escape from prison and other violations of prison rules. The cabinet decided to introduce a Bill in the budget session of the legislative assembly scheduled to begin on March 1. It approved a proposal mooted by the prisons department to add new penal provisions in the said Act to strengthen security arrangements and prevent use of mobile phones by inmates, riots inside jails, assault on jail staff, damage to jail property, incidents of absconding and possession of drugs in jails. Section 52-A(1) of the Prison Act would be amended with a minimum imprisonment of three years and maximums seven years or with fine not exceeding Rs 50,000 or with both for offences against prison discipline. In case of non-payment of fine, the imprisonment may be further extended to one year. In case of second or subsequent conviction, punishment shall not be less than five years imprisonment and maximum of 10 years besides a fine extending up to Rs 5 lakh. The existing provision provided for a maximum of one year imprisonment and fine not exceeding Rs 25,000 or both. Despite various security arrangements in jails across Punjab, there have been cases of use of mobile phones by inmates, rioting, assault on jail staff, damage to jail property, drug trafficking and fugitive incidents. An amendment was carried out in 2013 in the Prisons Act to prevent wireless communication devices in prisons vide which a punishment not exceeding one year (bailable) with or without a fine of Rs 25,000 was imposed but it was found that the punishment was not sufficient to discourage such acts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-amend-prison-act-to-strengthen-security-curb-crime-in-jails/articleshow/81199142.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||HC issues notice to state on appointing cops as jail supers||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday issued notices to the state government as well as the secretary for home and the IG (prison), after a PIL was filed challenging an order where senior police officers were given additional charge of prisons at Sitarganj, Dehradun, Haldwani and Haridwar. The bench of Chief Justice R S Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma has given the respondents two weeks to file their counter affidavits, and has listed the case for further hearing on March 10. Home secretary Nitesh Kumar Jha had, on February 12, passed an order giving additional charge of senior superintendent/superintendent of jails to the police officers. On February 16, another order was passed by IG (prison) A P Anshuman, directing those officers to take charge of their posts. Jha’s order had also noted that of the 12 posts for senior superintendent/superintendent of jail, seven were vacant, and that the decision was being taken to maintain law and order. The petitioners however have argued that the two orders effectively blur the line between the jails and the police department which are meant to be separate. According to petitioners, handing over the charge of prisons to the police department goes against the fundamental principle of free and fair trial as an extra judicial pressure might be put on the accused by the police department since they will be investigating the case and handling the judicial custody as well. The petition goes on to say under the Police Act 1861 as well as Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), police officers have been tasked with investigation and maintenance of law and order, whereas officers for jail postings are appointed under UP Jail (Group A and B) Service Rules 1982 and entrusted with rehabilitation and protection of prisoners. “Cops given charge of SP (jail) may lead to unforeseen consequences, with prisoners feeling mental agony of continuing to be in police custody,” read the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-issues-notice-to-state-on-appointing-cops-as-jail-supers/articleshow/81195827.cms||Prashant Jha
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||80:20 scheme in pvt hosps may continue||Mumbai: In the light of rising Covid cases, the state is likely to consider extending the 80:20 scheme that was to expire on February 28. The scheme that allowed local bodies to control Covid beds in private hospitals and regulate prices was extended thrice. It is under litigation at present.  A senior state official said that given the surge, a decision may be taken soon. “We have been seeing a rise for the past 10 days and it is likely to continue for a while. We may need more beds to handle the surge,” the official said. Dr Gautam Bhansali who coordinates between private hospitals and BMC too said an extension is possible. “Hospitalisations are not too high at present, but the situation will unfold in 15 days,” he said.  The scheme started in April, and in May with capping of treatment rates. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/8020-scheme-in-pvt-hosps-may-continue/articleshow/81197220.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi music loses its Sikander to Covid-19||PATIALA/JALANDHAR: Punjabi singer Sardool Sikander died of post-Covid multiple-organ failure at the age of 60 on Wednesday morning at a private hospital in Mohali. His son, Alaap Sikander, said his father had contracted the Covid-19 infection in December 2020 but, later, tested negative, before being moved to hospital with post-Covid complications. Sardool’s funeral will be at his native village, Kheri Naudh Singh in Fatehgarh Sahib district. The Patiala Gharana singer had learnt music from his father, Sagar Mastan, and then Charanjit Ahuja. One of his ancestors, Karam Bakshish, was the royal singer of Patiala. For the past several years, Sardool lived with his family at Dullepur village near Khanna in Ludhiana district. He leaves behind his wife, Punjabi singer Amar Noorie, and sons, Sarang Sikander, 26, and Alaap Sikander, 24, both into music. The family had lost Sardool’s brothers, Gamdoor Aman and Bharpoor Ali, earlier. The command of four music traditions—folk, Sufi, Gurmat Sangeet, and classical— made Sardool a singing legend of Punjab, said Punjabi University Gurmat Sangeet chair former head Gurnam Singh, adding: “Sardool’s father, Sagar Mastan, was a product of ‘Harguna Taksal’ Gurmat Sangeet school in Fatehgarh Sahib.” ‘Aa gyi Roadways di laari’, ‘Ik charkha gali de vich daah lya’, ‘Ik kudi dil utte chha gayi’, ‘Tur jaawan ik var te maanwan labh diyan nahi’, ‘Doli’, ‘Gora rang na deyin rabba’, ‘Gori gal utte’, and ‘Sanu ishq brandi charh gyi’ were some of Sardool’s popular songs of the music-cassette age. Youngest of three brothers, Sardool lost his father at 12. In one of his old television interviews, he mentioned how he missed this first Guru he had found at 4. Sardool’s nephew, Bawa Sikander, said: “Sardool learnt Sufi singing from his eldest brother, Gamdoor Aman, married Amar Noorie in 1993, worked in eight movies, and cut 27 albums. From Harguna, the family moved to Kheri Naudh Singh, where Sardool was born in January 1961.” Sardool’s close friend and comedy artist Jaswinder Bhalla said: “He respected every religion and, before lockdown, used to sing at Jagratas. I was associated with him since 1982. About a month ago, his family informed me that he had Covid-19. For 10 days, he remained in the Machiwara and Ludhiana hospitals before being moved to Mohali. I had interviewed his entire family in ‘Hasseyan da Halla with Jaswinder Bhalla’.” Only a few contemporaries could match Sardool’s voice range and ease with difficult compositions. After rising to fame in the 1980s, he never faded away, even as the times and tastes changed. Everything he sang became popular. Charan Kamal Singh, director of Ishmeet Singh Music Institute, Ludhiana, said: “The connoisseurs respected him but his talent deserved more recognition. He perfected his God-gifted voice with enormous training. He could be good singing classical to Bollywood, both on live stage and in recording studio.” In live performances, Sardool could mimic the singers senior to him. Many Punjabi singers acknowledged that it was not easy to sing in his presence. Music maestro and now MP Hans Raj Hans said: “We were both competitors and good friends. I took cues from his methods of training. Two months ago, after a long singing session, I told him at last that he had always been better.” Music exponent Bhai Baldeep Singh, a conservationist, said: “Grounding in classical music made him so good with various folk music genres. Popularity couldn’t steal his humility.” Last show at Kundli Sardool’s last public appearance was on Delhi’s Kundli border in December, to support the farmers’ protest. He said: “Tell Ambanis and Andanis that you have challenged those who feed you. You can’t download food.” He sang a few lines of ‘Tainu vich Punjab de bhaalde khande shamsheeran’. Wife by his side, he recalled Shaheed Udham Singh and his 21-year wait for revenge. Punjabi Sahit Akademi former president Gurbhajan Singh Gill said: “Sardool also has three sisters, elder Shinghar Kaur and younger Karamjit Kaur."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabi-music-loses-its-sikander/articleshow/81199174.cms||Bharat Khanna
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet nod for policy to build over 25,000 houses for EWS||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab cabinet meeting on Wednesday approved a policy for construction of over 25,000 houses for the economically weaker section (EWS) as developers and authorities would be required to develop 5% of the project area for EWS housing. As per the new policy, these EWS houses would be constructed in reasonably sized pockets along with social infrastructure like schools, community centres and dispensaries to ensure comfortable living for the beneficiaries. These houses would be constructed with the latest brick-less technology, using services of qualified project management agencies and would be offered to eligible families, who will be financed by banks at affordable monthly instalment rates. The new policy provides for eligible applicants to furnish proof of birth in Punjab or of 10 years’ stay in the state from the date of application, such as Aadhaar card, copy of ration card, extract of voter list, copy of driving license and passport. Family income should not be more than Rs 3 lakh per annum from all sources. The applicant or his spouse or minor child must not already own freehold or leasehold residential plot or dwelling unit in Punjab or Chandigarh. As per the policy, the applications will be received and verified by the authorised banks. Only an application for which a bank provides loan, or applicant undertakes to make lump sum payment within 40 days of issue of letter of intent, would be considered for allotment through draw or otherwise. The applicant must be married and the application must be in the joint name of husband and wife. There will be a bar on sale, gift, mortgage with possession, exchange, long lease of the allotted EWS dwelling units for a period of 15 years, except within the family in case of death of the allottee. The state government would fix the sale price for EWS houses keeping in view the cost of construction of the unit, proportionate cost of site development and common infrastructure such as school, community centre and administrative charges. Realisation of MV tax or refund simplified The cabinet gave approval to amend the Punjab Motor Vehicle Taxation Act, 1924 to simplify the procedure for realisation of motor vehicle tax and its refund, where applicable. The amendment deals with issues like refund of lump sum tax paid in case of a motor car or motorcycle owner shifting to another state and ceasing to be resident of Punjab or transfer of ownership of the vehicle to a person having residence outside Punjab. In both such cases, refund of the lump sum tax paid shall be allowed at the rate determined by the government. In case a transport vehicle is registered in another state, it shall become liable for paying tax the moment it enters Punjab at a rate determined by the government. Similarly, at the time of issue of new stage carriage permit, one-time tax per kilometer shall be levied on such buses. But when a big bus owner is allowed to ply on an extended route with increased mileage, a one-time tax per kilometer shall be levied. Govt to pay Rs 10 lakh hospital dues of Sardool Sikandar Condoling the demise of Punjabi folk singer Sardool Sikandar on Wednesday, chief minister Amarinder Singh, while presiding over the cabinet meeting, announced that the state government will clear his hospital dues amounting to Rs 10 lakh. Cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi informed the chief minister that the deceased’s family had no money to pay the hospital dues. Amarinder also directed the health department to ensure that the private hospital in Mohali does not obstruct the release of his body to the family due to non-payment of dues. Bifurcation of health, medical education depts’ common cadre The cabinet also approved bifurcation of the common cadre of health and family welfare and medical education and research departments for prompt resolution of disputes arising out of establishment matters. The cadre controlling authority of various categories of para-medical staff under the directorate of medical education and research is presently under the control of the health and family welfare department, with the grade-3 and grade-4 staff in directorate of health and family welfare having common seniority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cabinet-nod-for-policy-to-build-over-25000-houses-for-ews/articleshow/81199156.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Agra||AMU student goes missing; kin not aware||AGRA: The Aligarh Muslim University authorities on Wednesday lodged a missing complaint of a 26-year-old BA (hons) final year student Mohd Ashraf Ali who has been missing since Tuesday. According to police, Ashraf Ali, who is pursuing BA (Hons) in Spanish and is a resident of Bihar’s Araria district, has been missing since 3pm on Tuesday as per the complaint given by the proctor’s office. He was last spotted by some university students at Shamshad market. Ashraf’s roommate in SS South hostel of the university, Amzad Ali said that he last spoke to Ashraf around 1pm in the hostel room on Tuesday. He added that he doesn’t know where Ashraf is and that the latter’s mobile phone has also been switched off. Ashraf’s cell phone was switched on for a few seconds around 3am on Wednesday but was again turned off, Amzad said, adding that CCTV footage of the main gate of Aftab Hall of the university shows Ashraf walking out around 3:30pm on the fateful day. “Ashraf had to go to Bihar on February 26 by train as some government exam for a translator’s job was scheduled on Feb 28,” said Amzad. He further added that many students tweeted about him on twitter but so far no information about him has been received. Proctor of the university Waseem Ali told TOI that they have tried to locate him at all possible locations and contacted his family and relatives too, but no one is aware about his whereabouts. He said the university subsequently informed the police about it. One of his brothers, who lives in Bangalore, was also contacted but he too had no clue about him, Ali added. SP (crime) Arvind Kumar said that a team has been formed to probe the matter. He said his last mobile location was traced in Delhi’s Anand Vihar. “We are working on it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-student-goes-missing-kin-not-aware/articleshow/81195835.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Rain, snow in the offing in Uttarakhand on Feb 26-27||Dehradun: After witnessing prolonged dry spell and rising temperatures, a fresh spell of rain and snow is likely to lash isolated places in Uttarakhand on February 26 and 27. According to the regional meteorological centre, snow will occur at hilly places situated at 3,000 metre altitude or above, while the foothills will receive light showers. "A fresh western disturbance is going to have an impact on the weather of Uttarakhand from February 26. Hills located at 3,000 metres and above will receive snowfall while foothills are likely to witness rain showers," said Rohit Thapliyal, senior meteorologist at regional meteorological centre. As a result, the temperature levels, which are currently settling above normal, are going to drop by a couple of notches in both hills and plains after February 27, said Met officials. On Wednesday, the maximum temperature at Dehradun was recorded at 30.1 degree Celsius, seven notches above normal, while the minimum remained at 13 degree Celsius, four notches above normal level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rain-snow-in-the-offing-in-uttarakhand-on-feb-26-27/articleshow/81195834.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 25, 2021||Bareilly||Stopped for picking fruits, neighbours beat man to death||Bareilly: In a shocking incident, a man was allegedly beaten to death by his neighbours after he stopped them from picking guavas from the tree inside his house. The incident occurred in Shekhpura village under Azeem Nagar police station when the man asked his neighbours not to pick fruits and an argument ensued. The man was later, allegedly beaten up by the accused who fl the scene. The deceased, identified as Mehfooz Ali (27), was rushed to a hospital where he succumbed during the treatment. Rampur police said that a case has been registered against two accused persons. One of them, Shakir, has been arrested. According to the complaint registered by the victim’s family, Mehfooz got into an argument with his neighbours for picking fruits from the tree in his house, some part of which is accessible to the latter from their terrace. On Monday, after the boy was stopped from picking fruits by Mehfooz, an argument ensued between the two. Later, the boy and his uncle thrashed Mehfooz and fled the scene. “My son was beaten up mercilessly by Shakir and his nephew who later fled the spot. The two are responsible for my son’s death,” father of the victim, Mehmood Ali, alleged in his complaint. Speaking with TOI, SHO Azeem Nagar police station, Rampur, Ravindra Kumar said, “The man was rushed to the Rampur district hospital where he died during the treatment on Tuesday. The autopsy report that arrived on Wednesday has revealed that he died due to ante-mortem injuries. An FIR has been registered under section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). One of the accused, Shakir has been arrested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/stopped-for-picking-fruits-neighbours-beat-man-to-death/articleshow/81194357.cms||Maria Khan
February 25, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Old ones forgotten, corporation may make new promises in budget||CHENNAI: Having sneaked in ‘secret budgets’ for at least three years now, Greater Chennai Corporation is finalising budget proposals for this year. In 2015, the corporation commissioner claimed to have given major infrastructure projects a big push. Five years down the line, the expenditure of the civic body has gone up by at least `2,000 crore for infrastructure projects and debts have risen by `1,500 crore. Yet, in the past five years no new bus route roads have been laid and integrated storm water drain projects are still at various stages of progress. Asked if pre-budget consultations with businesses, residents welfare associations, NGOs and activists were held to identify priority projects, a senior revenue department official told TOI that major capital intensive projects such as roads, drains, parks would be in the focus this year. There may not be any addition of cess or tax, as an attempt to introduce garbage cess and increase property tax had to be rolled back due to severe backlash recently. Major income avenues projected are likely to be the recently inaugurated parking management systems, new buildings to be set up under smart city and savings from green buildings. Commissioner G Prakash has already completed two sessions of meetings with all section heads and has asked them to be ready with the final budget in a week or two, he said. “We are also working on various revenue augmentation schemes this year to ensure corporation isn’t dependent on property tax alone,” said the official. As the state budget focused on Amma clinics maintained by the civic body, another official said healthcare is all set to get a boost with a new focus on the state of the urban primary healthcare centres. Kovalam and Kosasthalaiyar basin integrated storm water drain project, innovation centre at Amma Maligai, integrated command and control centre and various special projects funded by external agencies will also be highlighted. Last year, the budget focused on the bridges, with `512 crore being allocated for the purpose. Though school buildings and education were allocated `7 crore, the projects did not take off. Deprived of elected ward committees, city residents, however, want more focus on solid waste management and basic amenities instead of multi-crore projects this year. Anti-corruption NGO Arappor Iyakkam convenor Jayaram Venkatesan said after March 2020 no council resolution was uploaded on the corporation’s website. “They should make expenses of wards and progress of projects online until bills are paid on a real-time basis,” he said. Former AIADMK councillor Gunasekaran said projects worth several crores have been proposed to stop flooding of Adyar river but encroachments have not been removed, and canals have not been made free of sewage.“Road widening projects such as Kaliamman Koil Street that links Koyambedu bus stand to Vadapalani have been pending for years even though all works, including road markings, are complete. No point laying new roads when the older ones are being encroached,” he said. David Manohar, an activist, said GCC should allot more funds for schools and health centres in the extended areas. Sathish of OMR said more playgrounds and parks should be developed in added areas as residents have no access to recreation. Corporation Commissioner G Prakash and chief engineer (general) L Nandakumar were unavailable for comment on the budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/old-ones-forgotten-corpn-may-make-new-promises-in-budget/articleshow/81197217.cms||Komal Gautham
February 25, 2021||Chennai||Sexual harassment: Tamil Nadu DGP loses post, panel to probe SP’s complaint||CHENNAI: Days after a woman IPS officer of SP rank lodged a sexual harassment complaint against senior police officer Rajesh Das, the state government on Wednesday relieved the special director general of police (law and order) of the post and formed a panel to probe the complaint. Jayashree Raghunandan, additional chief secretary, planning and development department, will head the inquiry committee. Rajesh Das, who was in Coimbatore on Wednesday in connection with PM’s visit to the city, returned to Chennai and was replaced by additional director general of police K Jayanth Murali. The developments, however, were preceded by a strongly-worded statement from opposition leader and DMK chief M K Stalin who accused the state government of attempting to protect the officer. The other members of the probe panel are additional director general of police (headquarters) Seema Agarwal; inspector-general of police (administration) A Arun; deputy inspector-general of police, Kancheepuram range, B Shamoondeswari; chief administration officer in the office of the DGP V K Ramesh Babu; and head of programme management of International Justice Mission Loretta Jhona. The order issued by additional chief secretary S K Prabhakar on Wednesday said the committee shall take the necessary course of action as per the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. A minor reshuffle of senior IPS officers ensued with DGP Karan Singha being transferred from Police Training College and posted as the special DGP (prohibition enforcement wing). Special DGP Mohammad Shakeel Akhter has been posted as the special DGP, Police Training College. Superintendent of police, crime against women and children, A Kayalvizhi has been posted as superintendent of police of Tiruvarur district. M Durai succeeded her. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sexual-harassment-tn-dgp-loses-post-panel-to-probe-sps-complaint/articleshow/81199226.cms||A Selvaraj
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Universal healthcare & no new taxes in Ashok Gehlot’s welfare budget||JAIPUR: Presenting the Budget for 2021-22 that has the imprint of Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Ashok Gehlot laid emphasis on providing better healthcare, supporting the farming community, and reviving the ailing tourism and realty sectors. Gehlot, who also holds the finance portfolio, said the state will implement a universal healthcare scheme, create a new discom dedicated to agriculture consumers, and announce a separate agriculture Budget from next year. He proposed no new taxes and reached out to a cross-section of society by announcing relief measures of up to Rs 910 crore through various exemptions. The chief minister also hiked unemployment allowance by Rs 1,000 per month, taking the total to Rs 4,500. “I feel that every section of the society has suffered due to the Corona pandemic so no new tax has been proposed. But a relief of about Rs 910 crore is being provided during this period,” Gehlot said during the Budget speech. Through the universal healthcare coverage, the state government seeks to provide the entire population of the state health insurance although a family has to pay a nominal premium to avail cashless facilities for an insured amount of Rs 5 lakh. The pandemic has woken up the government to the need of digital technology in schools. While private schools switched to digital mode after the lockdown, the children in state schools missed classes due to the lack of modern facilities. The Budget’s proposal to allocate Rs 82 crore to provide set-top boxes and smart TVs to schools is an attempt to upgrade the facilities so that the students don’t miss classes. In fact, the government now wants to set up 1,200 new English schools in the state in the next two years and establish a Fintech Digital University at Jodhpur with a Rs 400 crore budget which will help in digitisation of various services the government provides, including education. The relief measures are expected to make agri products like sugar and ghee cheaper with the reduction of mandi tax from 1.60% to 1%. Reduction of stamp duty from 6% to 4% on flats in multistoried buildings costing up to Rs 50 lakh and bringing down DLC rates of commercial and residential properties by 10% are intended to spur the real estate market which has been under pressure due to lack of demand. During the lockdown and subsequent night curfews, many street vendors and selfemployed youths had to shut shop. To help them restart their businesses again, the Budget has proposed to provide them interest-free loans for up to Rs 50,000. Tourism, one of the main lifelines of the state’s economy, suffered the most due to the pandemic. It got a raw deal in the Centre’s Atmanirbhar packages and Budget for 2021-22. But the state government chose the occasion to revive the sector by making a provision for Rs 500 crore, Rs 200 crore of which will be spent for marketing and promotion. Additionally, the Budget has proposed to provide Viability Gap Funding for setting up a film city and projects dedicated to creating new tourist circuits. Similarly, folk artists, who went jobless after fairs, festivals, social and corporate events were cancelled, have got an allocation of Rs 15 crore. The Mukhaymantri Laghu Udyog Protsan Yojna, which has been effective in the state, will include 10,000 more entrepreneurs under the scheme. For this, the government has allocated Rs 50 crore for interest subsidy. Similarly, as per the proposals, home-grown startups will now get a seed funding of Rs 25 lakh and they will be selected through a i-Start programme. In a bid to boost DMIC projects, which have missed many deadlines, the Budget has allocated Rs 750 crore for the Marwar zone of the project, while Rs 1,000 crore has been proposed for an industrial township in Bhiwadi. To reduce tax disputes and legal cases, an amnesty scheme has been announced for pending stamp duty cases related to bank loans. Similarly, amnesty schemes on pending GST cases, entertainment tax, and entry tax are expected to give relief not only in penalty and interest but also in basic tax, as per the proposals. While the budget seems to have ticked the right boxes, the government has skipped allocations to big infrastructure projects like Metro rail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/universal-healthcare-no-newtaxes-in-gehlots-welfare-budget/articleshow/81199212.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Bareilly||Unhappy with family restrictions, four ‘missing’ girls found holidaying in Uttarakhand||BAREILLY: Four girls, including three minors, who went "missing" while on their way to school in UP's Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday were rescued by police from Tehri Garhwal in Uttarakhand on Wednesday. The girls claimed that they had left on their own because they were "unhappy with the restrictions imposed by their families and wanted to go on a vacation". One of the girls, 20, a student of Class 12, had left home with Rs 25,000 in cash. The others - aged around 15 years - also took some money with them. They were found staying in a resort under Muni ki Reti police station. Kheri police took the support of Uttarakhand cops after tracing their location through mobile surveillance. Kheri SSP Vijay Dhull said, “The girls had switched off their mobile phones after reaching Sitapur by bus. Our surveillance team was on the watch. After tracing the location of one of them in Uttarakhand, a team was dispatched. Support of local police was taken as well. Mobile surveillance and human intelligence played an important role.” The SSP further said, “The girls will be handed over to their families after recording their statement. We will take experts' help to provide counselling to them and their parents.” The SSP has now announced a reward of Rs 25,000 for the police team - for bringing the girls home safely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/unhappy-with-family-restrictions-4-missing-girls-from-kheri-found-holidaying-in-ukhand/articleshow/81194932.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 25, 2021||Goa||Won’t be able to dispose disqualification case on Feb 26: Speaker to SC||Panaji: Speaker Rajesh Patnekar, in an affidavit filed before the Supreme Court on Wednesday, said that it is not possible to dispose the disqualification petitions filed against 12 MLAs on February 26, and has asked the Supreme Court to clarify its order. The court had on February 10 ordered the speaker to conclude the hearings into the disqualification petitions filed by Congress and MGP on February 26. It had had set the date for the next hearing in the first week of March. “The speaker is to hear all the respondents in both the petitions, along with the submissions of the petitioners as well. In these circumstances, it may not be possible to complete and conclude the proceedings in one day, that is on February 26,” Patnekar said in the affidavit, filed through his advocate on record, Anannya Gosh. Patnekar has sought a clarification on the Supreme Court’s order and has asked for relief. “Since the order dated February 10 has recorded that the proceedings would be disposed on February 26, it was deemed necessary and appropriate that the above facts be brought to the notice of this court. Hence, Respondent No 1 (himself), making the present application, seeks suitable clarification. Hence, the present application for the reliefs as prayed,” said Patnekar. The writ petition was filed by state Congress president Girish Chodankar and MGP MLA Ramakrishna Dhavalikar.. In the affidavit, Patnekar has claimed that he could not take up the petition for prompt hearing due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which also led to his hospitalisation. Chodankar has sought that 10 MLAs who jumped from Congress to BJP be disqualified. In a similar petition, MGP has asked for two of its former MLAs — deputy chief minister Manohar Ajgoankar and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar — who joined BJP to be disqualified and barred from attending assembly proceedings till the petition is disposed of. Recently, two BJP MLAs told the Supreme Court in a sworn affidavit that Congress has ceased to exist in the Goa legislative assembly and that Chodankar has no locus standi to call for their disqualification. The two BJP MLAs are part of the 10 who crossed over in July 2019 by claiming that Congress has merged with BJP. The two, Clafasio Dias and Wilfred D’Sa, also said that the five remaining Congress MLAs in the 40 member house are actually independent MLAs and could not be called the Congress legislature party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wont-be-able-to-dispose-disqualification-case-on-feb-26-speaker-to-sc/articleshow/81199209.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Muck clearing work inside tunnel continues, no fresh body found||Dehradun: The muck clearing work inside the slush-choked Tapovan-Vishnugad hydro-power plant tunnel continued on Wednesday even as no fresh bodies were found. Using excavators, the teams — comprising NDRF and SDRF — continued removing debris and slush from the tunnel from where 14 bodies have been recovered since February 7, according to SDRF officials. As on date, the teams managed to clear around 178-180-metres of the Tapovan tunnel while a few more metres of muck has to be cleared to reach a point where the tunnel is joined by a supporting tunnel on the right side. It is believed that over 30 personnel — who were working in the tunnel at the time the flash floods struck — were at around 180 metres inside the tunnel. Meanwhile, no fresh bodies were found on Wednesday. Till date, 70 bodies have been recovered from the disaster-hit areas of the Chamoli district. However, 134 people are still missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/muck-clearing-work-inside-tunnel-continues-no-fresh-body-found/articleshow/81195852.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||At book launch in MDU, RSS leader administers oath of ‘Akhand Bharat’||ROHTAK: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) senior leader Indresh Kumar administered the oath of ‘Akhand Bharat’ to hundreds of people who were participating in a book launch at Maharishi Dayanand University (MDU) here on Wednesday. MDU vice-chancellor Rajbir Singh, University of Health Sciences vice-chancellor Dr O P Kalra, and faculty members and students of MDU were among those who were attending the event organised at the varisty’s auditorium. Indresh, who is national executive committee member of RSS and is not new to controversies, was the chief guest at the launch of a coffee table book on Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma, first chief minister of Haryana. The book has been authored by the former CM’s daughter Bharti Sharma. Indresh asked participants to raise their hands and vow to realise the dream of ‘Akhand Bharat’ before their death. Varsity officials, who were sharing the stage with Indresh, raised their hands along with participants and got an oath done. Indresh also wished for the elimination of neighbouring country Pakistan from the world map. Asking for the integration of Pakistan into India in near future, he asked participants to start dreaming of one job, one house and one shop in Haryana along with one other job — a house and a shop in Lahore of Pakistan — in the ‘Akhand Bharat.’ Later, talking to TOI, Indresh said the solution to ongoing ‘Kisan Andolan’ lies in the dialogue process between the government and farm organisations. He also alleged that Khalistani elements had been trying to capture the moment of farm agitation for their vested interests and not letting the solution take place between the government and farmer organisations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/at-book-launch-in-mdu-rss-leader-administers-oath-of-akhand-bharat/articleshow/81199221.cms||Sat Singh
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Captain Amarinder Singh announces open-ended minibus permit policy, distributes 3,000 permits||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced an ‘open-ended minibus permit policy’ with no deadline for rural youth to apply for such permits, while laying foundation stones of Rs 55 crore worth of state transport department institutes and launching home delivery of driving licences (DLs) and vehicle registration certificates (RCs). Amarinder also virtually launched distribution of 3,000 minibus permits for the rural youth to give a boost to the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar te Karobar’ mission, with token presentation of permits to five beneficiaries. Though 3,000 permits were handed over on Wednesday, another 8,000 would be distributed later in the year to generate direct as well as indirect employment. He also directed the transport department to create a user-friendly online facility within three months for receipt and processing of applications of all bus permits to make the system more transparent. The chief minister also slammed the previous SAD-BJP regime for issuing illegal permits to select few without due publicity or adherence to legal procedures. He said that under the transparent system, a public notice for minibus permits was issued for the first time ever in newspapers to encourage people to apply online without any hassle. As many as 12,384 applications were received, he said. Amarinder also laid the foundation stone of the Institute of Driving and Traffic Research (IDTR) Kapurthala, to be built at a cost of Rs 22 crore, under mission with training capacity of 20,000 drivers annually to impart quality training to rural youth, and thus generate job avenues as skilled drivers within the country and abroad. The IDTR would be managed by Tata Motors. Capt Amarinder also laid the foundation stone of Rs 17 crore worth vehicle inspection and certification centre, Kapurthala, to safeguard passengers and pedestrians, besides reducing vehicular pollution. The centre having capacity to inspect 72,000 vehicles annually would test the road worthiness of vehicles before driving, among other important features. Inaugurating home delivery of DLs and RCs, Amarinder said a centralised card personalization centre (CCPC) has been established in Chandigarh, where all smart card based DLs and RCs would be centrally printed before being home delivered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-announces-open-ended-minibus-permit-policy-distributes-3000-permits/articleshow/81199203.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Aurangabad||115 LPG cylinders, 9,100 kg PDS rice seized from 2 shops||Aurangabad: The local crime branch (LCB) of Aurangabad rural police raided two shops on Tuesday and seized 115 LPG cylinders and over 9,100 kg of rice meant for distribution through public distribution system (PDS) stores. The raids were carried out in Karanjkheda village, which falls under the limits of the Pishor police station. Police have arrested four accused identified as Subhash Gaware (32), Kaleem Khan(36), Kaduba Wagh (55), Bismillah Shaikh (27), all of them are residents of a village situated in Kannad tehsil.  LCB inspector Bhagwat Phunde said the seized LPG cylinders include 62 filled cylinders. The seized rice grains have a market valuation of Rs 2.74 lakh, while the LPG cylinders have a market valuation of 2.87 lakh. The raids at the two shops was carried out on late Tuesday and offence against the suspects has been registered under the Essential Commodities Act and relevant sections of Explosive substances Act 1908. Following the raids, police said their action against the racketeers should be the reason for the district administration and civil supplies department to bring a check on the loopholes in the distribution and monitoring of essential commodities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/115-lpg-cylinders-9100-kg-pds-rice-seized-from-2-shops/articleshow/81194935.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Jodhpur||Universal healthcare & no new taxes in Ashok Gehlot’s welfare budget||JAIPUR: Presenting the Budget for 2021-22 that has the imprint of Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Ashok Gehlot laid emphasis on providing better healthcare, supporting the farming community, and reviving the ailing tourism and realty sectors. Gehlot, who also holds the finance portfolio, said the state will implement a universal healthcare scheme, create a new discom dedicated to agriculture consumers, and announce a separate agriculture Budget from next year. He proposed no new taxes and reached out to a cross-section of society by announcing relief measures of up to Rs 910 crore through various exemptions. The chief minister also hiked unemployment allowance by Rs 1,000 per month, taking the total to Rs 4,500. “I feel that every section of the society has suffered due to the Corona pandemic so no new tax has been proposed. But a relief of about Rs 910 crore is being provided during this period,” Gehlot said during the Budget speech. Through the universal healthcare coverage, the state government seeks to provide the entire population of the state health insurance although a family has to pay a nominal premium to avail cashless facilities for an insured amount of Rs 5 lakh. The pandemic has woken up the government to the need of digital technology in schools. While private schools switched to digital mode after the lockdown, the children in state schools missed classes due to the lack of modern facilities. The Budget’s proposal to allocate Rs 82 crore to provide set-top boxes and smart TVs to schools is an attempt to upgrade the facilities so that the students don’t miss classes. In fact, the government now wants to set up 1,200 new English schools in the state in the next two years and establish a Fintech Digital University at Jodhpur with a Rs 400 crore budget which will help in digitisation of various services the government provides, including education. The relief measures are expected to make agri products like sugar and ghee cheaper with the reduction of mandi tax from 1.60% to 1%. Reduction of stamp duty from 6% to 4% on flats in multistoried buildings costing up to Rs 50 lakh and bringing down DLC rates of commercial and residential properties by 10% are intended to spur the real estate market which has been under pressure due to lack of demand. During the lockdown and subsequent night curfews, many street vendors and selfemployed youths had to shut shop. To help them restart their businesses again, the Budget has proposed to provide them interest-free loans for up to Rs 50,000. Tourism, one of the main lifelines of the state’s economy, suffered the most due to the pandemic. It got a raw deal in the Centre’s Atmanirbhar packages and Budget for 2021-22. But the state government chose the occasion to revive the sector by making a provision for Rs 500 crore, Rs 200 crore of which will be spent for marketing and promotion. Additionally, the Budget has proposed to provide Viability Gap Funding for setting up a film city and projects dedicated to creating new tourist circuits. Similarly, folk artists, who went jobless after fairs, festivals, social and corporate events were cancelled, have got an allocation of Rs 15 crore. The Mukhaymantri Laghu Udyog Protsan Yojna, which has been effective in the state, will include 10,000 more entrepreneurs under the scheme. For this, the government has allocated Rs 50 crore for interest subsidy. Similarly, as per the proposals, home-grown startups will now get a seed funding of Rs 25 lakh and they will be selected through a i-Start programme. In a bid to boost DMIC projects, which have missed many deadlines, the Budget has allocated Rs 750 crore for the Marwar zone of the project, while Rs 1,000 crore has been proposed for an industrial township in Bhiwadi. To reduce tax disputes and legal cases, an amnesty scheme has been announced for pending stamp duty cases related to bank loans. Similarly, amnesty schemes on pending GST cases, entertainment tax, and entry tax are expected to give relief not only in penalty and interest but also in basic tax, as per the proposals. While the budget seems to have ticked the right boxes, the government has skipped allocations to big infrastructure projects like Metro rail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/universal-healthcare-no-newtaxes-in-gehlots-welfare-budget/articleshow/81202394.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Udaipur||Universal healthcare & no new taxes in Ashok Gehlot’s welfare budget||JAIPUR: Presenting the Budget for 2021-22 that has the imprint of Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Ashok Gehlot laid emphasis on providing better healthcare, supporting the farming community, and reviving the ailing tourism and realty sectors. Gehlot, who also holds the finance portfolio, said the state will implement a universal healthcare scheme, create a new discom dedicated to agriculture consumers, and announce a separate agriculture Budget from next year. He proposed no new taxes and reached out to a cross-section of society by announcing relief measures of up to Rs 910 crore through various exemptions. The chief minister also hiked unemployment allowance by Rs 1,000 per month, taking the total to Rs 4,500. “I feel that every section of the society has suffered due to the Corona pandemic so no new tax has been proposed. But a relief of about Rs 910 crore is being provided during this period,” Gehlot said during the Budget speech. Through the universal healthcare coverage, the state government seeks to provide the entire population of the state health insurance although a family has to pay a nominal premium to avail cashless facilities for an insured amount of Rs 5 lakh. The pandemic has woken up the government to the need of digital technology in schools. While private schools switched to digital mode after the lockdown, the children in state schools missed classes due to the lack of modern facilities. The Budget’s proposal to allocate Rs 82 crore to provide set-top boxes and smart TVs to schools is an attempt to upgrade the facilities so that the students don’t miss classes. In fact, the government now wants to set up 1,200 new English schools in the state in the next two years and establish a Fintech Digital University at Jodhpur with a Rs 400 crore budget which will help in digitisation of various services the government provides, including education. The relief measures are expected to make agri products like sugar and ghee cheaper with the reduction of mandi tax from 1.60% to 1%. Reduction of stamp duty from 6% to 4% on flats in multistoried buildings costing up to Rs 50 lakh and bringing down DLC rates of commercial and residential properties by 10% are intended to spur the real estate market which has been under pressure due to lack of demand. During the lockdown and subsequent night curfews, many street vendors and selfemployed youths had to shut shop. To help them restart their businesses again, the Budget has proposed to provide them interest-free loans for up to Rs 50,000. Tourism, one of the main lifelines of the state’s economy, suffered the most due to the pandemic. It got a raw deal in the Centre’s Atmanirbhar packages and Budget for 2021-22. But the state government chose the occasion to revive the sector by making a provision for Rs 500 crore, Rs 200 crore of which will be spent for marketing and promotion. Additionally, the Budget has proposed to provide Viability Gap Funding for setting up a film city and projects dedicated to creating new tourist circuits. Similarly, folk artists, who went jobless after fairs, festivals, social and corporate events were cancelled, have got an allocation of Rs 15 crore. The Mukhaymantri Laghu Udyog Protsan Yojna, which has been effective in the state, will include 10,000 more entrepreneurs under the scheme. For this, the government has allocated Rs 50 crore for interest subsidy. Similarly, as per the proposals, home-grown startups will now get a seed funding of Rs 25 lakh and they will be selected through a i-Start programme. In a bid to boost DMIC projects, which have missed many deadlines, the Budget has allocated Rs 750 crore for the Marwar zone of the project, while Rs 1,000 crore has been proposed for an industrial township in Bhiwadi. To reduce tax disputes and legal cases, an amnesty scheme has been announced for pending stamp duty cases related to bank loans. Similarly, amnesty schemes on pending GST cases, entertainment tax, and entry tax are expected to give relief not only in penalty and interest but also in basic tax, as per the proposals. While the budget seems to have ticked the right boxes, the government has skipped allocations to big infrastructure projects like Metro rail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/universal-healthcare-no-newtaxes-in-gehlots-welfare-budget/articleshow/81202396.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Ajmer||Universal healthcare & no new taxes in Ashok Gehlot’s welfare budget||JAIPUR: Presenting the Budget for 2021-22 that has the imprint of Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Ashok Gehlot laid emphasis on providing better healthcare, supporting the farming community, and reviving the ailing tourism and realty sectors. Gehlot, who also holds the finance portfolio, said the state will implement a universal healthcare scheme, create a new discom dedicated to agriculture consumers, and announce a separate agriculture Budget from next year. He proposed no new taxes and reached out to a cross-section of society by announcing relief measures of up to Rs 910 crore through various exemptions. The chief minister also hiked unemployment allowance by Rs 1,000 per month, taking the total to Rs 4,500. “I feel that every section of the society has suffered due to the Corona pandemic so no new tax has been proposed. But a relief of about Rs 910 crore is being provided during this period,” Gehlot said during the Budget speech. Through the universal healthcare coverage, the state government seeks to provide the entire population of the state health insurance although a family has to pay a nominal premium to avail cashless facilities for an insured amount of Rs 5 lakh. The pandemic has woken up the government to the need of digital technology in schools. While private schools switched to digital mode after the lockdown, the children in state schools missed classes due to the lack of modern facilities. The Budget’s proposal to allocate Rs 82 crore to provide set-top boxes and smart TVs to schools is an attempt to upgrade the facilities so that the students don’t miss classes. In fact, the government now wants to set up 1,200 new English schools in the state in the next two years and establish a Fintech Digital University at Jodhpur with a Rs 400 crore budget which will help in digitisation of various services the government provides, including education. The relief measures are expected to make agri products like sugar and ghee cheaper with the reduction of mandi tax from 1.60% to 1%. Reduction of stamp duty from 6% to 4% on flats in multistoried buildings costing up to Rs 50 lakh and bringing down DLC rates of commercial and residential properties by 10% are intended to spur the real estate market which has been under pressure due to lack of demand. During the lockdown and subsequent night curfews, many street vendors and selfemployed youths had to shut shop. To help them restart their businesses again, the Budget has proposed to provide them interest-free loans for up to Rs 50,000. Tourism, one of the main lifelines of the state’s economy, suffered the most due to the pandemic. It got a raw deal in the Centre’s Atmanirbhar packages and Budget for 2021-22. But the state government chose the occasion to revive the sector by making a provision for Rs 500 crore, Rs 200 crore of which will be spent for marketing and promotion. Additionally, the Budget has proposed to provide Viability Gap Funding for setting up a film city and projects dedicated to creating new tourist circuits. Similarly, folk artists, who went jobless after fairs, festivals, social and corporate events were cancelled, have got an allocation of Rs 15 crore. The Mukhaymantri Laghu Udyog Protsan Yojna, which has been effective in the state, will include 10,000 more entrepreneurs under the scheme. For this, the government has allocated Rs 50 crore for interest subsidy. Similarly, as per the proposals, home-grown startups will now get a seed funding of Rs 25 lakh and they will be selected through a i-Start programme. In a bid to boost DMIC projects, which have missed many deadlines, the Budget has allocated Rs 750 crore for the Marwar zone of the project, while Rs 1,000 crore has been proposed for an industrial township in Bhiwadi. To reduce tax disputes and legal cases, an amnesty scheme has been announced for pending stamp duty cases related to bank loans. Similarly, amnesty schemes on pending GST cases, entertainment tax, and entry tax are expected to give relief not only in penalty and interest but also in basic tax, as per the proposals. While the budget seems to have ticked the right boxes, the government has skipped allocations to big infrastructure projects like Metro rail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/universal-healthcare-no-newtaxes-in-gehlots-welfare-budget/articleshow/81202399.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Govt will give Rs 25L seed money to bright startups||For promising startups ideas, money is not an issue,as per the Budget proposals. The government can fund up to Rs 25 lakh at an early stage. Not only that, schools will also have incubation centres to promote entrepreneurship and they would not be left hanging.In the Budget speech, the chief minister said that the incubation centres will be connected to Bhamashah Techno Hub, the largest incubation centre in the country or at par with the T-Hub in Hyderabad.This good news for the startups in the state that the chief minister likes the Bhamashah Techno Hub and in the Budget speech he praised and credited the previous chief minister Vasundhara Raje for the facility. That means, the techno hub will start buzzing again.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that the i-Start programme will continue which will give wings to many start up ideas. Recently, the many startups from the state has raised funding and it seems the clouds have cleared for the innovative and scalable ideas cleared.Mahavir Sharma, chairman of TiE Global, said, “This is a very good announcement. A good startup idea getting Rs 25 lakh as a seed money can certainly grow into a big company. But the process of selection has to be right.” He said seeding the idea of entrepreneurship at the school level is critical to build a vibrant ecosystem. “The state government should work in partnership with the ecosystem players operating out of the state. They know better their startups and the market where the startups try to to kick off their ventures,” added Sharma.Officials in department of IT said that the chief minister’s announcement takes the cue from a rigorous planning currently under progress which is aimed at reviving the startup ecosystem in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-will-give-rs-25l-seed-money-to-bright-startups/articleshow/81199271.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||In February surge, 80-85% patients asymptomatic: BMC chief||MUMBAI: As many as 80%-85% of the Covid-19 cases detected daily in the city at present are asymptomatic, municipal commissioner I S Chahal told TOI. On Wednesday, when the city saw almost 1,200 cases, 83% were asymptomatic and none were critical, he added. Chahal has directed private hospitals not to admit any asymptomatic patient. Interestingly, in the state around 78% of active cases are in hospitals, whereas in Mumbai 49% are hospitalised. The low hospitalisation numbers are being attributed to fewer people showing symptoms. But experts said this shouldn’t prevent authorities from preparing to scale up beds. Doctors caution that one shouldn’t think any less of the Covid-19 virus looking at the high number of asymptomatic people. Intensivist Dr Kedar Toraskar, a member of the state task force, even questioned the data, saying it appeared “too high”. “They may have mild symptoms. The data collection must be reviewed,” he said, adding that a lot of younger people seemed to be getting infected in the February surge. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said they have reviewed the data for the past several weeks and found that asymptomatic patients are in the range of 78% to 82% of the daily count on most days. “We are seeing between 200-250 admissions daily, which is not a problem as we have almost 14,000 active beds,” he said. Chahal said in the initial days of the pandemic, the proportion of asymptomatic to those with symptoms would be 50-50 on some days. Physician Gautam Bhansali said people are either getting a milder form of Covid-19 or not showing symptoms at all. “Where entire families have come positive, there have been many with no symptoms or very mild symptoms,” he said. Among those with mild symptoms, the common complaints are fever, body ache, headache and loss of smell. Dr Rahul Pandit, an intensivist and member of the state Covid task force, said a high number of asymptomatic patients could mean that testing and contact tracing ratios are good and cases are being picked up early. “However, it is critical to follow up these cases. What if they develop symptoms a few days down the line?” he said, adding that the number of critical patients rise only 7-14 days after cases start soaring. A senior state official contended the share of asymptomatic patients has always been in the range of 80% and above. “The only difference now is that fewer people are running after beds as the fear has reduced. The share of critical patients has always been around 15%. We need to reduce that no matter what,” the official said. Of the 53,113 active cases in the state, 14% are critical — 6% are in ICUs, including 4% on oxygen and 1% on ventilators. The share of asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients is 61%. In Mumbai too, of the overall active cases, 64% are asymptomatic. Bhansali added that asymptomatic patients can transmit the infection as numerous studies have shown, and hence anybody who has tested positive should strictly isolate themselves and closely monitor their oxygen saturation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-feb-surge-80-85-patients-asymptomatic-chahal/articleshow/81197266.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 25, 2021||Bareilly||Labourer unloading oxygen cylinder killed in explosion||Bareilly: A 40-year-old man was killed in an oxygen cylinder explosion while unloading cylinders from a vehicle outside his workplace in Mughalpura area of UP’s Moradabad on Wednesday morning. Police said Shareef was unloading oxygen cylinders from a vehicle around 9 am when one of the cylinders slipped out of his hands and exploded after its nozzle hit the ground. Shareef, a resident of Varsi Nagar, is survived by his wife and three children. Locals said the impact of the blast was such that the victim’s body was blown into smithereens. Police said a probe was ordered.“There was a loud explosion in the morning. Upon hearing the thud, people rushed outside their houses to find out the reason. The labourer died on the spot,” said a local, who witnessed the bast.Moradabad’s Mughalpura police station SHO Devendra Singh said, “The victim was employed at a godown of one Nasir in Mughalpura area near Jama Masjid flyover. The body was sent for a post-mortem examination. An investigation has been ordered and based on the findings further legal action will be initiated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/labourer-unloading-oxygen-cylinder-killed-in-explosion/articleshow/81194414.cms||Maria Khan
February 25, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Directors of Pvt Ltd company booked||AURANGABAD: The city police have booked four directors and some unidentified employees of an MIDC Waluj-based private limited company on the charges of cheating and forgery after they allegedly duped one of the Mumbai-based directors of Rs 6.78 crore. MIDC Waluj inspector Madhukar Sawant citing the content of the complaint said the total cheating includes 1.25 lakh shares worth Rs 35 lakh and stainless steel worth Rs 6.43 crore. The officer said the complaint is related to the company involved in the manufacturing of electrical MCB, LCP panels among others. The complainant, Devaram Chaudhary (36) of Girgaon Mumbai, in his complaint said on March 1, 2019, while scrolling down the website of the Ministry of Corporate Affair, he found his name removed from the list of directors of the company and1.25 lakh shares registered in his name were also found to be missing from the company’s balance sheet. Then Chaudhary sent a legal notice alleging that he has been fraudulently removed from the post of director and his shares have been illegally transferred by forging his signatures. This was followed by the company directors signing a compromise deed on a Rs 500 bond paper and reinstated him and his wife as directors of the company on July 10, 2019. They were also given a written assurance of returning their shares that were allegedly transferred without his consent. The suspected directors carried out a transaction with him including purchasing stainless steel worth Rs 32 lakh from his unit Dev Metals. The complaint states, on August 09, 2019, the directors of the company allegedly forged his signatures, used blank letterheads and cheques that he had signed, and again removed him and his wife from the post of directors. He also alleged that the private limited company’s directors duped him of Rs 6.43 crores by obtaining stainless steel from his firm and later defaulted on payment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/directors-of-pvt-ltd-company-booked/articleshow/81194938.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||HC issues to notices to state, secretary for home and IG (prison) on appointing cops jail superintendents||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday issued notices to the state government as well as the secretary for home and the IG (prison), after a PIL was filed challenging an order where senior police officers were given additional charge of prisons at Sitarganj, Dehradun, Haldwani and Haridwar. The bench of Chief Justice R S Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma has given the respondents two weeks to file their counter affidavits, and has listed the case for further hearing on March 10. Home secretary Nitesh Kumar Jha had, on February 12, passed an order giving additional charge of senior superintendent/superintendent of jails to the police officers. On February 16, another order was passed by IG (prison) A P Anshuman, directing those officers to take charge of their posts. Jha’s order had also noted that of the 12 posts for senior superintendent/superintendent of jail, seven were vacant, and that the decision was being taken to maintain law and order. The petitioners however have argued that the two orders effectively blur the line between the jails and the police department which are meant to be separate. According to petitioners, handing over the charge of prisons to the police department goes against the fundamental principle of free and fair trial as an extra judicial pressure might be put on the accused by the police department since they will be investigating the case and handling the judicial custody as well. The petition goes on to say under the Police Act 1861 as well as Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), police officers have been tasked with investigation and maintenance of law and order, whereas officers for jail postings are appointed under UP Jail (Group A and B) Service Rules 1982 and entrusted with rehabilitation and protection of prisoners. “Cops given charge of SP (jail) may lead to unforeseen consequences, with prisoners feeling mental agony of continuing to be in police custody,” read the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-issues-to-notices-to-state-secretary-for-home-and-ig-prison-on-appointing-cops-jail-superintendents/articleshow/81195873.cms||Prashant Jha
February 25, 2021||Chennai||Daily pass to book fair made available online||Chennai: For the Chennai book fair this year, visitors can avail daily passes online from the Bapasi (Book Publishers and Sellers Association of India) website. This has been introduced as a measure to prevent crowding at the entrance and physical issuance of tickets. Last year, only season tickets were issued online. This year, the fair will feature 800 stalls and six lakh titles. Literary events have been planned for each day until March 9. Bapasi vice-president G Olivannan told TOI all steps were taken to ensure Covid-19 protocols are followed. Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam on Wednesday inaugurated the 44th edition of the fair being held on YMCA grounds in Nandanam . On the first day, entry was made free as several stalls were yet to be set up. There was a speculation that the event will be called off this year due to the pandemic. The book fair, which is usually held in the second week of January coinciding with the Pongal holidays, was postponed to February this year. “We have taken enormous risks in having it in February. What motivated us is the response to the smaller book fairs held across the city last year. So, we expected the people are also waiting for something to happen. For genuine book lovers, Chennai book fair will be a paradise,” said Olivannan. According to the organisers, the publishing industry was hit for the past 10 months and despite the pandemic, many have brought out new titles. Organisers expect the crowd to start coming in from the weekend. “We have taken all measures. Now, it is up to the public to come and support us,” Olivannan said. On the first evening, events to honour publishers and long serving members of Bapasi were held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/daily-pass-to-book-fair-made-available-online/articleshow/81197284.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Adequate supplies of medical oxygen: FDA||Mumbai: The state Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Wednesday said that there was adequate supply of medical oxygen, Remdesivir and anti-viral tablets should cases rise significantly in the days to come. Officials claimed there has been no increase in demand for oxygen from any part of the state, although sources told TOI that hospitals in Vidarbha are witnessing a rise in demand. FDA said the state has a daily demand of 513 metric tonnes. Of 53,113 active cases, nearly 7,000 are on oxygen, including patients outside of ICUs. “The combined production capacity of 30 manufacturers and 88 distributors in the state is 1,287 MT per day. As on Wednesday, there are 6,227 MT of medical oxygen at the producer level and 2,489 MT at the hospital level, the department said. In the wake of rising cases, the department reviewed the stock of medicines and masks. As on February 23, the state had 51,425 vials of Remdesivir and over 20 lakh Favipiravir tablets. “These are available with Covid hospitals and drug distributors in the state. In addition, 1.9 lakh Remdesivir injection stocks are available for distribution at Mylan’s Nagpur depot,” the department said.  FDA officials said the department was monitoring stocks to ensure adequate stock of N-95, 2 ply and 3 ply face masks and hand sanitizers. FDA commissioner Abhimanyu Kale said people can alert against attempts at blackmarketing on toll-free number 1800222365.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/adequate-supplies-of-medical-oxygen-fda/articleshow/81197312.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Nashik||930 tickets valued at Rs 14.4 lakh seized in Bhusawal division||NASHIK: The Railway Protection Force (RPF) has seized 930 rail tickets valued at Rs 14.45 lakh in the Bhusawal division during 2020, in a major action carried out against the touts. Following complaints from genuine passengers not getting tickets after the Covid-related lockdown, the railway authorities decided to take action against people engaged in booking tickets illegally and charging huge amounts from people. “Based on intelligence inputs and the data received from the railways’ Information Technology department, the action was carried out by the RPF personnel,” said chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar. The modus operandi of these touts, who provide genuine tickets garnered from illegal methods to the passengers, including the usage of scripting software to get the tickets, and give them to the prospective buyers. “Using the scripting software, which is banned by the railways’ India Railways Catering and Tourism orporation (IRCTC), these touts would book the tickets which denied equal opportunity to the genuine buyers,” the officer said. The action was carried out in 2020 despite the railways running only selected trains across the country to contain the spread of Covid-19. All the trains are ‘Special’ trains and only confirmed reserved ticket holders are allowed to travel on the trains. Accordingly, the RPF has registered 43 cases against touts in the Bhusaval division, in which 47 people were arrested under the respective sections of the Railway Protection Force (Amendment) Act 2003. According to the officials, the touts had booked 882 tickets through the online system and 48 tickets across the counters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/930-tickets-valued-at-rs-14-4l-seized-in-bhusawal-division/articleshow/81194967.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 25, 2021||Puducherry||Centre gives nod to impose President rule in Puducherry||PUDUCHERRY: The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the imposition of President’s rule in the Union territory of Puducherry. Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar, who made the announcement in New Delhi, said no party staked claim to form government after chief minister V Narayanasamy and his council of ministers resigned on Monday. The legislative assembly of the UT will be dissolved after the President accords his permission, Javadekar said. The model code of conduct will come into force after the Election Commission of India announces poll dates and Puducherry will go to polls with four other states, he added. President’s rule was last imposed in Puducherry between March and July in 1991 when the JD-DMK coalition government fell. Chief minister V Narayanasamy resigned after the speaker of the legislative assembly had declared that the Congress government lost its majority in the House on Monday. The President accepted their resignation on Tuesday and Union home ministry issued a notification in this regard. The ministry notification was published in the gazette on the same day. Meanwhile, the Congress-led secular democratic alliance held a dharna in Puducherry on Wednesday to condemn the BJP-led Centre, AINRC and AIADMK for toppling the Congress government with the help of Raj Nivas and three nominated MLAs. Addressing the gathering, former chief minister V Narayanasamy said the Congress has vowed to protect the unique identity of Puducherry whereas the BJP if assumes charge will abolish legislative assembly in Puducherry and merge the territory with the neighbouring Tamil Nadu making it one of the districts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/centre-gives-nod-to-impose-president-rule-in-puducherry/articleshow/81199278.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Bareilly||HC to hear contempt plea against railways’ plan to run tourist train through Dudhwa Tiger Reserve||Pilibhit: The railways’ plan to run a tourist train -- equipped with advanced Vistadome coaches offering 180-degree view-- in the core area of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) appears to have run into rough weather as Allahabad high court has accepted a contempt petition against it, while the state's forest department has said it hasn't been told about the move which it said is an "infringement of the set norms". The petitioner has said that during the hearing of a PIL filed by him in 2018 on the same issue, the then principal secretary of forest in UP, Kalpana Awasthi, had filed an affidavit in the high court asserting that “no activity is being visualized in future in the form of heritage train/toy train as adventure or tourist programme.”The Lucknow bench, comprising justices Shabihul Hasnain and Chandra Dhari Singh, had observed on March 8, 2019, “Since statement has been made by a senior most officer, we do not find that any further orders in this regard are necessary.”On Monday, Lucknow-based wildlife activist, Kaushlendra Singh, filed the contempt petition. Singh said, “I was compelled to knock at the court’s door after the railway authorities announced a new plan of operating this sophisticated train from April onwards.”The government is planning to run the train on an old metre gauge track between Mailani and Nanpara, which cuts deep into the Dudhwa’s core portion. A passenger train used to run on the route before the lockdown, carrying locals of the area. The railways are already laying a broad gauge track circumventing the forest’s core area, which will take the load off the metre gauge line.But, earlier this month, divisional railway manager of North Eastern Railway (NER), Lucknow, Monica Agnihotri, had said, “Vistadome coaches will be used for Dudhwa national park tour.”Petitioner Singh said, “As a fresh plan to the same effect is an open defiance of the HC order as well as the retraction of the forest department from its own commitment filed on oath, the contempt petition had become inevitable to protect the wildlife from fatal accidents on the railway track.”The PIL in question had been filed in the high court in 2018 after the state forest authorities with the railways had decided to operate an air-conditioned heritage train in over 100-kilometer long stretch of core forest area. “The two departments had entered into an agreement that the broad gauge railway line will be laid outside the core forest area and the existing meter gauge track will be used for the operation of a heritage train instead of uprooting it. But after the principal secretary filed an affidavit in the high court saying that the plan of heritage train had been dropped, the matter had been put to an end,” the petitioner said.When asked about it, senior divisional manager of NER at Lucknow, Monica Agnihotri, confirmed to TOI that “the operation of the tourist train is expected to begin from April this year. It is awaited till the Vistadome coaches are made available to the division.”She said that the railway authorities were not required to seek any prior permission from the forest department for the said operation as the railway was the sole owner of the railway track.However, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) of UP, Pawan Kumar Sharma, said that the railway authorities had brought nothing to his notice about the development regarding the heritage train. “The department will abide by the order of the high court in this matter,” he asserted.“The operation of any tourist train by railway in core forest of Dudhwa and Katarnia Ghat wildlife sanctuary will also be deemed as the infringement of the National Tiger Conservation Authority’s guidelines which essentially requires its prior permission even if the 20% of the core forest area earmarked for the jungle safaris is modulated,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hc-to-hear-contempt-plea-against-railways-plan-to-run-tourist-train-through-dudhwa-tiger-reserve/articleshow/81195870.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 25, 2021||Kolkata||As demand rises, officials track footfall to determine Dakshineswar Metro frequency||KOLKATA: It’s been just a day and there’s already a clamour for more trains on the new Dakshineswar Metro that recorded 9,000 riders on its maiden run on Tuesday. To rise to the call, Metro Railway has to carefully study the footfall patterns for the next few days. There are 244 services for the north-south corridor, but only 158 are available from the 4km extended section, considering the Dum Dum station rush. However, there is a huge demand along the new stretch that has effectively linked Kolkata with the districts. It has been a boon especially for commuters from across the river, even though the Metro line hasn’t actually crossed the river Hooghly. To them, the Metro is the best alternative for the uncomfortable local train rides or the prolonged bus travel. They can access Dakshineswar station by simply crossing Bally bridge. Again, for those from the city’s northern fringes, the new Baranagar station, in the absence of Tallah bridge, has been a blessing. Uttarpara resident and teacher Aruna Chatterjee said on Wednesday: “I wish trains were more frequent. After 7.18am, the next train is at 7.48pm.” But Metro officials said a lot of thought has gone into working out the frequencies. “There are three trains in the first one hour. From 8am to 9am, there are five. There are 16 services between 9.30am and 11am, 23 trains ply from 11.30am-4.30pm, 16 trains service the route from 4.30pm-7pm, and 15 services are available till the last train from Dakshineswar at 9.18pm. Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi had earlier said, “We shall study the footfall and accordingly increase services.” “There are no tokens now. So it’s not easy to deduce the commuter graph. People are only swiping smart cards. So, we go by the number of exits registered,” said an official. For instance, there were 5,892 entries at Dakshineswar station on Tuesday and 5,626 exits. Similarly, 2,915 entries at Baranagar station and 3,664 exits. Adding the exits, Tuesday’s total footfall was 9,290. The carrier would also pre-consider Dum Dum station’s high footfall. The 86-service gap between the Dum Dum-Kavi Subhas and Dakshineswar-Kavi Subhas sections must be maintained. So, trains will be added for the entire north-south corridor. “Metro operated 288 trains in pre-pandemic times. As we gradually return to our original fleet, more trains will automatically come Dakshineswar’s way,” the official said. On Wednesday, many returned the smart cards they had bought on Tuesday to check out the swanky Metro stations. Some had bought smart cards just for the customary Dakshineswar temple visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/as-demand-rises-officials-track-footfall-to-determine-dakshineswar-metro-frequency/articleshow/81199265.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Gangajal to be presented to guests at Kumbh Mela in Copper urns from Almora||Almora: The VIP and VVIP guests at the Kumbh Mela — scheduled in April — will be presented with Gangajal stored in copper urns that are made in Almora district, said officials of the Kumbh Mela administration. The decision has brought cheer among the craftsmen in the Tamta Colony of the Almora district. Sanjeev Aggarwal, an Almora-based copper ware businessmen, told TOI, “Almora is hailed as the ‘Tamra Nagri’ (copper city) as copper ware is made in large numbers here. However, the business has reduced dramatically in the last 5-10 years. The latest move will help craftsmen financially and save our dwindling heritage.” According to local academicians, the manufacturing of copper ware started nearly 500 years ago in Almora. Senior journalist Daya Shankar Tamta said that the copper ware business in Almora is 500-year-old and was started by a king of the Chand dynasty. He added that about 72 families — living in Tamta colony — are involved in the business. Notably, the Kumbh Mela police will buy the urns using the CSR (corporate social responsibility) funds of various companies. In the first phase, urns worth Rs 2.5 lakh would be bought.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gangajal-to-be-presented-to-guests-at-kumbh-mela-in-copper-urns-from-almora/articleshow/81195889.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: PWD begins repair work on canal bringing Krishna water||CHENNAI: State PWD authorities are repairing the open channel that brings Krishna water to Chennai. PWD will rebuild the damaged concrete slopes of the bund. Work is being done 3.88km from zero point and the authorities will lay fresh concrete till the point near the Periyapalayam bridge. With water flowing through the channel, progress is slow now, said an official. Once the water level recedes, work will pick up speed. Another official said this is the first time repair work is being undertaken on the said stretch of the channel. Around 8km of the channel will be repaired, he said. It will take six months to complete the work, he said. The official said the channel was built 40 years ago but over the past few years, the concrete slopes started to crumble and fall. This led to loss of water through seepage. Since last year, Andhra Pradesh has been releasing more water and a damaged channel may slow down the flow of water from one point to another. This water year, between June and July, Andhra Pradesh may release 12tmc of water as per the original agreement. The neighbouring state has released 8tmc of water till January this year. Given the volume of water, repair work became necessary, the PWD official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pwd-begins-repair-work-on-canal-bringing-krishna-water/articleshow/81197314.cms||P Oppili
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Rear admiral Ajay Kochhar takes charge||Mumbai: Rear Admiral Ajay Kochhar took over as the Flag Officer Commanding Western Fleet on board the aircraft carrier, INS Vikramaditya, on Wednesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rear-admiral-ajay-kochhar-takes-charge/articleshow/81199342.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chennai||Veterinarians report rise in parvovirus cases among pet dogs in Chennai||CHENNAI: Veterinarians are cautioning pet owners of a severe outbreak of parvovirus. Doctors said for the past one week, they have been receiving around 10 dogs a day suffering from the virus. Dr R Sokkalingam, founder and senior veterinarian at New Cornerstone Multispeciality Clinic, said on Tuesday he received a dog in a critical condition. There was blood in its faeces. “We started immediate treatment and it is now under observation.” Vets said the virus, which becomes active when the weather changes, mostly attacks the intestinal tracts and stomach of dogs, especially exotic breeds. “Exotic breeds are more sensitive to diseases and their mortality rate is higher,” said Dr V Prabhakar, founder and veterinarian of Pet Clinic in KK Nagar. Dr Sokkalingam said eight dogs have died due to the virus out of the 50 that were brought to him. “This is the first time in two years that we are witnessing such a rapid increase,” he said. Canine parvovirus was first discovered in India around 1980. Its symptoms include bloody diarrhoea , vomiting, severe weight loss, lethargy and dehydration. The virus has two forms — cardiac and intestinal. The latter is more prevalent and affects most dogs, especially labradors, rottweilers, and German shepherds. Vets said they have been seeing many rottweilers getting infected by it. Puppies are also more at risk. Contact with infected faeces or through direct contact with infected dogs can also spread the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vets-report-rise-in-parvovirus-cases-among-pet-dogs-in-city/articleshow/81197299.cms||Aditi R
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Businessman’s son accused of rape in five-star hotel in Lutyens’ Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 22-year-old woman lodged a complaint at Chanakyapuri police station on Tuesday accusing the son of a Mumbai-based businessman of sexually assaulting her in a five-star hotel in Lutyens’ Delhi on Sunday. A senior officer said, “Based on her complaint, a case of rape under IPC Section 376 has been registered. A police team has been sent to Mumbai to nab the 28-year-old accused.” In her complaint, the woman alleged that she and the man met on Sunday morning at Khan Market, where they had breakfast. After that he invited her to a nearby hotel. However, while she was in the hotel room, the man started touching her inappropriately. When she resisted, he forced himself upon her. After leaving the hotel, the woman went home. She lodged the complaint with police two days later. During the initial probe, it was found that the man and the woman knew each other for the past three years. The accused is reportedly a journalist and his father owns a pharmaceutical business in Mumbai. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bizmans-son-accused-of-rape-in-5-star-hotel/articleshow/81218566.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Agra||7 killed as oil tanker crashes into car on Yamuna E-way in Mathura||AGRA: Seven people — including four of a family and their two relatives — on their way back home in Haryana’s Jind after offering prayers at Banke Bihari temple in Vrindavan were killed on the spot when a speeding petroleum oil tanker truck crashed into the median divider and then rammed into the car they were travelling in on the other side of Yamuna Expressway near milestone 68 in UP’s Mathura late on Tuesday night. Police identified the victims as Manoj Garg (47) — the owner of a cattle feed mill in Jind — his wife Babita (40), their sons Abhay (18) and Hemant (16), Babita’s nephew Kannu (10) and niece Himadri (14) and driver Rakesh (39). Manoj’s brother-in-law Mukesh Mittal told TOI that he had last spoken to Babita around 9.30 pm when they were on their way home. “My kids (Kannu and Himadri) also died in the accident,” said the grieving father, who received the information about the accident over the phone a couple of hours after speaking with his sister. “Babita took my children with her to Vrindavan from Samalkha (in Haryana’s Panipat district) around 2 pm on Tuesday. We had never thought that we would not meet them again,” said Mittal shattered by the loss of his children and the relatives. Police suspect a tyre of the speeding oil tanker truck — coming from Noida — busted and the uncontrolled vehicle crashed into the divider and then rammed into the Innova car — heading to Noida — on the opposite side of the expressway before it overturned. As the tanker overturned, the oil spread on the road. “It could have been disastrous for other vehicles, but our team cleaned the road immediately. Besides, they also took out bodies from the mangled car and removed the damaged vehicles from the accident site,” said chief fire officer Pramod Sharma. The truck driver and helper fled the scene, said police who identified them from the gate pass found in their vehicle. SSP Gaurav Grover told TOI that the rescue operation lasted for almost four hours and the bodies were sent to a mortuary for the postmortem. The victims’ family members reached Mathura after being informed by police, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/4-of-haryana-family-among-7-killed-as-oil-tanker-crashes-into-car-on-yamuna-expressway-in-mathura/articleshow/81195919.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Doctors of Almora’s women hospital seek police protection from DM||Almora: Days after doctors at the Almora’s women hospital boycotted working in the OPD for a day to demand police protection against violence from attendants of patients, the medical facility witnessed uproar yet again after the death of a woman on Monday. The woman had died after delivering a baby girl. The infant is said to be out of danger. According to TOI sources, the attendants of the patient — who were allegedly in an inebriated state — started hurting abuses on the doctors and even manhandled some hospital staff members. After the episode, the doctors met DM Almora Nitin Singh Bhadauria and CMO Savita Hayanki. During the meeting, the doctors and other staff members of the facility reiterated their demand, saying that policemen should be deployed in the hospital to ensure their safety. Meanwhile, CMO Hayanki has said that security personnel will be deployed after the instruction of the DM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doctors-of-almoras-women-hospital-seek-police-protection-from-dm/articleshow/81195929.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: MLC voters’ count up as netas battle it out to enrol||HYDERABAD: Will the number of voters enrolled by each MLC candidate turn out to be the clinching factor to decide the fate of candidates in the graduates constituency elections? It appears so going by the efforts put in by the BJP, TRS nominees and independent candidate professor K Nageshwar who competed with one another to get as many voters enrolled as they can for the March 14 elections. Little wonder, the number of voters has almost doubled in both graduates constituencies going to the polls. For instance, three lakh voters were enrolled in Mahbubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad constituency in 2015. This number has now increased significantly to 5.3 lakh. Similarly, in Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency, the voter numbers have jumped to five lakh from 2.8 lakh. Sitting MLCs such as BJP candidate N Ramchander Rao, Palla Rajeshwar Reddy of the TRS and Nageshwar went all out to get graduate voters enrolled by undertaking massive campaigns. Confirming the increase in voter numbers, Telangana chief electoral officer Shashank Goel said the number of voters in Mahbubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad constituency was 2.96 lakh in 2015. “After continuous updation (by February 23), the number of electors is 5.3 lakh. In Warangal-Nalgonda-Khammam seat, the number of electors is five lakh,” he told TOI. Despite the rise in voter numbers, the voter turnout is a cause of worry for officials. In 2015 elections, the voter percentage in Mahbubnagar-Rangaredy-Hyderabad graduates constituency was 37.7 and 54.6 in Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda seat. Also, the number of candidates who filed nominations has tripled this time round. Around 178 sets of nominations were filed this time, including some candidates who filed four sets and two sets of nominations. It may be recalled Ramchander Rao was embroiled in a controversy over sending SMSes to voters to get themselves enrolled. Data security researcher Srinivas Kodali even filed a complaint with the Election Commission objecting to alleged breach of privacy of individual voters by Rao. However, BJYM vice-president PM Sai Prasad said there was no leakage of personal information in the process. “Everything was done legitimately. We did not resort to any unfair practice. Our party has done significant enrolment of graduate voters by creating awareness and assisting them. Voters we have assisted in enrolling are loyal to us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlc-voters-count-up-as-netas-battle-it-out-to-enrol/articleshow/81200010.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Big ticket projects in Jaipur find no favour with Gehlot||It seems Pink City has missed the attention of chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Some big ticket projects, including Jaipur Metro corridor expansion, find no mention in the budget. After detailed project report (DPR) of Jaipur Metro Phase-II (India Gate to Ambabari) and phase 1-C (Baddi Chaupar to Transport Nagar) was prepared, cross-section of people was bated breath for the announcement. However, as project was not considered, many residents were disappointed. Marudhar Kanwar, a resident of Siddharath Nagar near airport, said, “I had lots of expectations from Gehlot to expand the metro rail corridor as he introduced the it for the first time. Now, its need of the hour as petrol prices have touched the roof ceiling and metro is cheapest mode of transport comparatively,” Kanwar said. The announcement to prepare the DPR to develop the sewerage system in Privthi Raj Nagar was made in the budget speech. Also, Rs 200 crore for master drainage plan in Bharatpur was allocated. However, the Jaipur city’s drainage project, which requires approximately Rs 1,000 crore was ignored. “The civic bodies do not have funds to take up capital extensive projects such as renovation of Kartarpura Nullah and develop sewerage and drainage system without the state or centre government’s assistance,” said an official who wished not to be quoted. The projects incorporated and announced by the CM were also either ongoing or old that were presented in new form. “The Silvian Park, which will be developed on the lines of Central park, is an old project. Moreover, the civic bodies have also started working on the Rs 700 crore projects announced in the budget,” said an official. Meanwhile, the CM announced to prepare the DPR of northern ring road proposed to connect Agra and Ajmer road. Constitution club in Jaipur was also announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/big-ticket-projects-in-jaipur-find-no-favour-with-gehlot/articleshow/81199338.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to target 3 lakh a day in 3rd phase of vaccination||MUMBAI: The Centre has announced March 1 as the date to start vaccinating the general public, but state officials said it would take a few days more to prepare – from registration to expanding the number of immunisation centres and conducting a dry run, a host of arrangements need to be in place. “We are awaiting details from the government of India in the next few days. A dry run will probably be held in the first week,” said state health secretary Pradeep Vyas. There is no official confirmation but TOI has learnt that the state expects to inoculate 3 crore of the priority population ( including frontline staff, health workers, people above 60 and those younger with comorbidities) by July-end. The plan is to target 3 lakh people a day, with at least 3,000 session sites. Also, recipients of the vaccine will need to self-register on a new version of the Co-Win app with Aadhar and PAN cards. A state official on condition of anonymity said, “The beneficiary list has been drawn from the electoral rolls. Those above 60 years should be automatically able to access it.” He added that if 400-500 can receive the jab at each site, the goal of covering priority groups by July can be achieved. The official said immunisation would happen both through appointment and walk-ins. In one of the first steps in this third phase, over 1,000 hospitals empanelled under the state government’s Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MPJAY) will be recruited as vaccination centres. BMC’s additional commissioner Suresh Kakani said they have instructions to train staffers from MPJAY-empanelled hospitals. He said they are awaiting more instructions from the Centre on the rollout for the general population. BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said all MPJAY hospitals would first be inspected to ascertain they meet the Centre’s criteria for Covid-19 inoculation facilities. Meanwhile, Mumbai witnessed a 91% turnout with 9,830 healthcare and frontline workers taking the Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday. The city is on the verge of completing 2 lakh vaccinations (1.99 lakh). The city has a target of providing shots to four lakh healthcare and frontline workers twice. The state, however, saw a huge increase in numbers with 51,315 people getting vaccinated. While healthcare workers made up for 31,009 of doses given on Tuesday, 20,306 were given to frontline workers. Maharashtra has so far inoculated 10.8 lakh workers in all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-to-target-3-lakh-a-day-in-3rd-phase-of-vax/articleshow/81197355.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Ensure water testing on block, college levels: CM||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday reviewed the Jal Mission project and directed the authorities that an action plan should be chalked out to establish water testing labs in every block and college. As drinking water is a matter of public health, it is necessary to pay attention to the purity of drinking water, the CM said. The chief minister also directed the authorities concerned to complete the process of identifying areas by March 15 before the onset of summer, when many areas may face shortage of drinking water. Rawat directed the authorities to prepare an action plan for Urban Water Life Mission for the supply of drinking water in urban areas. The CM also directed the officers that the target of making available drinking water in all schools and Anganwadi centres be fulfilled without further delay. Peejal secretary, Nitesh Jha informed in the meeting that 14.26 lakh water supply connections are to be given in rural areas under the Jal Jeevan Mission. Around 3.96 lakh connections have been given this year, taking the total connections given so far to 6.13 lakh. Jha said that apart from sanctioned Rs 176 crore for the scheme, a total of Rs 145 crore have been spent under this scheme. The secretary said that till now 16,559 schools out of 18,691 and 13,444 Anganwadis out of 16853 have been provided tap water connections. In Chamoli, Dehradun and Bageshwar, the target is to provide water supply to every house this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ensure-water-testing-on-block-college-levels-cm/articleshow/81195921.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 25, 2021||Chennai||40,000 homeless in Chennai, 90% have no access to shelter, finds study||CHENNAI: Sarasa, a pavement dweller in Parry’s, has submitted several petitions to the government seeking a house but hasn’t been allotted one. Solomon, who has been living on a footpath in Broadway for more than 60 years is in a similar predicament. There about 40,000 homeless in the city and at least 90% live in families with no access to shelters or a social security scheme, a study by the Madras School of Social Work (MSSW) and the Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities (IRCUDC) has found. It also found that 90% are dalits, more than 50% don’t have identity documents and 42% of the children are school dropouts schools. A draft policy released on Wednesday by the MSSW and the IRCUDC seeks setting up of deaddiction centers, geriatric care shelters, and recovery shelters. Antony Stephen, head of the department of social entrepreneurship, MSSW, said many people coming to cities in search of jobs don’t get housing and become homeless. “Right now, the measures the state government is taking are all based on Supreme Court directions and NGO representations ... Several departments are connected and there is no proper coordination as they all work in isolation…,” he said. The policy was drafted after consulting NGOs, academic institutions, experts, activists and the homeless, said Vanessa Peter of the IRCDUC. “We will give two days to NGOs to respond so that corrections can be made be incorporated. After that we will present this policy to political parties to be included in their agendas,” she said. Activists say the government now has several schemes but no comprehensive policy. “We have a separate housing scheme. A scheme to get identity cards, ration, shelter, food and to empower them. But it is not reaching the homeless,” said Stephen. Vanessa said extensive mapping should be done and a helpline launched. “The government should reserve 25% of land in urban spaces for deprived communities and make available a land bank.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/40k-homeless-in-city-90-have-no-access-to-shelter-finds-study/articleshow/81197341.cms||Komal Gautham
February 25, 2021||Goa||Goa woman grows embryo in liver, GMC doctors save her life||PANAJI: In an extremely rare case, touted to be only the third of its kind in India, doctors at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, recently discovered an eight-week-old embryo growing outside the uterus and partly in the liver of a 25-year-old Valpoi woman. The woman’s life was saved through surgery. There have been only 41 such intra-hepatic pregnancies recorded around the world since 1952, of which two were in India and one of the patients didn’t survive, head of the GMC’s obstetrics and gynaecology department Dr Guruprasad Pednekar, said.“The present case was a live pregnancy with a gestational age of eight weeks and was detected in time when the patient came to the casualty ward complaining of pain in her abdomen,” he said. Diagnosed with a lump in the liver, the woman was referred to the department of radiology for further investigation, which found that the embryo was growing partly in the liver and partly outside and had a heartbeat. The resident who found this abnormality consulted seniors. Consequent CT and MRI scans confirmed the rare case. In a hepatic pregnancy, the foetus draws blood supply from the liver. If the pregnancy is allowed to continue, it results in tremendous haemorrhaging from the liver, which can cost the patient her life, he said. GMC dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar said the liver is one of the rarest sites for ectopic (outside the uterus) pregnancies. “We at the GMC had only this one patient and she survived. Intra-hepatic pregnancy is like sitting on a volcano. One can start bleeding at any time, get low blood pressure and experience shock. If the decision was not taken at the right time to remove the embryo, it would have proved fatal for the patient,” Bandekar said. He credited the departments of radiology, gynaecology, anaesthesia and surgery for the successful intervention. When the patient was taken into surgery, she was in a state of shock. After resuscitating her, the doctors successfully removed the whole mass along with a part of the liver with a harmonic scalpel that is usually used in liver transplants. She was discharged after blood transfusion and recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/valpoi-woman-grows-embryo-in-liver-gmc-doctors-save-her-life/articleshow/81199336.cms||Lisa Monteiro
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Cabinet expansion likely, change in portfolios of ministers also on cards||Dehradun: The three cabinet berths which have been lying vacant for years now are expected to be filled around March 18 when the Trivendra Singh Rawat government completes four years in office. While two berths were lying vacant since 2017, when BJP came to power in the state, the third fell vacant after finance minister Prakash Pant died. According to sources, in his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, and Bharatiya Janata Party chief JP Nadda on Tuesday, the CM has received the approval for cabinet expansion. Meanwhile, the change in portfolios of ministers is also on cards and the two ministers of state Rekha Arya and Dhan Singh Rawat are likely to be promoted as cabinet ministers, sources said. When the CM was asked to comment on the issue after his return from Delhi, he said, “Let's all wait for the time.” In the last four years, several BJP legislators have been in the race for the three cabinet berths. However, in due course of time, a number of them have been accorded key positions either in the party or some board. MLA from Kaladungi assembly and senior BJP member Bansidhar Bhagat is now the state BJP chief. Mahendra Bhatt, Badrinath legislator, and Gangotri MLA Gopal Rawat have been made the members of Char Dham Devasthanam Board. Meanwhile, Vikas Nagar MLA Munna Singh Chauhan was named as the chief spokesperson of the party. Now, Pushkar Singh Dhami, BJP MLA from Khatima, and Didihat legislator Bishan Singh Chufal — both from Kumaon — are being seen as the two serious contenders for the cabinet positions. Meanwhile, Munna Singh Chauhan from Garhwal is also a frontrunner. A source, however, said, “Be it announcing Gairsain as summer capital or other important decisions, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat is known for throwing surprises and therefore, the possibility of a completely unexpected face being inducted in the cabinet cannot be ruled out. Also, there is a chance of change in the portfolios.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cabinet-expansion-likely-change-in-portfolios-of-ministers-also-on-cards/articleshow/81195934.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Tax incentives cheer transporters||In the state budget announced on Wednesday, there were major announcements for the transport department including reduction of penalty for overloading of vehicles under the Motor Vehicles Act as well as no tax for three years for new buses being operated on rural routes.Rural bus service which was discontinued will be restarted, thus benefiting 6,000 gram panchayats and students appearing for examinations will be allowed to travel for free on state roadways.In the budget, Transport Amnesty Scheme-21 till March 31, 2021 was announced to give relief in pending Motor Vehicle Tax cases.State transport minister Pratapsingh Khachariyawas said, “This scheme will give relaxation to those who have pending tax and will give them a chance to clear it once and for all so they have no burden. The exemption from taxation to operators plying buses on rural routes will not only better the connectivity but also get rid of corruption.”There has also been a relaxation of Rs 15,000 in the penalty for overloading of commercial vehicles which has been brought down from Rs 20,000 to Rs 5,000. For refusing to get the vehicle weighed, the fine has been reduced from Rs 40,000 to Rs 10,000.There will also be eight slab progressive MV tax for stage carriage vehicles on various routes other than rural. For heavy vehicles (dumper category) it has been proposed that Rs 1800/tonne or maximum of Rs 35,000 annual tax should be designated. There is also relaxation in tax, interest penalty on destroyed vehicles. E-vehicles will be exempted from MV tax.For 32-seater buses of Rajasthan roadways having all India permit, the monthly tax has been reduced from Rs 775/seat has been reduced to Rs 700/seat. Apart from this automated fitness centres will come up in five districts including Bikaner, Nagaur and others as well have five contemporary bus depots in various locations.Meanwhile, the transporters also appeared to be optimistic about the proposed budget and claimed that it would be beneficial to them if applied on ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tax-incentives-cheer-transporters/articleshow/81199348.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||15-year high for February day: Extreme weather is here in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded its warmest February day in 15 years as the mercury approached 34 degrees Celsius in some areas on Wednesday. The Safdarjung station, considered as the base weather station for Delhi, witnessed a high of 32.5 degrees, seven notches above normal. The Najafgarh and Pitampura stations, however, recorded a high of 33.3 degrees while the sports complex weather station in east Delhi had a high of 33.9 degrees. Extreme weather events are becoming more common than you would believe with the past six months not only recording a high variation in the daily maximum and minimum temperatures but within and between months too. Having recorded its warmest September in nearly two decades, the city experienced temperatures below the mean minimum in the three months that followed. Why weather blew hot and cold this seasonJanuary saw the maximum number of ‘cold wave’ days in the past 13 years but February is turning out to be much warmer than normal. Experts say the lack of western disturbances this winter season has played a key role in this unusual weather pattern. Western disturbances ‘regulate’ the temperature and ensure that both the maximum and minimum temperatures do not touch extremes. According to Indian Meteorological Department, last September was the warmest in nearly two decades with a mean maximum temperature of 36.2 degrees. The last time it was higher was in September of 2001, when it was 36.3 degrees. October, however, was the opposite, recording a mean minimum temperature of just 17.2 degrees, the lowest in 58 years. November broke an even older record, with a mean minimum temperature of 10.2 degrees, last seen in 1949, while December was the second coldest in the past 15 years, shows IMD data. January continued to be chilly, recording the highest number of cold wave days in the month – seven – since 2008. February has again swung to the other extreme. Kuldeep Srivastava, a scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC) in Delhi, says while the months of October, November and December see on an average around three to four western disturbances, there are usually five to six in January and February each. “The lack of western disturbance activity is the primary reason here. We’ve seen only one in January and one so far in February. These were fewer in October, November and December too,” said Srivastava, who says lack of western disturbance activity leads to clear skies, which not only causes high day-time temperatures but extremely low night-time temperatures. “Clouds trap heat during the day, which means nights are a little warmer too, but with no clouds to trap the heat, we saw night time temperatures fall to as low as 1.1 degree Celsius this winter. Similarly, direct sunlight is falling during the day,” said Srivastava. He, however, added a note of caution, saying that a longterm trend will need to be established and analysed before we could call it an impact of climate change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/full-of-surprises-nature-on-turning-track/articleshow/81197388.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Pregnant minor raped by 3, teen assaulted||New Delhi: In two separate incidents, a minor and a mentally unstable 19-year-old girl were allegedly raped in Punjabi Bagh and Inderpuri, respectively, in west Delhi. The accused are yet to be arrested. Police said both incidents were reported last week. The minor survivor aged 17 was pregnant and had a miscarriage. The 19-year-old survivor was found unconscious in a park and, owing to her mental state, was unable to provide to police the details of the crime or the number of perpetrators. The 17-year-old survivor, a native of Assam, told police that a man kept sexually assaulting her on the pretext of marriage. She had been living with him in a rented accommodation in Keshavpuram. He had allegedly told her that he would provide her work and enroll her with a domestic help agency. She further alleged that she was raped by three men on different occasions, including the man she was staying with. DCP (West) Urvija Goel said, “A case of rape and under sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered. The girl has been sent to a women’s shelter home. Teams have been formed to nab the accused. Further investigation is under way.” In the Inderpuri case, a passerby informed police about a young girl sitting inside a park. When cops reached there and spoke to her, she alleged that she had been raped by a man in the park. The survivor was missing from Bharat Nagar since January 25. Police said she lived with her mother on a footpath. No missing complaint had been filed. “We are trying to gather information about the accused as the girl has been changing her statements owing to her mental health. She is being counselled and has been sent to a shelter home. A case of rape has been registered,” said Goel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pregnant-minor-raped-by-3-teen-assaulted/articleshow/81218599.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Urgent’ freebie plans worth crores cleared at civic meet||MUMBAI: Wednesday’s civic standing committee meeting that began on Tuesday night was packed with high drama when proposals for distribution of freebies, including 30 food and vegetable trucks worth Rs 5 crore in Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav’s constituency in Byculla, were circulated among members and later passed. The civic administration passed all proposals, barring one on distribution of 84,000 jute bags for Rs 1.4 crore. Each bag was priced at Rs 161. BMC also directed that local wards must not approve such items for individual distribution. Times ViewAt a time when the BMC is facing a cash crunch, it is surprising to see that corporators are going on a spending spree using civic funds for distributing freebies ranging from computers and jute bags to food trucks. The BMC must seriously rethink on whether it can afford to distribute such items to residents. The decision to scrap the purchase of jute bags is a welcome move.The proposals were circulated as urgent business late on Tuesday night. Civic norms mandate that all proposals before the standing committee must be circulated among members at least three days before the date of the meeting. BJP opposed the move and group leader Prabhakar Shinde even wrote to Jadhav demanding the proposals be taken back as members had not been given enough time to read them. BJP did not object to the proposals during the civic standing committee meeting and these were passed. “I had walked out of the meeting since this was in violation of norms. But Jadhav made an emotional appeal, so I came back. The proposal was passed without any discussion and our objection is still on record,” Shinde said. BMC’s plan to buy 30 food and vegetable trucks worth Rs 5 crore for distribution in Jadhav’s constituency number 209 in Byculla had come under fire from BJP. This was at a time when BMC’s food truck policy had not been approved. Apart from food trucks, BMC had also floated tenders to buy indoor gym equipment worth Rs 2 crore for Jadhav’s constituency using civic funds, among other items. “All these purchases have been done in violation of procurement norms. We have already moved CAG (comptroller and auditor general) in this matter. I will write to municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal, demanding he stop work orders for these purchases,” said BJP corporator Vinod Mishra, party leader in BMC. “We have scrapped the proposal for jute bags. I have directed officials not to approve such items for individual distribution,” said Sanjeev Jaiswal, additional municipal commissioner (city).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/urgent-freebie-plans-worth-crores-cleared-at-civic-meet/articleshow/81195974.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Dual shot to revive realty sector||The state government’s decision to reduce the district lease committee (DLC) rates and stamp duty on housing units in multi-storey buildings (upto the cost of Rs 50 lakh) is expected to revive the sluggish real estate market as the move will boost sentiments and benefit homebuyers. On the demand of the developers in the state, the CM announced to reduce stamp duty on housing units in multi-storey buildings from 6% to 4% until June 30, 2021. The benefit will be provided to buyers purchasing a flat worth upto Rs 50 lakh. Welcoming the move, Rajasthan Credai chairman Gopal Prasad Gupta said, “During the lockdown, both consumers and real estate industry faced a setback after the stamp duty was increased to 6% from 5%. Also, with 1% registration fee and 30% other taxes, the total stamp duty had gone up to 8.8%. After the reduction, the consumers buying a flat upto Rs 50 lakh will have to pay total 5.6% stamp duty, including other taxes. The move would benefit the buyers financially.” Similarly, under the affordable housing scheme, the stamp duty for the economically weaker section (EWS) and Lower Income Group (LIG) category has been reduced to 0.50% and 1% from 1% and 2%, respectively. “After the pandemic, the demand for houses under these categories has increased manifold. The reduction in stamp duty would boost the morale of buyers for houses that are affordable,” said Ankur Tiwari, an affordable housing developer. Builders, buyers and developers have also appreciated the move to cut the DLC rates in the state. The reduction is unlikely to bring a substantial change in market conditions, but it is believed that bringing DLC rates in tune with reduced markets rates will give a better leverage to strike deals. Also, the government’s move will provide relief on capital gains tax for the sector as a whole, on property valuations which are below DLC in many areas. The Credai in pre-budget meeting also demanded to reduce the DLC rates as it has touched the roof in past six years. “A correction in DLC rates was need of the hour. A differential between the DLC rates and agreement value, translates into tax penalties under Section 43CA of the Income Tax Act,” said Vikas Sharma, a developer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dual-shot-to-revive-realty-sector/articleshow/81199346.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chennai||Underassessed properties get bills, corpn tries to increase revenue||Chennai: T M Shanmugham, of Madhavaram, R Nagasubramanian, of Alandur and several residents of T Nagar, Velacherry and other city areas were in for a surprise when they checked their latest property tax bills. Though they had all paid their taxes till March 2021, they still had some dues which were added to October-November period 2020. An online complaint revealed that these properties were underassessed and the civic body had found out about them after the Geographical Information System survey. Of 12.5 lakh properties, at least 2 lakh had been underassessed. “We have not increased any tax. We have only charged those who have been evading taxes showing underassessed properties. All these properties were visited by tax surveyors. Also, for some others, the increase is due to the rollback of owner rebate that was offered in 2018. After the tax revision was rolled back, the owner rebate was also rolled back,” said a senior corporation revenue official. V S Jayaraman, a social activist from T Nagar, said it was unfair that the civic body was doing this without any notice or tax demand. “If we hadn’t checked our bills, we would have got to know of these dues only after March when we would have made payment for the next half year. Also, even this GIS survey is not uniform. In an apartment complex, how can a select few be underassessed. The civic body needs to look into this and rectify,” he said. He has already raised a complaint with the corporation. The civic body which is extremely cash-strapped right now after the rollback of the tax revision, garbage cess and Covid expenditure is now looking at these underassessed properties as one of the major sources of income to stay afloat. It collects about Rs 700crore in property tax and this would have increased to Rs 1200crore had the revision not rolledback.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/underassessed-properties-get-bills-corpn-tries-to-increase-revenue/articleshow/81078346.cms||---
February 25, 2021||India||Karnataka, Maharashtra, UP awarded for efficient PM-Kisan implementation||NEW DELHI: Karnataka, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh were awarded for being the best performing states in implementing the central income support scheme, PM-Kisan, in three different categories on the occasion of the second anniversary of this flagship scheme on Wednesday. While UP was awarded for fastest implementation of the scheme, Karnataka topped the list in covering the highest percentage of beneficiaries whereas Maharashtra was the best in physical verification and grievance redress. Karnataka has verified the highest 97% Aadhaar-authenticated data. More than 90% beneficiaries in the state have been paid one or more instalments via Aadhaar-based payment mode under the scheme which was launched on February 24, 2019. Under the scheme, each landholder farmer family gets Rs 6,000 per annum. The central government transfers money directly into their verified bank accounts in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000. Over 10.75 crore farmers from across the country have received over Rs 1.15 lakh crore in the past two years. In the district category, Punjab’s Rupnagar, Haryana’s Kurukshetra and Chhattisgarh’s Bilaspur were awarded as best performing districts for coming out with authenticated data, leading to quick payments to eligible farmers. Speaking about sufficient budgetary allocation under the scheme, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar urged state governments to run campaigns for registration of beneficiaries so that not a single needy farmer was deprived of the benefits of this scheme. ends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/karnataka-maharashtra-up-awarded-for-efficient-pm-kisan-implementation/articleshow/81200609.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sets 30,500 daily testing target for 11 districts of ‘hotspot’ Vidarbha||MUMBAI: The state has drafted an action plan to curb the near 200% rise in active cases in Vidarbha with emphasis on testing, surveillance of potential super-spreaders, death audits and formation of rapid response teams for areas with high positivity. Central to the plan is a daily target of 30,500 tests that the 11 districts in the region have been asked to carry out collectively. Till recently, all districts put together were carrying out less than half of that figure. Nagpur was conducting the highest number of tests, an average of 5,000 daily, followed by Amravati that was testing over 2,000. Both districts have been told to increase it to 6,500 and 3,610, respectively. The remaining districts, including Akola that has seen a 430% increase in active cases, were doing just about 1,000 tests; they have been asked to push it to 2,400 a day. For districts to fulfil the target, daily testing has to increase by at least two- to ten-fold for most. A state official said every district has been asked to create its own micro plan and share details about the implementation. The broader plan reiterates key containment strategies such as active and passive surveillance of influenza-like illness and cases of severe acute respiratory infections; and mapping of districts with high positivity. Passive surveillance would include identifying private doctors and hospitals with maximum in-patient and OPD cases. Districts have also been told to trace a minimum of 20 high- and low-risk contacts within 48 hours of detecting a case. For patients under home isolation, the state has said that handbills with isolation norms should be displayed on doors. Districts also must have a ready list of people with comorbidities. A team of specialists, including a physician and microbiologist, will visit hospitals with high case fatality rates. Active cases in Vidarbha ju-mped from 7,000 to nearly 20,000 in February. Akola, Amravati, Nagpur, Washim, Buldhana and Wardha have seen the maximum surge. Dr Shyamsundar Nikam, Amravati’s district health officer, said their daily testing target has been increased to 3,610 a day, much higher than the WHO specified 140 tests/million. Dr Raj Gehlot, Chandrap-ur district health officer, said th-ey will have to double their daily testing numbers. “We have few-er cases now, but we fear a surge as we share borders with Yavatmal, Nagpur and Telangana.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-sets-30500-daily-testing-target-for-11-districts-of-hotspot-vidarbha/articleshow/81197397.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 25, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Mubarak Colony residents miffed over drains clogged with debris||VISAKHAPATNAM: Residents of Mubarak Colony at Yendada, considered one of the most well-maintained colonies in the city, have been facing civic issues such as clogged drainage and dumping of debris from real estate construction in the vicinity. “Due to the lack of a proper drainage system, waste water coming out of apartments does not flow but stagnates. At some places, dumping of debris has made the situation worse as drains are getting clogged. Whenever, we have raised this issue with GVMC, their team comes and gets it cleared but within a week, the drains again get clogged again. We want a solution to this,” said Mubarak Colony residents’ welfare association (RWA) secretary, Akil Raja. Since a lot of real estate activities are going on in Sagarnagar and Yendada areas surrounding the colony, truckloads of debris loaded from construction sites around are dumped in the colony at odd hours, some of which enter and choke the drains, allege residents. “There needs to be a proper eco-system, regulated by the civic authorities to dump construction debris in government designated places and not in some other colony. Also, the dug-up patches for underground cable works are not being levelled, resulting in two-wheeler accidents and protruding rocks on uneven roads which are causing damage to cars,” said Adnan Sabuwala, a spokesperson from the colony. Abizer Madraswala, secretary of Dawoodi Bohra jamat added, “We are ready to extend every cooperation to the GVMC including organizing weekly clean-up drives for our colony’s maintenance, but there needs to be a permanent solution to the drainage and debris issues.” When contacted, GVMC officials said that sanitation secretary and inspectors in every zone can look into this issue and take the required action regarding drainage. Regarding the debris issue, GVMC assistant city planner Aruna Valli said, “In each zone, there is a provision to collect construction debris from the designated collection points and transport it to the dumping site.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mubarak-colony-residents-miffed-over-drains-clogged-with-debris/articleshow/81195884.cms||Sulogna Mehta
February 25, 2021||Vijayawada||Incomplete storm drain projects a key issue for VMC ahead of civic elections||VIJAYAWADA: Incomplete storm water drain (SWD) project has become a major issue for the upcoming municipal corporation elections with locals unhappy with the slow pace of works. The Union government has sanctioned the SWD project for Vijayawada in 2016 at an estimated cost of Rs 465 crore. Work on the project started in 2017 and was scheduled for completion by September 2019 but the agency responsible has failed to complete it for various reasons while VMC kept extending the deadline. So far, 72% of the 424-kilometre-long project has been completed till date and construction of drains is underway in several areas. Many drains were left in an incomplete stage which led to mosquito menace due to water stagnation. Construction of main channel drains is also pending at Kandrika and city outskirts and residents in these areas are demanding assurances of completion from those running for corporator posts. “We are residing at Journalist colony in Kandrika. The main channel drain on Pathapadu road has been left in an incomplete state for years. Our streets get inundated during the rainy season. We have decided to vote for a candidate who assures to fight on behalf of us and complete the pending works,” M Nagaraju, a resident, told TOI. All political parties have included the issue in their manifesto and have assured to complete the works soon should they be voted to power. “Drain works have become a major problem for locals. Many parts are kept aside with lack of coordination between public health engineering and electricity department. We are assuring locals to complete works within the shortest possible time,” said P Chaitanya Reddy, YSRC candidate from 42 division in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/incomplete-storm-drain-projects-a-key-issue-for-vmc-ahead-of-civic-elections/articleshow/81195734.cms||Venu Lanka
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Ahead of polls, Telangana govt to rejig civic body wards||HYDERABAD: Gearing up for conducting civic bodies elections, the municipal administration department has begun the exercise of delimitation of wards in Greater Warangal and Khammam municipal corporations and Siddipet, Nakrekal, Atchampet and Kothur municipalities. The elections are likely to be held any time after April 1. The state government has already decided to enhance the number of wards both in Khammam and Warangal corporations from 50 to 60 and 58 to 66 respectively. The delimitation of wards needs to be taken up for increasing the number apart from finalising the reservations. In Siddipet municipality, the ward numbers will be increased to 43. Similarly, wards in other municipalities will also be increased during the exercise. According to municipal administration department principal secretary Arvind Kumar, the month-long delimitation exercise began on Wednesday that includes getting ward-wise population, preparation of draft proposals for conducting field survey on delimitation, calling for suggestions and objections from the people, MLAs, MLCs and MPs on delimitation of wards, enquiries and disposal of objections and suggestions. After getting proposals, the state government will issue a final notification on the delimitation. After the GHMC elections, the TRS leadership started focusing on holding elections to Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation and Khammam Municipal Corporation. TRS working president KT Rama Rao participated in various developmental activities in Khammam a month ago. In previous elections, the TRS secured both Warangal and Khammam corporations. In Greater Warangal, the TRS got 44 out of 58 seats, Congress four, while BJP and CPM got only one seat each. Rebels and independents won in eight divisions, who later supported the ruling TRS. Of the 50 divisions in Khammam, the ruling TRS won 34 seats, Congress got 10 and CPM and YSRCP have two corporators each. Though BJP contested from 11 divisions, it drew a blank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ahead-of-polls-govt-to-rejig-civic-body-wards/articleshow/81197382.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 25, 2021||Amaravati||AMRDA seeks Rs 3k crore to complete pending projects||AMARAVATI: The state government has permitted the Amaravati Metro Region Development Authority (AMRDA) to secure a loan of Rs 3000 crore to complete the pending projects. All development works in Amaravatawere stopped about two years ago. The government’s decision to complete unfinished structures in Amaravati is likely to bring life back to the region. The government has also decided to complete the roads to connect national highway (NH) 16 with the capital city area to boost real estate in the region. The high-level committee headed by chief secretary Dr Adityanath Das recently analysed the infrastructure requirement of Amaravati and measures needed to take up the pending works. The committee found that it would require at least Rs 2,300 crore to complete the structures which are 75% complete. Similarly, the committee noticed the government had to clear about Rs 300 crore to contractors pertaining to completed works. The decision to widen and complete the river bank (karakatta) road at a cost of Rs 150 crore on priority basis is likely to improve infrastructure. The government appointed several committees, including a cabinet sub-committee to look, into alleged irregularities committed during the TDP administration. The project lost its sheen after the YSRC government came out with the idea of three capital cities. The erstwhile CRDA had completed massive foundation work for the construction of permanent secretariat in Velagapudi. “Notwithstanding the protests and adverse comments, our government is committed to the development of Amaravati to the extent it deserves. Our plans to connect all the villages in the capital city area with NH 16 would automatically give value appreciation to the land offered by the farmers under LPS,” said municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/amrda-seeks-rs-3k-crore-to-complete-pending-projects/articleshow/81195367.cms||Samdani MN
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s sugarcane output to rise by 12% in 2021||Ahmedabad: Sugarcane production in Gujarat is estimated to increase by 12%, to 1.21 crore tonnes in 2020-21 from 1.07 crore tonnes in 2019-20, show the first advanced estimates from the Union ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare. Cane production in the state is expected to rise mainly on account of the increase in area under cultivation. Sugarcane acreage in Gujarat stood higher at 1.74 lakh hectares this year, against 1.50 lakh hectares last year, shows data compiled by the ministry. Despite a surge in sugarcane acreage across the state, sugar industries do not see a great increase in production of sugar this year as sugar recovery from cane is lower this year. Gujarat currently has 15 co-operative sugar mills operational. According to the Indian Sugar Mills Association (ISMA), a pan-India association of the sugar industry, the operational factories in Gujarat have produced 6.55 lakh tonnes of sugar as on February 15. Last year, production was 5.95 lakh tonnes during the same period. “Due to unfavourable climatic conditions, especially the extended monsoon, sugar mills are getting lower recovery of sugar from the cane. As a result, production of sugar is likely to be the same as last year,” said a senior official of a sugar mill in Gujarat. “At present, output is slightly higher as compared to the same period last year because the crushing season this year began a bit earlier. However, production is expected to be the same as last season,” the official added. The total sugar production in Gujarat was recorded at 9.31 lakh tonnes in 2019-20,according to the data compiled by the union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/states-sugarcane-output-to-rise-by-12-in-2021/articleshow/81198701.cms||Kalpesh Damor
February 25, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Contaminated toddy to blame for poor health in tribal pocket||VISAKHAPATNAM: Lack of adequate drinking water and consumption of contaminated toddy are the two prime reasons behind the poor health of many in tribal areas of Visakhapatnam district. This was recently revealed in an epidemiological investigation carried out by a team of researchers from Andhra Medical College-King George Hospital (AMC-KGH) in association with the state pollution control board on residents of Karakavalasa tribal pocket under Rompale panchayat of Anantagiri mandal. The epidemiological probe was triggered by suspicious deaths of four people within a span of five months and 20 others in the village falling sick and being hospitalised at KGH. The medical team studied the blood of residents, abdomen ultrasound, renal, liver, serum albumin, ECG, chest x-ray, urine examination and 2D echo. Following the investigation, the team concluded that 45% patients had mild anaemia while 30% had moderate anaemia. The ultrasound report showed grade two renal problems among 65% patients and grade three RPD among 4.8%. Symptoms of swelling of lower limbs and breathlessness were found. Clinical history showed that pedal edema was observed among 60% and shortness of breath, with duration varying from four days to two weeks, among 65%. Other symptoms associated with gastric pain and body aches varying between one to eight weeks were also observed. AMC principal Dr PV Sudhakar said the team visited the tribal pocket to inquire about the diet, source of water and alcohol consumption among locals. “Our team found surprising facts. One, residents consume toddy which is mixed with lead from dead batteries used in torches and two, safe drinking water is inadequate. Habitations must be provided safe drinking water and their habits should be changed,” the AMC principal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/contaminated-toddy-to-blame-for-poor-health-in-tribal-pocket/articleshow/81195470.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
February 25, 2021||Kolhapur||Election panel wants caste validity papers facilitated||Kolhapur: The state election commission has directed the district and the civic administrations to facilitate the candidates to get their caste validity certificates before filing the nomination for the upcoming Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) election.The commission said it is mandatory for the candidates contesting from reserved wards to have caste validity certificates or candidate may get disqualified. Earlier, there was a provision to submit the certificate after the election results, but even if the candidate submitted a false caste validity certificate he or she continued to be a corporator for a long time as the issue got entangled in the legal system.Vijay Vankudre, the KMC’s election officer said, “Candidates interested in contesting the election must have a caste certificate and get its validity endorsed by the validation office. We will facilitate any queries regarding the caste validity certificate. The main purpose of the commission is to ensure the candidate eligible for contesting from reserved ward does face rejection of nomination due to lack of caste validity certificate or any discrepancies regarding the certificate.”The authorities have to immediately refer the applications for caste validity certificate to the validation panel. Also, the district collector has to ensure smooth coordination between the panel and election authorities.The panel gets a large number of applications to validate caste certificates from students seeking admissions and youth looking for jobs. Therefore, the panel remains overburdened with the work and sometimes the applications from the candidates are neglected. The election commission has asked authorities to ensure such candidates get the certificate within the deadline of filing the nomination papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/election-panel-wants-caste-validity-papers-facilitated/articleshow/81194987.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Visakhapatnam||EPGC aims to make Vizag a golf tourism hub||Visakhapatnam: The East Point Golf Club (EPGC) at Mudasarlova area, which recently received the status of Category-A golf course, has lined up a series of events to make Vizag city the golf tourism capital of Andhra Pradesh. The golfing events are set to take place every week till May. The EPGC’s new 6,800 yards Championship Course was inaugurated by Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Karambir Singh, a few days back with top golfers of the country attending the inauguration ceremony. The EPGC is surrounded by a blanket of greenery, mango and palm trees, hills, and the lake which many golfers said they found alluring. The golf club was started in 1884 for the relaxation of British officials stationed in Vizag city. Originally, the golf course was located near the VUDA park but was moved to its present location at Mudasarlova in 1964 following efforts by Raja PV Gajapathi Raju of Vizianagaram and other golfers of the time. Speaking to TOI, EPGC secretary RVS Rudraraju said they were planning to host a series of events till May, including the Alwardas Group golf tournament, a Navy golf event, the Varun Group Tournament, World Wildlife Foundation event, SRR golf event and among other tournaments. “Apart from regular golf events, we have also planned to host an inter-club golf tournament — a national event — either in October or November this year. We plan to invite top golfers from various top golf clubs in the country,” he said. Rudraraju said the golf course was given a complete makeover and that along with Championship Course, they were also looking forward to develop more sporting and social facilities in the near future. This, in order to make the East Point Golf Club (EPGC) one of the best golf clubs in the country. “The EPGC team is confident of turning this dream into reality as the club has a tradition of passionate members contributing to such initiatives. This passion makes the EPGC a jewel in the crown of Vizag city and on the world map of preferred golf tourism destinations,” the EPGC secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/epgc-aims-to-make-vizag-a-golf-tourism-hub/articleshow/81195931.cms||Nalla.Babu
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Ex-IFS officer, 81, shoots self; Delhi cops say no foul play||NEW DELHI: An 81-year-old former diplomat allegedly shot himself at his house in south Delhi’s Defence Colony on Wednesday morning. Police said that the man was undergoing some medical treatments and was discharged from a hospital just a day before. A suicide note has also been recovered and no foul play is suspected behind the death so far. The octogenarian, identified as Ranjeet Sethi, was a former Indian Foreign Services officer and lived with a domestic help who had been with him for the past twenty years. Police said they received a call around 7.30 am in the morning from the help, reporting that Sethi had shot himself, but is alive. An ambulance was rushed and the elderly man was taken to Moolchand Hspital where he succumbed to the wound. The bullet had pierced through his mouth. During a preliminary probe, police found that Sethi was undergoing treatment for medical issues for his age and had been discharged from BL Kapoor Hospital on Tuesday. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said that police suspect Sethi ended his life as he was upset with his health conditions. “We are probing the matter from all possible angles. His family members and relatives, who also live close by, have been informed and the body has been sent for a postmortem examination,” the DCP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ex-ifs-officer-81-shoots-self-cops-say-no-foul-play/articleshow/81197422.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Vadodara||Student outfit demands refund of excess fees, threatens stir||Vadodara: A student outfit on Wednesday demanded that M S University should immediately refund fees of those engineering students whose fees was deducted twice last year. According to Vidyarthi Vikas Sangh (VVS) fees of 14 engineering students of Faculty of Technology and Engineering (FTE) was deducted twice last year because of a technical snag. “Students of first semester of all the years were supposed to pay the fees online for the academic year 2020-21. But in many cases, because of some technical snag, money was deducted twice,” said Ankit Lakhani, vice-president of VVS at FTE. Lakhani said that when the technical snag surfaced on the university’s portal last year, they were assured by the university authorities that the extra fees that was deducted due to the technicality will be refunded. “This happened in the month of September-October last year but till date the extra fees that was deducted has not been reimbursed. On Wednesday, too, MSU’s officiating registrar K M Chudasama assured us that the fees will be refunded. If this does not happen now, we will launch a stir,” he said. The student group has provided all the documents to the university officials. “The excess amount is in the range of Rs 70,000 to Rs 75,000,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/student-outfit-demands-refund-of-excess-fees-threatens-stir/articleshow/81197377.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS misleading people on govt jobs: Congress||Hyderabad: Claiming that the TRS government is misleading people regarding vacancies, the Congress on Wednesday said there are about 40 lakh unemployed youth and over three lakh vacancies in the government sector. “The TRS government should publish a white paper on the total number of vacancies as of 2014, how many retired till date and how many vacancies were created, how many new jobs were created as thousands of new gram panchayats and new districts were carved out,” demanded AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan, adding that graduates will teach a lesson to the TRS in the MLC elections.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-misleading-people-on-govt-jobs-congress/articleshow/81197386.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||19-year-old from Telangana who faked kidnap, gang rape found dead at home||HYDERABAD: A 19-year-old girl from Ghatkesar, who had apparently faked her abduction and gang rape by an auto driver a fortnight ago, was on Wednesday found dead at her home under mysterious circumstances. Her family told police that the girl was depressed after her rape story had been debunked. They also claimed the girl may have consumed tablets meant for diabetes patients to kill herself. But she did not leave a suicide note and police did not find any evidence of the girl having poisoned herself in the initial investigation. Ghatkesar police station officials added that the girl had been suffering from convulsions for the past few days. On Wednesday morning, she again suffered convulsions and became unconscious. Her family shifted her to a local hospital, where she was declared dead. On February 10, the girl had claimed she had been abducted by an auto driver and a few others and raped in Keesara while returning from college in Ghatkesar. But after studying CCTV footage, Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat had told reporters at a press conference on February 13 that the complaint was made up. He had even apologised to the suspects who had been detained. After the girl’s death, family members told police officials that she had stopped eating since police officials refused to believe her rape complaint. “We are waiting for the postmortem report to know the cause of death. Her father suspects that she might had consumed his tablets,” deputy commissioner of police Rakshitha K Murthy told TOI. Murthy added that there were no external injuries on the girl’s body. “This could also be a case of natural death. We will know more once we get the postmortem report. For the time being, we have registered it as a suspicious death,” he added. The family had taken the girl to Gandhi Hospital on Tuesday after she had started suffering from convulsions. She was treated by the doctors as an ‘out patient’ and sent home. “The girl did not tell the doctors that she had consumed tablets. Despite being weak, she walked into the hospital without any support,” a police official said. However, on Tuesday night she again suffered from convulsions. She had another bout on Wednesday morning after which she died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/19-yr-old-who-faked-kidnap-gang-rape-found-dead-at-home/articleshow/81200041.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Petrol price hike accelerates CNG kit biz||AHMEDABAD: Soaring prices of petrol have driven a rush in Ahmedabad to convert cars to run on compressed natural gas (CNG) — the conversion numbers have doubled from the pre-pandemic figures. With the petrol price almost touching the Rs 88 per litre-mark in the city, the CNG retrofitting market is abuzz with inquiries and conversions. In the pre-Covid era in Ahmedabad, on average, 30 vehicles were converted daily to use CNG instead of petrol. But ever since the pandemic-precipitated lockdown eased, the daily conversion figure reached 45. Now, as fuel prices rise, nearly 60 vehicles are converted every day. Apart from this, inquiries relating to BS VI vehicles have touched 100 a day in Ahmedabad. The RTO has still not given the approval to convert BS VI vehicles to use CNG. Amit Upadhyay, associated with a CNG retrofitting agency in the city, said, “We have been getting inquiries from people who had purchased their vehicles in 2020.” He added, “The car owners will have problems in making insurance claims if they convert their vehicles to use CNG without the RTO clearance.” Upadhyay said that inquiries have doubled since the fuel prices began increasing. “Earlier, we used to get two vehicles a day for conversion,” he said. “That number too has doubled.” Kuldeep Vora, another retrofitting dealer, said, “Post lockdown, people prefer using their own car over public transport. With offices re-opening and petrol prices at all-time high, higher travel cost is pinching, leading to a spike in the conversion numbers' Manish Dave, another retrofitting dealer in the city, said people commuting long distances of 100km or more a day form a bigger chunk of conversion customers. Sudhir Shah, a resident of Satellite, who travels to Mehsana daily for work, bought a car post pandemic. He recently got the BS VI vehicle to run on CNG. “Earlier, my four friends and I used to travel together and share the costs. Post corona, all travel separately incurring huge travel cost. The CNG conversion agency has assured me that I can get the car registered after the rules are framed. I took the risk in the meanwhile.” Rajesh Manjhu, the commissioner of transport, said that for BS VI vehicles the ministry of road transport is yet to form emission norms. Officials at the Ahmedabad RTO said that the registration of such vehicles is not done because CNG-run BS VI vehicles require a special catalyzer which can only be factory-fitted. “The central government has to take a decision on whether to allow retrofitting and if those vehicles are BS VI-compliant.” Hiren Patel, who is in the bottled water business, said that he bought a small car in 2019 which he recently fitted with a CNG kit. "Due to skyrocketing petrol prices, my daily petrol bill had spiked to 600 which has now come down to Rs 250," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/petrol-price-hike-accelerates-cng-kit-biz/articleshow/81197389.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Pay-and-use toilet caretaker assaulted on asking for Rs 2||AHMEDABAD: A 35-year-old sanitation worker who is also the caretaker of a pay- and-use toilet in the Vastrapur area, was assaulted by three men on Monday evening when he asked that they pay Rs 2 for using the lavatory, states a complaint filed with Vastrapur police on Tuesday. Mukesh Paswan, who is from Patna, stated that he has been working a contract worker at the pay-and-use toilet near Vastrapur lake since 2011. He said he is responsible for cleaning the toilet with his wife and elder brother. They live there itself. On Monday evening, a man approached him and told him he wanted to use the lavatory. Paswan asked for Rs 2, which is the charge for using the lavatory. On hearing this, the man, who was about 30 years old, got angry at Paswan and asked him on how he dared to demand the Rs 2. The man then left. After a while, he returned with two other men who began abusing Paswan. Before Paswan could react, they attacked him with sticks. One of them began hitting Paswan on the face and left him bleeding severely. The accused also hit him on his back, states the FIR. He said that on hearing his cries, his wife, brother and some locals rushed in and rescued him. The three men, then walked away, while threatening to kill him if he ever asked them for money for using the pay-and-use service. Locals called an ambulance and Paswan was taken to the Sola Civil Hospital where he was found to have a fracture in his jaw. Vastrapur police later filed a complaint of assault against three unknown men. Public pay and use facility in December 2019 had come under scrutiny after several allegations were made in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) regarding over charging at public use toilets and even operators clandestinely renting out the facility to nearby party plots. For this the AMC had launched a special surveillance unit to address these complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pay-and-use-toilet-caretaker-assaulted-on-asking-for-rs-2/articleshow/81199145.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 94 fresh Covid cases, no deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 94 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday — the highest single-day case total in the last 20 days — taking the cumulative caseload to 8,89,503. The state did not report any new death in the last 24 hours. Altogether, 66 patients were declared cured and discharged from various hospitals. There are currently 603 active cases with 8,81,732 cumulative recoveries and 7,168 fatalities. Chittoor reported 21 new infections, followed by Visakhapatnam (15) and Anantapur (11). The remaining 10 districts posted single-digit case numbers. The state tested 32,494 samples to detect the 94 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.3%. The overall case positivity rate stands at 6.4%, against the national average of 5.2%. The vaccination programme for police personnel, which was postponed due to the panchayat polls held in the state in four phases, also began on Wednesday. The drive will continue for the next 10 days. The first phase vaccination covered health workers, while the second phase is underway for frontline workers. About 5.9 lakh people have been vaccinated so far in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-reports-94-fresh-covid-cases-no-deaths/articleshow/81196033.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||ED asked to start probe into gold smuggling racket||New Delhi: The Central Economic Intelligence Bureau has asked the Enforcement Directorate to initiate a money laundering probe into a gold smuggling racket that involves a leading Delhi jeweller, some bureaucrats and politicians from Lutyens’ Delhi. The syndicate is suspected to have smuggled in more than 1,000 kg of gold from Dubai in the past few years. An FIR has already been registered by the CBI early last year against some of the accused, including Its My Name Pvt Ltd, the company accused by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) for its involvement in the smuggling racket. Functioning under the finance ministry, the CEIB acts as the nodal agency for economic intelligence and monitors multi-agency probes related to economic offences. The gold smuggling syndicate first came to light when the DRI seized 51 kg gold two years ago from the IGI airport in the national capital. The CBI later registered an FIR against some members of the syndicate, including the leading jeweller and a customs superintendent then posted at the international airport in Delhi. The jeweller’s connection with politicians were investigated. But before action could be initiated against the syndicate members, a tribunal asked the DRI to release seized gold on a surety of just Rs 1.25 crore, small change against the value of the gold seized. The agency immediately rushed to the Delhi High Court questioning the tribunal’s motive and pointing out that the tribunal had even overlooked the fact that for about 25 kg of gold there was no documentation available, at all. The high court asked the jeweller to furnish a bond of Rs 10 crore for partial release of the seized gold. The influential syndicate, according to sources, tried to scuttle the probe several times but when the matter was brought to the notice of higher authorities in the finance ministry and the Prime Minister’s office, the CBI was asked to register an FIR and further investigate the case. The modus operandi adopted by the syndicate was to ‘export’ gold jewellery to Dubai for the purpose of ‘exhibition’ and later ‘import’ the whole consignment as ‘unsold stock’. The carriers meant to carry the ‘export consignment’ in person never actually carried them while gold of similar value was later imported from Dubai, sources said. The DRI investigation and questioning of the accused, held with 51 kg of gold at the IGI Airport in April 2019, revealed that the syndicate had so far smuggled in more than 1,000 kg of gold from UAE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ed-asked-to-start-probe-into-gold-smuggling-racket/articleshow/81218663.cms||Pradeep Thakur
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS govt filled 1.3L posts, claims KTR||Hyderabad: With recruitment becoming a major issue in the MLC election campaign, TRS working president KT Rama Rao has said the KCR government filled 1.32 lakh jobs in various government departments in the past six years. “In the 10 years of its rule, the Congress government in the united AP had filled only 24,000 vacancies. Of them, only 10,000 jobs were given in Telangana,” KTR said. The working president gave a detailed list of department-wise vacancies were filled by the ruling TRS government in the past six years. They include 30,500 jobs through Telangana State Public Service Commission, 31,900 through Telangana State Police Recruitment Board, 3,600 vacancies in the social welfare residential schools and colleges, and other government departments. “BJP has no moral right to seek votes in polls. Why should people vote for BJP for not keeping its promises made in AP Reorganization Act, 2014, or not sanctioning any projects to the state or increasing petrol, diesel and gas prices?,” he asked. KTR said PM Modi had promised Rs 15 lakh in the bank account of every Indian. “Though I did not get Rs 15 lakh in my account, I received over 15 lakh tweets,” he quipped. TRS working president said TRS kept promises and had done justice to all sectors in the state. He said state government would also implement Pay Revision to the government employees and discussions with the employee unions were still on. “TRS is the only party which had allocated Rs 100 crore for welfare of lawyers,” he said. Claiming that TRS candidate Vani Devi is most eligible to become an MLC among other candidates, he said she served in the education sector in the past 35 years. KTR said the party did not lose in the GHMC elections. “TRS is still number one party in GHMC and that is the reason it secured both mayor and deputy mayor posts,” he said. He said the party would begin campaign in MLC elections after party workers’ meetings in all assembly constituencies from Saturday. MLC candidate Vani Devi said she had been in the education sector for more than three decades. “Like my father (PV Narasimha Rao), I got an opportunity to serve the people at the retirement age,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-govt-filled-1-3l-posts-claims-ktr/articleshow/81197399.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Gayatri pump lifts 100 tmc ft water||Hyderabad: In another milestone for the Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project, Gayatri pump house has lifted 100 tmcft ( thousand million cubic feet) in one-and-half-years covering two seasons. According to irrigation officials, 100 tmcft of water has been lifted between August 11, 2019 and February 24, 2020. Gayatri pump house, located at Ramagudu near Karimnagar, is the biggest underground pumping station. The station, which has seven Bahubali motors with a capacity of 139 MW each, lifted water from Yellampally reservoir to Mid Manair. According to Kaleshwaram project authorities, since the pump station became operational in August 2019, all the motors were functional for 8,813 hours by lifting 100 tmcft of water. For this, the motors consumed 1,101 million units of power. “Among the seven pumps, the second pump at the station, operated for 1,700 hours and fourth pump for 1,480 hours. Seventh pump was operated for just 12 hours keeping the water requirements in view,” a senior irrigation department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gayatri-pump-lifts-100-tmc-ft-water/articleshow/81197419.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Dehradun||Uma Bharti offers prayers at Doonagiri temple||Almora: Senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader Uma Bharti on Wednesday reached Dwarahat and offered prayers at Doonagiri temple. She also went to Kukuchina village via Uma Manglikhan and met locals there. The minister is scheduled to go to Uma Pandavkholi and to Mahavatar Baba’s cave on Thursday. Earlier in 2017, Uma Bharti came to the district on a four-day visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uma-bharti-offers-prayers-at-doonagiri-temple/articleshow/81196003.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Pocso cases: Dist 2nd in state, children not safe even at homes||Thiruvananthapuram: In a year when children were mostly restricted to their own homes, the number of cases reported under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act in the district in 2020 is alarming. According to statistics released by the state police crime records bureau, there have been a total of 351 cases reported in the district in the year 2020. Out of this, 111 cases were reported under Thiruvananthapuram city police limits and 240 cases were reported under Thiruvananthapuram rural district police limits. The corresponding figures in 2019 were 151 and 313 respectively. There has been an overall dip of 113 cases. The capital district stands second only to Malappuram, which recorded 379 cases in 2020. The figures suggest that despite the children being in the safety of their homes for almost an year, they continue to fall prey to sexual predators. Police officers maintained that out of the total cases reported, there were several cases in which the abuse happened in the past and the children revealed it during the lockdown period. However, child rights activists opined that such cases were very few and in majority of the cases, the perpetrators were someone close to the family of the victim or a family member itself. Child welfare committee (CWC) chairperson advocate N Sunanda said that there certainly has been an increase in the number of sexual abuse incidents happening at homes. “CWC deals with children in need of care and protection. In majority of cases, the children brought to us are victims of sexual abuse at homes. And the number of children brought to us last year was indeed very high compared to previous years,” said Sunanda. According to S K Ratheesh, child protection officer of Childline, individuals who have free access to the houses of victims comprise the second largest category of perpetrators. “The top category comprises individuals who lure the underage girls into a love affair and then sexually exploit them,” Ratheesh said adding that every year Childline conducts study based on the relationship of abusers with the victims and consistently over years it has turned out that the second biggest category comprised persons who are close to the family. This includes relatives or close neighbours mostly. There had been many cases in which close relatives such as grandfather, stepfather, uncle or close acquaintances of the victim’s family turned out to be the abuser, said Ratheesh. S Chitralekha, district child protection officer under woman and child development department, said, “We have many ongoing initiatives to sensitize people and children about sexual abuse crimes. Recently we have also launched an initiative, Kaval Plus, aimed at training NGOs and volunteers in identifying vulnerable children and rehabilitating them. The initiative is an advances form of already existing scheme, Kaval, which pertains to rehabilitation of children in conflict with law. The pilot phase of the initiative is being implemented in Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pocso-cases-dist-2nd-in-state-children-not-safe-even-at-homes/articleshow/81199428.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Kolhapur||Ghatge observes one-day fast||Kolhapur: BJP district president Samarjeetsinha Ghatge observed one-day fast at the Dasara Chowk in Kolhapur city on Wednesday protesting against the non-fulfilment of promises made to farmers. Ghatge had launched ‘Shivar Samvad Yatra’ during which he met farmers across the district and listened to their grievances. He said the government has failed to provide relief to the farmers despite the announcements. Ghatge said: “The government assured loan waiver to farmers with loan amounts of Rs 2 lakh. However, those with loan amount more than that have been excluded. The government assured an encouragement grant of Rs 50,000 to the farmers who repaid the loans on time by selling their assets. The encouragement grants have not been disbursed. Also, the farmers have not received compensation for the crop damages due to untimely rains. Fed up with the failure to fulfil the assurances, I decided to observe one day fast.” He sat the whole day under the statue of Shahu Maharaj and was surrounded by several BJP leaders. Ghatge also demanded a waiver of power bills issued to the farmers. Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis extended the support to Ghatge via Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ghatge-observes-one-day-fast/articleshow/81195015.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Report code violations to poll observer||Hyderabad: Ahead of elections to legislative council from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates constituency, the election observer said that people can report poll-related violations to him. Dr MCR HRD Institute of Telangana additional director general Harpreet Singh, who has appointed as election observer for the MLC elections, said people can call him to report model code conduct violations. “For advertising or violations, people can report to Harpreet Singh by contacting him on 944063720 or GHMC deputy director Wilson on 9704456521,” said GHMC in a statement. Director of GHMC’s EVDM has been appointed as nodal officer for model code of conduct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/report-code-violations-to-poll-observer/articleshow/81197426.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Disproportionate assets: Former I-T officer gets 3 years’ RI||MUMBAI: A special CBI court on Tuesday convicted and sentenced a former income-tax (I-T) officer, Leeladhar Bangera, to three years’ rigorous imprisonment for amassing assets worth Rs 60 lakh disproportionate to known sources of income of his wife and him. Bangera’s wife, who was also an accused, died during the pendency of the trial in 2016, and the case against her was abated. “Disproportionate assets to the tune of Rs 59.89 lakh shall be recovered from Bangera from his assets, and movable and immovable properties, in view of the section 16 of Prevention of Corruption Act,” special CBI judge AS Sayyad said. In 2013, Bangera (67) was sentenced to five years’ imprisonment for accepting a bribe of Rs 75,000 for settling a penalty matter. He is out on bail in that case and an appeal is pending before the Bombay high court. Special public prosecutor Sandeep Singh cited the deposition of 33 witnesses to seek Bangera’s conviction in the disproportionate assets case. Seven defence witnesses too deposed during the trial. The CBI’s anti-corruption bureau registered a case on October 7, 2011, based on information from a source that while working as an I-T officer at Parel, Bangera and his wife Jayashri, manager (finance) at Mineral and Metal Trading Corporation, had acquired disproportionate assets. Bangera had joined the I-T department in 1976 as a stenographer and in 2005, he was promoted as an I-T inspector. In 2007, he was promoted as I-T officer. The prosecution alleged that between January 2007 and March 2010, Bangera and his wife, both public servants, acquired immovable and movable assets of Rs 77 lakh in the names of their family members and themselves, which was against their likely savings of over Rs 17.3 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/disproportionate-assets-former-i-t-officer-gets-3-yrs-ri/articleshow/81199424.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 25, 2021||Chennai||The variable in TN’s political constant: AMMK||CHENNAI: One of the debated issues in political circles has been the future of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK). Will the party merge with the AIADMK or will it face the assembly election on its own? Will V K Sasikala be able to draw ruling party leaders towards her? And above all, is the AMMK a force to reckon with? The barrage of questions is not without reason. The AMMK, is perhaps, the only party founded with the objective of capturing another political party rather than power. Come March 15, it would be three years since T T V Dhinakaran launched the party, a year after his massive victory in the R K Nagar bypoll as an independent candidate. Dhinakaran was confidence personified then. The AMMK was the real AIADMK, he said. But, the score card of the party has not been so encouraging. Prominent faces such as Senthil Balaji, Thanga Tamilsevan and Pugazhendhi have left the party after levelling charges of highhandedness against Dhinakaran. The AMMK couldn’t find any major allies in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, but for the SDPI. The party got a severe drubbing, pricking what the AIADMK called "the Dhinakaran bubble created by the media". The byelection for assembly constituencies too proved to be a disaster. Nevertheless, the AMMK continues to hog its share of the limelight for a number of reasons. Foremost is Dhinakaran, who managed to hold the party together despite the poll defeats. Second, the AMMK, despite being defeated in all segments, managed to secure more than 5% vote share, a significant number for a fledgling party. What was significant was the analysis of assembly segment-wise vote share in the Lok Sabha elections showed the AMMK got up to 15% votes in many constituencies. Political commentator Tharasu Shyam says in 40 assembly segments, the AMMK scored 10% to 15% votes. "In Muthukulathor assembly segment of the Ramanathapuram parliamentary constituency, the AMMK had polled 20%. Likewise, in Melur assembly segment of Madurai parliamentary constituency, the AMMK candidate had polled 18%,’’ he said. These 40 constituencies are located in south and central Tamil Nadu, where Mukkulathors, who were known to back the AIADMK, are in large numbers. In the bypolls for 18 assembly segments, held simultaneously, the AMMK had polled slightly better than in the parliamentary elections. The AMMK functionaries tasted their first victory since the party’s launch, during the local body polls. Several AMMK men in south and central TN managed to get elected to various posts in rural local bodies. In western TN, where the AIADMK holds sway, the AMMK has not made much headway. Similarly, in the north where the PMK and the DMDK are strong besides the DMK and the AIADMK, Dhinakaran is yet to prove his party’s strength. Tharasu Shyam who calls the AMMK support base ‘anti-EPS AIADMK votes’, believes the show of popularity following the release of Sasikala was significant, as it hinted that Sasikala could add to the AMMK’s strength by attracting AIADMK cadres. "The announcement of Devendrakula Vellalar title clubbing seven scheduled castes into one has attracted the ire of a few castes who were traditionally using the ‘vellalar’ title. So, the AMMK might get support of these castes too in this election,’’ he said. In contrast, V Pugazhendhi, a vociferous supporter turned vocal critic of Dhinakaran, says these vote share data are meaningless and not an indication of the AMMK’s strength. "The AMMK neither has members nor numbers. It’s a private company that is heading towards insolvency,’’ he said. "Even in the Mukkulathor belt they don’t have any support. They fielded Thanga Tamilselvan in Theni for the Lok Sabha polls. What happened there? It was AIADMK’s O P Ravindranath who won,’’ he said. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is equally dismissive of the AMMK stating that the party has lost its vote base and now has only 1% or 2% votes. On the other hand, the AMMK men say their vote share has grown and more cadres from the AIADMK are drifting towards the AMMK after Sasikala’s release. "That the AMMK has support base only in south and central TN is false. We have 93 districts units — higher than any other party — in the state. There are union and branch secretaries and booth committee members across TN,’’ says AMMK deputy general secretary G Senthamizhan. As the AMMK nears its third anniversary and first full-fledged assembly polls, the party is at a crossroads. The release of Sasikala has infused fresh energy into the rank and file of the party, but it is also caught in the Sasikala paradox —will a person who considers herself to be the general secretary of one party, campaign for another party against the party she claims to represent? If the 2021 assembly election is a litmus test for the AMMK, the outcome depends on Sasikala’s stand and the AIADMK’s response. If the AIADMK does not respond favourably for a merger, Sasikala could choose to wait and watch till the election announcement. The AMMK hopes that once the AIADMK finalises candidates, some MLAs and ministers will be dropped, and the disgruntled would come to the AMMK. Dhinakaran, however, continues to say that victory is imminent — not the electoral one, but that of capturing the AIADMK: "The only question is whether that is going to happen before the assembly election or after," he said in Namakkal recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ammk-the-variable-in-tns-political-constant/articleshow/81197423.cms||Mayilvaganan
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: In command, control centre for buses all set to go live||NEW DELHI: Transport department’s new command and control centre at Kashmere Gate, from where real-time monitoring of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster scheme buses would be carried out 24x7, is all set for inauguration. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said, “Today I inspected the command and control centre, for monitoring all DTC and cluster buses fitted with CCTV, GPS, panic buttons. I’m glad to note from initial trials, that the entire system is all set to be inaugurated by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal soon. Delhi buses will now be safer than ever.” In a statement, the transport department said that the objective of the project is to ensure safety and security of the passengers, particularly women passengers, through IP-based CCTV surveillance cameras, panic button and GPS in DTC and cluster scheme buses. After the inspection, Gahlot also held a meeting with officials of the department, DTC, Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS) and Telecommunications Consultants India Ltd. (TCIL) on issues related to the functioning of the command centre and instructed them to submit a daily report about data monitoring and operation. Apart from the command centre at Kashmere Gate, there is a disaster recovery centre, a data centre and separate Viewing Centres in all depots and live footage from buses can also be monitored by all the depot managers. The department said that the command centre shall be manned 24 hours and all depot managers, drivers, conductors and marshals in buses have been trained related to the operation of the installed system in buses. All DTC and cluster buses are now fitted with three IP cameras, mobile network video recorders (mNVR) integrated with GPS devices, 10 panic buttons, one display unit for the driver, hooters, strobes and two-way audio communication devices, one each for the driver and the conductor. While all newly inducted buses and upcoming buses already have these systems, older buses have been retrofitted. In case of any emergency, passengers, driver or conductor can press the panic button, which will automatically send an alert to the command centre in real-time. The operator at the centre will filter the alerts and forward it to respective stakeholders such as police, fire and ambulance for a quick response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-command-control-centre-for-buses-all-set-to-go-live/articleshow/81197508.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Kolhapur||Back-loyalists chorus grows after BJP’s Sangli defeat||Kolhapur: The setback to BJP in the Sangli Miraj Kupwad mayoral election is likely to revive the cold war between loyalists and newcomers, sources in the saffron party said on Wednesday. The sources said the BJP has taken Tuesday’s election results very seriously as five of its corporators cross-voted and two abstained, leading to the victory of Congress-NCP candidates.It is a shock defeat for the BJP as it had a comfortable majority in the civic house, besides it is the second major defeat in western Maharashtra after Pune division graduate constituency. In December last year, the party had lost its traditional bastion to NCP when its candidate, Sangram Deshmukh, lost to Arun Lad with a huge margin. The defeat in the graduate constituency was a political embarrassment to the party as it was represented by state president Chandrakant Patil twice. “Loyalists in the party are upset ever since the party adopted the policy to welcome outsiders, mainly from Congress and NCP, a few days before the state assembly elections in 2019. The policy was implemented at large-scale in western Maharashtra to check the NCP,” said the sources. A section of party leaders believe that the BJP’s strategy did not work as outsiders who contested on BJP tickets were rejected by the voters from Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur despite having alliance with Shiv Sena. A top BJP leader said on the condition of anonymity that time had come to review the party strategy as it was neither fetching expected results nor motivating loyal workers. The BJP leader pointed out that the party corporators who cross-voted during the Sangli mayoral election were not original workers — five out seven were outsourced a few days before the election. “They had come either from Congress or NCP,” said the BJP leader. Sources in the BJP said the party had 41 corporators in Sangli civic body, with 20 of them with Congress or NCP background and that the cross-voting was not surprising.The BJP had fielded around two dozen candidates in western Maharashtra for the assembly elections. Party sources said that barring a few cases in Solapur district, the strategy did not work in the region. A section of BJP leaders are concerned as several outsourced leaders are looking for an opportunity to go back into their parent party. “This is not good for the party when its performance all over the country is far better,” said a BJP leader.Meanwhile, BJP leaders have decided to explore legal options to take action against the corporators under the anti-defection act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/back-loyalists-chorus-grows-after-bjps-sangli-defeat/articleshow/81195024.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||MLCs meet min, seek funds for local bodies||Hyderabad: Local bodies constituencies MLCs met panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao and urged that funds be released for local bodies that would enable MPTCs and ZPTCs to take up required works. MLCs, including Kalvakuntla Kavitha, gave a representation to the minister on issues local bodies are facing, especially on funds issue. They discussed 16 issues pertaining to local bodies and role of MPTCs and ZPTCs, according to MLC T Bhanu Prasad. He said all issues would be taken to notice of CM K Chandrasekhar Rao. Bhanu Prasad said all MLCs would also meet CM on the matter. “We will also seek support of TRS working president KT Rama Rao in getting issues addressed,” he said. MLCs Pochampalli Srinivas Reddy, V Bhupal Reddy, Naradasu Laxman Rao, Patnam Mahender Reddy, Kasireddy Narayan Reddy, Kuchakulla Damodar Reddy, Thera Chinnappa Reddy and Puranam Satish met minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlcs-meet-min-seek-funds-for-local-bodies/articleshow/81197455.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Man kills girl, 4, assaults her cousin, 8, after failed rape bid||BAREILLY: A man allegedly killed a four-year-old girl for "screaming", and assaulted her eight-year-old cousin sister after a failed rape bid in Kaant area of UP’s Shahjahanpur on Monday night. Police on Wednesday claimed that they have solved the case and arrested the accused and "recovered enough evidence" to prove him guilty in court. Bareilly range IG Rajesh Kumar Pandey told TOI, “On Monday, Anil [the accused] came to the village for honey and after finishing his work, while returning he saw both the girls taking bath at a hand pump near the village school. He stopped his bicycle, and returned with two packets of biscuits." Anil then lured the little girls with biscuits and took them along on his bicycle, Pandey said, adding that he started sexually assaulting them at a desolate place. "When the four-year-old started screaming, he immediately hit her on her head twice with his stick. Thereafter, he tried to rape her cousin and masturbated on her. He also attempted to kill her. The man may have tried to sexually assault other children in the past as well.” The injured eight-year-old cousin was found lying unconscious 100 metres away from her murdered sister near an orchard. She is now at a Bareilly hospital - in a state of coma. The accused is a resident of Azizganj area of Shahjahanpur city. He often used to visit the village. When contacted, SSP S Anand said, “The accused has admitted to his crime. He said that he was drunk and couldn’t control his lust. We have recovered the stick used for killing the girl and have other evidence to prove our case." IPC section of rape and Pocso Act have been added to the FIR and the accused has been sent to jail, the SSP added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-kills-girl-4-for-screaming-assaults-her-cousin-8-after-failed-rape-bid/articleshow/81195018.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 25, 2021||India||No fundamental right to same-sex marriage, says Centre||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Thursday told the Delhi high court that there is no fundamental right to seek recognition for same-sex marriage, claiming that marriage in India is not just a union of two individuals, but an institution between a biological man and woman as a family unit. “Family issues are far beyond mere recognition and registration of marriage between people of the same gender. Same sex individuals living together as partners and having a sexual relationship (which is decriminalised now) is not comparable with the Indian family unit concept of a husband, a wife and children, which necessarily presuppose a biological man as a ‘husband’, a biological woman as a ‘wife’ and the children born out of the union between the two,” the government stated in an affidavit, while opposing a clutch of petitions filed by same-sex couples seeking legal recognition for their choice of partner. Times ViewSame-sex marriage has found increasing acceptance in countries across the world. Modern, forward-thinking governments should recognise that a people’s sexuality and who they choose to spend their lives with is not something in which states should intervene as long as it is between consenting adults. Citing existing laws or social norms to oppose same-sex marriages amounts to looking back, not ahead.Urging the court to dismiss the petitions, it said any interpretation other than treating a husband as a biological man and a wife as a biological woman will make all statutory provisions unworkable. The Centre said that marriage is essentially a socially recognised union of two individuals, which is governed either by uncodified personal laws or codified statutory laws, while claiming that any judicial interference will cause “complete havoc with the delicate balance of personal laws”. Arguing against courts examining the issue, the affidavit says power vests only in the “competent legislature” with the “legislative wisdom to enact a law”, which would govern human relationships. It added that “acceptance of the institution of marriage between two individuals of the same gender is neither recognised nor accepted in any uncodified personal laws or any codified statutory laws.” The government also cited the Supreme Court judgment decriminalising homosexuality, contending that it only decriminalised a particular behaviour, but didn’t legitimise it. Referring to the Supreme Court verdict, the government said it “does not extend the right to privacy to include a fundamental right in the nature of a right to marry by two individuals of the same gender in contravention of prevailing statutory laws.” In its reply the government maintained that “by and large the institution of marriage has a sanctity attached to it and in major parts of the country, it is regarded as a sacrament” and depends upon “age-old customs, rituals, practices, cultural ethos and societal values.” The affidavit was filed in response to a plea by equal rights activist seeking recognition of same sex marriages under the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA) and the Special Marriage Act (SMA). Meanwhile, four more people belonging to the gay and lesbian community urged the high court to declare that marriages between any two persons irrespective of their sex be solemnised under the SMA. The latest plea is in addition to three petitions already before the high court seeking recognition of same sex marriages. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Amit Bansal sought response of the Centre on the joint plea by three men and a woman, who have urged the court to also declare that the SMA applies, regardless of sex, to any two persons who wish to marry by reading down any gender or sexuality-based restrictions contained in the Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/same-sex-relationships-not-comparable-with-india-family-unit-made-of-biological-man-and-woman-centre-tells-hc/articleshow/81218712.cms||Abhinav Garg
February 25, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: NMC fines 20 establishments, 165 persons for Covid rule violations||NAGPUR: With the city witnessing a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases for the last two weeks, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) nuisance detection squad (NDS) has expedited action against people violating Covid-19 guidelines.On Wednesday, the NDS levied a fine of Rs 50,000 on a community hall at Teka Naka in Ashi Nagar Zone for violating Covid-19 guidelines for the third time in the last few days. The NDS found over 200 persons attending a marriage ceremony. The guests were reportedly not wearing mask and maintaining physical distancing. In another action, a fine of Rs 5,000-Rs 25,000 was slapped on four more community halls. Besides, 15 commercial establishments including a tea stall, hotel, restaurants in two malls, wine shop, computer institute and library were also fined. Thus, fine of Rs 2.32 lakh was recovered from 20 establishments on Wednesday. The NDS has continued to levy fine of Rs 500 on people not wearing mask while driving two-wheelers or four-wheelers or at public places. On Wednesday, 165 persons were fined. Total recovery was Rs82,500. Between September 4, 2020, and February 24 this year, 33,649 persons have been fined and Rs 1,51,83,500 recovered in fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-fines-20-establishments-165-persons-for-covid-rule-violations/articleshow/81197734.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab removes anomaly in policy for jobs to kin of war heroes||CHANDIGARH: In a move that resolves a long-pending anomaly regarding benefits to the kin of war heroes given gallantry awards posthumously, the Punjab government has clarified that apart from the families of Param Vir Chakra (PVC), Mahavir Chakra (MVC) and Vir Chakra (VC) awardees, appointments with the state government under the ‘Honour and Gratitude’ policy would also be available to those bestowed with Ashok Chakra, Kirti Chakra and Shaurya Chakra. The Punjab government had instituted a policy of offering government jobs to families of posthumous gallantry awardees as per their qualifications in year 2000. However, the policy had only included war time gallantry awards and left out peace time awards even if they happened to be higher in precedence. The policy was finally rectified in 2017 but the authorities concerned had interpreted the amendment to mean that family members of only those personnel would be eligible who were awarded after the year 2017 whereas the original policy (2000) did not contain any such cut-off date. The rectification of the anomaly remained pending with the government since 2017. In December 2020, the Punjab and Haryana high court had directed the government to take appropriate measures and introduce clarity in the policy within a period of three months. The fresh policy, issued on February 19, now includes all ‘Chakra’ series awards in its ambit, without any cut-off provision as to the date of the award. However, the applicant needs to be within the prescribed age limit for the job that he or she is applying for. Sources who are well versed in such issues informed that although the number of affected applicants may not be very high, the rectification of the anomaly is a huge morale booster both for past and future cases and indicates the commitment of the government in resolving such issues, adding that the policy was amended well before the time provided by the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-removes-anomaly-in-policy-for-jobs-to-kin-of-war-heroes/articleshow/81197480.cms||Ajay Sura
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: After 2nd jab, doctors say after-effects are calm mind, lighter heart||MUMBAI: It’s not because his father has spent the last 11 months tending to Covid and non-Covid patients at Bombay Hospital that Dr Gautam Bhansali’s five-year-old son, Aarav, calls him Superman. The unofficial title was conferred on the physician on February 15 when he returned home, exhausted from a long day’s work yet radiant from receiving his second dose of vaccination. Five days into the jab that gave him no major side-effects except a dull muscle pain that he wished away with a pain-killer, the PPE kit-sporting Superman is coughing over the phone. But unlike earlier, he’s not anxious. “It’s probably a viral and not the virus,” says Bhansali, adding his wife—often reduced to tears last year by his risky job—too feels strong enough to don her new invisible cape as the in-house WonderWoman. Not invincibility or complete immunity but a relaxed mind and lighter heart seem to be among the most palpable after-effects of the second dose on medicos in the city who got their first jab in the days following the vaccination rollout on January 16. Even as Mumbai completes two lakh vaccinations of frontline workers, some doctors —who have experienced no side-effects except for a fleeting localised muscle pain—have even posted pictures of their second jab on social media with the same righteous fervency as voters showing off their inked finger. While their cheerful posts have emboldened patients, it has also made a few wonder about the reason for vaccine hesitancy among a section of healthcare workers. “If the doctor himself is hesitant to take the vaccine, how can we feel confident?” some patients ask cancer surgeon Dr P Jagannath, who confronted a similar question from resident doctors at the vaccination centre after his “seamless” second jab. This apprehension among frontline workers stabs at the heart of the cancer surgeon who finds the debate over which vaccine is safer “irrelevant”. As one of the “privileged” healthcare workers to receive the vaccine in its first phase of rollout and with a 94-year-old father at home, the guilt of making senior citizens—the next subset in line for the vaccine—wait gnaws at him: “We need to ramp up the drive before the second wave sets in.” His sense of urgency resonates with Dr Ragini Parekh, HOD of ophthalmology at JJ Hospital, who has seen many peers grapple with survivors’ guilt after losing their parents to the virus they brought home. After receiving her second dose last week, going home to her ageing parents is no longer fraught with the fear of being a carrier. Though she still wears a double mask and follows safety protocol at work, the fear that would ambush Parekh every time she leaned close to strangers’ eyeballs and they would instinctively pull down their masks in reflex has diminished. “2 doses of faith. 2 doses of trust in science. 2 steps towards our confidence in serving our patients better” obstetrician and gynaecologist Dr Mukesh Gupta wrote on Facebook, while sitting at the vaccination centre after his second jab on February 20. “We now feel safe,” patients tell Gupta, whose waiting room also bears a poster announcing his team’s inoculated status. Gupta feels it’s his moral duty not only to make his patients feel secure at the hospital but also to “brainwash” them out of vaccine hesitancy. “Our faith in the vaccine helps build faith in the community,” says Dr Sameer Sadawarte, head, paediatric intensive care, Fortis Hospital, Mulund, stressing the need to continue with “Corona-appropriate behaviour” even after being vaccinated. Bhansali, who knows technical issues with certain vaccination apps, and not hesitancy, have delayed the second shot for some of his peers, advocates “surgical strike of mass vaccination” to achieve herd immunity in the wake of rising cases in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-after-2nd-jab-doctors-say-after-effects-are-calm-mind-lighter-heart/articleshow/81197540.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP to send 20 observers for TN polls||Hyderabad: BJP state unit will send 20 observers to Tamil Nadu ahead of assembly elections. A decision to this effect was taken in the district in-charges’ meeting on Wednesday. Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy was made party in-charge for Tamil Nadu assembly elections. The team will be staying in TN for two months. Meanwhile, state party president Bandi Sanjay and Telangana affairs incharge Tarun Chugh assured party cadre that BJP will win a mjaority of assembly constituencies covering the two MLC graduates constituencies where elections are due on March 14.  “The graph of TRS is coming down. The party is fielding candidates at the last minute like former PM’s daughter Vani Devi. This ploy will boomerang on the TRS,” Sanjay and Chugh told party leaders.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-to-send-20-observers-for-tn-polls/articleshow/81197484.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 25, 2021||Delhi||North India most polluted this winter: CSE study||NEW DELHI: Northern India was the most polluted region in the country this winter with Delhi-NCR cities recording higher levels of pollutants, said an analysis of Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). Track the pollution level in your cityThe report said the most polluted cities this winter were located in Delhi-NCR and UP, with Ghaziabad and Bulandshahr taking the top spots. The analysis was based on real time data from Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) official online portal Central Control Room for Air Quality Management for 99 cities. The analysis of PM2.5 data showed that, while some cities witnessed arresting or stabilisation of trend with small variation, others experienced either increase or decrease. North Indian cities were, on average, the most polluted — over three times the average of cities in the south. North India cities, including Delhi, witnessed an increase in seasonal average, but a decline in seasonal peak. Mysuru was the least polluted, followed by Satna in Madhya Pradesh and Kochi in Kerala, while Ghaziabad was the most polluted. The analysis said 26 cities in the north recorded over 8% increase from the last winter. Fatehabad in Haryana saw a staggering jump of 228% in the seasonal average. Anumita Roychowdhury, CSE’s executive director in charge of research and advocacy, said winter presented a special challenge when inversion and cool and calm weather traps and spikes daily pollution. “The northern Indo-Gangetic Plain is the most affected, as other regions also experience a rise, but with lesser intensity. However, the average level of PM2.5 during summer and monsoon in 2020 was considerably lower than the previous year due to the lockdown, but the winter PM2.5 concentration has risen compared with 2019 in many cities,” said Roychowdhury. Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager in CSE’s Urban Lab team of the Sustainable Cities programme, said the report had helped in understanding the regional differences in profile of winter pollution. “Though there is considerable regional variation, peak pollution episodes increased and synchronised within the regions during winter. At the same time, uneven rise across monitoring locations and contiguous cities bring out the impact of local pollution,” said Somvanshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-india-most-polluted-this-winter-cse-study/articleshow/81197498.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Fake policemen who duped Hyderabad businessman of Rs 11 crore held||HYDERABAD: Bachupally police arrested four fraudsters who duped a city based businessman of Rs 11 crore by posing as police officials and human rights organisation workers. Police seized Rs 6 crore worth property from the accused including Rs 4 core worth cars. The accused are Smriti Simha, who posed as Chairperson of International Human Rights Commission; Raghava Reddy, an ASI of CISF who posed as Deputy Commissioner of CISF; and their associates were Ranadheer Reddy and Ramakrishna Reddy. “The main accused, A Vijay Kumar Reddy, son of Raghava Reddy, posed as a trainee IPS officer. He recently died by suicide at their house in Pragati Nagar upon realising that their fraud has been identified,” Madhapur DCP M Venkateshwarulu said. According to police, Vijay Kumar Reddy, who was a software installation worker, and Smriti Sinha, a divorcee operating a super market, were in a live-in relationship. “Posing as a married couple, they moved into a villa at a gated community in Bachupally. Vijay introduced himself to neighbours as a trainee IPS officer,” the DCP said. The duo, along with the other accused, convinced a neighbour, P Veera Reddy, a mining businessman, that they owned 72 high-end buses and 32 acres of land in Bachupally area by sharing photos through WhatsApp. “Thinking that the accused were rich and influential people, Veera Reddy gave them loans without suspecting any foul play. Starting in December 2017, the accused took Rs 11 crore from Veera Reddy. Using the amount, they purchased a villa at Bachupally for Rs 1.5 crore and bought three BMW cars and a Ford SUV, all worth Rs 4 crore,” the DCP said. Finally, when Veera Reddy realised the fraud, Vijay took his life on February 5, 2021. Based on the complaint lodged by Veera Reddy, police arrested the four accused and seized cars worth Rs 4 crore worth cars, gold worth Rs 50 lakh, and documents of the villa worth Rs 1.5 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fake-policemen-who-duped-city-bizman-of-rs-11-crore-held/articleshow/81197476.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Nagpur||Miyawaki plantation thrives on Bhandewadi dumping yard land||Nagpur: City’s first Miyawaki project, which is probably the country’s first forest grown on a garbage dumping yard, is all set to help clean toxic air in the area. In December 2019, TOI was the first to report about Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) adopting Miyawaki dense forest technique at Bhandewadi dumping ground, which would be frequently on fire causing massive air pollution. The project was initiated by then municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar. While the civic body has been trying to get rid of the humongous solid waste by using bio-mining technique, it has also implemented Miyawaki – a method that involves planting number of different types of trees close together in a small plot. The method is in use in Japan and elsewhere since 1970 and dense forests have been developed at 1,800 sites, having four crore trees with 96% survival rate. At Bhandewadi, the plantations have been done on half-a-kilometre long patch. Over 15,000 trees of indigenous species have been planted and the survival rate is reportedly more than 90%. On Wednesday, TOI visited the spot with NMC garden superintendent Amol Chorpagar and found the trees have survived well and are growing at a fast rate. What once used to be land having huge heaps of garbage is now a lush green biodiversity habitat with presence of many birds and insect species. According to municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, Miyawaki is a concept that is much-needed in today’s fast-paced urbanization. “These trees will act as a green buffer zone and will help curb air pollution at Bhandewadi to a large extent. While it has given good results in many cities, we are studying about the concept in-depth,” he told TOI. Three types of native trees have been planted, said Chorpagar. “These trees are tall, medium-sized and shrubs. In about one square metre, three-to-four trees are planted. Before that, we had dug the land and filled it with rice husk and compost to make the soil more porous,” he said. NMC received technical support for the project from environmental NGO Green Yatra. “This is the first project inside the city. Also, such dense plantation has not been done inside the premises of a dumping yard,” said Chorpagar. The state government has also initiated the same technique to increase green cover. The project was initially promoted by the late Dr Sheetal Amte-Karajgi, chief executive officer (CEO) of Baba Amte’s Maharogi Seva Samiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/miyawaki-plantation-thrives-on-bhandewadi-dumping-yard-land/articleshow/81197537.cms||Manka Behl
February 25, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||After KSINC, govt scraps KSIDC’s deal with EMCC||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government has decided to sever all ties with EMCC International (India) Pvt Ltd following mounting controversy over agreements signed with the US-based company. The government decided to cancel the first MoU reached with the company in February 2020. This MoU was signed at the Ascend 2020 global investors meet between Kerala State Industries Development Corporation (KSIDC) and EMCC. As per the agreement, EMCC was to invest Rs 5,000 crore for promotion and upgradation of the deep-sea fishing industry in the state. The company also agreed to set up a seafood-processing plant at KSIDC’s mega food park at the industrial growth centre in Pallippuram, Alappuzha. KSIDC even allotted four acres of land for the project. “There was no need to cancel the MoU. But the government decided to do just that with the opposition looking to create a controversy out of it. There is no substance in the controversy,” said industries minister E P Jayarajan, seeking to justify the decision. After the controversy first erupted, the government cancelled an MoU signed between EMCC International and Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation Ltd (KSINC) for a Rs 2,950-crore project to build deep-sea fishing trawlers, new harbours and for other port-development activities. This agreement was signed in February this year. The administration also decided to launch a probe by additional chief secretary (home) T K Jose into the MoUs. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, who first made public details of the MoUs, said the agreements were tantamount to selling the state’s fishing resources to corporations. The government, he alleged, had even amended the fisheries policy to make this possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/after-ksinc-govt-scraps-ksidcs-deal-with-emcc/articleshow/81196055.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Gurgaon||North India most polluted this winter: CSE study||NEW DELHI: Northern India was the most polluted region in the country this winter with Delhi-NCR cities recording higher levels of pollutants, said an analysis of Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). Track the pollution level in your cityThe report said the most polluted cities this winter were located in Delhi-NCR and UP, with Ghaziabad and Bulandshahr taking the top spots. The analysis was based on real time data from Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) official online portal Central Control Room for Air Quality Management for 99 cities. The analysis of PM2.5 data showed that, while some cities witnessed arresting or stabilisation of trend with small variation, others experienced either increase or decrease. North Indian cities were, on average, the most polluted — over three times the average of cities in the south. North India cities, including Delhi, witnessed an increase in seasonal average, but a decline in seasonal peak. Mysuru was the least polluted, followed by Satna in Madhya Pradesh and Kochi in Kerala, while Ghaziabad was the most polluted. The analysis said 26 cities in the north recorded over 8% increase from the last winter. Fatehabad in Haryana saw a staggering jump of 228% in the seasonal average. Anumita Roychowdhury, CSE’s executive director in charge of research and advocacy, said winter presented a special challenge when inversion and cool and calm weather traps and spikes daily pollution. “The northern Indo-Gangetic Plain is the most affected, as other regions also experience a rise, but with lesser intensity. However, the average level of PM2.5 during summer and monsoon in 2020 was considerably lower than the previous year due to the lockdown, but the winter PM2.5 concentration has risen compared with 2019 in many cities,” said Roychowdhury. Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager in CSE’s Urban Lab team of the Sustainable Cities programme, said the report had helped in understanding the regional differences in profile of winter pollution. “Though there is considerable regional variation, peak pollution episodes increased and synchronised within the regions during winter. At the same time, uneven rise across monitoring locations and contiguous cities bring out the impact of local pollution,” said Somvanshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/north-india-most-polluted-this-winter-cse-study/articleshow/81200779.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Noida||North India most polluted this winter: CSE study||NEW DELHI: Northern India was the most polluted region in the country this winter with Delhi-NCR cities recording higher levels of pollutants, said an analysis of Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). Track the pollution level in your cityThe report said the most polluted cities this winter were located in Delhi-NCR and UP, with Ghaziabad and Bulandshahr taking the top spots. The analysis was based on real time data from Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) official online portal Central Control Room for Air Quality Management for 99 cities. The analysis of PM2.5 data showed that, while some cities witnessed arresting or stabilisation of trend with small variation, others experienced either increase or decrease. North Indian cities were, on average, the most polluted — over three times the average of cities in the south. North India cities, including Delhi, witnessed an increase in seasonal average, but a decline in seasonal peak. Mysuru was the least polluted, followed by Satna in Madhya Pradesh and Kochi in Kerala, while Ghaziabad was the most polluted. The analysis said 26 cities in the north recorded over 8% increase from the last winter. Fatehabad in Haryana saw a staggering jump of 228% in the seasonal average. Anumita Roychowdhury, CSE’s executive director in charge of research and advocacy, said winter presented a special challenge when inversion and cool and calm weather traps and spikes daily pollution. “The northern Indo-Gangetic Plain is the most affected, as other regions also experience a rise, but with lesser intensity. However, the average level of PM2.5 during summer and monsoon in 2020 was considerably lower than the previous year due to the lockdown, but the winter PM2.5 concentration has risen compared with 2019 in many cities,” said Roychowdhury. Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager in CSE’s Urban Lab team of the Sustainable Cities programme, said the report had helped in understanding the regional differences in profile of winter pollution. “Though there is considerable regional variation, peak pollution episodes increased and synchronised within the regions during winter. At the same time, uneven rise across monitoring locations and contiguous cities bring out the impact of local pollution,” said Somvanshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/north-india-most-polluted-this-winter-cse-study/articleshow/81200780.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Ghaziabad||North India most polluted this winter: CSE study||NEW DELHI: Northern India was the most polluted region in the country this winter with Delhi-NCR cities recording higher levels of pollutants, said an analysis of Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). Track the pollution level in your cityThe report said the most polluted cities this winter were located in Delhi-NCR and UP, with Ghaziabad and Bulandshahr taking the top spots. The analysis was based on real time data from Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) official online portal Central Control Room for Air Quality Management for 99 cities. The analysis of PM2.5 data showed that, while some cities witnessed arresting or stabilisation of trend with small variation, others experienced either increase or decrease. North Indian cities were, on average, the most polluted — over three times the average of cities in the south. North India cities, including Delhi, witnessed an increase in seasonal average, but a decline in seasonal peak. Mysuru was the least polluted, followed by Satna in Madhya Pradesh and Kochi in Kerala, while Ghaziabad was the most polluted. The analysis said 26 cities in the north recorded over 8% increase from the last winter. Fatehabad in Haryana saw a staggering jump of 228% in the seasonal average. Anumita Roychowdhury, CSE’s executive director in charge of research and advocacy, said winter presented a special challenge when inversion and cool and calm weather traps and spikes daily pollution. “The northern Indo-Gangetic Plain is the most affected, as other regions also experience a rise, but with lesser intensity. However, the average level of PM2.5 during summer and monsoon in 2020 was considerably lower than the previous year due to the lockdown, but the winter PM2.5 concentration has risen compared with 2019 in many cities,” said Roychowdhury. Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager in CSE’s Urban Lab team of the Sustainable Cities programme, said the report had helped in understanding the regional differences in profile of winter pollution. “Though there is considerable regional variation, peak pollution episodes increased and synchronised within the regions during winter. At the same time, uneven rise across monitoring locations and contiguous cities bring out the impact of local pollution,” said Somvanshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/north-india-most-polluted-this-winter-cse-study/articleshow/81200781.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Shahpurkandi dam: Government signs pact to build power houses||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government on Wednesday signed an agreement with a private company for the construction of power houses in Shahpurkandi dam project. Punjab water resources minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria said that the construction of power houses shall be taken up in March by Omil JV at an awarded cost of Rs 621 crore in engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) mode. The completion period for this work is 36 months. The installed capacity of these power houses is 206 mega watt. The electromechanical works of these power houses are already being executed by Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited through Punjab State Power Corporation Limited. On completion, the project shall generate 1,042 MU (mega units) annually, worth Rs 415 crore. The minister said the dam project would go a long way to further improve the irrigation system and clean power generation in the state. The work of the project is going on in full swing and almost 60% work of the main dam has already been executed, he said. Principal secretary water resources department Sarvjit Singh said the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, and the National Wildlife Board have recently accorded the requisite forest clearance and wildlife clearance for area falling on Jammu and Kashmir side. He said that the state government is planning to take up the work on Jammu and Kashmir side also in the month of March, so that the project is completed timely benefiting 37,000 hectares area in Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir besides. He added that on completion, this project will also allow Ranjit Sagar Dam to run as peaking station giving additional benefit of more than Rs100 crore annually, besides increasing tourism potential in the border districts of Punjab and neighbouring state’s Kathua area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shahpurkandi-dam-govt-signs-pact-to-build-power-houses/articleshow/81197487.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Dharani adds to land woes in state, 12 lakh acres in disputes||Hyderabad: Over 12 lakh acres of land, categorised Part B and caught in legal disputes or extent recorded more than the land on the ground and other reasons, are still unresolved. Revenue authorities and district collectors are struggling to clear land disputes. Land owners, however, are crying foul that in the absence of Part B on Dharani web portal, their land parcels are being sold and registered by opponents or other parties without any hurdle. Consider this, I Srinivas, a resident of Saidabad, complained to authorities that his 2.06 acres in erstwhile Karimnagar district was registered to a third party by his rival though he does not have possession of the land and there is a court case on the land. “During the purification of records and while uploading land details on Dharani website, our land was shown as clear land. Taking advantage of it, my opposite party sold the land to others. I have approached the high court to put the land in prohibitory list,” Srinivas told TOI. Interestingly, ex-MLA Sana Maruthi also alleged that his land was illegally registered to others in Karimnagar district. The state has been witnessing hundreds of such cases and some even allege the land disputes increased after Dharani portal came into existence. “Earlier, tahsildars used to carry out field inspection before mutating any piece of land to check possession and other details. Now, it is done without any such enquiries and inspection, leading to more problems in the villages,” R Ramanna, a retired deputy tahsildar, said. “There are problems in Dharani, which were not addressed in the past few months. Now, the state government is sending officers to various districts to study field-level problems such as registration to owners, who haven’t got passbooks and mutation was not done and other disputes such as extent in survey numbers,” a revenue divisional officer of erstwhile Rangareddy district told TOI. Land parcels with clear title, categorized as Part A, have been uploaded. The land parcels in Part B were not touched and shown as Part A in many districts in order to have complete land data||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dharani-adds-to-land-woes-in-state-12-lakh-acres-in-disputes/articleshow/81197502.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||49,41,952 enrolled under Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna||CHANDIGARH: To extend the secondary and tertiary healthcare services under Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna (SSBY), Punjab government has issued 49,41,952 e-cards to the beneficiaries. Amit Kumar, CEO of state health agency, said e-cards are being generated at common service centres, market committees of mandi board and sewa kendras. Kumar further said treatment under the scheme had commenced from August 20, 2019, and so far more than 5,71,924 patients have received cashless treatment worth Rs 638.60 crore. To ensure the medical benefits at all empanelled hospitals, he said beneficiary feedback portal has been launched for obtaining feedback from all beneficiaries who take treatment under the scheme, via calls, messages, and online feedback forms. So far, 95% of the beneficiaries have reported that they are satisfied with the services provided to them under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4941952-enrolled-under-sarbat-sehat-bima-yojna/articleshow/81197491.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Ten-day survey to identify out-of-school children||MUMBAI: After several reports that suggested an increased learning disparity among students due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the education department is undertaking a 10-day survey to identify out-of-school children and bring them back into the formal system. In a government resolution issued on Tuesday, the department set up committees at the state and district level to undertake a drive between March 1 and 10 to identify students between the ages of 6 and 18 years who are out of school. Officials from various government departments will be roped in for it. “With the pandemic in play last year and schools shut, we have been faced with new challenges with respect to out-of-school students. There is a risk that with higher migration, there could be a rise in the number of children, including girls, falling out of the formal education system and falling prey to child labour or child marriages. Thus, it is important to bring the students back to school,” said the government resolution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/10-day-survey-to-identify-out-of-school-children/articleshow/81199464.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Applications sought for 7th batch at MBAFPI||CHANDIGARH: The Mai Bhago Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (MBAFPI) for girls in Mohali has invited applications from the aspirants for admission in the seventh batch commencing from July. The Punjab government institute provides an opportunity for girls of Punjab aspiring for a career as a commissioned officer in the armed forces. The MBAFPI is a fully residential institute, spread out on nine acres. The institute provides general awareness, communication skills, personality development, confidence building, NCC training, physical fitness training and indoor and outdoor sports activities. The students would be given training for SSB by professionals. The training include a three-year graduation degree from MCM DAV College in Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/applications-sought-for-7th-batch-at-mbafpi/articleshow/81197522.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Covid cases up 47% in 4 days||AHMEDABAD: On February 20 — a day before the major cities went for civic polls — the state had recorded 258 new cases. In a matter of four days, the number shot up to 380, recording a 47% rise. From February 22, the state has again started recording 300-plus cases. In fact, Tuesday’s tally was the highest in 29 days. From February 20, the state also witnessed a surge in active cases — rising from 1,672 on February 20 to 1,869 on February 24, recording a 12% jump. Experts pointed out that the state was recording constantly falling active cases till February 20, after which the gap between new positive cases and patients getting discharged started increasing, resulting in more active cases. “Cities, especially Ahmedabad, should be very careful — the surge is not short-lived,” said a city-based critical care specialist, requesting citizens to follow social distancing, wear masks, and use sanitizers. The specialist added: “The impact of the gatherings ahead of the polls, celebrations after the result, and large congregations including those at cricket matches, can sustain the pandemic for at least a fortnight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-cases-up-47-in-4-days/articleshow/81201906.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Covid cases up 47% in 4 days||AHMEDABAD: On February 20 — a day before the major cities went for civic polls — the state had recorded 258 new cases. In a matter of four days, the number shot up to 380, recording a 47% rise. From February 22, the state has again started recording 300-plus cases. In fact, Tuesday’s tally was the highest in 29 days. From February 20, the state also witnessed a surge in active cases — rising from 1,672 on February 20 to 1,869 on February 24, recording a 12% jump. Experts pointed out that the state was recording constantly falling active cases till February 20, after which the gap between new positive cases and patients getting discharged started increasing, resulting in more active cases. “Cities, especially Ahmedabad, should be very careful — the surge is not short-lived,” said a city-based critical care specialist, requesting citizens to follow social distancing, wear masks, and use sanitizers. The specialist added: “The impact of the gatherings ahead of the polls, celebrations after the result, and large congregations including those at cricket matches, can sustain the pandemic for at least a fortnight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-cases-up-47-in-4-days/articleshow/81201903.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: ASI, head constable nabbed for accepting Rs 20,000 bribe||CHANDIGARH: Punjab vigilance bureau on Wednesday nabbed an assistant sub inspector and a head constable, both posted at police station Jalandhar Cantonment, while accepting a bribe of Rs 20,000. ASI Parmod Kumar and head constable Sumanjeet Singh were arrested on the complaint of Kush Kumar of Jalandhar. The complainant had approached the vigilance bureau and alleged that the ASI was demanding Rs 20,000 to release his car confiscated by the police despite court orders. A vigilance team from Jalandhar unit laid a trap and both the accused were arrested the duo while accepting a bribe of Rs 20,000 from the complainant in the presence of two official witnesses. A case has been registered against both the accused at vigilance bureau police station Jalandhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/asi-head-constable-nabbed-for-accepting-rs-20k-bribe/articleshow/81197541.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chennai||Rukmini Devi’s aesthetic that was a world of its own||By V P Dhananjayan The first time I met Rukmini Amma, she called out to Sankara Menon sir. As she saw me and Balagopal enter Arundale house with Asaan Chanduppanicker, she said: "See Appunni who are coming. Vishwamitra, Rama and Lakshmana." Fresh off the train from Kerala, we too did not know who we were meeting. Since the age of 13, Balagopal and I were cast as brothers in her magnum opus ‘Sitaswayamvaram’. It was the first glimpse of her creative mind, one which never stopped thinking. At a time when Bharatanatyam was undergoing a major churn, she went against the tide and realised the power of ‘naatya’– the essence of inculcating the physical, mental and spiritual disciplines. She envisaged an art integrated educational system. A strict teacher to us, we would sometimes get a glimpse of her sense of humour. I remember after a ‘Sithaswayamvaram’ performance in Delhi (1956), PM Jawaharlal Nehru came on to the stage and held me and Balagopal and told Amma: "Rukmini why are you not feeding these kids properly". She retorted, "… the government should stop rationing food or allow us to draw more ration." All around including Nehru laughed. A school dropout who was self-taught, Rukmini Amma was a visionary who believed education was about refining oneself with discipline, devotion and dedication. She would often say: "Academic degree or education without character is body without head". In keeping with her ideals, she created a world — Kalakshetra — where art, creativity and equality thrived and helped build character and a society that was rich in culture and compassion. First attached to the Theosophical Society campus in Adyar, the campus shifted to Thiruvanmiyur to become an ideal gurukulam (residential learning centre), a result of her quest for enlightenment. Education, enlightenment and entertainment or relaxation are the purpose of ‘naatya’ on which she modelled her mission and vision for future generations. She was a fastidious disciplinarian, with an aesthetic sense that pervaded everything around. From the traditional kurtas and saris that were the uniform of students to the sandals placed outside the classroom, she did not like a pleat to be out of place or a shoe out of line. Despite appearing to be strict, she was spontaneous about creativity, giving us leeway to find our own expression but within the grammar of form. She envisioned Kalakshetra as a centre of pilgrimage as she believed a place of learning is a temple of worship and the acharyas (teachers) venerable priests. She was lucky to have had a galaxy of dedicated workers like Sankara Menon, Padmasani and several stalwarts in diverse fields. As students, every weekend we would build thatched cottages, laying the road. The greenery today is because Rukmini Amma made us plant trees. From the look of every classroom to the buildings and auditoriums, the traditional aesthetic approach towards art comes through in the campus too. She was a revivalist. From temple jewellery to Kanjeevaram saris to Bharatnatyam itself, she worked with traditional artists and added her own aesthetic understanding to bring forth a work of art. A spectacular orator, and a leap year baby, as we celebrate her 117th birth anniversary, her legacy today lives on through her students. (The author is a Bharatanatyam exponent and one of the prime students of Rukmini Devi Arundale)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rukmini-devis-aesthetic-that-was-a-world-of-its-own/articleshow/81197516.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Dist reports 263 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday||Thiruvananthapuram: Covid-19 cases were reported among 263 more people in the district on Wednesday. As many as 179 people were infected through local transmission and two among them are healthcare workers. With this the total number of positive cases reported in the district till date has become 1,01,471.  As many as 350 more recoveries were also recorded on Wednesday. The total number of people who have been cured is 97,431. At present, the total number of active cases is 3,504. The total number of Covid-related deaths in the district is 817. There are 23,681 people who are put on observation in the district and 54 people are admitted in various hospitals or quarantine centres with suspected symptoms. Meanwhile, it has been decided to depute more sectoral magistrates to ensure that Covid protocols are being followed during te Attukal Pongala Festival. These magistrates will be deputed on the temple premises. It has been decided that only 50% of the capacity will be allowed inside the Annadanam Hall. The district administration has urged the temple authorities to install thermal scanners at the entry of the temple and the screening of the people should continue till the last day of the festival. The temple authorities should make announcements detailing the Covid protocols at regular intervals through public address systems. The service of the police and trained volunteers have been ensured for the smooth conduct of the pongala festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dist-reports-263-covid-19-cases-on-wednesday/articleshow/81199440.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Nagpur||Survey reveals irregularities in tree felling for Akola-Washim road widening||Nagpur: The joint survey team of Akola forest officials and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) engineers found several flaws in tree felling within 10km section of Akola-Medshi-Washim National Highway 161 near Akola. Apart from felling trees even after the permission had lapsed, the team found many trees marked ‘not to be felled’ also chopped. After TOI report on February 12, 2021, about the mismatch of over 3,000 trees, Akola deputy conservator of forest (DyCF) Arjuna KR had ordered a joint survey of trees on February 16 on the highway that is being widened. Akola assistant conservator of forests (ACF) SA Wadode, who was part of the survey team, said, “Only 10km section from Prabhat Kids School to Nandkhed Fata near Akola was surveyed and at least 10 trees were found to be cut illegally. There were some flaws and irregularities but these occurred due to human error.” Akola DyCF Arjuna said, “I’m in home quarantine and hence no action has been taken yet. I will take a stand once I join duties and see the report.” Green activists Shrikant Deshpande and Jaydeep Das slammed the lackadaisical approach of the forest department. Both were invited for the survey but could not make it. They said, “As per the PWD’s arboriculture register, there were 10,000 plus trees in the said section but when the road was handed over to the NHAI for four-laning, 7,402 trees were recorded as per RTI information.” Sheikh Mohammed Sheikh Makbul alias Munna, founder of Sarpamitra Nisarga Samvardhan Bahuuddeshia Sanstha, Akola, had lodged a complaint with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and top authorities for various flaws in the counting of the trees in 47km Akola-Medshi section and also illegal felling by the NHAI contractor. The state government has already ordered an inquiry. Munna said, “During the survey, it was also found that over 20 big trees of the 177 between Akola-Shirla Fata that were marked ‘not to be felled’ were also cut. Many trees that were standing on farmers' land after the acquisition were felled without seeking permission. No evaluation of these trees was done.” Munna alleged, “The forest department’s joint survey is completely an eyewash as all timber has been lifted and there is no evidence of felling. The officials are trying to play down the damage. How can the officials conclude 10 trees were felled illegally when the entire 47km stretch was not surveyed. I have given my dissent to the survey report.” “Forest officials are claiming only two trees were felled after NHAI’s permission to fell trees lapsed on February 4. However, tree felling continued even on February 5. I called on forest officials to apprise them of the situation but none responded,” said Munna. Deshpande and Das said, “As per tree felling permission granted by Akola RFO RN Owe on January 6, 2021, 177 trees that were not to be felled were clearly marked with red cross but many of these were also chopped illegally. Owe also granted permission to fell trees outside his jurisdiction in the municipal limit.” The duo said NHAI lodging a police complaint on December 17, 2020, regarding trees being cut illegally in this section itself exposes irregularities. “Even now time is not lost. Over 2,000 trees could be saved and the officials should pursue NHAI to shift the alignment of the road slightly so that trees on one side can be saved as decided in DPR initially,” Deshpande said. As per recent observation of the Supreme Court-appointed committee, future evaluation of trees should be done considering the expected life and value of services given by tree. “The forest department should be cautious while granting permission to fell,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/survey-reveals-irregularities-in-tree-felling-for-akola-washim-road-widening/articleshow/81197552.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Cong promotes social justice’||Warangal: Lashing out at the TRS government, TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said that governance is in the hands of the land mafia. Uttam called upon the employees and unemployed graduates to elect Congress candidate Sabhawath Ramulu Naik as the MLC. “KCR is duping graduates by stating that 65 thousand vacancies were filled as against 1.9 lakh in the state. Poor governance led to the economic crisis,” Uttam said, adding that his party ensured social justice by selecting an ST candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-promotes-social-justice/articleshow/81197530.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
February 25, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Covid cases up 47% in 4 days||AHMEDABAD: On February 20 — a day before the major cities went for civic polls — the state had recorded 258 new cases. In a matter of four days, the number shot up to 380, recording a 47% rise. From February 22, the state has again started recording 300-plus cases. In fact, Tuesday’s tally was the highest in 29 days. From February 20, the state also witnessed a surge in active cases — rising from 1,672 on February 20 to 1,869 on February 24, recording a 12% jump. Experts pointed out that the state was recording constantly falling active cases till February 20, after which the gap between new positive cases and patients getting discharged started increasing, resulting in more active cases. “Cities, especially Ahmedabad, should be very careful — the surge is not short-lived,” said a city-based critical care specialist, requesting citizens to follow social distancing, wear masks, and use sanitizers. The specialist added: “The impact of the gatherings ahead of the polls, celebrations after the result, and large congregations including those at cricket matches, can sustain the pandemic for at least a fortnight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-cases-up-47-in-4-days/articleshow/81201907.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Covid cases up 47% in 4 days||AHMEDABAD: On February 20 — a day before the major cities went for civic polls — the state had recorded 258 new cases. In a matter of four days, the number shot up to 380, recording a 47% rise. From February 22, the state has again started recording 300-plus cases. In fact, Tuesday’s tally was the highest in 29 days. From February 20, the state also witnessed a surge in active cases — rising from 1,672 on February 20 to 1,869 on February 24, recording a 12% jump. Experts pointed out that the state was recording constantly falling active cases till February 20, after which the gap between new positive cases and patients getting discharged started increasing, resulting in more active cases. “Cities, especially Ahmedabad, should be very careful — the surge is not short-lived,” said a city-based critical care specialist, requesting citizens to follow social distancing, wear masks, and use sanitizers. The specialist added: “The impact of the gatherings ahead of the polls, celebrations after the result, and large congregations including those at cricket matches, can sustain the pandemic for at least a fortnight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-cases-up-47-in-4-days/articleshow/81197575.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: DMK Muslim MLA donates for Ram temple||CHENNAI: DMK legislator from Gingee K S Masthan, who also heads the party’s minority wing, has donated Rs 11,000 towards the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh. “I obliged when a long-time friend (Kalivaradhan) approached me, asking for the contribution,” Masthan told TOI. This was not the first time that he had donated money for temples. Recalling that he had donated money to construct various temples and also taken part in temple ‘kumbhabishekam’, since 1986, when he was elected president of Gingee town panchayat in 1986. “It is surprising when people ask me why I donated money for the construction of Ram temple. Neither the Hindu God (Ram) nor the God of Muslims had problems. It arises when people create issues using the name of the Gods,” he said. He also justified his action quoting the DMK party founder C N Annadurai ‘Ondre Kulam Oruvane Devan (there is one religion and one God)’. “The religion that I practice also preaches the same,” he said. Former DMK chief M Karunanidhi was strongly opposed to the demolition of Babri Masjid and the Hindu concept of Ram Setu or Ramar Palam (Adam’s bridge), which became a stumbling block for his pet project — Sethusamudram shipping canal. The five-time DMK chief minister had posed the question “Who is Ram?” and went on to say “he is a lie” when Subramanian Swamy and Hindu Munnani leaders approached the Supreme Court to stall the Sethusamudram project. Masthan defended his move saying, “Our leader Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi) in his script of ‘Parasakthi’ had made it clear that the party is not against any religion or temple.” He recounted one of the dialogues of Sivaji Ganesan from the film: “I created problems in the temple, not because I don’t want a temple. But it should not become an abode of evil-doers.” However, the Gingee MLA’s act did not go down well with some leaders of the DMK. They said the RSS and the BJP had done injustice to a Muslims, and are now building a temple to further their cause. Donating funds is like aiding them, knowingly or unknowingly, they said. “It is unacceptable from a senior functionary, who should differentiate between good and bad, right and wrong. Going against the Constitution, the government initiated collection of funds to build the temple,” said a senior leader on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-muslim-mla-donates-for-ram-temple/articleshow/81197544.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
February 25, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Photos: Rahul Gandhi’s day out at sea in Kerala||KOLLAM: With election season fast approaching, it’s time for politicians to test the waters and fish for ideas. And Rahul Gandhi seems game. On Wednesday morning, the Wayanad MP got on a boat with local fishermen and ventured out to sea from Vaddy harbour in Kollam. He arrived at the harbour at around 4.30am to interact with fisherfolk as part of his outreach programme. He then proceeded to join 21 fishermen on ‘Poondi Matha’, a boat owned by the fishermen’s society led by Biju Lawrence. Congress general secretary K C Venugopal MP and Thrissur MP and National Fishermen Congress president T N Prathapan accompanied him. The boat set out at 5.15am and a sense of anticipation was writ large on Rahul’s face. Seeing the fisherfolk jump into the water he turned curious. On being told that this was to ensure that no fish caught in the net got away, the former AICC president decided to join in the activity. Without a moment’s hesitation, he pulled off his t-shirt and jumped into the sea to join the fisherfolk in reeling in the net. An expert swimmer, Rahul seemed to have a whale of a time. “Rahul was completely engrossed in the action. He later sat with the fishermen to eat the food that they shared with him,” Lawrence said. Throughout the activity he interacted with the fishermen to better understand their living conditions and their concerns. However, Rahul was disappointed that he could only land a single fish. He became one with the fisherfolk and won over their hearts, Lawrence said. The two hours he was at sea, Rahul said, had helped him better understand the difficulties faced by fishermen on a daily basis. “I went out to sea with my brothers and realized the amount of risk that they take fore meagre returns. Their hard work is little rewarded,” he said. Rahul had a suggestion for the central government: set up a dedicated ministry for fishermen so that their problems are addressed. Watch Kerala: Rahul Gandhi jumps into Arabian Sea, swims with fishermen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/on-day-out-at-sea-rahul-is-one-with-the-fisherfolk/articleshow/81196139.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Nagpur||BJP seeks police case against Rathod, MVA min slams Sena neta||Nagpur/Mumbai: BJP general secretary Chandrashekhar Bawankule on Wednesday demanded criminal proceedings against Maharashtra forest minister Sanjay Rathod for visiting Pohradevi temple in Washim district along with thousands of supporters, in violation of Covid norms. The temple visit was Rathod’s first public appearance after his name was linked to suicide by a woman in Pune on February 7. Rathod, Sena MLA from Drgras-Darwah in Yavatmal district, also faced flak from his cabinet colleague and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat for ignoring chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s instructions not to mobilize people in view the pandemic. Thorat, a senior Congress leader, is the first cabinet member in Maha Vikas Aghadi government to comment on the Rathod episode. “I don’t want to react on (Sharad) Pawar’s reaction,” Rathod told mediamen at Yavatmal before leaving for Nagpur to catch a flight to Mumbai. Later in the day, Rathod attended cabinet meeting chaired by CM Thackeray in Mumbai. Talking to the media in Nagpur, Bawankule said Rathod had ignored the directives of his own party boss Uddhav Thackeray. “BJP had planned a court arrest agitation on Wednesday against disconnections being done by MSEDCL. We postponed it in view of Thackeray’s appeal. Rathod does not care for the CM’s order. As Washim collector has not registered an offence against him, I suspect that his ‘show of strength’ had the CM’s blessings,” he said. Bawankule said, “If Thackeray does not support Rathod, then he should order Washim collector to book the forest minister.” Thorat said since the CM has already sought report about the temple crowing, it is expected that the inquiry will be completed in a time-bound manner and guilty punished. NCP spokesperson and skill development minister Nawab Malik said stern action should be taken against erring persons after the probe. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said Thackeray will not spare anyone and law will take its own course. Meanwhile, a senior bureaucrat said, “I am told, permission was granted for a gathering of 50 persons. The moment the crowd swelled, both Washim SP and collector should have stepped in and dispersed the mob. CM must first take action against the SP and collector for dereliction of duty and then supporters of Rathod,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-seeks-police-case-against-rathod-mva-min-slams-sena-neta/articleshow/81197571.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Under probe for lapses, DU’s suspended VC may not appear before panel||NEW DELHI: The suspended vice-chancellor of Delhi University, Yogesh Tyagi, has reportedly said that he will not appear before the visitorial inquiry committee probing allegations of administrative lapses and dereliction of duty against him. The committee was constituted by the Visitor, the President of India, in October 2020 following a three-day fiasco between Tyagi and P C Joshi, the current acting VC. In November, the university had nominated a former teacher, Gurmeet Singh, who is now the vice-chancellor of Pondicherry University, as its representative to the inquiry committee. An official in touch with Tyagi told TOI, “How can a person who has remained the vice-chancellor go to the same office to justify things he has been wrongly accused of? He could have been called to the central ministry or the President’s House rather than to the university. He has said the committee can go forward and take a decision.” However, some officials claimed that he would not appear before the committee on health grounds. It is said that when the October incidents took place, Tyagi was on leave on medical grounds. Tyagi himself didn’t respond to calls and messages. Singh, the university representative to the committee, said, “Tyagi has not appeared before the committee.” Clarifying that Tyagi has not refused to appear, Singh added, “I will not be able to comment on it till the report is ready.” The inquiry and questioning have been taking place at the vice-regal lodge on the university premises. Among those who have already appeared before the inquiry committee are acting VC Joshi; P C Jha, the registrar appointed by Tyagi; Tarun Das, the former registrar of the university; Suman Kundu, director of South Campus; pro-VC Geeta Bhatt who was appointed by Tyagi; Balram Pani and Devesh Sinha, the current and previous deans of colleges, respectively; and one of the joint registrars. Sources said the report would be submitted soon as the tenure of Tyagi officially would end on March 11. “There could be a few situations. Unless his suspension is revoked, Tyagi cannot rejoin before his office superannuation. Second, the suspension can be revoked once the committee report is accepted by the President,” said a university official. “However, if the decision is not revoked, Tyagi will superannuate under suspension and the inquiry will continue,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/under-probe-for-lapses-dus-suspended-vc-may-not-appear-before-panel/articleshow/81197601.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 25, 2021||Kochi||Aided-school teachers can’t contest polls: Kerala HC||KOCHI: Aided-school teachers cannot take part in political activities or contest in elections, the high court held on Wednesday. A division bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly gave the ruling after considering a total of five petitions filed through advocates B Harrylal, K Mohanakannan, S Vinod Bhat, VA Muhammed, and Alias M Cherian. The bench held that Section 2-iv of Legislative Assembly (Removal of Disqualifications) Act that allows aided-school teachers to contest in polls is unconstitutional. However, the court held that its judgment will come in force only from Wednesday onwards. The petitioners contended that though teachers in government schools and government servants are banned from taking part in political activities, aided-school teachers are allowed to do so. They take advantage of this exemption and neglect their main duty of teaching, it was alleged. However, the state government contended that aided-school teachers have political rights, including the right to contest in elections. As per Rule 56 of Kerala Education Rules, aided-schoolteachers who are appointed as presidents or chairpersons of local bodies are eligible for special leave without pay. Such leave shall count for increments and higher scale of pay, government submitted. In addition to this, teachers winning local elections are granted 20 days’ leave per year for attending meetings. Teachers elected MLAs are granted special leave for attending assembly sessions or for one academic year or entire period of membership in the assembly, government had submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/aided-school-teachers-cant-contest-polls-hc/articleshow/81196149.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Bark in peace: Retired canine looking for a final home||NEW DELHI: Chilly, a 12-year-old Labrador, is one of the latest additions at the Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre (SGACC). Blind in both eyes, Chilly has retired from service with Haryana Police and officers hope the canine can spend what little remains of its life in peace at the home. “Chilly is extremely well trained and well mannered. Most dogs with the police or the armed forces are able to obey commands, and all they seek at the end of their lives is a home where they will receive love. The dog is up for adoption and we hope someone does,” said Ambika Shukla, who manages SGACC. A centre executive disclosed that Chilly was initially anxious, but has settled in now. “Having served the forces for so long and been with a police handler, such dogs suddenly are lonely and, therefore, show signs of anxiety.” Others at SGACC disclosed that it was common practice to ‘retire’ dogs at a certain age and put them in animal shelters. However, it is not easy to locate such a home. SGACC has been home to other such dogs in the past. “Most people who want to adopt a dog seek younger ones. These retired police dogs, despite being affectionate and well-trained, find it tough to find new owners. So, most of them spend the remainder of their lives at shelters,” said Shukla. People at Friendicoes SECA, another big animal shelter in the capital, observed that their organisation too often has to take in dogs that have retired from service in the armed forces. Madhu Goyal, who has been helping dogs find adoption homes for the last 20 years, felt that the problem of dogs being retired and abandoned needed a long-term solution. Goyal is, however, optimistic that Chilly will find a new home. “A shelter home is no place for an old dog to spend the rest of its life as its immunity is low and it can catch any infection with so many other dogs around,” noted Goyal. “In the past, we’ve been successful in getting paralysed dogs adopted, even two legged dogs and recently an elderly blind Beagle too. While most pet lovers come seeking younger dogs, these elderly dogs deserve just as much love and time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bark-in-peace-retd-canine-looking-for-a-final-home/articleshow/81197593.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 25, 2021||Shimla||Coming soon: Green tax to enter Lahaul||MANALI: Tourists entering Lahaul valley will have to pay a green cess soon as Lahaul-Spiti administration is planning to impose environmental compensation on the visitors. The administration has sent a proposal to the state government. Once approved, the visitors will have to pay the green cess. The amount collected from the visitors will be spent on greenery, cleanliness and development works in the villages. Thousands of vehicles carrying thousands of tourists are expected to enter Lahaul valley every day. Besides bringing prosperity to the valley, Lahaul at an average altitude of 10,000ft is subjected to littering and sound and air pollution. To deal with the situation, administration has started framing various policies. The green cess collected from the visitors can be used in restoration of the damages to environment. The administration is working on solid waste management. Littering by roadsides, temples, picnic spots, riversides and main attractions will soon be common in Lahaul, as it is seen in other hill stations. The administration has planned to give jute bags to all the tourist vehicles entering the valley so that tourists could store their trash in the bag and deposit it at designated area before leaving the valley. Manali also charges green fees from all the non-Himachal registered vehicles before entering the town. The environment compensation charges are imposed on vehicles going towards Rohtang pass for tourism purpose. So far there is no toll or any arrangement of collection of any kind of tax on Manali-Leh highway via Atal tunnel. If Himachal government gives its nod, the tourists moving on this highway may have to pay the fees. Meanwhile, Lahaul faces acute shortage of drinking water in inter season when all water sources and pipes get frozen in extreme cold. Stating that 24 hours water supply is mandatory for boom in winter tourism, the administration is also working on providing all households and tourism units with running water. Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Pankaj Rai said, “The proposal to impose green cess has been sent to the state government. We are working on providing water to Keylong 24 hours a day on a pilot project. The facility will be provided in other areas in a phased manner,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/coming-soon-green-tax-to-enter-lahaul/articleshow/81197558.cms||Suresh Sharma
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Next 10 days make or break for Mumbai: Task force expert||MUMBAI: On a day the Covid-19 daily tally in the city was 1,167, the highest in 119 days, the only silver lining for it was that deaths continued to be in single digits (4). Mumbai’s total toll is now 11,458. Of the 80 deaths in the state, 27 occurred in the last 48 hours and the rest are older than a week, the state update said. Intensivist Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid task force, said the rise in cases was “concerning”. “A rise in critical cases or deaths is seen 7-14 days after a surge in cases,” he said, adding that the next 10 days would be make or break for Mumbai. Dr Pandit said after almost 2 months, his hospital saw a significant rise in queries for ICU beds on Wednesday. Read AlsoCovid-19: Maharashtra hits 129-day high of 8,807 fresh casesMaharashtra reported a significant jump in new Covid-19 cases and fatalities on Wednesday, continuing with the rise that started 10 days ago. A total of 8,807 cases, the highest in 129 days (since 9,060 on October 18) were added to the state’s daily tally. The state reported 80 deaths, highest inAMC Suresh Kakani said over 21,000 tests were carried out on Wednesday. “Yes, there is a jump in cases and in positivity rate, which is at 6%. We are keeping an eye on the situation and have asked all jumbo facilities to reactivate beds,” he said. There was a presentation in the state cabinet meeting where data on the Covid-19 surge and ongoing vaccination drive was presented. Nawab Malik, minister for skill development, said CM Uddhav Thackeray instructed all districts to increase testing and contact tracing. The health department said in the meeting that despite a rise in average cases in February, the case fatality rate is low. The daily average of cases in January was 2,973 and CFR was 1.7%. The daily average cases are 3,347 and total deaths reported in February are 775, taking the CFR to 0.4%. Mumbai circle on Wednesday reported 2,018 cases, highest in the state followed by Pune circle with 1,811 cases. Akola and Nagpur circles from Vidarbha region saw 1,679 and 1,323 cases respectively. Nagpur civic corporation reported a dozen deaths. Dr Shashank Joshi, another task force member, said the coming 10 days will tell if the state was staring at a second wave. “This surge has started from Vidarbha, and it is hard to believe mutant variants didn’t have a role to play,” he said. Another plausible explanation, he said, was that people who didn’t get infected earlier have started moving freely. “Double masking is a must to prevent coronavirus,” he said. From MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli saw a sharp rise in patients. It reported 165 cases and 2 deaths. NMMC reported 130 cases and two deaths, and PCMC saw 55 cases and one death. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta, Vijay Singh, BB Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/next-10-days-make-or-break-for-city-task-force-expert/articleshow/81197634.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 25, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Sadar residents in ‘lockdown’ for a year due to overflowing sewage||NAGPUR: After a five-month Covid-induced lockdown, residents and shopkeepers in J&K Bank lane behind Karachi Galli in Sadar are suffering from another lockdown of sorts — sewage water overflowing on the street since early 2020. Due to the foul smell and dirty water, residents are running from pillar to post to get the issue resolved. “We have made many complaints to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s headquarters, Dharampeth zone and even corporators, but to no avail,” said shopkeeper Memon Afaque Iqbal. According to the residents, cattle shed owners in the vicinity are to be blamed for the mess as they dump cow dung in the sewerage network. TOI too spotted residents unable to step out of their homes as the sewerage network is full of cow dung. They are being forced to walk on the margins of the road if and when they have to step out. Black, slushy roads with slippery surfaces are what they encounter round-the-clock. Perennial water-logging and filth have enhanced the mosquito menace. Another resident, Bhagwan Gambhir, expressed concern over the delay in the repair work which has also damaged the road due to stagnant filthy water. A few residents claimed that the filthy water has also contaminated the groundwater in the locality. Many are unable to use well water which they claim is contaminated by sewage water. According to the residents, sewage water overflows onto the roads and has now started damaging the existing tar roads. Accidents due to the slippery road too have become common, said Pawan Rajani, a resident. Due to accumulation of filthy water on roads, many shopkeepers have installed a transparent sheet outside their shops to prevent dirty water from entering their premises. One of the residents told TOI that a complaint was also made to the local corporator Kamlesh Chaudhary. Ram Shahu, a resident of the locality, claimed that several people in the locality have been infected due to the overflowing sewage water. Some said that even opening doors is a problem. However, it was also said that this has not happened for the first time and that this issue needs to be resolved permanently. Officials from Dharampeth zone claimed that they often cleaned the sewerage line. According to them, the sewerage network has been damaged due to illegal constructions. They also agreed that dumping of cow dung worsened the situation. Residents claimed that they were living in unhygienic conditions. They requested the authorities to take necessary action and find a permanent solution to this problem. TOI brought this to the notice of public health engineering department head Shweta Banerjee on two occasions. She assured to address the issue. Nothing has been done, said residents. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said the issue will be resolved soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sadar-residents-in-lockdown-for-a-year-due-to-overflowing-sewage/articleshow/81197603.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 3 more societies quarantined, total now 11||AHMEDABAD: In just three days after the elections ended in the city, the number of micro-contained societies entered double digits with three more micro-contained on Wednesday. Of the 11 societies in micro-containment, about seven societies are from the north west or south west zone of the city. The official data reveals that on Wednesday, four floors in Shubham Sky in Bodakdev area, blocks A and B in Silicon Square near Science City in Gota, and Nilkanth Residency in Nikol were micro-contained. It was on Monday after a month that the city once again had micro-containment. The AMC on Tuesday had placed five societies under micro-containment. These included societies in Bopal and Bodakdev areas. The officials said once again entire societies are getting micro-contained which was an indication that the cases were again rising. Usually if there are two or more cases on one floor, the entire floor is micro-contained. But if there are five or more cases the entire block is micro-contained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-more-societies-quarantined-total-now-11/articleshow/81197605.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||HC orders replies in Somaiya PIL against mayor||Mumbai: Bombay high court on Wednesday directed mayor Kishori Pednekar, Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA), BMC and the state to file their replies within two weeks on a public interest litigation filed by BJP leader Kirit Somaiya seeking “immediate steps” against the mayor for alleged violation of SRA Act. The PIL has sought orders to restrain Pednekar from continuing as Mumbai mayor. The PIL alleged “illegal possession” of residential tenements in Worli SRA project for “commercial use” as a councillor when registering a company she floated in 2012. She was the corporator from Worli from 2002 to 2007 and again between 2012 and 2017. The company is currently managed by her son. Somaiya’s counsel Sheetal Kumar made brief submissions before a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Girish Kulkarni on Wednesday that the issue was in violation of section 3(E) of SRA Act, which bars allottees from transferring their permanent units for 10 years. The PIL said the company in which Pednekar’s son is a director in 2017 entered into a leave and license agreement with an original allottee of the SRA scheme at Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Delisle Road, Mumbai. The mayor’s advocate Dharam Sharma later said there is no substance in any of the allegations made. “All accusations are politically motivated. We will file our reply. Section 3(E) refers to sale, not leave and licence.” The PIL alleging “inaction’’ by BMC, the state, SRA and the ministry of corporate affairs has sought formation of a special investigation team (SIT) to inquire into its allegation against the Mayor and eight companies, as well as criminal action. It also sought orders from HC to appoint a court receiver for rooms 1 to eight and few other units in a SRA society in Lower Parel. Senior counsel Prasad Dhakephalkar appearing for BMC sought time. The Registrar of Companies (ROC), Ministry of Corporate Affairs, in its reply filed on February 22 said the company Kish Corporate Service Pvt Lts was incorporated in 2012 with its registered office at the SRA society Lower Parel Address and later filed a change of address to ‘Mariamma Nagar hutments, Dr Annie Besant Road, Worli’ from September 2014 but filed another change of registered address form to make it back to the Lower Parel address from July 2017. The ROC gave details of addresses of the other companies named in the PIL and said it has issued notices to these companies for their comments on the complaint filed by Somaiya. So far Kish has replied and the ROC has it to Somaiya for his comments on it. --||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-orders-replies-in-somaiya-pil-against-mayor/articleshow/81196168.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Arrangements in place for Army recruitment rally||Thiruvananthapuram: Preparations have been completed for the Army recruitment rally at Greenfield Stadium in Kariavattom, scheduled to be held from February 26 to March 12. District collector Navjot Khosa on Wednesday said that all arrangements have been made for the conduct of rally, adhering to Covid -19 protocol. Recruitment for applicants from 14 districts would be held at the Greenfield Stadium. Sports personalities and aficionados, including Shashi Tharoor, MP, have come out against the decision to conduct the recruitment rally at the world-class sports facility centre. However, such criticisms did not elicit much response from the authorities concerned. Tharoor had claimed that the long-drawn recruitment rally would ruin the stadium when used for non-sports purposes. Travel and lodging facilities for applicants attending the recruitment rally have been arranged. Recruitment for candidates from different districts would be held on different days, the schedules of which have been shared with the candidates in advance. “Candidates are supposed to follow Covid-19 restrictions strictly. Only candidates would be given entry to the ground. Those who come for the rally on their own vehicles will have to park their vehicles in the dedicated parking area arranged three kilometres away from the ground. KSRTC bus services are arranged to ferry candidates from these parking lots to the ground,” said district collector. Between 5,000 and 7,000 candidates are expected to participate in the rally daily, said district development commissioner and recruitment rally nodal officer Vinay Goyal. During the recruitment rally period, special arrangements would be made at Kariavattom area to ease down traffic snarls. As many as 300 police personnel would be deployed for this purpose, he said. A special medical team would camp at the stadium throughout the rally period. They would be equipped with ambulance and other facilities to meet medical needs. The district administration has identified 13 schools as resting points for candidates participating in the recruitment rally. There would be KSRTC bus services between these halting centres and stadium. The services would start as early as 4am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/arrangements-in-place-for-army-recruitment-rally/articleshow/81199479.cms||---
February 25, 2021||India||Historic increase in MSP, Govt keen on doubling farmers’ income: PM||NEW DELHI: On the second anniversary of PM-Kisan scheme, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other senior BJP functionaries on Wednesday highlighted the measures taken by the Centre for farmers’ empowerment in a bid to blunt the opposition campaign to paint the government as “anti-farmer” in the light of the enactment of the three farm laws last year. Modi said the PM-Kisan scheme was launched with an aim to ensure a life of dignity as well as prosperity for the hard working farmers, who work day and night to feed the nation. “The tenacity and passion of our farmers is inspiring,” he said. “Over the last 7 years, the government of India has taken many initiatives for transforming agriculture. From better irrigation to more technology, more credit and markets to proper crop insurance, focus on soil health to eliminating middlemen, the efforts are all-encompassing,” the PM said in a series of tweets, in which he also shared details about the farmers’ welfare schemes since 2014. Countering the apprehensions of farm union leaders about the future of minimum support price (MSP), Modi said, “Our Government had the honour of ushering a historic increase in MSP. We doing everything possible to double the income of farmers. You can find insightful content on the NaMo App, offering a glimpse of the work done for farmers.” Asserting that that the Modi government is committed to doubling farmers’ income, Home Minister Amit shah said, “Hearty congratulations to all the beneficiaries of the country on the successful completion of 2 years of the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana dedicated to farmer welfare under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi.” Shah said the scheme has given new power and honour to the farmers of the country. “It is proving to be a boon for more than 11 crore marginal farmers,” he added. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said the scheme has made an effective and meaningful contribution to the lives of farmers. BJP chief JP Nadda that scheme has played a major role in empowering the marginal farmers. “The Modi government is constantly trying to make the country self-sufficient in food production. This scheme, providing economic relief to the farmers, has become the basis of major changes in the rural economy,” Nadda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/historic-increase-in-msp-govt-keen-on-doubling-farmers-income-pm/articleshow/81200615.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Man steals Rs 1.5 lakh left at railway station, the store he shopped at helps cops nab him||Mumbai: When a business owner's bag full of cash disappeared from a bench at Grant Road station where he had accidentally left it, the railway police decided to follow a trail of surveillance footage backwards to nab the culprit. Within 12 hours of the incident, the police arrested electronics professional Sharad Rupnar for the theft. The incident was reported on February 13. Business owner Shankar Patel had been entrusted with a sum of Rs 1.5 lakh by his acquaintance, Raghu Prajapati. Patel, who lives in Bhayander, was supposed to hand over the sum to an elderly woman-- also a Bhayander resident-- on Prajapati's behalf. Around 7pm, Patel shut his establishment at Grant Road and walked down to the railway station. He sat down on a bench at platform 2/3 and placed the bag of currency notes next to him. But in his hurry to board an oncoming train, Patel forgot all about the bag. It was only after the train had crossed Dadar station did Patel remember about the bag. He got off at Bandra station and returned to Grant Road as fast as he could. But the bag had disappeared. He then lodged a police complaint. "We went through the CCTV footage and found that the bag was on the bench for quite some time. A woman sat on the bench and checked the bag but did not take it with her. Later a man in his thirties sat on the bench. After he got up and took a train, the bag had vanished," said senior inspector Pradeep Salunke, Churchgate GRP. The police then followed the trail of surveillance footage backwards and found that the suspect had taken an FOB to reach the platform with the bench. The FOB opened towards Lamington Road. The police then visited about two dozen shops on Lamington Road and checked the surveillance footage at every shop. They finally found the suspect captured on cameras in an electronics shop. "We made inquiries about his purchase. He was to complete a project in Bandra with his work partner and had picked up only part of the supplies. We posted our men in civvies at the shop and when his work partner arrived to pick up remaining supplies, we questioned him. He led us to the suspect (Rupnar) at Bandra. Patel's money was recovered from Rupnar," said Salunke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-steals-rs-1-5l-left-at-rly-stn-footprints-he-left-at-shop-nail-him/articleshow/81198460.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Raw deal for city of lakes||Udaipur: No major announcement in the budget to boost tourism has left Udaipur disappointed. People hoped funds for Phase III and IV of Dewas project, an ambitious programme aimed at keeping the lakes full. However, nothing was allocated.Looking at the number of water bodies and lakes, a proposal for setting up a Water Sports Academy had been pending, but there was no mention of it in the budget. The expectation of upgrading the Urban Improvement Trust into Udaipur Development Authority (UDA) has not been fulfilled in the budget. With a development authority in place, a systematic and phased development of some 139 villages would have been realised which is presently a distant dream due to lack of resources and technically skilled manpower.“Government announced beautification and renovation of Nehru Park and Rani Road which would give some boost to the tourist places, however, allocation should have been made under DRIP (Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Programme) for vulnerability assessment and renovation repair of dams at Fateh sagar, Pichhola, Udaisagar and restoration of important small lakes like Roop Sagar, Nela, Futa, Jogi etc under RRR (Repair, Renovate and Restore) programme.“It was also expected that money would be allocated for removal of sewer lines from Udaipur lakes and developing new routes for carrying sewage, but it hasn’t been considered,” said Anil Mehta, a lake activist.The civil society which had been hoping for funds for the faecal sludge treatment plant which is in progress through PPP mode for Udaipur city too failed.Former MP Raghuveer Meena said the announcement for a special drive for community forest rights is a big move in the interests of the large tribal population. “Many announcements for Salumber, Kherwada, Kesariyaji, Gogunda, Mavli and Vallabhnagar would pave way for progress in the rural belts of Udaipur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raw-deal-for-city-of-lakes/articleshow/81197626.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: BJP calls budget ‘bundle of lies’||JAIPUR: BJP has called the state budget a bundle of ‘lies’ that is loaded with promises and low on revenue generation. In a press conference, leader of opposition Gulabchand Kataria said the state has to borrow Rs 1 lakh-crore to fulfil the promises announced in the budget. “I would like to ask CM Ashok Gehlot from where he will arrange funds to execute it,” said Kataria, who slammed Gehlot for only fulfilling 36% of the budgetary promises made by them in two previous budgets. He asked Gehlot to clear that in most of their schemes they are getting assistance from the central government. “They should stop lying that they are getting nothing from the central government. The fact is that the state will receive around Rs 40,000 crore assistance under various social welfare schemes,” said Kataria. On rising fuel prices, Kataria said the state was propagating the myth that fuel prices are higher in Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. “The fact is the state tax in MP and Gujarat is 26% while in Rajasthan it is 36%, which means the state can reduce Rs 10 per litre easily on petrol price,” said Kataria. Taking pot shots at Gehlot, deputy leader of the opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore said most of the announcements are dedicated to the Gandhi family. “Gehlot has used budget as an opportunity to increase their number before the party,” said Rathore, who added that Gehlot has twisted the numbers while presenting the budget. “He has created a complex matrix of figures to make the budget look good. The bunch of lies will be exposed soon and in the bypolls people will teach them a lesson,” said Rathore. Former education minister Vasudev Devnani said Gehlot had promised to give electricity to farmers during the day for the past two years, but have been giving power in the night. “The state has not announced anything related to the re-announcement of Rs 833 crore subsidy to the farmers on power bills,” said Devnani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-calls-budget-bundle-of-lies/articleshow/81197622.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||58,000 buildings in Gujarat without fire NOC: Government to HC||AHMEDABAD: The state government on Wednesday informed the Gujarat high court about buildings without mandatory fire NOC and Building Use (BU) permission and the numbers were shocking. Despite repeated directions issued by the high court in last two decades, and various legislations in place to ensure fire safety, the deputy secretary of urban development and urban housing department, R H Vasava, stated on an affidavit that there are as many as 58,000 buildings across the state which do not have valid fire NOC as on date. These buildings either do not have proper fire prevention and protection systems installed, or they have not renewed their fire NOCs if obtained in the past after installation of fire safety systems. The affidavit also revealed that there are total 33,274 buildings in the state which do not have BU permissions. Of them, 25,910 buildings exist in municipalities; 1,489 structures in Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC); 2,335 in Surat civic body area; 1,009 in Vadodara and 1,640 in Rajkot city. The state government placed these details before the HC in response to a PIL filed by advocate Amit Panchal, who has sought action against those responsible for the fire tragedy in the Shrey Hospital, in which eight Covid-19 patients had lost their lives in August last year. The lawyer had also demanded proper implementation of the fire safety laws. The government had also expressed its intention to amend the newly implemented Fire Safety Act. Following this litigation, the high court had been directing the civic authorities to strictly implement fire safety norms in hospitals and even issued guidelines for ICUs in Covid hospitals. The government’s report said that the city of Ahmedabad has fared well with only six hospitals still to obtain fire NOC, and all the schools in the city have obtained fire NOC. But the city still has got 15,317 factories and industrial units without fire NOC. This is after some major fire incidents reported in industrial areas around the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/58000-buildings-in-gujarat-without-fire-noc-govt-to-hc/articleshow/81197637.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||On 1st Day, upper primary sections in many schools shut in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Day after the state government’s announcement about resumption of physical classes, the upper primary section of many schools in the city remained shut on Wednesday. The attendance percentage of those that reopened too was poor with only 9% of class 6 to class 8 students turning up on Day 1. On Tuesday, the state decided to reopen classes for students of class 6 to 8 from February 24, given a drop in Covid-19 cases. As per the data shared by the department of school education (DSE), of the 4.94 lakh students enrolled in government and local schools, only 42,660 reported to school on Wednesday while in private schools the attendance figure stood at 71,453. The latter has over 7 lakh students. The numbers were much lower in residential schools—Telangana Model schools, KGBVs, and TREIS— with 2%, 4% and zero percent students going back to the schools, respectively. While the report from regional joint director of the education department maintained that all government schools reopened for classes 6 and above on Wednesday and all teachers reported to duty too, teachers claimed otherwise. Many said they need at least four days to get the school premises cleaned before they can become fully functionally. “Most upper primary teachers were working in high schools on deputation. They went back to the schools today. Now, apart from overseeing cleaning and sanitation work, they will have to divide students into batches, prepare time-table and contact parents to know how many are willing to send their children to school. All these are going to take at least three to four days to complete,” said M Ravinder, a government teacher and general secretary, Telangana Progressive Teachers Federation. The situation in private schools is worse, say sources, as many do not have the required teaching staff. Some are also facing space constraints. While teachers claimed that over 90% of private schools did not reopen on Wednesday, a release from the department stated that 70% to 80% started physical classes while the remaining are in the process of sanitising their premises, re-engaging teachers, getting school buses checked and obtaining consent letters from parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/on-1st-day-upper-primary-sections-in-many-schools-shut/articleshow/81197630.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 25, 2021||Kozhikode||State's first rail fence stretch inaugurated in Wayanad||Kozhikode: The first stretch of rail fencing installed in the state to prevent marauding jumbos from entering human habitations has been inaugurated at Kurichiad forest range of Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS). The 10km-long fence, stretching from Sathram Kunnu under the limits of Sulthan Bathery municipality to Moodakolli in Poothadi grama panchayat, was inaugurated by forest minister K Raju on Wednesday. The project, implemented at a cost of Rs 15.1 crore, was funded by Kerala Infrastructure Investment Promotion Board (KIIFB). The minister said rail fencing has been set up to mitigate the human wildlife conflict which continued unabated despite the best efforts made by forest department. WWS officials said the area used to witness straying of wild elephants frequently and often elephants used to make their way to the densely populated areas near Sulthan Bathery town. The residents had been demanding a permanent mechanism to address the issue. The work of the rail fence, which is built using discarded rails, had commenced in 2019. Forest officials said rail fences have environmental advantages as it does not hamper movement of non-target species and also does not involve use of natural resources like rock and sand. Also the rail fences do not need constant and regular maintenance like solar electric fence or elephant-proof trenches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/states-first-rail-fence-stretch-inaugurated-in-wayanad/articleshow/81196167.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Fraudster posing as KTR’s PA held for extortion||Hyderabad: City police apprehended a former Ranji Trophy cricketer-turned-fraudster for impersonating the personal assistant of municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao to extort money from a corporate hospital. The accused, B Nagaraju, a native of Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh, has previously been arrested several times by the city police and AP police for impersonating as PA of KTR and also former BCCI chief selector MSK Prasad. A few days ago, a representative of a children’s hospital lodged a complaint with Banjara Hills police alleging that a man posing as KTR’s PA, Tirupati Reddy, called the manager and demanded Rs 5 lakh. Based on the complaint, Task Force cops initiated probe and identified the role of Nagaraju, a former Ranji cricketer from AP. Nagaraju was arrested previously by CCS police in February 2020 for duping the chief managing director of a private firm of Rs 3.3 lakh by impersonating KTR’s PA over the phone. In November 2020, Task Force sleuths arrested Nagaraju when he demanded Rs 15 lakh from a pharma company owner posing as the minister’s PA to ensure that the company will not be closed for violation of pollution norms. Police found out that Nagaraju collected Rs 17 lakh from a private school management in Madhapur. He is accused in five cases in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fraudster-posing-as-ktrs-pa-held-for-extortion/articleshow/81197628.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Nagpur||Gadchiroli cops recover 20kg explosives, Naxal material||Nagpur: Special action team recovered 20kg explosives from a hillock in Kokoti forest near Kotmi in Gadchiroli district on Tuesday. The Naxalites had set up an ambush and tried to lure security forces by setting up a camp, but alert cops managed to foil the bid. Acting on a tip off that a Naxalite camp was being set up on a hillock, the special action team and Pomke Kotmi jawans were on foot patrolling towards the north side of Kokoti village at around 9.30am on Tuesday. The team found suspicious movement of alleged Naxalites there. Spotting the police force, the Red rebels, who were preparing meals, fled towards dense forest leaving behind their belongings like plastic sheets, utensils, vegetables, ration, water, shoes, clothes etc. During search operation, the jawans come across two electric wires, one each on the east and west sides of the hillock. Bomb detection and disposal squad was then requisitioned, which found 20kg explosives. Further probe is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadchiroli-cops-recover-20kg-explosives-naxal-material/articleshow/81197624.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||In four months, a tenth of world’s driverless Metro network in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro took a huge technological leap on December 28 last year when Prime Minister Narendra Modi flagged off the country’s first-ever fully automated driverless train service on Magenta Line. In less than four months, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will start the same operations on Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar), making the “driverless network” 9% of the world’s total driverless Metro network. DMRC officials said that by June, driverless train operations would begin on the 57km Pink Line, taking DMRC’s entire driverless network to 94km. This network will cross the 100km mark when the 12.5km Maujpur-Majlis Park extension of the corridor, which is being constructed as part of Delhi Metro’s Phase-IV project, gets completed next year. The reason driverless train operations are possible on both Magenta (Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden) and Pink Lines is the state-of-the-art communication-based train control (CBTC) signalling technology. Compared with the technology used in older corridors, CBTC allows more efficient and safe train operations. DMRC has been carrying out trial runs in driverless mode in non-revenue hours and has also got its signalling system reviewed by experts for eventual implementation of unattended train operations (UTO). Driverless operations have been made possible due to changes in the existing general rules for running trains that takes into account the presence of a driver and the guidelines of handling any emergency involving the presence of a driver. The new Metro Railway General Rules 2020 takes into account driverless operations. “The rules had to be changed for starting driverless operations on Magenta Line but now since the new rules are in place, driverless operations on Pink Line can begin easily. However, trials and tests are going on and other necessary clearances are required before we start these operations,” an official said. Unlike Magenta Line, Pink Line operates as two different sections due to a “missing link” at Trilokpuri where DMRC has been unable to construct a viaduct. However, it is expected to be bridged and uninterrupted train movement on the entire corridor is slated to begin by June. In driverless operations, DMRC has replaced drivers with “roaming attendants”, who are multi-skilled personnel, apart from being trained as drivers. The Pink and Magenta lines are planned to be operated in UTO mode, when even an attendant wouldn’t be present, in a phased manner. Magenta Line switched from automatic train operation mode to driverless train operation mode last December and Pink Line will do so in the next four months. However, trains, signalling system, traction, track and depot design of Magenta and Pink lines are compliant for operation in UTO mode and eventually, DMRC plans to move to this mode on both corridors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-four-months-a-tenth-of-worlds-driverless-metro-network-in-delhi/articleshow/81218753.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Govt notifies scheme for doorstep delivery of ration||New Delhi: Delhi government has notified its flagship scheme for doorstep delivery of ration that is likely to be rolled out from next month, officials said. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced his government’s plan to launch the scheme in his Republic Day address. The ‘Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna’ under the Targeted Public Distribution System of the National Food Security Act, 2013, was notified by the government on February 20, officials said. The scheme involves delivery of packed wheat flour and rice to beneficiaries at their doorsteps. The beneficiaries will have to pay the processing (conversion) charge along with the cost of subsidised foodgrain. “The entire operation from the lifting of foodgrain from FCI godowns, milling, packaging and till the delivery of packaged commodities to the beneficiary will be carried out under CCTV monitoring. Commodities will be carried in GPS-fitted vehicles,” the scheme notification said. There are about 17 lakh PDS beneficiaries in Delhi. The packed foodgrain will be transported from millers to fair price shops and from there to the doorsteps of beneficiaries through direct home delivery agencies. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-notifies-scheme-for-doorstep-delivery-of-ration/articleshow/81197668.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Kolkata||Vaccination starts for poll officials with 4.7L target||Kolkata: Eleven school teachers, who will work as presiding officers during the state polls, turned up on Wednesday at a block primary health care centre in Budge Budge for Covid vaccination. This is part of an ongoing effort by the Bengal government since this week to vaccinate all the 4.7 lakh poll officials, including the presiding officers, polling officers, the sector officials and other support staff, who will be deployed for the Bengal polls. Government medical colleges in the city are vaccinating 250 to 400 polling officials per day. Vaccination sites in some private hospitals have also started immunising the polling officials. The 11 teachers of Deshbandhu Palli Sevasangha Santoshkumari Sikshaniketan, a government-sponsored school in Budge Budge, underwent an election duty training programme last Monday as they would be on poll duty as presiding officers. “After the training programme, we were told that we would go through the inoculation. It was, however, not compulsory. In case anybody refused to take the vaccine or had allergic symptoms, the authorities noted down his or her name. We took the vaccine today and are feeling happy to take part in the process,” said Surajit Maji, a geography teacher. “Our names were first enlisted, after which we waited for just about five to seven minutes and then we entered the vaccination room where our papers were rechecked. We were informed that we were getting the Covishield vaccine.,” said Samir Das, a science teacher. In addition to this, there will be nearly one lakh cops— 80,000 state police and another 20,000 Kolkata Police — who also need to be vaccinated. The commission officials have already spoken to the central force’s nodal officer so that its all members will get their double dose of vaccination before coming to the state for the election duty. “The election commission will bear the cost of their treatment,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vaccination-starts-for-poll-officials-with-4-7l-target/articleshow/81197639.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Online complaint system for Ajmer, Bhilwara, Tonk & Nagaur dists||Ajmer: The state police have initiated online complaint system on a divisional level for Ajmer, Bhilwara, Tonk and Nagaur districts. Inspector General of Police Ajmer range S Sengathir on Wednesday asked the people of Ajmer, Bhilwara, Tonk and Nagaur that they do not have to make rounds of IG office but can send in their complaints online now. He said that those who go for the online complaint system, will get fast hearing. Sengathir said that anyone can send in their complaint on WhatsApp number: 9929072555 and the service was started from Wednesday. He said that during the pandemic, such an online complaint system was started in Jaipur and the police department got a good response. He added that the system has been developed in order to provide relief to victims who make repeated rounds for registering their complaints with high officials. At present, those who are not satisfied with the district-level police action, they go to the IG office in Ajmer to get their complaint registered and therefore there are crowds of people seeking help. But now with the online complaint system, the complainants will be able to file their complaint online through their mobile phones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/online-complaint-system-for-ajmer-bhilwara-tonk-nagaur-dists/articleshow/81197654.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Not keen on resuming physical classes this yr’||Hyderabad: As the academic year inches closer to an end for the CBSE, ICSE and other boards, many top schools say they aren’t keen on starting physical classes, for class 6 to class 8 students, this session.  “Final examinations have already begun for our students. So, our plan is to start physical classes for younger kids from the next academic year, i.e after March 23,” said Minu Salooja, assistant director, Glendale Education Group. Even Gitanjali Devshala has decided to start in new session, as school has already completed final exams for classes. “Right now evaluation of papers is being done. The school has decided to give a break for about 10 days and reopen after second week of March,” said Madvi Chandra, principal, Gitanjali Devshala. A section of parents agree that sending kids to school at the fag end of an academic year, makes little sense. “As there are hardly two weeks left for final exams, we have decided to utilise next couple of weeks for revision,” said S Narasimha Reddy, chairperson Hyderabad Sahodaya Schools Complex and principal, Hyderabad Public School, Ramanthapur. He said they received consent from about 40% of the parents. Management or principals from some of these schools across the city said that they have either started final examinations or have scheduled them during mid-March||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/not-keen-on-resuming-physical-classes-this-yr/articleshow/81197671.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 25, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: 3 end life in last 24 hours||NAGPUR: Three persons ended life in separate incidents reported in the city in the last 24 hours. In the first incident, a 20-year-old youth, working as a security guard died by suicide on Tuesday night. The Pratap Nagar police identified the deceased as Ajit Soneshwar (a resident of Balaghat, Madhya Pradesh). Police said Soneshwar used to stay with his wife Puja (19). On Tuesday, he was found hanging by the ceiling fan in his room. The Pratap Nagar police are probing the exact cause of Soneshwar taking the extreme step. In the second incident, one Ganesh Devle (34) hanged to death on Tuesday evening. Hudkeshwar police said Devle was playing with his daughters in inebriated condition when he accidentally hanged himself. An accidental death was registered by the police, who are probing further. In another case, Ajit Aman Singh, 24, hanged himself at his house in Bhimsen Nagar slum on the intervening night on Wednesday. Jaripatka police said they are yet to ascertain cause of the suicide and are probing further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-end-life-in-last-24-hours/articleshow/81197640.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||ED searches premises of Delhi-based exporter||New Delhi: A team of the Enforcement Directorate carried out searches on a Delhi-based exporter on Monday in connection with an alleged fraud to the tune of Rs 605 crore. An investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act has been initiated by ED’s Delhi Zone. Searches were conducted at various premises of a Delhi-based exporter Amar Chand Gupta and other family members. Guptas have been accused of laundering bank loans using Shree Bankey Bihari Exports Limited (SBBEL). The CBI had earlier registered an FIR against them and some government servants for diversion of alleged funds. “Investigation has revealed that SBBEL had diverted the loans through shell companies and by booking bogus transactions,” ED claimed. The firm had also failed to deposit the sales proceeds with the banks as mandatory. The agency accused Guptas of trying to evade the probe team by not furnishing their account books. The agency said it has seized incriminating documents, laptops, mobile phones and digital storage devices indicating a number of shell companies controlled by them to facilitate money laundering. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ed-searches-premises-of-delhi-based-exporter/articleshow/81197739.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Medical, infra development boon for Ajmer||Ajmer: The district bagged medical facilities as well as infrastructure development proposals as chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday presented the state Budget. Another important announcement was to link Nasirabad to Deoli of Tonk through a four-lane highway. In the Budget, there will be transfer of JLN Medical College to Kayar as the present college is in the city and for this, Rs 200 crore Budget was presented. Similarly, Ajmer too will get a public health college as it is a divisional headquarter. There will also be an Ayush centre in Ajmer and two ROBs have also been proposed for the city in the Budget. One of the issues for Pushkar has been the drainage water leak in the main Pushkar Sarovar and for that, the Budget has proposed a Descriptive Project Report to solve the problem. Similarly, 22 critical care ambulances have also been proposed in the Budget for Ajmer along with a trauma centre. There is also a proposal of higher education institutes for Ayurveda and Naturopathy in Ajmer and the veterinary hospital in Borada near Kishangarh will be upgraded. There will also be a learning centre building for hostel, for minority students, proposed in Masuda block of the district and also a health centre in the minority-populated regions of the district. A rehabilitation centre has also been proposed for youths suffering from drug abuse and there will be life support ambulance for Unani and Homeopathy. In a big proposal for Kekri, there will be a four-lane highway to join Ajmer to Kota. At present, the road from Nasirabad to Deoli is two lanes. Also, there will be 192 villages and 99 hamlets of Sarwar, Kekri and Sawar, which also come in Kekri state assembly constituency, that will get Bisalpur water and a Budget of Rs 725 crore has been proposed for this work.Meanwhile, there is a proposal for sewerage for Bijaynagar and Kekri with construction of a FSTP. Ajmer and Pushkar will be connected to the tourist circuit to get the benefit of tourism development.There is also a proposal to open schools for the specially challenged in Ajmer and to upgrade Sanskrit schools of Kishangarh and Nimbark Peeth. Police stations of Gandhi Nagar of Kishangarh will also be upgraded and there is an additional district judge court proposed in Nasirabad.While Congress leaders hailed the state Budget and said that it will help in development of the district, the BJP said that these are merely announcements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/medical-infra-development-boon-for-ajmer/articleshow/81197674.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Surat||6 with travel history test +ve in Surat||Surat: With Covid-19 cases gradually spiking again, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has asked people, especially those who have travel history out of Gujarat, to get themselves tested so that they don't become super spreaders. On Wednesday, 57 Covid-19 cases were reported in the city, highest being reported from the posh Athwa zone with 18 followed by 13 in Rander zone. "Many of those entering into the city after travelling to other states have tested positive for coronavirus than others. In the south zone, three persons tested positive out of whom one had a travel history to Maharashtra's Dhule. Similarly, in the south west zone, out of the total 18 people who were tested positive for Covid-19, five had a travel history of Mumbai, Jodhpur, Udaipur and Raipur (Chhattisgarh). All these people have been home quarantined,'' said an SMC official. SMC has warned people, who have tested positive for Covid-19, to remain isolated. If they violate the rules, they will be booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act. The civic body has made enforcement of the Covid rules like face masks stricter. The recent election rallies in the run-up to municipal corporation elections coupled with large number of marriages are feared to result in an increase in cases. Moreover, Surat’s proximity to Maharashtra and movement of people across both states is also a cause of concern given the worsening situation in the neighbouring state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/6-with-travel-history-test-ve-in-surat/articleshow/81197687.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Coimbatore||‘BJP is buying MLAs like cattle or poultry’||Coimbatore: People are losing confidence in the central government, which favours only BJP-ruled states and bring down governments in other states, CPI state secretary R Mutharasan said here on Wednesday.“In states where BJP is not ruling, it is buying MLAs like cattle or poultry. It is using its power to threaten states where other parties are running the government,” he told reporters.The CPI leader quoted the fall of the Puducherry government as an example. “This is how they managed to dissolve the elected government in Puducherry and bring in governor’s rule. This is anti-democratic.”Calling the AIADMK government a benami government, he said a state’s interim budget is very small because it is only till the new government takes over. “This government has put Tamil Nadu in Rs 5.7 lakh crore of debt and again the budget has a deficit of Rs 45,000 crore. This will lead to the next government facing huge financial constraints.” Speaking about TNSTC employees’ indefinite strike from Thursday, the CPI leader urged the state government to call the unions for talk. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-is-buying-mlas-like-cattle-or-poultry/articleshow/81197665.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Coimbatore||Strike by transport unions from today||Coimbatore: Transport trade unions have called for an indefinite strike from Thursday demanding revision of salaries.As many as nine trade unions, including AITUC, CITU, LPF, HMS and LPF will participate in the state-wide strike. With 3,000 employees, including drivers and conductors in the region expected to participate in it, the strike will affect bus services in the district. “The 13th wage agreement came to an end on August 31, 2019 and since then we have been requesting the state government to revise wages. We conducted several protests in the last 18 months. But the government has not even called us for a talk, despite giving assurance,” said M Velankkaniraj, general secretary of Kovai Government Transport Workers Union, which is affiliated to CITU. “We gave notice about the strike a couple of months ago. The strike would continue till the government calls us for talk.”“The Tamil Nadu state transport corporation has been struggling due to operational loss. The state government should extend a helping hand to manage the loss,” Velankkaniraj added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/strike-by-transport-unions-from-today/articleshow/81197683.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Varavara Rao seeks release on cash bail||MUMBAI: Bombay HC said it would hear the National Investigation Agency on Thursday before passing any orders on a fresh plea by Elgar Parishad accused P V Varavara Rao to secure his liberty with a cash bail. The HC had on Monday granted interim bail on furnishing two sureties of Rs50,000 for six months, on health grounds to Rao, 82. But on Wednesday his counsel Anand Grover sought permission from the HC bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale to deposit cash bonds instead of two sureties. Rao is charged with having Maoist links and for offences under the UAPA Act. His counsel said the process of getting sureties was slow and taking longer due to Covid-19 restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/varavara-rao-seeks-release-on-cash-bail/articleshow/81199538.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Land acquisition for RRR to cost Telangana govt up to Rs 2,500 crore||HYDERABAD: Land acquisition for the proposed Regional Ring Road (RRR) is going to cost a bomb to the Telangana government. Of the estimated cost of Rs 16,000 crore for the project, the state may end up spending anywhere between Rs 2,000 crore and Rs 2,500 crore towards its share on taking over properties for road expansion works. Apart from this, the Roads and Building department has to spend on service roads and other miscellaneous works which is expected to cost Rs 1,000 crore. Officials said this is the highest amount the state is spending on land acquisition on a single infra project.  The government had spent huge amounts towards land acquisition for irrigation projects like Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project. The 340-km RRR is being taken up by the government to meet the future requirements of the city. Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari recently announced that the project has been approved. The Centre had cleared the first phase (northern part) from Sangareddy-Narsapur-Topran-Gajwel-Bhongir-Choutuppal covering 158km has already been identified as National Highway 161AA. The southern part of the RRR, covering a distance of 182km from Choutuppal-Chevella-Shankarpally-Amangal-Sangareddy will be declared as national highway soon. For first and second phases, the Centre estimated Rs 7,561 crore and Rs 4,633 crore respectively for development and another Rs 1,961 crore and Rs 1,748 crore towards land acquisition. The Centre had agreed to bear 50% of the project cost and land acquisition. “Initially, the Centre had asked the state to widen the proposed RRR (right of way) to 500 metres. But we said it is not possible as acquisition of properties will cost more and landowners will kick up a furore. Moreover, 100 metres width is enough for traffic requirements. Even for 100 metres of right of way, the roads and buildings (R&B) department has to acquire over 10,000 acres. Fortunately, most of the properties are on vacant land (green field) and number of structures is less,” a senior R&B official told TOI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/land-acquisition-for-rrr-to-cost-t-govt-up-to-rs-2500-crore/articleshow/81199535.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 25, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: NMR gets 4 new coaches||COIMBATORE: The Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) has received four more new coaches from the integral coach factory at Perambur in Chennai. The coaches, which arrived last week, wouldn’t be commissioned immediately. They would undergo a battery of tests and inspections first. Sources, who have seen the new coaches, said the seating capacity was lesser than that of the existing coaches. Salem railway division officials confirmed that four new coaches had arrived at Mettupalayam on February 18. With this, the NMR has received a total of 19 new coaches. “We had ordered for 28 coaches around five years ago and been receiving them in batches of four for the past two years,” said an NMR spokesperson. He said the newly arrived rakes would undergo multiple tests and inspections before putting them to use. TOI had reported that the NMR had received four new rakes after four decades in February 2019. The coaches that are running on the NMR are more than four decades old. Designed and manufactured by the integral coach factory, the new coaches are supposed to come with cushioned seats and larger windows, offering panoramic views. The coaches have chair cars, but with seats facing each other. The coaches, which are made of stainless steel, are expected to be extremely light weight and easy to pull along. They are likely to be more disabled-friendly with space and wider doors for wheelchairs to be carried inside and separate seats for them. “Each rake should be able to accommodate 146 passengers,” an official said. Despite increasing the fare, the NMR runs full on weekdays and weekends. As a result, tourists are often forced to book the weekend special train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nmr-gets-4-new-coaches/articleshow/81197673.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Ensure proper operation of STPs at Kondli by May 31: NGT||New Delhi: National Green Tribunal has directed Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to ensure proper operation and maintenance of sewage treatment plants (STPs) at Kondli by May 31. “Despite consistent failure of DJB, we are inclined to award heavy costs, we defer this aspect till the next date with a direction that, if the needful is not done even by May 31, the DJB CEO will be liable to pay Rs 5 lakh per month till compliance,” said the bench. DJB has missed a few deadlines in the past. A petition was filed in NGT demanding a remedial action against bad odour from the STP, Kondli, as it was not being operated according to norms. Delhi Pollution Control Committee, in a report submitted to the tribunal in 2019 said, “Based on water laboratory analysis of the samples collected at the outlet, 25 million gallons per day STP (Phase-II) and 45 million gallons per day STP (Phase-IV) are not meeting the prescribed standards. The directions issued on August 2019, required the Jal Board to provide effective odour-control mechanism by March 30, 2020. The said direction also required it to rectify the deficiencies for proper operation and maintenance of STPs at Kondli.” However, DJB in January last year informed NGT that the total timeline mentioned for completion of the said work was five months after issue of Work Order by DJB for supply, installation, testing and commissioning (SITC) of the two stage biological odor control units (OCUs) in the proposed locations of STP, including complete connections with existing plant, online monitoring system, and all allied works with five years operation and maintenance of the system. After failing to ensure compliance on time, DJB recently told NGT that it would complete the work before May this year. Even the Central Monitoring Committee (CMC), which has now taken over the role of monitoring progress for all the Yamuna-related projects, in a report released for NGT had said the three most crucial projects — Rithala, Kondli and Okhla — were behind schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ensure-proper-operation-of-stps-at-kondli-by-may-31-ngt/articleshow/81218775.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Girls colleges after ex-MLAs ahead of assembly bypolls||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had his eyes firmly placed on the upcoming assembly bypolls in four constituencies while presenting the state Budget on Wednesday. Being the astute politician that he is, Gehlot not only announced to open girls’ colleges in the four constituencies but also declared to name these after the legislators who died during the pandemic last year.The Budget announcement was in addition to the 178 development works worth over Rs 157-cr the CM announced last week for the four constituencies — Rajsamand, Sahara (Bhilwara), Vallabnagar (Udaipur) and Sujangarh (Churu). Political observers believe the announcements could give the ruling Congress an edge over the opposition BJP in the bypolls. “We are sad that our four colleagues are no longer with us. To make their memories last forever, I announce to open Kiran Maheshwari girls college in Koria, Rajsamand; Gajendra Singh Shaktawat girls college in Bhindar, Udaipur; Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal girls college in Sujangarh, Churu, and Kailash Trivedi girls college in Gangapur, Bhilwara,” Gehlot said, amid thumping of tables even by the opposition members. With Prime Minister Narendra Modi having hinted that the election commission could announce dates for assembly elections in five states by March first week, it is believed that the bypolls would be held simultaneously and the model code of conduct for elections could come into force soon. The state Budget provided the much-needed opportunity for the chief minister to make special announcements for the four constituencies. Resting on a thin majority of 104 Congress MLAs in the 200-seat house, the ruling party would want to win all four seats in the bypolls. Except for Rajsamand, the three seats with the Congress until their legislators died of illness last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/girls-colleges-after-ex-mlas-ahead-of-assembly-bypolls/articleshow/81197679.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Kochi||No HC relief in Kerala interfaith marriage||KOCHI: The 30-day notice period for marriages, under the Special Marriage Act, cannot waived off without amending the Act nor can a ‘digital marriage’ be allowed to save time, observed the high court. The observation was made by justice PV Asha after considering a petition (WP-C No. 3421/2021) filed by Shitha VK of Palakkad through advocate M Kabani Dinesh. She had sought to waive off the 30-day notice period or conduct the marriage through digital mode as she had to be present before a UK college for admission to a postgraduate course. She got married in a private function on January 15 but is seeking registration under the Act as she and her husband belong to different religions, the petition said. After referring to the provisions of the Act, the court said it cannot direct for conducting the procedures online, in the absence of both parties near the registration officer and witnesses. While dismissing the plea, the court said in the judgment, "The aforesaid provisions would show that the period prescribed for each of the steps, leading to the solemnization of marriage, warrants strict interpretation and there cannot be a relaxation. The minimum waiting period for a notice should therefore be 30 days. The contention of the petitioner that she does require the marriage to be solemnized only on completion of 30 days but only requires the solemnization on digital mode cannot also be permitted as there is no provision in the Act which permits the same and there is no provision which permits the procedure in digital form…." "…I am of the view that unless the provisions contained in the Special Marriage Act are amended, it would not be possible either to relax the mandatory period of notice or to permit marriage in digital form, especially when penal consequences are provided in the Act," the court said in the judgment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cant-waive-30-day-notice-or-allow-digital-marriage-hc/articleshow/81196237.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Goa||Stimac may give Brandon, Sahal more time to recover||Panaji: Players who are recovering from injuries or have just made a comeback are unlikely to be part of the Indian team for the friendlies against Oman and United Arab Emirates in Dubai next month. Several Indian team regulars are either recovering or just recovered, and national coach Igor Stimac is likely to allow these players more time to get into the groove. “I have to be realistic about the injuries,” Stimac told TOI earlier this week. “I will not force any player to play these games in Dubai. Oman and UAE are strong opponents and there will be plenty of challenges. It’s better to give the injured players more time.” Stimac’s assertion could mean the absence of several influential players. FC Goa winger Brandon Fernandes, recovering from a minor surgery, is out of these games, even though there is a possibility he could make a comeback in less than two weeks. Brandon has been out of action with a quadricep tear since the clash against ATK Moun Bagan on January 17 and resumed training with his Goa teammates only on Thursday. Sahal Abdul Samad has also found himself on the treatment table. The Kerala Blasters star played just five minutes of the clash against Chennaiyin FC last week and felt pain in his hamstring again. Sources said he needed at least two weeks to recover. Chennaiyin FC midfielder Anirudh Thapa has missed several games with injury this season, and even though he played the full 90 minutes against Kerala, his selection appears in doubt. Kerala full-back Nishu Kumar and Hyderabad’s impressive youngster Ashish Rai are nursing injuries at the moment, while Adil Khan missed one game and was an unused substitute in Goa’s win against Bengaluru FC. Whether he has done enough to convince Stimac remains to be seen. “I have been told by our medical team and the clubs that some of the players would need about two weeks to recover. I don’t want any of the players to be rushed,” said Stimac. Stimac will name 28 probables and eight reserves for the two friendlies in Dubai. The camp will commence on March 15, after the conclusion of the Indian Super League. India are fourth in Group E of the Fifa World Cup 2022 qualifiers with three points from their first five matches. Qatar top the table with 13 points while Oman are close second with 12 points. India are aiming for a third-place finish in the group which will provide them with a direct spot in the third round of the Asian Cup 2023 qualifiers. They will resume their campaign in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stimac-may-give-brandon-sahal-more-time-to-recover/articleshow/81216699.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 25, 2021||Coimbatore||Ornaments, cash stolen from house||Coimbatore: The city police are on the lookout for the miscreants who decamped with 10 sovereign gold ornaments, 200g silver and Rs 20,000 from a house at Selvapuram on Tuesday. Houseowner K Kaja Moideen, 38, had left for Tirunelveli along with his family on February 16. His younger brother Thameem Ansari, who visited the house, was shocked to find the lock on the front door broke open. Alerted by his brother, Moideen returned to the house to find the valuables missing.The Selvapuram police have registered an FIR under sections 457 (house breaking) and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ornaments-cash-stolen-from-house/articleshow/81197706.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore gets its first sublime ‘model road’||COIMBATORE: While travelling down the DB Road at RS Puram in the city, don’t be surprised to see Thirukkural couplets and information about local heroes like Diwan Bahadur CS Rathnasabhapathy Mudaliar and GR Damodaran with their pictures on the boards on either side of the road. This is the model road that you have been waiting for long. Municipal administration minister S P Velumani inaugurated the 1.8km stretch that have been converted into model road at a cost of Rs 24.71 crore on Wednesday. Under the project, the city corporation has set up a times square at the Post Office Junction. A corporation source said, “We have sitting arena on three of the intersections around the times square and a selfie spot on the fourth intersection. By widening footpaths and streamlining parking arrangements, the road has been made pedestrian friendly.” To honour the local personalities, who had contributed to the welfare of the society, their pictures with a small write-up on them are displayed on information boards, where you could also find Thirukkural couplets. Each board would have a small space for shopkeepers to advertise their products and shops as well. “All utilities like electrical and communication wires, drinking water and sewage pipelines, have been laid underground and manhole like provisions are provided along the road to carry out repair works without digging the road. Pipelines to provide household sewage and drinking water connections have been laid till the end of the road, which needn’t be dug up for providing connections in future,” the source said. He said the city corporation had been planning to stop vehicles from parking on the road. “Once the multi-level car and two-wheeler parking facility on the road opens for the public, vehicles will not be allowed to park on the road. We will also offer shuttle service to the public free of cost.” RS Puram residents are now on cloud nine and beaming with pride. Nagaraj, one of the residents, said, “No other road in the city is like ours and it stands out for international standards. In the evening, the road is sparkling with beautiful lights. Now, it is the responsibility of the public to keep the road clean and without damage.” Another resident, P Moorthy, said earlier they had to be very cautious while using the footpath, which was filled with potholes. “But now that footpaths are made of granite corbel stones, we need not worry about anything. Benches are installed at multiple places along the road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-gets-its-first-sublime-model-road/articleshow/81197732.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Auction of 269 CHB properties after lowering reserve price||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided to auction 269 properties, including 11 residential (leasehold), 108 residential (freehold) and 150 commercial (leasehold) in a phased manner, after reducing the reserve price by 10% to 20%. The dates will be decided in the board of directors meeting on March 9. The CHB’s proposal was also approved by the Chandigarh administration recently. The reserve price was reduced in the wake of a poor response to last year’s auctions. These 269 properties are in sectors 51, 63, 38 (West) and 39 and Manimajra. Among these are 51 new flats, which were part of CHB’s costliest housing scheme in the city till now. The commercial properties are located in Manimajra, sectors 51 and 61 and Maloya. A senior board officer said these properties had been lying vacant for the past many years and their condition was deteriorating. The board has also tied up with National Informatics Centre (NIC) for e-auction. After registration with the CHB, the interested people will have 10 to 15 days to place their bid. The board has fixed the reserve price of HIG flat (leasehold) in Sector 39 at Rs 1.05 crore, of a three-bedroom flat (freehold) in Sector 63 at Rs 86.24 lakh, a two-bedroom flat in Sector 51 between Rs 81 lakh and Rs 84 lakh. The reserve price of one-bedroom flat has been fixed at Rs 39.38 lakh and EWS flat at Rs 24.35 lakh in Sector 49, while that of a two-bedroom flat in Sector 49 between Rs 69.87 lakh and Rs 71.26 lakh. The reserve price of a two-bedroom flat in Sector 63 has been fixed at 67.3 lakh, of an HIG flat (leasehold) in Sector 45-A at Rs 1.07 crore, of a restaurant site in Manimajra at Rs 2.59 crore and of a small booth (corner) at Rs 97 lakh.  Earnest money For properties worth Rs 1 crore, the earnest money will be around Rs 2 lakh, for Rs 1 crore to 1.5 crore, around Rs 3 lakh and for Rs 1.5 crore to Rs 2 crore, around Rs 4 lakh. However, the final decision will be taken in the board’s meeting on March 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/auction-of-269-chb-properties-after-lowering-reserve-price/articleshow/81196241.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||‘New strains spread faster, take vaccine’||CHANDIGARH: Worried about the new strains and rise in Covid-19 infections, PGI director Prof Jagat Ram said all healthcare workers (HCWs) must be vaccinated as they are most exposed to the virus. Out of 11,500 HCWs, PGI has vaccinated over 4,000 staff members. Prof Jagat Ram said, “The new Indian strain of the virus has faster transmission, though nothing is known about its virulence (severity). But we need to take extra care. Also, there has been a rise in few states, including our neighbour Punjab.” During an open house debate, the director appealed to all the HCWs to protect themselves so that they can work in hospitals without much exposure. This is the first time when all the HCWs were allowed to question in an open forum. Also, the mop-up round of the HCWs is on Thursday, which is the last chance for them for Covid vaccination. Sharing the data of the HCWs who tested positive to date, Prof Pankaj Malhotra, member of the vaccination committee, said, “Till now over 1,500 HCWs from the institute have been infected since April. We used to daily see about 10 HCWs report positive for the virus and now after vaccination was introduced, there are about two Covid-infected HCWs. This shows the efficacy of the vaccine.” Elaborating on the need to stay protected and gain confidence on a vaccine that had undergone trials in PGI, Prof SS Pandav, chairman of the vaccination committee, said, “Neighbouring Punjab has been seeing a rise in the Covid cases, so we need to be cautious. Do not think that the virus has faded. There is no cure for this infection. Developed countries are asking for our vaccine and unfortunately we are hesitant. There is a communication gap that we need to address.” To date, the vaccination coverage of the city has reached 41%, which is counted under the category of states with less than 60% coverage. Puducherry, Punjab and Chandigarh are in the lowest slot of coverage for the HCWs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-strains-spread-faster-take-vaccine/articleshow/81196258.cms||Shimona Kanwar
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Brothers steal jewellery from friend’s house for iPhone, bike||NEW DELHI: The greed to buy the latest model of iPhone and a bike led two brothers to make away with jewellery worth Rs 3 lakh from their friend’s house during a party in southeast Delhi’s Kalindi Kunj on Tuesday . The victim’s family had approached police after the party when they realised that some jewellery were missing. The two men, Manish (24) and Sunny (23), were arrested with the help of CCTV footage. Manish is a graduate who worked as a sales officer at a private bank, while Sunny worked at a call centre. Manish wanted to buy the latest version of iPhone and his brother wished to buy a bike with the stolen jewellery, police said. A gold necklace, six gold bangles, four pairs of silver anklets, a silver jewellery set and a toe ring were recovered from them. The jewellery was hidden in a box of rice in their kitchen, the cops added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/brothers-steal-jewellery-for-iphone-bike/articleshow/81218800.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Coimbatore||New inspector general of police takes charge||Coimbatore: All steps would be taken to successfully conduct the 2021 assembly election in the west zone, said R Dhinakaran, a 1988-batch IPS officer who took charge as the inspector general of police (IGP) on Wednesday. He has a four-point agenda, the officer told reporters. “I shall solve public grievances at the earliest, check illegal activities, take strict action against anti-social elements and ensure smooth conduct of assembly election in the eight districts under the west zone,” he said “Cops are on alert and are conducting vehicle checks to prevent untoward incidents ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Coimbatore on Thursday.”A native of Virudhunagar district, Dhinakaran earned a PhD in Agriculture from the India Agriculture Research Institute in New Delhi in 1998 after completing masters from the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University here. He joined duty as an assistant superintendent in Madurai in 1999 and served as the superintendent of police in Coimbatore from 2002 to 2005. Prior to taking charge of IGP, he served as the additional commissioner of police (law & order), south of the Greater Chennai Police. Dhinakaran is a recipient of the President’s Police Medal for Meritorious Service in 2013 and the Chief Minister’s Police Medal for Excellence in Public Service in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/new-inspector-general-of-police-takes-charge/articleshow/81197738.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Woman with city link is paving our way to Mars with space rocks||“Please say CREWED mission, not manned,” Dr Meenakshi Wadhwa, who studied in the city, breaks off mid-thought to stress the point. “I am certain that the first such mission will have women on the team.” We are discussing the likelihood of human beings stepping foot on Mars. As chair of the Science Committee in NASA’s Advisory Council, Wadhwa knows what she’s talking about. She heads the School of Earth and Space Exploration at Arizona State University, and after studying space rocks–some of them from Mars–for years, she also knows more about the red planet than most experts. She is the recipient of this year’s J Lawrence Smith Medal – the highest honour in the field of meteoritics (science of meteors, meteorites and meteoroids). But, as a teenager surrounded by Le Corbusier’s modernist buildings in 1980s’ Chandigarh, all she wanted to be was an architect.  “At that time I had just read The Fountainhead by Ayn Rand. The book inspired in me a glorified image of an architect,” she told Discover Magazine in 2004. Geology happened when she could not get a seat at the architecture college. The geology department at Panjab University was a lonely place for a woman at the time, but in the same Discover article she says, “I’m glad I followed my instincts.” Space, and Mars, weren’t on Wadhwa’s trajectory at first, although she was in awe of an older family friend, Kalpana Chawla, who was studying aerospace engineering at Punjab Engineering College. Wadhwa was a 13-year-old student at Chandigarh’s Carmel Convent School for girls when she first knew Chawla. “She was always a source of great inspiration for me,” she says of the late NASA astronaut who died in the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster in 2003. They never met after Chawla left Chandigarh, but years later, Wadhwa married astronaut Dr Scott Parazynski, who had known Chawla well as “they shared an office at NASA’s Johnson Space Center for a time.” Now that NASA has landed its Perseverance rover on Mars, what does she think of SpaceX CEO Elon Musk’s hopes of a ‘crewed’ mission to Mars by 2026? “I think that landing humans on Mars in that time frame is quite ambitious, but I certainly hope that will happen sometime in the 2030s,” she says. It sounds strange but some of the meteorites found on Earth are actually bits of Mars. They were dislodged when large objects collided with the planet, and flew millions of kilometres to reach Earth. That hope hinges on the retrieval of Martian rock samples for a better understanding of the planet. But samples collected by Perseverance aren’t expected back until 2031. So, meteorites collected by Wadhwa and other space rock hunters will fill in until then. Martian meteorites, Wadhwa says, provide “insights into the planet’s origin and geologic evolution. To prepare for a crewed mission, we need to have a good understanding of the conditions and potential hazards on Mars.” A keen trekker and explorer, Wadhwa has been on meteorite collecting expeditions in Antarctica and has picked volcanic samples that are considered to be analogues of Martian volcanic rocks, in other faraway places like Iceland. Wadhwa became deeply interested in Mars when she learned about Martian meteorites as a graduate student. “I was immediately intrigued by these rocks, and all that they could reveal about the geologic evolution of Mars.” Over the years, her studies have improved the understanding of the composition and evolution of Mars’s crust and mantle, and the evolution of water on it. She is credited with “refining” the age of the solar system. Scientists estimate the age of meteorites and ancient rocks on Earth by measuring the uranium-235 and uranium-238 isotopes in them. These isotopes decay into lead with time. Wadhwa’s research group calculated a more precise ratio of the uranium isotopes, thus improving the accuracy of the “uranium-lead clock”. Back in 2004, her dream was to “have, within my lifetime, actual rocks picked up from the surface of Mars to examine in my laboratory.” The Perseverance mission has put it within reach. But has she never dreamt about flying to her favourite planet? “I have always been fascinated by airplanes and spacecraft,” she says (she has a pilot’s licence). “With all the developments in commercial space, it will become easier for many more people to experience space travel. So I’m not counting myself out just yet – it is possible that I may experience space flight sometime in the future!” Meanwhile, the asteroid 8356 Wadhwa – named after her in 1999 – continues to buzz Mars every 3.8 years. She hasn’t gotten around to seeing it though.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-with-city-link-is-paving-our-way-to-mars-with-space-rocks/articleshow/81196257.cms||Abhilash Gaur
February 25, 2021||Delhi||19 arrested, 25 FIRs filed in Republic Day clash: Centre to Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: The Centre told Delhi High Court on Wednesday that 19 people had been arrested and 25 FIRs lodged in connection with the Republic Day violence during the farmers’ tractor rally. Additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma told the court that 50 people were detained and investigation was ongoing into the incident, following which adequate security personnel had been deployed at the monument. The submissions by police and the Centre came on a PIL that sought removal of people squatting under the garb of farmers agitation, and clear all the roads and public places. Taking note, a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh said it would first find out if any similar matter was already filed in or pending before or disposed of by the Supreme Court. It asked the Centre to give details of any similar matter in the apex court and listed the petition by a Delhi resident, Dhananjai Jain, for a hearing next month. The plea also sought direction to remove the Delhi Police commissioner with immediate effect and punish all the cops, who allegedly failed in discharging their duties relating to the Red Fort incident. According to the plea, the Centre must be ordered to put adequate paramilitary forces to protect important monuments and ensure safety of life and property of citizens of Delhi, and restore feeling of confidence and security among them. On January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the contentious new farm laws till further orders, and constituted a four-member committee to make recommendations to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and the farmers’ unions protesting at Delhi borders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/19-arrested-25-firs-filed-in-r-day-clash-centre-to-hc/articleshow/81197765.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Gehlot budget brings joy in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: The state budget brought cheer among the hapless Pakistan Hindu migrants when chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced a residential scheme for them in Jodhpur on Thursday. This affordable residential project worth Rs 102 crore will come up in Chokha area and will accommodate 1,700 migrants. Jodhpur received a measurable favour across diverse sectors in Gehlot’s budgetary announcement in his budget speech, most importantly the medical and health and education. Jodhpur’s Umaid Hospital, biggest women and children hospital in western Rajasthan, will be having a national-level neonatal institute, while a new diagnostic wing will come up at MDM Hospital at a cost of Rs 17 crore. The trauma centre of the hospital will also have an extension for which Rs 25 crore has been allocated, while Paota Hospital will now have 300 beds, an increase of 150 beds with a 50-bed ICU. A regional cancer institute and a panchkrama international centre at Ayurveda University has also been proposed to be built in Jodhpur. A new department for arthritis will also be introduced at SN Medical College. In the education sector, Jodhpur will have a digital university, a public health college, a naturopathy college and a girls’ college besides a separate college for deaf and dumb. Gehlot has also abundantly proposed civil and infrastructure works in Jodhpur, which include Rs 302 crore for developing and improving sewerage and Rs 191 crore for drainage system. A budget of Rs 100 crore has also been proposed for a loop route to ease traffic problem and heritage conservation besides Rs 10 crore for developing new route for Mehrangarh Fort and Rs 2 crore for development of Machia Fort at Machai Safari Park. He also proposed a number of projects worth over Rs 112 crore for the district under Janta Jal Yojna and Jal Jeewan Mission to provide drinking water accessibility in the villages and hamlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-budget-brings-joy-in-jodhpur/articleshow/81197723.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Merit list of constables recruitment be made at state level : HC||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday ordered that the merit list of the constable’s recruitment exam 2019 should be made at the state-level and not at the district-level of the candidate’s choice.The single bench of Justice S P Sharma gave the order on a petition by Jagir Ahmed who challenged the district-level merit list.The court said action of the respondents in preparing merit list of constables at the district-level after conducting selection at state-level is illegal.The court directed the DGP to act strictly in accordance with the standing orders issued for recruitment and prepare a combined merit list of all the candidates who have appeared as per the advertisement.The court said it is of the firm view that the selections and bifurcation on merits at district-level goes against the principles of Article 14 of the Constitution and an inherent discrimination between the similarly placed persons is found to be committed.The court said physical efficiency test of the candidates who have cleared the written examination at the concerned district as opted in the application from. After including the marks obtained in the physical efficiency test and the marks obtained as per the other certificates and as well as in the interview, a combined merit list of all such candidates for the post of constables (General Duties) and Constable (Driver) must be prepared respectively at the state-level.The successful candidates as per the respective cut-off for each category could be posted at various districts according to their merit and choice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/merit-list-of-constables-recruitment-be-made-at-state-level-hc/articleshow/81197735.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Budget is dedicated to health: CM||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehot claimed that he tried to provide relief to all sections of the population despite reeling under Covid situation and the Centre reducing the state’s share of GST by Rs 14,000 crore in the current financial year. “My government made a provision for relief worth Rs 910 crore without levying any taxes,” Gehlot claimed it is his magic at work. He said, “I feel that every section of the society has suffered due to the corona pandemic. So no new tax has been proposed, but relief to the tune of Rs 910 crore is being provided.” Gehlot said the highlight of his budget is the ‘universal health cover scheme’ which encompasses all sections of the population. Even the rich could get health cover of Rs 5 lakh with nominal premium, he claimed. He squarely put the blame on the Centre for the ever-increasing prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas which put a heavy burden on the common man. “Despite the state government reducing 2% VAT, it could not make any impact as the prices of petroleum products are being hiked every day,” said the chief minister. He said the state government had to incur a revenue loss of Rs 1,000 crore a year on account of VAT cut. At the current crude oil price, petrol should not be priced more than Rs 50, he claimed. When asked how he could find money for the many ambitious schemes announced in the Budget, he said better fiscal management is the key. “Plugging leakage of revenue and better mobilization of resources are the key,” said the chief minister. “Despite Covid, we were able to implement 86% of the announcements made in the last budget,” he claimed. Responding to the charge that the Budget has been made keeping an eye on the upcoming bypoll, he said, “The opposition claims it is a midterm poll Budget. But I assure you the government will complete its full term and would return to power in 2023.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/budget-is-dedicated-to-health-cm/articleshow/81197690.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Coimbatore||Truck knocks pedestrians to death||Krishnagiri: A speeding truck knocked two pedestrians to death near Kurubarapalli here on Wednesday.The Kurubarapalli police identified the deceased as K Raman, 81, and his friend Kangoji Rao, 81, both residents of Kupichiparai village. An investigation officer said the incident occurred while the two were returning home after the regular check-up at the government hospital at Kurubarapalli.“They suddenly crossed the Bengaluru-Chennai National Highway without noticing vehicles. A speeding container truck that was heading to Coimbatore from New Delhi hit them,” the officer said. Both them died on the spot. When alerted, the Kurubarapalli police sent the dead bodies to the government hospital in Krishnagiri town for postmortem. “The truck driver, whose identity is yet to be established, managed to escape from the spot after the incident,” the cop said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/truck-knocks-pedestrians-to-death/articleshow/81197772.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Coimbatore||PM to sound poll bugle in TN today||Coimbatore and Puducherry are all set for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit on Thursday, as BJP leaders and cadres throng the western TN industrial city and the coastal Union territory.BJP state president L Murugan and a host of state BJP leaders arrived in Coimbatore a day ahead of Modi’s visit. “This is the first election campaign Modi is going to address in TN,” said L Murugan at Codissia grounds, the public meeting venue. Modi would be participating in a government event where he would lay the foundation stone for a few projects and inaugurate some projects which are completed and later a public meeting.“We expect more than five lakh cadres including many women to congregate in Coimbatore,’’ BJP national women’s wing president Vanathi Srinivasan, who had organized an all-woman bike rally to welcome Modi, said.According to the Prime Minister’s office, Modi would be visiting Puducherry in the morning and lay the foundation stone for four-laning of Villupuram–Nagapattinam national highway stretch covering Puducherry’s enclave Karaikal around 11.30am. He will also lay foundation stones of the Rs 491 crore Medical College Building at Karaikal New Campus-Phase I and the development of Minor Port in Puducherry under the Sagarmala Scheme. He would then inaugurate the Blood Centre at JIPMER.Later, Modi would fly down to Coimbatore, where he will dedicate to the nation the Neyveli New Thermal Power Project. The 1,000 MW lignite-based power plant has two units of 500 MW capacity each and was built at a cost of about Rs 8,000 crore. The power generated would benefit Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Puducherry, with Tamil Nadu having a major share of about 65%, according to the PMO. He would also dedicate to the nation the 709 MW Solar Power Project established over 2,670 acres across Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar districts. The project has been set up at a cost of over Rs 3,000 crore.Modi would lay the foundation stone of the extension, renovation and modernization of Lower Bhavani Project System, estimated at Rs 934 crore under NABARD Infrastructure Development Assistance. He would inaugurate the eight-laning of Korampallam Bridge and Rail Over Bridge (ROB) at V O Chidambaranar Port, and lay the foundation stone for development of Integrated Command and Control Centers (ICCC) in nine Smart Cities including Coimbatore and Tirupur.Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam would also participate in the event. BJP’s TN in charge C T Ravi said alliance party leaders have not been invited for the public meeting since it was a BJP event, and when a similar meeting was organised by NDA, alliance party leaders would be invited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pm-to-sound-poll-bugle-in-tn-today/articleshow/81197747.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Coimbatore||More domestic flights to resume operations||Coimbatore: Despite SpiceJet stopping all flights to and from the city, Coimbatorians can expect an exciting flight schedule ahead.GoAir is continuing flights from Mumbai and Indigo is planning to operate 19 flights from the city to various destinations in the country. While Chennai, being the most popular destination, may get six flights, Hyderabad may get four and New Delhi two, giving frequent fliers more flexibility and the possibility of cheaper fares. Three of the 19 flights will be base flights.The schedule, of which TOI has a copy, includes six flights to Chennai, three to Bengaluru, two to Mumbai, four to Hyderabad and one to Pune. The two flights, in addition to GoAir’s flight, gives frequent fliers to the commercial capital three options. The schedule comes into force from March 28.“These are proposed flights, but are pending final approval,” said an IndiGo spokesperson.With the school holiday season beginning on April 1 and the Covid-19 vaccine reaching old and the vulnerable people, families are excited about the schedule. “The increase in number of flights to Chennai definitely improve our options of flying to Jaipur and Jodhpur,” said Kanya Jain, who is planning a Rajasthan trip with her family in May. “We can also look at convenient and quick options to Kashmir via New Delhi and Goa via Chennai or Bangalore,” said Krishna Alwar, a software professional, who hopes for cheap and convenient flights this summer.Incidentally, there is a Goa to Coimbatore flight and a Coimbatore to Jaipur flight via Hyderabad and a flight to Guwahati via Chennai. In all these schedules, Coimbatore passengers can remain inside the same flight, which saves hassle and time.Even more exciting are the proposed three base flights. While the flight from Bangalore lands at 9.10pm in Coimbatore, it departs at 6.15am. The flight from Mumbai lands at 9.50pm and departs at 6.20am. The one from Chennai lands at 9.55pm and departs at 6.30am. However, none of them will get VAT exemption, though they depart before 7am, because they land before 11pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/more-domestic-flights-to-resume-operations/articleshow/81197761.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Farmers stir in Bundi to reopen sugar mill||Kota: Thousands of farmers from nearly 100 villages around Keshoraipatan town of Bundi district were disappointed not to hear any word from chief minister Ashok Gehlot on resumption of operations of closed sugar mills in the town. The state government’s pro-farmer attitude and claims of boosting farmer-friendly industry has come across hollow to these farmers, hundreds of whom have been staging a dharna at Keshoraipatan town for around two weeks now, with their demand for getting the state government’s nod for reopening of the sugar mill lying closed for nearly two decades. Besides the ongoing dharna, the farmers of the area had kicked off an intensive agitation to pressurise the state government to restart the sugar mill at Keshoraipatan immediately after a sub-committee of the ministry of state government, on the ground of incurring losses, decided for the closure of the mill in 2002-03. Stressing on the need to restart the sugar mill, the farmers associated with the agitation claimed that the required land of 170 bighas to restart the functioning of the mill, is already available with necessary machinery, godowns, residential colony and administrative building, which only need maintenance and repairing. A cash of Rs 15–20 crore also deposited in the bank account held by the sugar mill and the project report to restart the mill stated that the deposited amount is sufficient to afford the maintenance and repairing, the farmers claimed. The sugar mill in Keshoraipatan with existing machinery and infrastructure is capable of producing 5,000 metric tonnes after maintenance and repair, which is likely to cost only Rs 2-3 crore, the farmers claimed. On failing to get state government’s nod for resumption of operations of the mill in Keshoraipatan, around 4,000 farmers from the villages around the area, with a motive to operate the sugar mill on the basis of a self-sufficient body through cooperative society, registered an organisation, Ganna Anshdhari Samiti, around six years ago, but the option remains unapproved by the government till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-stir-in-bundi-to-reopen-sugar-mill/articleshow/81197780.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||IT searches on pharma co||Hyderabad: Income-tax officials on Wednesday conducted searches on MSN Laboratories Private Limited and its subsidiary MSN Pharmachem Private Limited. The company is owned by Manne Satyanarayana Reddy. Searches were conducted at Sanathnagar and other office premises of the pharma firm. MSN Labs has global presence and its operations are spread over various countries. Founded in 2003, Hyderabad-based MSN Labs is a research-based pharmaceutical company in India. Sources said the investigation wing of IT-Hyderabad is looking into various purchases made by the company recently. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/it-searches-on-pharma-co/articleshow/81197776.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||SEZs and townships will boost traffic, feels govt||Hyderabad: The Centre had earlier asked the Telangana government about financial viability and mode of the project, said sources. “Generally, projects like ORR are taken up either on build, operate and transfer (BOT), annuity model or engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) method. Since many townships and SEZs are coming up beyond ORR, state government is hoping that traffic volumes will be more on RRR,” sources in state government said. R&B department has sent a letter to Centre on available options for taking up the project and collecting cost in form of toll . TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sezs-and-townships-will-boost-traffic-feels-govt/articleshow/81199549.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||SC: Place fresh charge sheet on record in Palghar case||New Delhi: Supreme Court on Wednesday asked Maharashtra police to place on record the second supplementary charge sheet filed in the case related to the alleged lynching of three people, including two seers, in Palghar district in April 2020. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy was informed by the counsel for the Maharashtra government that a second supplementary charge sheet has been filed in the case. The bench said the fresh charge sheet shall be placed before it on record in two weeks and posted the matter for further hearing thereafter. On September 7 last year, state police had informed the top court that it has punished “delinquent” policemen for dereliction of duty in the case. The top court on August 6 last year had asked state police to apprise it of the inquiry and action taken against the errant police personnel in the case. Police had said 18 police personnel have been awarded varying punishments and some dismissed from service or retired. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sc-place-fresh-charge-sheet-on-record-in-palghar-case/articleshow/81197390.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||‘50 acres of waqf land in Hafizpet encroached’||Hyderabad: Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) chairman Mohammed Saleem on Wednesday said that almost 50 acres of Waqf land out of 143 acres in Hafizpet has been encroached upon. Addressing a press conference held to mark the completion of his four years in office, he said, “The board makes it clear that it will not bow down to any pressure and will do its best to make Waqf properties protected first.” Saleem said that the government, board members and officials concerned of different departments have decided to jointly work towards protecting Waqf properties across the state. He said that the board has managed to remove encroachments by cancelling several registrations on Waqf land at various places in the state. “All possible efforts are being made to reclaim Waqf properties and we are dealing with the issue firmly,” he said. On the Waqf land in Hafizpet, Saleem said that they are identifying the encroachers. “Dargah Hazrath Mir Mahmood Sahab Qibla (RH) located at Attapura over 16 acres of land, Masjid-e-Alamgeer, Guttalabegumpet, Ashoorkhana Ali Saad, Mamidipally, Viceroy Hotel and other land disputes have been taken up seriously,” Saleem said. Meanwhile, the board said it has generated income amounting to Rs 109,86,92,281 in the last four years. Saleem also informed that around six old and neglected mosques have been rehabilitated so far during his tenure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-acres-of-waqf-land-in-hafizpet-encroached/articleshow/81197784.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Imam gets 10-yr RI for sodomy bid||Hyderabad: A local court has sentenced a 26-year-old imam from Santosh Nagar to undergo 10 years rigorous imprisonment for attempting to sodomize a nine-year-old boy. On June 1, 2018, a housewife from Santosh Nagar lodged a complaint with police saying that her 9-year-old son went to a worship place near their house on May 28, 2018 and returned home crying. When she asked him why he was crying, he told her that the accused had attempted to sodomize him. Based on the complaint, Santosh Nagar police registered arrested the accused. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/imam-gets-10-yr-ri-for-sodomy-bid/articleshow/81197749.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Thane||Out-of-turn vaccine for Thane mayor, Sena legislator, his son & other netas||THANE: Some elected representatives from Thane, including the mayor Naresh Mhaske of the Shiv Sena, Sena MLC Ravindra Fatak, his teenaged son and a few other Sena corporators and leaders have taken the Covid vaccine. Their out-of-turn vaccinations – healthcare and frontline workers are being vaccinated in the current phase -- led the BJP to allege misuse of power. But the leaders said in their defence that they had taken the jabs to reassure healthcare and frontline workers who were shying away from getting vaccinated and claimed the shots were taken following due procedure. Thane mayor Mhaske confirmed taking the first dose at the Covid hospital in the city on February 20 after completing the mandatory registration on the CoWIN app. He claimed to have got approval from the state government after he had requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last December to allow netas to be vaccinated in the initial phase. “The Thane civic corporation had decided to let netas take the vaccine in the initial phase. The administration also requested me to take the vaccine and boost the confidence of healthcare and frontline workers as many were hesitant to take it. All due procedures were completed before taking the vaccine. A few other corporators and leaders have also been vaccinated,” Mhaske told TOI. Sena MLC Ravindra Fatak also admitted he had taken the first shot along with his teenaged son, who assists him in politics. “Our names were recommended by the administration, so we got ourselves registered on the app,” he said, adding that he along with his corporator wife were infected last year and wanted to get the vaccine to reassure their followers of its safety. A senior official from the Thane civic administration said the vaccinations were done following directions from municipal commissioner Dr Vipin Sharma. Dr Sharma was not available for comment. The BJP questioned why netas had jumped the queue. “The mayor seems to have bent rules. The mayor and the administration should reveal what permissions were obtained to allow the leaders to get the jabs,” said BJP group leader in the TMC, Manohar Dumbre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/out-of-turn-vaccine-for-thane-mayor-sena-legislator-his-son-other-netas/articleshow/81197833.cms||Manoj Badgeri
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Fake rape case: Is depression to blame for the girl’s death?||HYDERABAD: The five diabetes tablets missing from the strip made the father suspicious about the cause of the death of his daughter in the fake kidnap-cum-gangrape drama. The teen, who had lodged a false gangrape complaint, died on Wednesday. At 10 pm on Tuesday, the father noticed the missing tablets, but he did not inquire about them as he thought that his daughter was sleeping in another room. However, after noticing froth from the 19-year-old’s mouth at 10.30 am on Wednesday, he shifted the girl to a nearby hospital where she was declared brought dead. “After police declared that her complaint regarding kidnap and rape was fake, she must have realised her mistake. As many have come to know about the incident, she must have felt depressed about it. This had also impacted her health and she restricted herself to her house,” Ghatkesar police said. The police have requested Gandhi Hospital to preserve her viscera and send it to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) to find out what she had consumed. Officials said that it might take a month to get the FSL report. After they realised that her complaint was fake, officials said she was counselled by the police. However, the police did not contact her after the incident. Ever since the incident, the girl stopped going to her college and was hardly seen outside. Meanwhile, a number of locals turned up at the residence of the deceased girl. The girl was the only child of the bereaved family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fake-rape-case-is-depression-to-blame-for-the-girls-death/articleshow/81197770.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||‘Budget fails to win Kota’s heart’||KOTA: The announcements made by chief minister Ashok Gehlot while presenting the state Budget on Wednesday has failed to meet the aspirations of the people of Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar and Baran districts of Hadouti region. No major announcement was made for the revival of industry in Kota, maintenance of Kota Barrage and dams over Chambal and for promotion of tourism in Bundi. Despite being home to huge production of food and fruits, Jhalawar and Bundi districts were deprived of the food park, however, the CM, who also holds the finance ministry, attempted to compensate the local aspirations with announcement of agriculture college at Hindoli in Bundi and Greater Bhiwadi Industrial Township on the line of Greater Noida in areas of Baran and Bundi districts. The announcements for Hadouti included upgrade in medical and health infrastructure to reduce patients’ pressure in hospitals in Kota, opening of health, ayurvedic, naturopathy and yoga colleges at divisional headquarters in Kota, indoor stadiums, bridges in rural areas, an elevated road at a cost of Rs 140 crore in Kota city and proposal of Rs 850 crore for Parvan irrigation project. Besides, Chandkhedi and Mittheshah Darga in Jhalawar will be included in religious tourism circuit, There should have been announcement for revival of industries in Kota as coaching is no longer sustainable. There was no word on allotment of land for proposed airport in Kota, said Vijay Singh Paliwal, a chemical engineer and industrialist. There were talks of developing and promoting medical tourism in Kota in the recent past, but the budget carried no word on it too, he added. Tourism is a major source of livelihood in Hadouti, particularly in Bundi, but it was totally ignored in the Budget, said Sushil Mehta, who is associated with tourism industry in Bundi. The famous Keshorai temple on the bank of Chambal in Keshoraipatan should have been included in religious tourism circuit, he added. The budget announcements greatly disappointed the locals as no major announcement was made for the region, said Anchal Rathore, ex-spokesperson of Bundi district BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/budget-fails-to-win-kotas-heart/articleshow/81197754.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Goa||MPT chief dodges question on port limits in coastal plan||Panaji: Amidst a hue and cry in the state regarding the demarcation of port limits in the draft Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP), chairman of Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) E Ramesh Kumar chose to sidestep concerns raised by locals and said that MPT’s “limits are already defined” and will not change. Kumar said that MPT’s jurisdiction has already been defined by the Union ministry of shipping but chose not to mention that as per the Centre’s gazette notification dated December 14, 2016, MPT’s limits extend right up to the Zuari bridge which includes St Jacinto Island. The gazette of India notification also specifies that the Betul area comes under MPT’s jurisdiction. Despite reporters pressing Kumar to clear the air regarding MPT’s limits, the chairman chose to remain cryptic. “My (MPT’s) limits are already defined. Whatever are my limits, which are notified in the gazette of India will be the same,” Kumar said. Kumar was asked thrice to respond to apprehensions raised by the residents of St Jacinto Island and other coastal villages of Salcete and Mormugao. Each time, Kumar provided the same answer. “Our area is very limited though our activities can be different. Our area is defined and we cannot expand beyond that. Whatever was in the government of India gazette, that stands and will stand,” said Kumar. The gazette that Kumar is referring to says, “All the waters of the river Zuari, west of Agasaim- Cortalim ferry (excluding the ferry and landing stages)” form the extent of MPT’s port limit. Kumar also dodged a question regarding steps to reduce coal handling and transportation at MPT. “We work within a particular consent to operate that is issued by the state pollution control board and we will not go beyond the consent, but our efforts will always be to diversify our cargo and increase our cargo in every sector,” Kumar added. Kumar said that MPT will strive to work within the domains of rules and regulations laid down by the Goa State Pollution Control Board. “We have abided by it in the past and we will abide by that in the future too,” he said. He also said that MPT does not see the NGOs and protests as a threat to the survival of the port. “MPT is the largest PSU in the state as of now and it will continue to remain so. As I have said, I do not see the NGOs or the questions raised as a threat to MPT. They are only doing their job as a watchdog. It only helps us to be on our toes and to better ourselves,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mpt-chief-dodges-question-on-port-limits-in-coastal-plan/articleshow/81199552.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Kozhikode||Minor’s rape: 2 Instagram friends held in Kerala||KOZHIKODE: Police have arrested two persons and are on the lookout for the five remaining accused who have allegedly raped a 14-year-old girl after befriending her on Instagram and providing her drugs at Kalpakanchery in Malappuram. Police said the girl studying in Class IX was sexually abused by the seven accused multiple times in her house over the past eight months. Both the arrested are aged 22 years. Search is on to nab the others who have gone into hiding. Malappuram district police chief Sujith Das S said the police have registered seven separate cases and a special investigation team headed by Tanur DSP has been constituted to investigate the cases with Kalpakanchery inspector as the investigating officer. The team also has members of the District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force (DANSAF). District child welfare committee (CWC) authorities said the girl was first sexually abused by one of the accused who had befriended her on Instagram and trapped her by providing drugs. Once the girl got addicted to drugs, the other accused, who were friends of the main accused, and hailing from nearby areas, also sexually abused her. The accused used to visit her house past midnight and raped her after giving her drugs even as her family members were sleeping in other rooms. The father of the girl is working abroad. Police said the girl used to open the kitchen door for the accused and theysexually abused her in her bedroom in the first floor. The girl used to sleep alone in her bedroom while her mother and younger brother slept in the next room. While the girl has told the child welfare committee that she was given drugs other than ganja, police said that further investigation and forensic examination will be carried out to ascertain it. Kalpakanchery inspector of police Riyas Raja MB said a detailed statement will be taken from the girl again and the investigation would also look into whether more girls have been abused by the accused. Malappuram child welfare committee district chairman Shajesh Bhaskar said the girl, who is currently under the care of the CWC at a child protection facility, is undergoing de-addiction treatment. "It is a serious case as the accused have used Instagram to befriend and trap the school girl and it is a matter of concern that they were able to provide drugs to the girl and sexually abuse her inside her house itself," Bhaskar said. He added that the accused had sexually abused the girl by exploiting her dependency on drugs and also by blackmailing her. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/minors-rape-2-instagram-friends-held/articleshow/81196259.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Surat||GPCB finds lack of safety in UPL unit, orders shutdown||SURAT: The Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) on Wednesday issued total closure notice to United Phosphorus Limited (UPL)’s Jhagadia plant, a day after a massive blast and subsequent fire killed three persons and injured 26 others. Some four persons are still missing. The directions were issued under section 31 (A) of the Air (Prevention and Control of pollution) Act 1981. “During the inspection of the plant on Tuesday, it was found that a blast and fire occurred in CM-257 plant in the factory premises,” the GPCB notice to UPL said. “Contaminated wastewater is generated due to the firefighting which is accumulated in the stormwater drains within and outside the premises. The overall length of stretch of water flowing in the GIDC drain and subsequently to the natural drain (dry) is approximately 3.5 km. Considering the blast and fire of high intensity, there is damage to the other plants located within premises as well as nearby industrial plants. The accident had occurred due to lapses in safety precautions adopted by the industry that has resulted in air pollution and water pollution,” GPCB said in its letter. “The non-compliance found during the visit seems severe and damage to the environment adversely,” it further added while prohibiting the manufacturing activity with immediate effect and directed concerned authority to stop electricity and water supply immediately. GPCB also asked the company to pay Rs 1 crore as interim environmental damage compensation immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gpcb-finds-lack-of-safety-in-upl-unit-orders-shutdown/articleshow/81197782.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Coimbatore||Nilgiris now vaccinates municipality sanitary workers, police personnel||Udhagamandalam: At least 154 sanitary workers with the Ooty municipality were vaccinated against Covid-19 on Wednesday. According to municipal officials, 465 municipality workers, including temporary staff, would be inoculated in four days.The Nilgiris district had received about 15, 300 doses of Covaxin in the first phase.Dr Vijay Chandran, Ooty municipal health officer, confirmed 154 of the 465 municipality sanitary workers had taken the first dose of the vaccine on the day at Sait hospital, a unit of the Ooty Government Medical College and Hospital.“About 20 sanitary inspectors and supervisors had taken their first dose of Covaxin a few days ago to motivate the sanitary workers,” he said.The officer also confirmed that all the Ooty municipality employees and workers would be vaccinated for the first dose within a week.Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health, said around 10,635 frontline workers in the district had registered for the vaccination so far. “Our target was to vaccinate a total of 10,000 workers in the first phase.” Among the registered are health workers, revenue officials, police personnel and sanitary workers.“We have completed vaccinating the frontline health workers and revenue officials. Now, we are vaccinating sanitary workers and police personnel,” the deputy director of public health said. At least 7,380 frontline workers have taken the first shot of the vaccine so far.According to Balusamy, there has been no report of post-vaccination reaction in the Nilgiris so far. He said the Covid-19 curve had flattened in the hill district, where the caseload had come down to single digit for the past few months.District collector J Innocent Divya, meanwhile, said tourists from Kerala should have a Covid negative certificate to enter the district. “Otherwise, swabs will be lifted from at the check posts. The drive has started today.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-now-vaccinates-municipality-sanitary-workers-police-personnel/articleshow/81197793.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: ASI’s SUV lifted from police HQ parking lot||CHANDIGARH: Thieves stole an SUV of a Chandigarh Police assistant sub-inspector (ASI) from the rear parking lot of UT police headquarters on Tuesday evening, said police after registering a case on Wednesday. ASI Bhagwan Singh, posted at Sector 17 excise department, said in his police complaint, “I had gone to the police headquarters, Sector 9, for an official work and parked my SUV at the rear parking space around 4pm.” After finishing his work around 5pm, when he reached the parking lot he found his SUV missing. When his search bore no results, he reported the matter to Sector 3 police station. Cops reached the spot, recorded his statement and checked with traffic police if the SUV was towed away for wrong parking. When they did not find his SUV anywhere, a theft case was registered against unknown persons. Police said no CCTV cameras were installed near the crime scene. “We are scrutinizing the footage of CCTV cameras installed at the Matka Chowk,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/asis-suv-lifted-from-police-hq-parking-lot/articleshow/81196271.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Four arrested for attempt on advocate’s life in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Four persons who allegedly made an attempt to murder an advocate at his office in Himayathnagar on February 16, have been arrested. The accused were identified as Ghanshyam Balaji Singh, 47, a busin essman from Kachiguda, his associates, Md Wali, 38, an auto driver from Bandlaguda, Md Waseem Ansari, 23, an electrician from Chandrayangutta, and Sk Suleiman, 19, from Hassan Nagar. Narayanguda police said Siddharth Singh Chowdary, 39, had earlier represented Balaji Singh in two civil suits, but the latter was not satisfied with his advocate’s performance. Balaji hatched a plan to eliminate Siddharth when he felt that the latter had insulted him in a real estate deal, Joint Commissioner, Central Zone, P Vishwa Prasad said. Balaji sought his associate Md Wali’s help to eliminate Siddharth by offering to financially help him. Wali, in turn, roped in the other two accused by promising to pay Rs 50,000 to each of them. “Balaji gave a country-made pistol along with live rounds and daggers to Wali’s team to execute the murder in the second week of February. They conducted recce at Siddharth’s office on street no.7, Himayathnagar, and on February 16, Wali and Ansari entered the advocate’s office and tried to attack him with a dagger,” the joint commissioner said. Siddharth resisted the attempt of the duo, who had to flee when he raised an alarm attracting neighbour’s attention. Based on a complaint of the advocate, police analysed CCTV footage near crime scene and identified the accused. Cops arrested them on Wednesday and recovered a firearm and ammunition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-arrested-for-attempt-on-advocates-life/articleshow/81197820.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Disciplinary action against UT cops not taking jabs as per list||CHANDIGARH: Amid fresh spike in Covid-19 cases in the country, the UT police department has ordered strict disciplinary action against the personnel not reaching hospital for vaccination as per list. In the order issued on Tuesday, the UT SSP directed the SHOs and the in-charges of other units to ensure that all cops whose name is in the vaccination list reach police hospital at Sector 26 from February 23 to 26. In case they cannot reach hospital on a given date and time, they may report on Saturdays, 8.30am onwards. The order said defiance would invite strict disciplinary action and unit in-charges would be responsible for compliance. The SSP directed the in-charges to ensure cops sign the vaccination list and a copy is sent to the Police Establish Branch (PEB). Recently, the UT police department had organised a two-day awareness camp about vaccination at police lines, Sector 26. Around 400 cops participated in the camp, where it was said that the vaccine was safe and efficient and many eminent doctors and frontline workers had taken it and not faced any side-effects. The police department sends text messages to around 100 cops regarding their turn for vaccination every day, but they do not turn up and give excuses. Falling shot Only 560 cops have taken their first vaccination shot out of the total 5,975 beneficiaries till February 21. Fifty-eight home guard volunteers got their first shot out of the total 1,351 beneficiaries in the same period. Police department has also claimed that not a single case of side-effect has been reported after vaccination so far. The vaccination drive for the cops was started on February 3 and UT DGP, DIG and SPs of headquarters, crime, traffic and city were vaccinated on the first day. However, only three DSPs and 27 inspectors had taken the first shot till February 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/disciplinary-action-against-ut-cops-not-taking-jabs-as-per-list/articleshow/81196263.cms||Pawan Tiwari
February 25, 2021||Delhi||What Delhi zoo was doing behind closed doors||NEW DELHI: The National Zoological Park might have remained shut for close to a year, but the zoo officials haven’t been twiddling their thumbs. The lockdown period was used not only to take special care of the animals but also to discuss animal exchanges with other zoos across the country. Therefore, once the Delhi zoo reopens, chinkara and an ostrich will arrive from the Chandigarh zoo, while Jaipur will send a pair of striped hyenas, Bilaspur a bear, Bhopal a Royal Bengal tiger and either Patna or Guwahati, a rhinoceros. Delhi zoo director Ramesh Pandey told TOI on Wednesday that the focus during the lockdown was not only to improve the habitat of the animals, but also to bring in more species. While the zoo had 83 species of birds, reptiles, mammals and amphibians at the end of last year, it now has 88, and it will go up to around 100 soon. “We got some birds during the lockdown,” said Pandey. “We also spoke to other zoos on exchanging animals. Those in surplus in Delhi can be sent and in return, we get others either not currently in our zoo or pairs of identified species.” Pandey disclosed that a chinkara and an ostrich were likely to be the first to arrive, both from the Chandigarh facility. “These two will be new attractions for visitors because we currently don’t have them in Delhi zoo. We are also looking at a male rhino from either Patna or Guwahati because we have two females. Similarly, we are bringing another Royal Bengal tiger for breeding purposes,” he said. While the zoo does have striped hyenas, more are being added from Jaipur, alongside a sloth bear from the Bilaspur zoo. “Our current focus is on local animals, but eventually we will also look at exotic animals,” said Pandey. While the latest guidelines did not stop the zoo from reopening, the bird flu threat in the past months meant the facility remained closed. Fresh samples of bird droppings collected from different parts of the zoo premises were recently sent for tests. Seven samples of bird droppings collected from four locations sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases on February 3 had tested positive for the avian infection. Six samples sent earlier to Bhopal on January 19 had all tested negative for bird flu. Zoo officials claimed that all possible precautions were being taken in the park, including spraying of lime solution, Virkon-S and sodium hypochlorite. In 2016, Delhi zoo was shut down for nearly three months after several bird died due to bird flu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/what-delhi-zoo-was-doing-behind-closed-doors/articleshow/81218818.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||HC: Resolve Jaiswal case in 6 months||Hyderabad: Justice Challa Kodanda Ram of Telangana high court on Wednesday directed the election tribunal -cum-chief judge at city civil courts to resolve within six months the GHMC election dispute raised by Jambagh division AIMIM candidate J Ravindra against the election of BJP candidate Rakesh Jaiswal. The allegation against Jaiswal, the elected corporator, is that he has three children and hence is ineligible to contest as a corporator. The defeated candidate from AIMIM had urged the court to restrain Jaiswal from taking oath as he has violated the two-child norm. The tribunal had earlier refused to give any such interim direction. Jaiswal too has been refuting the allegations. Justice Kodanda Ram went through the claims and counterclaims and directed the tribunal to resolve the issue within six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-resolve-jaiswal-case-in-6-months/articleshow/81197816.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||BJP neta named in MP’s suicide note: Maharashtra home minister||MUMBAI: Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar’s suicide note mentions the name of the UT’s administrator, Praful Patel of BJP, said Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday. “A seven-time MP committing suicide is a serious issue. We have sent police teams to the MP’s hometown,” he said. Deshmukh said an in-depth investigation would be conducted into the death of Delkar, an independent MP who was found hanging from the ceiling fan of a Marine Drive hotel room on Monday. “It appears that Patel was mounting pressure on Delkar, following which he committed suicide,” Deshmukh said. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant, who led a party delegation that met Deshmukh on Wednesday, said that in his 16-page suicide note, Delkar had mentioned the names of IPS and administrative officials too. Sawant said the minister had assured him that the home department would investigate “the role of the BJP”.  “The name of the administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Praful Patel, has figured in the suicide note,” Deshmukh said. “Delkar felt that he will get full justice in Mumbai, which is why he committed suicide here,” he added. He said a Congress delegation had given him a memorandum on the role of Patel in the case, as had some others. The police, who are waiting to record the statement of Delkar’s son, did not comment on the contents of the suicide note or whether they were contemplating a criminal case. “If someone gives us a complaint, we will certainly look into it and then decide if registering a criminal case is necessary,” a police official said. Sawant said Delkar had been under stress for more than two years. “From the 16-page suicide note, it has been established that he was being targeted by the BJP,” Sawant said. Sawant said that the Congress delegation had called on the home minister to demand a high-level investigation in view of the contents of the suicide note and that Deshmukh had confirmed to him, too, that the note mentioned Patel, a former home minister of Gujarat. “Deshmukh has assured us that the state home department will examine the role of the BJP leader mentioned in the suicide note,” Sawant said. Sawant said a web of false cases had been spun around Delkar and his supporters had been harassed. He said investigating agencies, bureaucrats and troublemakers had been gunning for Delkar. “None other than Delkar himself had circulated his own video to explain the mental torture and harassment. In fact, he was planning to declare his resignation in the Lok Sabha. In the last session, he had narrated his plight on the floor of the house,” Sawant said. “We found that the NDA government is targeting opposition leaders across the country. Even MPs and legislators from Maharashtra are being harassed,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-neta-named-in-mps-suicide-note-home-min/articleshow/81200172.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||‘It’s destination India for Afghan students’||Hyderabad: India, specifically the southern region, is a preferred destination for education among students from Afghanistan, said Muhammed Suleman Kakar, Consul General of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan in Hyderabad, on Wednesday. Speaking at an interactive session -- his first since he took charge in 2020, Kakar said: “At present there are about 900 of them — 200 odd in Hyderabad — studying various courses across the five southern states. Another 200-250 of them (48 to Hyderabad) have been selected and will travel to this part of India shortly.” He added: “Apart from undergraduate programmes, many students go on to pursue PhDs and other higher degrees too. That’s because they believe that education standards in India are the best.” Inaugurated in January 2020, Kakar said that the purpose of having a consulate in Hyderabad was to not only issue visas but also increase trade and familiarise Telangana with Afghanistan’s culture. While initial discussions of a Hyderabad-Kabul air corridor took a backseat because of the pandemic, Kakar said it will be revived soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/its-destination-india-for-afghan-students/articleshow/81197800.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||A first: Cops use animation in riot chargesheet||New Delhi: For the first time, Delhi Police has used animation in a chargesheet to explain its case and present evidence. The Special Cell on Wednesday filed a supplementary chargesheet in the case of conspiracy behind the northeast Delhi riots and has taken the help of artificial intelligence-aided animation to show how evidence was allegedly destroyed systematically during the violence. Sources said the cops obtained and analysed footage from around three dozen CCTV cameras spread across a 3km radius around Jafrabad. During analysis, they found how a set of rioters, armed with sticks, set out from Chand Bagh and moved across areas in Mustafabad and vandalised the CCTV cameras on the way. The footage shows the men changing the direction of cameras, breaking them with their stick or putting a piece of cloth over them, police said. Violence was reported from the spots shortly after these people moved away after “fixing” the cameras, cops said. “The footage from CCTV cameras falling on the route from where the rioting crowd passed were mapped for this exercise. It was not a random movement. They moved forward in a very systematic manner, waiting for the cameras to be made dysfunctional,” a source said. Police have claimed in the chargesheet that this proved that the rioters knew the exact location of the CCTV cameras and had a plan to make them dysfunctional, showing that a planned conspiracy had been hatched. “It was not a violence that happened at the spur of the moment. Vandalising cameras at a spot is another thing, but to be aware of every camera across a 3km radius requires time and planning. A proper recce over days would have made this possible,” the police have claimed. This is the third chargesheet in the case being probed by the special cell, which counts former student union leaders Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam and sacked AAP councillor Tahir Hussain among key conspirators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-first-cops-use-animation-in-riot-chargesheet/articleshow/81197835.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Surat||Maha HM assures thorough probe||Surat: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday assured a thorough probe into the alleged suicide of Mohan Delkar, the seven-time Lok Sabha MP from the union territory (UT) Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH), who was found hanging in a Mumbai hotel on Monday. Addressing Congress leaders via video conferencing, Deshmukh said, Delkar has named some officials of the DNH union territory administration in his suicide note. “The name of UT administrator Praful Patel has also cropped up and many people have urged me to investigate this aspect,” Deshmukh said, adding that the MP had stated in the note that he had come to Mumbai to end his life. Delkar, 58, was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his room at a hotel in the Marine Drive area. A note written in Gujarati found in the room has been sent for forensic examination.  “He has named some the officials of UT in his suicide note, but I don't believe that due to non-cooeperation from the administration, an MP would end his life,” Deshmukh said. The Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee on Wednesday also wrote to Deshmukh demanding the detailed investigation into the role of BJP in the case. “After he won the 2019 Lok Sabha election as an independent, Delkar had publicly claimed that he was at the receiving end of the powers that be in the UT and New Delhi. All his efforts to get justice for the people of his constituency were stonewalled by these people. He had also talked about attempts being made to frame him in false cases. His supporters and organizations that I run or work for are targeted and the people in it are hounded,” MPCC said in a representation to Deshmukh. Delkar’s son Abhinav has also demanded a thorough probe into his father’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/maha-hm-assures-thorough-probe/articleshow/81197829.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Coimbatore||Salary arrears: Sterling Biotech workers begin indefinite protest||Udhagamandalam: More than 100 employees of Sterling Biotech Ltd, a private industrial unit manufacturing edible and non-edible gelatin at Sandynallah near Ooty, launched an indefinite protest on its campus on Wednesday, demanding the company management to hold talks on salary arrears. The company has not been functional since the Pollution Control Board (PCB) issued a closure order in June 2018.U Murthi, one of the employees, said, “After the closure order, the management had assured us that the company would be functional within six months after complying with the PCB guidelines. More than two years have lapsed and there is no sign of reopening the firm.”He said they had staged several protests in the past and there wasn’t any positive outcome, despite the intervention of officials of the revenue and labour departments. “While we were getting only 50% of the salary after the closure of the unit, the management members were drawing full salary. We want the management to agree for a concrete dialogue. We also want to know whether the firm will be reopened or not. We will continue our protest till a dialogue with the senior management is arranged.”The agreement with the employees was that the firm would set up a zero liquid discharge system to comply with the PCB regulations within six months, during when the employees would be paid 50% of their salaries.The factory was established in 1969 at Sandynallah, a tiny hamlet on Ooty-Gudalur-Mysuru highway. It was managed by Rallies India Ltd (Tata group) for many years, before it changed hands to Sterling Biotech Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/salary-arrears-sterling-biotech-workers-begin-indefinite-protest/articleshow/81197786.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Child mapping begins, teachers fret||Chandigarh: The UT education department will be conducting a child mapping survey from February 25 to March 12. A letter in this regard was issued on Wednesday evening by the district education officer to principals and heads of all government and government-aided schools. In the survey, data regarding children up to the age of 14 years will be compiled. This has left teachers worried, as like past years, they will have to go door-to-door for the survey amid the pandemic.In the letter, heads have been asked to advice the teachers to follow the SOPs and guidelines regarding Covid-19 issued by the government of India and the Chandigarh administration from time to time. But the teachers do not want to put themselves at risk.Teachers working in periphery schools are more worried because they will have to go to congested areas, like villages and colonies. “These days, the number of Covid-19 cases is on the rise. And for the survey, we have to go to every household. In sector schools, it is still better. But we will have to go to colonies where in one building multiple families reside. We are all scared,” said a teacher.Also, they said, their classes would suffer. “We were trying to focus on preparing students for final exams and now, we will have to conduct the survey.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/child-mapping-begins-teachers-fret/articleshow/81196260.cms||Kamini Mehta
February 25, 2021||Coimbatore||Five sovereigns gold stolen from house||COIMBATORE: Five sovereigns of gold jewellery were stolen from a house at Rasakkapalayam in Pollachi. S Satheesh Kumar and family, who visited Coimbatore to attend a family function on Sunday, returned to the house an hour after midnight to find the front door broke open and the jewellery missing. Fingerprint experts lifted two prints from cupboards. The Mahalingapuram police have booked a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-sovereigns-gold-stolen-from-house/articleshow/81197806.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Goa||MPT to sign 20 MoUs to unlock Rs 3.5k cr investment||Panaji/Vasco: Mormugao Port Trust is all set to ink 20 agreements with various industry partners and government bodies during the three-day Maritime India Summit, which will commence on March 2. The agreements are expected to unlock investments to the tune of Rs 3500 crore, said MPT chairman E Ramesh Kumar. Kumar, who addressed the press on Wednesday, said that the summit will help attract investment to Goa, particularly in the maritime sector. “MPT and the Goa government will present investment opportunities in the ports and maritime sector in Goa to the global investor community. I am hopeful that this summit will lead to sharing of knowledge but also give us an opportunity to invite investments in a big way,” Kumar said. One of the MoUs that MPT will ink is with the Indian Port Rail and Ropeway Corporation Ltd to undertake a feasibility study for the Vasco-Dona Paula ropeway project. The second edition of the Maritime India Summit, which is being held virtually, will see Prime Minister Narendra Modi deliver the inaugural address and release the Maritime India Vision 2030. Modi is also expected to launch the Sagarmala – Sagartat Samridhi Yojana, Arth Ganga programme, the National Logistic Portal (Marine) and a promotional scheme for flagging of ships in India. The summit aims to showcase and promote both domestic and international investment in the Indian ports and maritime sector and is being organised till March 4. The state government along with the Konkan Maritime Cluster is participating in the Summit along with nine other states and 42 nations. The Union ministry of shipping hopes to kick start the investment in port modernisation and new port development, ship building, ship repair and ship recycling, inland waterways transport, coastal shipping, multi-modal logistics, bulk cargo transportation, port-led industrialisation and maritime clusters. “With the aim to promote the development of the Chabahar port, the last day of the summit has been dedicated exclusively for the development of Chabahar as a maritime hub for trade with Afghanistan and the International North South Transport Corridor countries,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mpt-to-sign-20-mous-to-unlock-rs-3-5k-cr-investment/articleshow/81199570.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Delhi||In top court, Facebook cites right to silence||NEW DELHI: Facebook on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that it is agreeable and complying with all Indian laws but it cannot be compelled to subject itself to the jurisdiction of Parliament and assembly to appear before their panels probing misuse of social media and its right to silence cannot be taken away. Senior Advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Facebook, told a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy that the company and its representatives cannot be forced to appear before the legislative panel to give opinion, and the summons issued by Delhi assembly committee reeks of “constitutional arrogance”. As the bench questioned the social media platform about its “hesitancy” to comply with summons of the committee of Delhi assembly which is looking into last year’s communal riots in the capital, when its representative had earlier appeared before Parliament’s standing committee on information technology, Salve submitted that it was for the company to decide whether to appear before any committee. He said Facebook representatives appeared before the parliamentary committee voluntarily. “I went there for commercial compulsion. It is my choice where to appear. But I cannot be compelled. I have the right not to participate. It is my constitutional right to speech and silence,” Salve replied. He further elaborated that the company did not wish to be a party to political feud over the riots as it merely provides a platform for debate without participating. “There is divide on what happened and who is responsible for Delhi violence. What is going on is a political battle and I do not want to be part of it,” Salve said. The bench, however, observed that Facebook could not run away from the responsibility on what is happening on its platform. “You provide a platform where debate takes place. Can you then say that my hands are off? It is something which is troubling my mind,” Justice Kaul said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta strongly opposed Salve’s contention and told the bench that the multinational company cannot take a stand that it could not subject itself to the jurisdiction of Parliament. He said the company had to appear even before competent jurisdiction of an assembly.. The SG, however, said the summons issued by Delhi assembly was wrong as law and order problem in Delhi comes within the Centre’s jurisdiction. “It is bound to appear. It also must respect the assembly if it has jurisdiction,” Mehta said. The bench thereafter reserved its order on Facebook’s plea seeking quashing of the summons issued by Delhi assembly. Earlier, Delhi Assembly had told SC that being an elected representative, it was its duty to examine measures to prevent online mass hate and consequent violence in its geographical area and the company cannot take the excuse that peace and harmony comes within the Centre’s list of public order. The assembly panel on peace and harmony is looking into complaints on the “role or complicity of Facebook officials in the Delhi riots” that happened in February last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-top-court-facebook-cites-right-to-silence/articleshow/81197868.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 42-year-old man found dead at his Kalina residence||Mumbai: A 42-year-old man was found dead at his Kalina resident located in Santacruz (east) on Monday. The deceased, identified as Donni Nrin (42), was a Meghalaya resident. He died of head injuries, which he suffered after falling in the toilet. Nrin and his mother allegedly consumed alcohol that night. Vakola police denied that the mother was inebriated as well, and unaware about her son’s death. The police said that it was erroneously mentioned on certain media channels that the mother slept the night next to her son’s body.  “The mother slept after dragging her son’s body on the bed. She was unaware that he was dead. A case of accidental death has been registered and no foul play has been found,” said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/24vn-son-mom-murder-stoey-shail/articleshow/81199565.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Ambulance driver, EMT held for stealing gold from accident victim||HYDERABAD: Ramagundam police arrested a 108 ambulance driver and an emergency medical technician (EMT) for stealing 2.3 kilo gold jewellery from a road accident victim while shifting him to the hospital. Police recovered the entire stolen property from their possession. On the night of February 22, three gold merchants— K Srinivasa Rao, his brother K Rambabu, and their associate G Santosh of Narsaraopet in Guntur district— started a journey to Telangana in a car with driver T Santosh Kumar to supply gold ornaments weighing 5.6 kilos to jewellers in Mancherial, Bellampalli, Nirmal, Nizamabad and Basar.  “When they reached Malyalapally turning at Ramagundam, their car crashed into the road divider and overturned as the driver dozed off,” Ramagundam commissioner V Satyanarayana said. “K Rambabu, who was injured, was shifted to Godavari Khani government hospital in a 108 ambulance and en route EMT Tajuddin found the gold jewellery in the pocket of Rambabu. He informed ambulance driver G Laxma Reddy about the gold and they decided to divide it amongst themselves. Rambabu died on the way to the hospital,” he said. Family members of the victims complained to the police that 2.3 kilo gold ornaments were missing. After a probe, police arrested the duo from Godavari Khani and recovered the stolen items worth Rs 1.15 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ambulance-driver-emt-held-for-stealing-gold-from-accident-victim/articleshow/81197840.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Bhopal||Rising cases worry parents, seek ‘no’ option on paper||Bhopal: WIth the rise in Covid cases, parents of school students in the state capital have raised objections against offline exams. They have also objected to the consent forms where there is no option for them to say no to schools. Schools have prepared the consent forms in such a way that parents have to give consent for offline exams and even classes. Reacting to the forceful consent for offline exams and classes, parents said that the schools have no right to put such undue pressure on them. “The format of the consent letter is such that parents are left with only an option to say yes. This is not done. I have never had such a kind of consent letter where parents have to say only yes,” said the father of a student, Viren Virk. Parents claimed that they would not allow their children to attend even exams. "When there is an option of appearing exams online, why schools are forcing offline exams? Who will take the onus if anything happens wrong with the children,” Anuj Yadav, father of a student. Parents of the tudents studying in schools under BHEL have met the principals to raise their voice. “Schools under BHEL are not ready to listen to a single word. We are asked to just sign the consent letter and give it to them. Consent letter is nothing, but a formality as schools are only wanting to conduct offline exams," alleged Madhabi Gope. Notably, BHEL education society runs two schools -- Jawahar Lal SChool and Vikram School. Gope alleged that the schools are only interested in conducting offline exams instead of keeping the campus clean. “Vikram school management told me that offline exams are being done as students cheat in online exams. This is a hilarious reply. Schools should have evolved a system like other CBSE schools have done to keep tabs on students during exams,” added Gope. She claimed that almost 80% of parents are not ready to send their kids to schools. Bhopal Nitin Saxena told TOI that few complaints have been filed to him against such schools. “We take such issues individually and talk to the school management. We are asking schools to make decisions which are in favour of everyone. Schools should listen to the parents and address their issues," said Saxena. When contacted, school principals said that they have given the option of both offline and online exams. “As far as my knowledge is concerned, several CBSE schools have given such options. I have no idea what BHEL schools are doing,” said a school principal on condition of anonymity. Vikram School principal, RS Thakur, did not respond despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rising-cases-worry-parents-seek-no-option-on-paper/articleshow/81196272.cms||Ramendra Singh
February 25, 2021||Bhopal||Law against ‘love jihad’: Madhya Pradesh govt tables Freedom of Religion ordinance-2020||BHOPAL: The state government tabled 15 ordinances in the assembly on Wednesday, including the most-talked about Freedom of Religion ordinance-2020 against ‘love jihad’. The government will enact the new laws after discussions in the House. The state cabinet had passed an ordinance on January 8 against ‘love jihad’ to regulate inter-faith marriages that prescribes a punishment ofup to 10 years in jail and a fine of Rs50,000 for forcing women to convert. Madhya Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel signed the ordinance that will target those who force women, minors and people from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to undergo religious conversions. The state government has also decided to enact a law to ensure safety of women in Madhya Pradesh. After tabling the ordinance in the House, home minister Narottam Mishra said, “Discussions on the bill will be held. But it has been proved and authenticated that the Freedom of Religion bill is the need of the hour. There are around 24 incidents in a month. I believe that we got delayed,” he said. “How many of our daughters must have lost their lives. How many people never came out to share their plight or remained silent. Therefore, it is necessary to hurry up (to enact the law),” Mishra further said. As per legal experts, an ordinance is a law that can be promulgated by the President on the recommendation of the cabinet. The governor can issue ordinances under Article 213 of the Constitution, when the state legislative assembly is not in session. The maximum validity of an ordinance is 6 months and 6 weeks. An ordinance will expire after 6 weeks once the House is in session and it can be re-promulgated only thrice. Other ordinances tabled in the House include, Taxation ordinance, Municipal Law (Second Amendment) ordinance, Municipal Law (Third Amendment) ordinance, MP Private University (Establishment and Operation) Amendment ordinance, High Speed Diesel Cess (Amendment) ordinance, Motor Spirit Cess (Amendment) ordinance, VAT (Amendment) ordinance, Pt SN Shukla University (Amendment) ordinance, Dr BR Ambedkar University of Social Sciences (Amendment) ordinance, Bhoj (Open) University Amendment ordinance, Guarantee of Public Service (Amendment) ordinance, State Backward Class Commission (Amendment) ordinance, Private University (Establishment and Operation) (Second Amendment) ordinance, Cooperative Society Amendment ordinance. Eight bills which were cleared by the House during the previous sessions were also approved by the governor. The bills included Madhya Pradesh Moneylenders (Amendment) Act, MP Scheduled Tribe Loan Waiver Bill, MP VAT (Amendment) Act 2020, MP Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Act, MP Municipal Law (Third Amendment) Act, MP Finance Bill 2020, MP Appropriation Bill and MP Appropriation (number 2) Bill 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/law-against-love-jihad-govt-tables-freedom-of-religion-ordinance-2020/articleshow/81197839.cms||Rajendra Sharma
February 25, 2021||Bhopal||Travelling to Delhi? Ensure you have a negative RT-PCR report||BHOPAL: Travelling to Delhi from Madhya Pradesh? From Friday, those travelling to Delhi from MP would need a negative RT-PCR report to enter India’s capital city. On Wednesday, the Delhi government made Covid-19 test mandatory for travellers from Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab. The directive would be valid until March 15. Travel plans of many people planning to come to MP and then go to Delhi are expected to be postponed or cancelled. MP’s positivity rate has also increased in the past week. Government officials going to Delhi for official work would also have to undergo the mandatory test. MP is amongst 12 states that, in the last one week, have reported more than 100 average daily new cases. During the past week, 270 average daily new cases were reported in MP. The state ranks seventh in the tally of 12, after Gujarat (287), Punjab (356), Karnataka (396), TN (449), Kerala (4,135) and Maharashtra (5,858) in the average daily new cases over the past one week. The Delhi government’s announcement came as a surprise to many in MP’s health department. The announcement came less than 12 hours after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said ruled out direct relation between the surge in cases in Maharashtra and some other states and mutant strains, N440K and E484Q. ICMR DG, Dr Balram Bhargava, clarified that these two virus strains have been detected in other countries too and are not specific to India. Moreover, they have been found earlier in some states in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/travelling-to-delhi-ensure-you-have-a-negative-rt-pcr-report/articleshow/81196281.cms||Jamal Ayub
February 25, 2021||Surat||Surat traders, transporters to join nationwide strike||SURAT: Textile traders and labour unions from Surat have extended support to the ‘Bharat Vyapar Bandh’ call on February 26 by The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) against the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and rising fuel prices. The transport associations are supporting the nation-wide strike in protest of the fuel price hike and scrapping of new E-way bill laws introduced by the centre. The Federation of Indian Art Silk Weaving Industry along with Surat Textile Goods Transport Association, Surat District Textile Marketing will also be joining the strike. Traders are demanding a review of the provisions of the Goods and Service Tax (GST). “The call of Bharat Vyapar Bandh against the draconian and arbitrary provision of GST has received tremendous response from across the country, not only from the trade associations but the bodies of tax practitioners, chartered accountants, MSMEs and other verticals of domestic trade,” a CAIT statement said. CAIT national president B C Bhartia and secretary general Praveen Khandelwal said that the two government notifications restrict the smooth conduct of the business activities of the traders. The CAIT has a firm view that the Indian Constitution guarantees the Right to Trade to every citizen but contrary to it, the powers entrusted to GST officials to restrict business activities and are against the fundamental right given by the Constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-traders-transporters-to-join-nationwide-strike/articleshow/81197846.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Absconding peddler held with heroin worth Rs 1.5cr||New Delhi: An absconding drug trafficker involved in over 100 criminal cases has been arrested in north Delhi. Police seized 285 grams of heroin, worth approximately Rs 1.5 crore, from Karnail Singh alias Kanna (51). Since 1990, Singh has been involved in cases such as attempt to murder, robbery, snatching and drug peddling. He was also declared a proclaimed offender at Gulabi Bagh in a case under the MCOC Act. A resident of Andha Mughal in Pratap Nagar, Singh used to live with his wife and two children, a son and a daughter. On Tuesday, North district police received a tipoff that Singh would visit Andha Mughal to supply drugs to one of his contacts. A police team laid a trap on Balwant Rai Bansal Marg and caught Singh as soon as he was spotted with a white bag. The cops found a plastic packet of white powder. It was tested and confirmed as heroin. Deputy commissioner of police (North) Anto Alphonse said Singh had bought the heroin from one of his contacts, Rajkumar, a resident of Moti Nagar who also had hideouts in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh. “Singh said he used to take huge quantities from Rajkumar and then sell it in small quantities to local peddlers across NCR,” Alphonse said. Police also got to know that Singh was earlier jailed for 10 years in a robbery and snatching case. DCP said teams had been formed to unearth the entire racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/absconding-peddler-held-with-heroin-worth-rs-1-5cr/articleshow/81218835.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Surat||Rape accused gets bail after DNA test||Surat: The special court under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act granted bail to a 25-year-old man after a DNA report confirmed that he was not responsible for impregnating a minor girl. The accused Ganesh Bavishkar, a resident of Limbayat in Surat, is accused of raping a 17-year-old girl who got pregnant. The court had earlier allowed the minor to terminate the pregnancy and ordered that samples of the fetus be preserved for later use during the trial in the case. Based on the DNA report submitted, the court granted bail to Bavishkar on Tuesday. According to case details, Bavishkar a driver by profession had applied for bail after the girl’s mother also accused one Aijaz Shaikh of raping her daughter. Bavishkar’s lawyer argued that his client was in love with the girl who had told him that she was 20-year-old. He had further stated that Bavishkar was ready to marry the girl, but was falsely implicated in the rape case after it was revealed that she was pregnant. On December 15, 2020, the girl complained of pain in the abdomen and was rushed to a government hospital where treating doctors informed her mother that she was two-months pregnant. When her mother asked her who was the father of the child, she named Bavishkar. Following this, the girl’s mother lodged a complaint against Bavishkar who was arrested and charged for rape and under POCSO Act. However, later the girl told her mother that the child was Shaikh’s, so her mother also filed a case against him. The court after allowing termination of pregnancy had ordered DNA test of the fetus which confirmed on Tuesday that Shaikh had impregnated the minor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rape-accused-gets-bail-after-dna-test/articleshow/81197873.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
February 25, 2021||Jaipur||Passengers without Covid -ve report face trouble at Mumbai airport||JAIPUR: People who are traveling from Rajasthan to Mumbai without getting their Covid test done are facing a tough time at the airport.Maharashtra government has made it compulsory for passengers from Rajasthan to carry a Covid negative report. But many passengers from Rajasthan are not following the travel advisory issued by the Maharashtra government and are facing problems at Mumbai airport. KC Saini, a resident of Pali district who boarded a flight from Jodhpur to Mumbai on Wednesday said at least 25 passengers who had boarded the flight from Jodhpur did not have the Covid test report.“There were 163 passengers in the flight and 25 of them were stopped by the health teams deployed at the Mumbai airport as they were not having the test report,” Saini told TOI from Mumbai.“They were charged Rs 5,000 for the Covid test on arrival and made to wait at a place till the result of the report arrived,” said Saini, who appealed to the people coming to Mumbai to bring along with them Covid-19test report to avoid inconvenience at the airport.The teams of doctors and health department staff posted at Mumbai airport are taking samples of passengers who are not carrying Covid report. Maharashtra has made it compulsory for passengers of certain states and Rajasthan is one of them, to carry a negative Covid report as Mumbai has been witnessing spike in for the past few days. The airlines services are also sending messages to the passengers to remain them to get the Covid-19 test done before boarding a flight to Mumbai. BOX:JAIPUR: Ninety-nine persons tested positive in the state on Wednesday taking its overall tally to 3,19,801. With no death being reported in the last 24 hours, the state’s toll stands at 2,785. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (30), Jodhpur(19), Udaipur (11), Rajsamand (8), Dungarpur (6), Bhilwara (5), Nagaur (4),Kota (3), Ajmer (2), Alwar (2), Jhalwar (2), Pratapgarh (2), Banswara (1),Barmer (1), Dholpur (1), Bharatpur (1) and Jaisalmer (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/passengers-without-covid-ve-report-face-trouble-at-mumbai-airport/articleshow/81197851.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Kolkata||‘Protect biggest civic heritage’||New Market is not just any market. It is a very important part of Kolkata's history. It is also one of the city's most important civic assets. One of only a few covered markets from the era that survive today, Kolkata Municipal Corporation ought to protect and conserve it. The civic authority should take pride in the precious possession and showcase it like Istanbul's Grand Bazaar. New Market pulsates with history. Its architecture represent a mixture of influences. Even if we were to leave aside the hawkers, the place should be looked after and showcased for its built heritage. The hawker situation around New Market has worsened over the years. And it has happened in full view of civic officials. It is only because traders are protesting that officials are finally taking notice. Not just New Market, the hawker situation plagues the Grand Arcade and the entire stretch of Chowringhee. What was once the city's most recognised boulevard with wide pavements where walking was a pleasure have now been completely disfigured by settlement of hawkers. It has killed off spaces meant for public to use. We don't want areas to be sterile. In Mumbai, there is regulated hawking in areas around Oval Maidan, Churchgate and Colaba Causeway. Hawkers can also be part of the history of places. But here, hawkers have completely colonized these places. Public spaces have been completely taken over. People cannot walk on pavements that have been completely overrun by hawkers. Around New Market, even cars cannot access parking lots. There needs to be control. The parking areas need to be cleared completely of hawkers, hawking needs to be restricted in a manner that doesn’t interfere with visitors, and the area needs a visible and long-term police presence. I hope the government makes an effort, not just there but in other parts of Kolkata as well; not just for trade but for people to use spaces in a reasonable manner that benefits Kolkata. We need to demonstrate that while this city has a heart, it also has the rule of law. (Chaudhuri, author and founder of Calcutta Architectural Legacies, spoke to Subhro Niyogi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/protect-biggest-civic-heritage/articleshow/81196332.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Indore||Madhya Pradesh may see sudden spurt in RT-PCR tests||BHOPAL: Bhopal has ample Covid-19 testing facilities and if a test sample is taken directly in a laboratory and on-time, the test result can be known with 12-hours, said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. All government run laboratories conduct the test for free in Madhya Pradesh, he said. The number of tests are expected to increase given the Delhi government directive wherein travellers from MP will have to carry a RT-PCR test from February 26. The directive will be effective till March 15. Main government laboratories conducting the Covid-19 test are at AIIMS Bhopal, Gandhi Medical College, BMHRC and JP hospital. “Until now, most of people seeking Covid-19 test before travelling were students or international bound. We have received some queries about testing after new restrictions announced by the Delhi government,” said an official of Bhopal’s JP Hospital. On arrival via flights, trains or buses, passengers from MP will have to show a negative RT-PCR test. Private laboratories carry out the RT-PCR test too. Some of them deliver the report on the same day. It is dependent on time the sample is submitted. Some labs carry out Covid-19 test thrice in a day. For the first two sessions, result is known the same day. Some private labs also offer home collection facility of the Covid-19 test sample.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/mp-may-see-sudden-spurt-in-rt-pcr-tests/articleshow/81207232.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Lucknow||Help pours in for Shareef Chacha in Ayodhya: PMO, Harsh Vardhan, Sonu Sood offer aid||AYODHYA: Forty-eight hours after TOI report on Faizabad’s ‘last rites’ Samaritan wallowing in penury and on the verge of death amid fears he may not live to get a glimpse of the Padma medallion, help is pouring from across the nation with the Prime Minister’s Office enquiring about his health and the district administration’s hotline abuzz with calls from Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to philanthropist and actor Sonu Sood’s offer to foot the hospital bills. On Wednesday, hours after the Ayodhya administration received a call from Vardhan to ensure specialty healthcare for Shareef Chacha, the Prime Minister’s Office too gave an assurance of free medical assistance and financial aid. Talking to TOI, spokesperson of Ayodhya BJP, Rajneesh Singh, said, “Principal secretary to Prime Minister, P K Mishra, promised all possible help to Shareef Chacha during a telephonic conversation.” When the 83-year-old ailing Samaritan began to sink on Wednesday, the Ayodhya administration swiftly shifted him from the district hospital to a specialty heart hospital in Faizabad, where doctors said he may need an angioplasty. Earlier, a team of doctors led by the additional district magistrate, Ayodhya, conducted a thorough check-up, before taking him to the district hospital. Senior cardiologist Dr Arun Jaiswal, told TOI, “The chief medical officer, Ayodhya, sent me an SOS to quickly hospitalise Shareef Chacha. His arteries are choked and he would need stent implants. We are conducting more tests before the surgery.” Govind Agarwal, who handles actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood’s medical assistance cell, said, “Sood has offered to foot the hospital bills of Shareef Chacha. I am in touch with hospital administration.” And while the cramped lane leading to Shareef’s ramshackle house in Faizabad’s Khirki Ali Beg locality witnesses round-the-clock buzz of government vehicles, ambulances, VIPs and common citizens, Faizabad MP Lallu Singh who visited his home told family members he’s hopeful the Padma medal would be delivered home. “I have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi with a request to deliver the medallion and citation to Shareef Chacha’s house and provide financial aid,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/help-pours-in-for-shareef-chacha-pmo-vardhan-sonu-sood-offer-aid/articleshow/81199554.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Will launch party soon: Sharmila||Hyderabad: YS Sharmila on Wednesday said that her party will be launched soon. She said that the party policy and other details will also be announced shortly. Speaking to reporters after a meeting with students, she said that despite differences with her brother and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy over floating the party in Telangana, the party will be launched soon. Replying to a query, she said that it is not for her, but for Jagan to answer as to why she was not given prominence in the YSR Congress. However, she said that as sister and brother they don’t have any differences except for political. “I have the blessings of my mother YS Vijayamma. My husband Anil also supports me,” she said. When asked about her roots being in AP, she asked whether BJP leader Vijayashanti and Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao were born in Telangana. “ I am not aiming an arrow at anybody. I am totally the daughter of Telangana. Everyone knows where former Tamil Nadu CM Jayalalitha was born and where she became a CM,” she said. Finding fault with people criticising her for her religion and not being part of the Telangana agitation, she said, “I am ready to face even Jagan for the interests of Telangana. From Polavaram to Pothireddypadu, interests of Telangana are important to me,” she said. She added that she will soon begin a walkathon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-launch-party-soon-sharmila/articleshow/81197849.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 25, 2021||Chandigarh||Waste collectors start signing pact with MC||CHANDIGARH: Soon, door-to-door garbage collection with twin-bin vehicles will begin in the southern sectors and the remaining parts of the city, as the municipal corporation, on Wednesday, started the exercise of signing memoranda of understanding (MoU) with each collector. Around 1,250 garbage collectors have registered themselves with the MC sanitation department. The MoU signing process is likely to complete by Sunday. The twin-bin vehicles have already reached the city. “Of the around 1,400 garbage collectors, about 1,250 registered themselves with the MC by Wednesday evening. The remaining will register in a couple of days. With this, the civic body and the collectors have entered a contract on lifting waste door-to-door as per the terms and condition passed in the special general house meeting last week,” sources said. Three persons—a driver and two helpers—will be on each garbage-lifting vehicle. The fee will either be included in water bills or residents can pay through POS machines. As the MoU signing began, mayor Ravikant Sharma, MC commissioner KK Yadav, all the leaders of door-to-door garbage collection society, sanitation department officers and former mayor Rajesh Kumar were in attendance at the MC office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/waste-collectors-start-signing-pact-with-mc/articleshow/81196295.cms||Deepak Yadav
February 25, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh may see sudden spurt in RT-PCR tests||BHOPAL: Bhopal has ample Covid-19 testing facilities and if a test sample is taken directly in a laboratory and on-time, the test result can be known with 12-hours, said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. All government run laboratories conduct the test for free in Madhya Pradesh, he said. The number of tests are expected to increase given the Delhi government directive wherein travellers from MP will have to carry a RT-PCR test from February 26. The directive will be effective till March 15. Main government laboratories conducting the Covid-19 test are at AIIMS Bhopal, Gandhi Medical College, BMHRC and JP hospital. “Until now, most of people seeking Covid-19 test before travelling were students or international bound. We have received some queries about testing after new restrictions announced by the Delhi government,” said an official of Bhopal’s JP Hospital. On arrival via flights, trains or buses, passengers from MP will have to show a negative RT-PCR test. Private laboratories carry out the RT-PCR test too. Some of them deliver the report on the same day. It is dependent on time the sample is submitted. Some labs carry out Covid-19 test thrice in a day. For the first two sessions, result is known the same day. Some private labs also offer home collection facility of the Covid-19 test sample.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-may-see-sudden-spurt-in-rt-pcr-tests/articleshow/81196316.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||MEA asks consulate in Dubai to help city woman in distress||Hyderabad: The Union ministry of external affairs (MEA) has asked the Consulate General of India (CGI) in Dubai to look into the issue of an Indian woman from Hyderabad, Zareena Begum, allegedly suffering torture in a house in Sharjah. Sultana Begum, a resident of Kishan Bagh, Rajendranagar, in a letter to Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar, said during the lockdown her daughter Zareena Begum’s husband Shaik Babu had died. As the family was in a financial crisis, they were approached by two local job agents and offered to send Zareena to Sharjah to work as a housemaid. She was also promised a good salary. On reaching Sharjah on November 15, the 36-year-old woman was received by another agent and, after the quarantine period, she was take to a house to work as a domestic help. Sultana Begum said in the house where her daughter was working, proper food and accommodation were not provided and she was being made to work from early morning till late in the night for a big family. “As my daughter has previous burn injuries, which happened during her childhood, and as no medication is being provided to her, her old wounds are being infected again,” Sultana Begum said, urging the minister to ask the Indian embassy in Abu Dhabi and CGI Dubai to rescue her daughter and repatriate her to India. A telephone number on which her daughter could be contacted was provided by the mother. Responding to a tweet by social worker and MBT leader Amjed Ullah Khan, the MEA asked CGI Dubai to take cognisance of the situation for the help sought for the woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mea-asks-consulate-in-dubai-to-help-city-woman-in-distress/articleshow/81197847.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 25, 2021||Rajkot||Cop hangs self in police station||Rajkot: A 55-year-old head constable committed suicide by hanging himself in Chotila police station of Surendranagar district in the early hours of Wednesday. Police suspect that the cop, Abdul Darvadiya, took the drastic step as he was suffering from some life-threatening disease. Darvadiyawas found hanging from a ceiling hook on the terrace of the police station by his colleagues. He was on night duty and posted at the police station while his colleagues were out patrolling. Darvadiya’s wife Madina told cops that he was fed up of illness. He had undergone a surgery for some life-threatening disease but got no relief from pain. Some days ago, one of his legs was also injured and he was in pain. Darvadiya was with Chotila police station for the last seven years in his three-decade long career in the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cop-hangs-self-in-police-station/articleshow/81197844.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Diesel price upswing makes onion dearer||KOLKATA: After a brief respite, onion price has again started shooting up, thanks to a sharp rise in diesel price and not-so-good production at Nashik this year. The transportation cost has risen by Rs 7,000 to Rs 10,000 per truck. If the diesel price is not controlled effectively, onion price may break all previous records, trade experts have warned. On Tuesday, the retail price of onion breached Rs 70 a kg mark. Even a couple of days ago, the price was hovering around Rs 45-Rs 50 a kg. “Bengal’s best onion variety — Sibsagar — is now a fresh crop that cannot be stored. But that too is selling at Rs 60 a kg,” said Bhola Saha, an onion trader at Lake Market. “The onion price at Nashik and diesel price across the country are fluctuating. Traders often found that the onion booked seven days ago is costlier than what it is now at Nasik. So traders are running a risk of incurring loss. Similarly, the transporters can’t predict what the price of diesel will be seven days from now. So, there is complete reluctance on bringing onion from Nashik, causing a gap in supply,” said onion trader at Posta. Wholesale onion merchant Abhijit Saha said: “A truck carrying 200-250 bags weighing 8,000 to 10,000 kgs of onion used to cost Rs 55,000. On Wednesday, that price rose by Rs 10,000. If diesel price continues to stay high, the onion price will rise manifold.” Frequent price fluctuations have left onion trade highly uncertain. “On Friday, the wholesale price of a 40kg bag was Rs 2,200. On Sunday, it rose to Rs 2,300 a bag. On Tuesday, it further rose to 2,500 a bag. But on Wednesday, it slightly fell to Rs 2,400 a bag,” said Biswanath Das, another wholesaler. The price will be sobered a bit after the seasoned Bengal onion hits the market in late March. The onion from Punjab and south India will also hit Bengal market around the same time. Till then, the price will stay high, said traders. The constant rise of diesel price is going to hit other crops that are brought from other states. Right from lemon to tomato, everything will be costlier because of higher transportation cost. The onion price in 2019 rose to a record Rs 150 a kg, forcing the state government to sell onion at a subsidized price of Rs 55 a kg. This year, the onion price may break that record.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/diesel-price-upswing-makes-onion-dearer/articleshow/81196310.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 25, 2021||Delhi||25 e-rickshaws from Jamia Metro station for last-mile connectivity||To provide better last-mile connectivity to commuters, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday started services of 25 e-rickshaws called ‘ETO’ from Jamia Millia Islamia Metro station of Magenta Line (Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West). The e-rickshaws, which were flagged off by DMRC’s managing director Mangu Singh, will be plying from 6am to 11pm daily to provide last mile connectivity to nearby areas like Batla House, Gaffar Manzil, Okhla Vihar, Zakir Nagar etc. A charging station for these electric vehicles has also been set up to ensure seamless service throughout the day, a DMRC spokesperson said. The number of e-rickshaws will be increased to 50 in the next few days, covering two more stations of this line — Sukhdev Vihar and Jasola Vihar Shaheen Bagh. “The fares have been kept very nominal, at a base price of Rs 10 for first 2 kms and Rs. 5 for subsequent kilometres. Commuters can also book vehicles through the ETO app and pay digitally for their rides,” he said. Travelers can call helpline number 18001030975 or visit www.etomotors.com for more information. Tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/25-e-rickshaws-from-jamia-metro-station-for-last-mile-connectivity/articleshow/81218853.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Kolkata||Motorists get toehold as KMC continues raids||Kolkata: Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) wants to restrict a section of hawkers who have regularly been encroaching on the carriageways in the central business district. The decision was taken after a joint inspection by a team of police and civic officials on Tuesday found rampant encroachment of carriageways, pavements and car parking space in and around New Market. According to Debasis Kumar, a senior member in the KMC board of administrators (BoA) who looks after hawkers’ affairs, the civic body won’t allow encroachment of carriageways or car parking space under any circumstances. “It is true that a section of hawkers is often found to be taking over carriageways. It is prohibited under the hawking rules and we will conduct drives from time to time to remove such encroachers,” Kumar said. He added that he was in favour of restricting rampant hawking in and around New Market as the century-old market is listed as grade-I heritage structure and any sort of encroachment in and around this market was banned under heritage laws. “New Market is our pride and we won’t allow it to get defaced by unlawful activities,” he said. Expressing difficulties in curbing illegal hawking in the New Market area, a KMC senior official said: “We often need to play a cat-and-mouse game with a section of hawkers who are caught blocking carriageways or parking space. They are picked up by police and later released on bail. We seize their dalas and return them on condition that they won’t flout hawking rules. But they return to their old ways,” said a KMC official. A joint drive by police and KMC officials conducted on Tuesday yielded some results as a large number of hawkers were seen selling their wares leaving major portions of the carriageways in and around New Market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/motorists-get-toehold-as-kmc-continues-raids/articleshow/81196357.cms||Saikat Ray
February 25, 2021||Delhi||18k get the jab, C-vax drive achieves 58% of daily target||New Delhi: The percentage of vaccination coverage in Delhi increased to 58% of the current target on Wednesday with 18,599 individuals— healthcare workers and frontline workers—turning up to receive the shots. The number of vaccination centres increased to 315 and the total target of vaccination was 31,500 people. Over 2 lakh frontline workers and 1.4 lakh healthcare workers have so far been vaccinated. Meanwhile, a Delhi government official said that the government was ready to start the vaccination of people above 50 according to the guidelines issued by the central government. “It will scale up the existing network of vaccination centres and there is no shortage of vaccines.” An official said the vaccination turnout might be decreasing because the percentage of vaccination coverage was growing in the capital. “The turnout may witness a massive jump after the drive is opened to the general public above 50 because many people want to get the shots. The desirability for vaccines is growing because people have witnessed that more than 3.4 lakh people have been vaccinated and are doing well. No one is ill; those who reported minor adverse events recovered soon after,” said an official. Among the 18,599 people vaccinated, only two reported minor adverse events on Wednesday. Nine of the 11 districts did not report even a single adverse event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/18k-get-the-jab-c-vax-drive-achieves-58-of-daily-target/articleshow/81197897.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Bhopal||Covid cases cross 2.6 lakh mark in MP, positivity high at 2.2%||BHOPAL: As many as 344 new cases of Covid-19 infection were reported in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday. Positivity rate increased by 0.5 points in a day to 2.2%. 519 more Covid-19 tests were conducted across MP compared to Tuesday. A total 14,656 people were tested for the infection on Wednesday, according to the health department daily bulletin. Since the pandemic began, 2,60,313 people have been diagnosed with the infection. Two deaths were attributed to Covid-19 on Wednesday in MP. Chhindwara and Mandsaur reported one death each. The Covid-19 death toll in in MP is now 3,857. A total 223 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the count of recoveries in Madhya Pradesh to 2,54,186. With 139 new cases, Indore’s tally went up to 59,101 while that of Bhopal rose to 43,803 with addition of 70 new Covid-19 cases. Indore has so far reported 931 deaths and Bhopal 618. Bhopal is now left with 496 active coronavirus cases while Indore has 740 such cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-cases-cross-2-6l-mark-in-mp-positivity-high-at-2-2/articleshow/81196346.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Kolkata||Maidan-Tollywood celebs join rough and tumble of Bengal politics ahead of polls||KOLKATA: Prominent faces from Kolkata’s film and sports fraternities formally joined Trinamool Congress in the presence of Mamata Banerjee at a meeting in Dunlop on Wednesday.  The new names include cricketer Manoj Tiwary, director Raj Chakrabarty, actor-director Sudeshna Roy, actors June Maliah, Kanchan Mallick, Saayoni Ghosh and Manali Dey. Ananya Chakraborti, the chairperson of West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR), also joined the party. “I have to look beyond the game. BJP wanted me to join them but I picked Trinamool as I have an ideological difference with BJP. I am a very secular person,” said Tiwary, adding that he had been inspired by Banerjee in his decision to foray into politics. To join or not to join was the question that had been going on in director Chakraborty’s mind for some time now. “In 2016, I had attended 76 meetings to campaign for Trinamool. I have been a blind fan of Didi and want her to do a hattrick as the chief minister of Bengal. I knew I would someday join politics but the process got expedited because of the turncoats,” said the chairman of the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival. “I will always speak out against any wrong. That is irrespective of my political leanings. I am comparatively brave and still don’t regret my protest as an actor when ‘Bhobishyoter Bhoot’ had problems with screening. But I have never been a Left party member. There is no reason I will overlook all the good work done by Mamata Banerjee. When I was trolled by BJP supporters, she stood by me,” Ghosh said. According to Chakraborti, the WBCPCR has always been “neutral”. “But there comes a point in history when one has to take a position. This is the moment because Bengal is the last bastion and we have to defend it from the BJP,” she said. Countering allegations of a few celeb turncoats who claimed to have switched sides because of being unable to work, Roy said, “Ananya and I have seen that this government has always been there to facilitate work. This government has given us stability and worked for development,” she said. According to her, a party like BJP engages in “divisive politics”. “If BJP comes to power, my voice will be silenced. They have sold the country. They are not interested in development and are only keen on peddling lies,” she added. Given an offer, Roy is keen to contest the polls too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/maidan-tollywood-celebs-join-rough-and-tumble-of-bengal-politics-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/81196379.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
February 25, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Builder & business partner booked in lift collapse||BHOPAL: Koh-e-Fiza police investigating the lift collapse incident, which took place four days back at a seven-storeyed apartment on Gufa Mandir Road, registered a case against the builder and his partner on Tuesday. They were booked on charges of negligent conduct and causing grievous hurt by endangering life or personal safety of others. A lift carrying seven people, including a one-and-a-half-year-old girl, collapsed from the fourth of the apartment on Sunday evening. While the girl had minor injuries, her mother and grandmother sustained fractures. According to SHO Koh-e-Fiza Anil Bajpai, after the FSL team conducted technical investigations, police have registered a case against the builder Rashid Khan and his partner Mohammed Umar Aman Khan. He said that the incident was reported at Neel Gagan Apartment, located on Gufa Mandir Road. Naisha along with her mother Anjali Sharma, her 50-year-old grandmother Komal Sharma, 64-year-old Laxmi Malkani, a resident of Prabhu Nagar, 71-year-old Shrichand Lalwani, a resident of Teela Jamalpura, his 61-year-old wife Lajwanti, and his 51-year-old sister-in-law Bhawna, were on board when the incident took place. They had come over to attend a programme at Naresh Israni’s in the apartment and were using the lift around 4.15pm. The lift collapsed on the ground from a height of 40 feet. According to Bajpai, Komal’s hip bone was dislocated, while her Anjali’s legs were fractured. Fortunately, both were holding Naisha due to which she escaped with minor injuries. Laxmi and Shrichand sustained fractures their in leg. Lajwanti and Bhawna also sustained severe injuries in their legs. The residents protested at Koh-e-Fiza police station on Monday night to register case against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/builder-biz-partner-booked-in-lift-collapse/articleshow/81196378.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Rajkot||Man who rescued deadly snakes dies of cardiac arrest||RAJKOT: A 54-year-old wildlife activist, who was known to rescue poisonous snakes in Madhavpur Ghed in Porbandar, died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday. Arun Devani, who is survived by two sons and a wife, had suffered a heart attack on Monday. He was rushed to a hospital in Junagadh where he got another stroke on Tuesday. His death came as a shock to the wildlife activists who remember him as a man who didn’t just save humans but also ensured that the reptiles survive. “His instincts were so strong that he could smell snakes from a distance and identify their gender by just touching them,” said Govind Vekariya, a wildlife activist from Porbandar. Whenever villagers in and around Madhavpur Ghed used to spot a snake, they used to call Devani for help and he obliged immediately. Devani began rescuing snakes in 1994 when he realised that people used to kill the reptiles that ventured into residential areas. He also attended to snake bites complaints and ensured that all the victims survive by providing help quickly. Devani, who was also dubbed as Arun Cobra, used to travel across the state and train people in rescuing snakes safely. “Earlier, people used to kill snakes out of fear. But since Devani began the rescue efforts, locals began calling him for help. It’s a terrible loss for all of us,” Vekariya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-who-rescued-deadly-snakes-dies-of-cardiac-arrest/articleshow/81197947.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Nagpur||Metro pillar’s steel rods bend, probe pins blame on human error||Nagpur: In an incident which points at lapses in construction of Metro pillars, all steel rods protruding from an under-construction pillar near HB Town in Pardi got badly bent on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. MahaMetro executive director Arun Kumar, who conducted an enquiry, has blamed poor supervision for the incident, said sources, adding action would be taken against concerned persons. A government construction officer, whom TOI had shown the photograph of the bent pillar, also feels the same. “It is not a structural defect. The steel rods have to be given protection till concrete is poured around them. The concerned persons gave it poor protection, which is why they got bent,” he said. A contractor of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) said the steel rods had not snapped despite bending so much. “This shows that the quality of steel used is good,” he added. MahaMetro director (project) Mahesh Kumar said he was in Mumbai and would return to the city on Thursday. “I will be able to comment on the incident only after visiting the site,” he added. The steel rods were so badly bent that MahaMetro asked its contractor to cut them using acetylene torches. As MahaMetro had erected barricades on both sides of the pillars, the bent rods did not obstruct the traffic. In November 2017, a steel cage of MahaMetro’s pillar in Sitabuldi had bent and tilted so much that it was obstructing traffic. Metro contractor’s workers had to cut the cage with acetylene torches, for which traffic was blocked for about three hours. Power supply to nearby shops was also disconnected. Before this, steel cages in Rahate Colony and on Hingna Road had also got bent. MahaMetro had prepared a standard operating procedure after the Sitabuldi incident and there was no repeat for over three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/metro-pillars-steel-rods-bend-probe-pins-blame-on-human-error/articleshow/81196388.cms||Ashish Roy
February 25, 2021||Indore||Covid cases cross 2.6 lakh mark in MP, positivity high at 2.2%||BHOPAL: As many as 344 new cases of Covid-19 infection were reported in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday. Positivity rate increased by 0.5 points in a day to 2.2%. 519 more Covid-19 tests were conducted across MP compared to Tuesday. A total 14,656 people were tested for the infection on Wednesday, according to the health department daily bulletin. Since the pandemic began, 2,60,313 people have been diagnosed with the infection. Two deaths were attributed to Covid-19 on Wednesday in MP. Chhindwara and Mandsaur reported one death each. The Covid-19 death toll in in MP is now 3,857. A total 223 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the count of recoveries in Madhya Pradesh to 2,54,186. With 139 new cases, Indore’s tally went up to 59,101 while that of Bhopal rose to 43,803 with addition of 70 new Covid-19 cases. Indore has so far reported 931 deaths and Bhopal 618. Bhopal is now left with 496 active coronavirus cases while Indore has 740 such cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/covid-cases-cross-2-6l-mark-in-mp-positivity-high-at-2-2/articleshow/81202884.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: VHA condemns NMC’s new norms for private hospitals||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has implemented new norms for operation, registration and renewal of private hospitals in the city. Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) has condemned the new norms. According to convener of VHA, Dr Anup Marar, the new notification is going to severely affect private hospitals. “The extensive increase in registration charges, and the immensely capital and labour intensive stringent rules will have great ramifications. Even the clauses for death and discharge will lead to more clashes with public as hospitals will now be expected to take full advance before initiating treatment to prevent any hassles at the time of discharge and after death,” he said. Dr Marar also said, “New norms are sure shot death-knell for all small hospitals as per bed investment and running cost will increase tremendously, making it unviable. Till now 80% of healthcare was being served by private sector as government hospitals were unable to cater to the overflowing patients due to their own logistic and manpower limitations. Instead of enhancing the capabilities and improving the infrastructure in government colleges and hospitals to create a balance in this unquestionably huge 80:20 divide, such ruling will lead to closure of many private hospitals which will severely dent the healthcare delivery mechanism in coming future.” Dr Marar added that per bed investment and recurring cost will increase substantially, which the healthcare service providers will be forced to pass on to public only, adding to their agony. “We are not sure what with what vision such rules have been irrationally imposed. We will discuss this alarming matter with our president Dr Ashok Arbat and our secretary Dr Alok Umre so as to schedule an urgent meeting of all member hospitals to contemplate further steps to safeguard the existence of private healthcare sector, especially small nursing homes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vha-condemns-nmcs-new-norms-for-private-hospitals/articleshow/81197878.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 25, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Agency to look after Maa flyover maintenance||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) plans to engage an agency for maintenance of Maa flyover. The authorities are preparing a detailed project report for taking up repair work of Aurobindo Setu which needs replacement of its damaged ball bearings. KMDA recently carried out urgent maintenance work including painting the crush barriers and fixing wires on either sides of a 35-meter odd stretch to prevent kite strings from falling over the Maa flyover by closing both flanks from Monday 11pm to 5am. Officials said that maintenance work is required for the flyover for which an agency will be engaged that would complete work within a month. “The carriageway where the surface has developed small damages needs to be repaired, the spots on the kerb side and walls need a fresh coat of paint. The choked drains need to be cleaned and signage boards are required at important spots. As of now an agency will be engaged that will complete the work within a month after which the plan is to engage an agency for annual upkeep and maintenance of the flyover,” said a KMDA official. KMDA is also planning to engage an agency for annual maintenance including conducting road surface repair work, regular sweeping of the road, washing of crash barriers and other allied works of Ultadanga flyover. The officials recently conducted an inspection of Aurobindo Setu to prepare a DPR for repairing the bridge which needs a replacement of its ball bearings. The bridge linking Ultadanga with Gouribari crossing has been found to have diminished load bearing capacity due to the weakened bearing joints. KMDA is also on the process to select agencies to take up major repair works of Baghajatin ROB, Kalighat bridge and a single span of Ultadanga flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/agency-to-look-after-maa-flyover-maintenance/articleshow/81197953.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 25, 2021||Goa||Improve credit deposit ratio, RBI tells Goa banks||Panaji: The Reserve Bank of India has asked bankers in Goa to do more to improve the credit deposit (CD) ratio which has remained below ideal levels for several years. Goa’s CD ratio has languished below 30% for several quarters, but improved slightly to 32.18% during the pandemic. General manager of the State Bank of India and convenor of the State Level Banker’s Committee Sukhvinder Kaur requested banks to exercise greater efforts to achieve the targets projected in the Annual Credit Plan as the performance till the end of the quarter is 81.37%. Addressing bankers during the SLBC meeting, Kaur said that based on data provided by banks, it could be seen that priority sector advances have gone up to 35.3% from 31.4%. Banks were asked to further improve upon the CD ratio which has gone up to 32.2% after remaining at 30% for the many quarters, Kaur said. The 112th SLBC meeting was held recently with finance secretary Puneet Kumar Goel, RBI general manager N J Nampoorthiri and general manager of Nabard Usha Ramesh present. During the meeting, stress was also laid on banks to expand and deepen the digital payment eco-system in Goa. A great emphasis was put on the banks on expanding and deepening of digital payment eco-system and much work has been done in the district of North Goa, which achieved 93%, to make it 100% digital enabled by March 31. Goel emphasised on the need for participation of banks and financial institutions in achieving the desired results so that people benefit. Goel urged all banks to improve the digitisation drive with a particular focus on digital penetration in South Goa to it 100% digital enabled at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/improve-credit-deposit-ratio-rbi-tells-goa-banks/articleshow/81199615.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Surat||PAAS-Congress rift gave AAP a cakewalk||SURAT: Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti was considered redundant after Hardik Patel’s failure in garnering support for the Congress in other parts of Gujarat. But PAAS’s Surat city unit seems to have managed to maintain their repo among the Patidars. As soon as the elections for the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) were announced, PAAS leaders had lined up in Congress’ support like their state leader Hardik, who is the party’s working president. However, the denial of tickets on a few seats to the candidates of their choice upset the Surat PAAS leaders. This triggered an anti-Congress movement and PAAS started working for AAP candidates who were already in close association with the group since the quota movement. As the campaigning progressed, PAAS pressurized Patidar candidates from Congress to withdraw their nominations after the dispute emerged on the last day of filing forms. However, not many followed the diktat and only two Patidar Congress candidates withdrew their forms. Many of the Congress candidates from the Patidar community who had won the civic elections in 2015 due to PAAS’s support and failed to repeat their victory on Tuesday. “Majority of AAP’s candidates who won were associated with PAAS during the quota movement. Some of them were working with Congress expecting change, but after disappointment they joined AAP,” said Dharmik Malaviya, PAAS convener. Congress leaders claim that due to disgruntled Patidar candidates, the results went against them. “Majority of the winning AAP candidates had demanded tickets from Congress. They were not given the ticket so they joined AAP and filed nominations,” said Naishadh Desai, a senior city Congress leader. Rajesh Moradiya, who won on AAP ticket from SMC ward 2 (Amroli-MotaVarachha) said, “I was supporting Congress earlier and worked for it as well. I joined AAP when I felt that Congress was failing to make any difference.” “Congress’ defeat on seats that they won in 2015 and one-sided voting for AAP indicates that it was pre-planned. I doubt if this is a purely sudden shift from Congress to AAP,” said a senior city BJP leader on the condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/paas-cong-rift-gave-aap-a-cakewalk/articleshow/81197939.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Governor seeks report on double murder||Hyderabad: Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan sought the details regarding the double murder of the lawyer couple in Manthani. She asked the government to expedite the investigation and send her the full report. While the contents of the letter are not known, Raj Bhavan sources confirmed that she wrote to the state government. It may be mentioned here that the governor had written to the government on various issues and had also asked the authorities to increase testing. Meanwhile, the governor has taken up an online review of the issues of the state from Puducherry. She recently got additional charge of Puducherry after Kiran Bedi was removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/governor-seeks-report-on-double-murder/articleshow/81197893.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||From five-star to hall in Dahisar, Sena neta downsizes wedding celebrations||MUMBAI: Former Shiv Sena MLA and Mhada Repair and Reconstruction Board chairman Vinod Ghosalkar had planned to host his son’s wedding reception at a five-star hotel on February 28. Though cards have gone out to invitees, he has decided to move the venue to a hall near his home in Dahisar. With Covid cases on the upsurge in the city, his older son, Abhishek, said their decision was in keeping with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s new ‘Mi Zawabdar’ (I’m responsible) campaign. The BMC had on Sunday filed an FIR against the parents of a bride and groom as well as the organisers of a wedding venue in Chembur after they found the cap of 50 persons had been flouted. Several guests were without a mask too. Ghosalkar’s son’s wedding, slated to take place at Sahara Star Hotel near the domestic airport, was expected to have several VIPs in attendance, including the CM, said Abhishek, adding wedding cards had already gone out to all the invitees. “We decided to host the wedding when we saw Covid cases were declining. But with the numbers starting to climb and the CM restricting public gatherings, we felt hosting a grand wedding reception would set a wrong example to the public at large. At the new venue in Dahisar, Covid-appropriate behaviour will be followed, from using sanitizers to ensuring everyone dons face masks,” said Abhishek, who is a former BMC corporator. His wife Tejasvi is a corporator. Abhishek said his younger brother Saurabh, 29, a real estate developer, who is to get married, is happy with the family’s decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/from-five-star-to-hall-in-dahisar-sena-neta-downsizes-wedding-celebrations/articleshow/81198188.cms||Richa Pinto
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||ASI fails to list ‘Chilla-Mubarak’ at Charminar in its gazette||HYDERABAD: The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has failed to list the ‘Chilla-Mubarak’ in the Charminar gazette though it was installed almost 250 years ago. ‘Chilla’ is a site where religious flags are installed. A Chilla is located inside the Charminar towards the south-eastern side. The Chilla was installed inside the Charminar through a royal order issued by Mir Nizam Ali Khan, Nizam II. Heritage activist Mohammed Habeebuddin told TOI that the ASI has ignored the Chilla while notifying the Charminar as a protected monument. He demanded that the Chilla be added to the list of protected monuments. “There are documents to prove that the Chilla was installed by Nizam II. It is a historical monument like the Charminar.” said Habeebuddin. He said the Chilla is also a registered Waqf property. It must be protected and identified with the Charminar. The royal decree issued by Nizam Ali Khan stated that a Sufi saint, Syed Hussain Ali Shah Quadri, went to Baghdad in Iraq and met the Sajjada (custodian) of Bargah Hazrat Mahbub Subhani. A letter written by the Nizam was handed over to the Sajjada. The Nizam had requested for the holy relics of Hazrat Mahbub Subhani. Later, Syed Hussain Ali returned to Hyderabad with the holy relics from Baghdad. Nizam Ali Khan then ordered that the holy relics be kept inside the Charminar towards the south-eastern corner. When contacted, a senior ASI official said there are no records available in the ASI office about the Chilla inside the Charminar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asi-fails-to-list-chilla-mubarak-at-charminar-in-its-gazette/articleshow/81197895.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Oval Maidan will be shut from tomorrow||MUMBAI: Oval Maidan, the Grade-I recreational ground in south Mumbai will be shut from February 26 till further notice, as authorities found large crowds gathering over the weekend. Owing to the surge in Covid-19 cases in the city, it was decided to keep the maidan shut as a precautionary measure. The maidan is one of Mumbai’s largest public open spaces and hosts several pitches where cricket enthusiasts gather to play and watch. Assistant municipal commissioner Chanda Jadhav (A ward) said that she had visited the maidan the last weekend, and found many players, walkers and joggers. She said it would remain shut till further orders. Trustee Nayana Kathpalia, of Oval Trust, which has been maintaining the iconic maidan for over two decades, said, “It is impossible to control the crowd so we understand the need to close it. Through the lockdown the maidan was shut as well.” The maidan will be shut from 7pm on Thursday. Civic officials said the need to shut public space witnessing large gatherings difficult to control will be taken at ward-level. “We have asked civic ward officials to access the situation at their level and act accordingly,” said an official. Richa Pinto||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/oval-maidan-will-be-shut-from-tomorrow/articleshow/81197920.cms||Richa Pinto
February 25, 2021||Bhopal||Governor address directionless & sans vision, says Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: Leader of opposition Kamal Nath slammed the government over missing out “core issues pinching the people and termed the governor’s address to the House as “directionless and without any vision”. The former CM was participating in the debate on the motion of thanks on the governor’s address to the House, delivered on the first day of the budget session. “I feel pity for the governor (Anandiben Patel) that she was made to read out the address to the assembly. It began with Narendra Modi and ended with Narendra Modi. Modi’s name was mentioned 10 times. I was confused and wondered whether I was sitting in the Lok Sabha or Vidhan Sabha”, Nath said. “The state is run by the chief minister”, the PCC chief added. Nath said that the governor missed out completely on core issues that are affecting the common man such as the unprecedented rise in petrol and diesel prices. “The governor could have at least expressed regret over the hike in fuel prices”, he said, amid the thumping of desks. “The governor also did not mention the issue of joblessness. She could have said that Modi ji had promised 2 crore jobs”, Nath asked. “The governor also did not mention about the farmers’ agitation. Lakhs of farmers are in protest mode and 210 have died and the government claims it is pro-farmer,” Nath said. Referring to the political upheaval in March last year, Nath said that BJP had alleged that his government did not prepare to fight against the pandemic. He reminded the House that when his government started preparations, his health minister was sitting in Bengaluru (in a resort with BJP leaders). Nath said that allegations would not serve any purpose. “We need mutual cooperation for the development of Madhya Pradesh”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/guv-address-directionless-sans-vision-says-nath/articleshow/81196410.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Another cheating case against cleric||Hyderabad: A day after the Charminar police arrested a cleric from Old City after he allegedly cheated a cancer patient, yet another cheating case has been registered against the same cleric—Syed Gulam Samdani Quadri aka Ali Quadri—in Hussainialam police station. Feroz Khan, a resident of Shahgunj in Old City lodged a complaint with the police alleging that in December 2018, took more than Rs 10 lakh from him with the promise of resolving his house dispute. But the cleric did not resolve his problem, when Feroz asked about his money, the cleric only returned Rs 10 lakh after one year. When he insisted for the remaining amount, Ali Quadri allegedly threatened him with dire consequences. South zone police said that the accused is religious leader who claims to be a close associate of many influential persons and is in the habit of cheating the innocent persons. Earlier the Nampally metropolitan criminal courts, on Wednesday, sent Ali Quadri to 14-day judicial custody. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-cheating-case-against-cleric/articleshow/81197956.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||NCP, Congress ‘pressure’ CM to seek Sena minister’s resignation||MUMBAI: The Congress and NCP are allegedly building pressure on chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to seek ‘controversial’ Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod’s resignation, especially after his ‘show of strength’ at Pohoradevi temple in Washim which was in violation of Covid norms. Forest minister Rathod’s name had surfaced in connection with the death of TikTok star Pooja Chavan (22) who allegedly ended her life by jumping off a building in Pune on February 8. Late on Wednesday evening after the cabinet meeting and a discussion with Shiv Sena ministers on the alleged Rathod-Chavan link, Thackeray met deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar of NCP and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat of Congress. “It was unfortunate that despite CM Uddhav Thackeray’s specific instructions not to organise gatherings in view of the surge in Covid cases... hundreds of people were mobilised [in Washim] to facilitate the controversial cabinet member,” said Thorat, adding that Thackeray has already ordered a probe into the incident. “Once the report is received, the CM will take appropriate decision,” Thorat added. Sena MP Sanjay Raut told the media that the CM will not tolerate anyone flouting the Covid rules. NCP spokesperson and skill development minister Nawab Malik said that once the inquiry is complete, stern action should be taken against the erring persons. BJP spokesperson Chandrashekhar Bawankule has demanded criminal proceedings against Rathod for gathering thousands of people in violation of the prohibitory orders. A senior bureaucrat said that Thackeray should also take action against the Washim collector and superintendent of police for dereliction of duty. “Permission was granted for a gathering of 50 persons. The moment the crowd swelled, they should have dispersed the mob.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncp-cong-pressure-cm-to-seek-sena-mins-resignation/articleshow/81199579.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Bhopal||Congress stages walkout from assembly to protest fuel price hike||BHOPAL: The issue of fuel price hike rocked the state assembly on Wednesday with opposition Congress members demanding a debate on the surging price rise and staged a walkout in protest. Leader of opposition (LoP) Kamal Nath said that the government was trying to shy away from the issue. The matter came up during the Zero Hour when Congress legislator Sohanlal Valmik raised the fuel price hike issue and demanded a debate on the same. Supporting the demand, Congress MLA Kunal Choudhary said, “When diesel was Rs50 per litre and petrol was Rs65 per litre, BJP used to complain about high inflation rate. Now the petrol price has almost touched Rs100 per litre mark and the BJP calls it development.” As the opposition benches demanded a discussion on the steep price rise in petrol, diesel and LPG, Speaker Girish Gautam refused to allow it. The BJP government also did not agree to the demand by the opposition members. As the stalemate continued, Congress MLAs led by senior members Sajjan Singh Verma and Priyavrat Singh staged a walkout from the House. “The government is not ready to discuss the issue. We are staging a walkout from the House to protest against the hike in the price of petrol and diesel,” said Verma. Congress members also held a sit-in protest at the Mahatma Gandhi statue in the assembly premises, raising slogans against the fuel price hike and the BJP government. Nath said that the government should have allowed a discussion on the burning issue. “The government should hold discussions on growing prices of petrol and diesel but the Shivraj Singh Chouhan regime is trying to shy away from the matter. Congress will hold agitations and continue to hit the streets against fuel price hike,” Nath said. Former minister P C Sharma also attacked the government and alleged that it was trying to suppress the opposition by exhibiting Covid-19 fears. He said Congress would continue with the protest and hold a gherao of the assembly on March 3 against the fuel price hike. BJP condemned Congress for disruption during the House proceedings. “Congress’s protest against fuel price hike is a political drama. It simply wants to disrupt the House proceedings. They have no issues to discuss in the public interest,” said cabinet minister Vishvas Sarang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-stages-walkout-to-protest-fuel-price-hike/articleshow/81196424.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Agra||Fake IT officials conduct raid at property dealer’s house, loot cash and weapon||Agra: A group of seven men, posing as investigation officers of the income tax department, conducted a ‘raid’ at the house of a property dealer and money lender in Kotla Chungi under North police station of Firozabad district. The gang, including a man in police uniform, came in a white SUV and left with Rs 40,000 cash and a revolver. The family was locked in a room and was threatened that they would be arrested if they tried to disrupt the ‘investigation’. The incident occurred on Tuesday evening. Property dealer Goreylal Yadav said, “I was sitting in my office on Tuesday evening when seven men arrived and introduced themselves as income tax officials. They said that they will be conducting a raid at my house following suspicion of tax evasion. Before I could call my lawyer, they started searching cupboards and locked all the family members in a room. Two minutes later, they left with my licenced revolver and Rs 40,000 cash.” Additional superintendent of police Rajesh Kumar said, “Based on the property dealer’s complaint, an FIR has been registered against unknown men for conducting loot at his residence. We have confirmed with the income tax department that no raid was conducted in the area. It seems that an organized gang was involved in the incident. The matter is being investigated in detail. The gang will be busted soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/fake-it-officials-conduct-raid-at-property-dealers-house-loot-cash-and-weapon/articleshow/81195237.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Motorist rams cop in escape bid||Hyderabad: A motorist who attempted to escape from traffic police, on seeing their enforcement against drunk driving, end up dashing an ASI in KPHB. KPHB police said they nabbed the accused, who is into scrap business, and he was made to undergo breathalyzer test. The biker was found drunk and his BAC was 175 mg/100 ml. The motorist came across the enforcement driver after he took the turn towards JNTU. Suddenly, he stopped and attempted to take a U-turn. When the ASI tried to stop him, the biker hit the policeman and injured his leg. He damaged the barricade too. The accused was arrested and sent to judicial remand. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/motorist-rams-cop-in-escape-bid/articleshow/81197940.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Pregnant woman comes under wheels of TSRTC bus, dies||HYDERABAD: A TS Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) bus hit a bike, following which the woman on the bike came under the wheels of the bus, at Himayathnagar Y Junction on Wednesday. The woman succumbed to her injuries at the hospital, while the man will undergo an operation on Thursday. On Wednesday morning, the couple on the bike were returning from the wife’s first health check-up at a maternity hospital in Hyderguda. The incident took place at 8.30 am. The couple—P Satish Goud, 36, and P Shalini, 35—are residents of Musheerabad. The woman was nearly three months pregnant. After completing her health check-up, they started their journey and reached Himayathnagar Y junction via Telugu Academy. The RTC bus was also coming in the same direction. Both the vehicles took right turn towards Chiladpally flyover from the junction. “After both the vehicles took the turn, they were going parallel to each other. One of the vehicles accidentally came in contact with the other, and the couple fell from the bike,” Chander Singh, Narayanguda sub-inspector, told TOI. The local traffic police and public immediately rushed to the spot and both the injured were shifted into a passing ambulance. A case was registered against the bus driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pregnant-woman-comes-under-wheels-of-tsrtc-bus-dies/articleshow/81197929.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Surat||Young model makes political foray||SURAT: The newly elected councillor Payal Sakariya, who is also the youngest of the lot, believes that people like her can bring a change in the overall situation in the country. This belief prompted her to put brakes on her successful modelling and acting career and join active politics. A known face among Patidar community for her performance in the movie Power of Patidar, Sakariya, won the election on AAP ticket with a margin of 9,669 votes from ward 16 — Puna (West). Coupled with her public image and support of Patidar community, Sakariya managed to get the second highest votes in AAP’s panel in her ward. She started working as a model for sari and dresses material firms during college days and dropped out before graduating. She started getting movie offers and has done over 50 songs for various music albums in Gujarati. “I was doing modelling assignments in college when I got an offer for a movie. I could not complete my studies then, but will focus on completing graduation,” Sakariya told TOI. Daughter of a construction contractor, Sakariya earns Rs 70,000 per month through modelling and acting. Her family belongs to Thorkhan near Babra of Amreli. “I used to do social work and had no plans to join politics. But when I saw people suffering during lockdown I decided to focus on the social welfare of people,” said Sakariya. Sakariya has plans to continue with her career as a model and is also exploring opportunities in acting and dancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/young-model-makes-political-foray/articleshow/81198005.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat municipal polls: AAP bags 13.28% vote share||AHMEDABAD: Cashing in on its Delhi model of development, the Aam Aadmi Party grabbed 13.28% vote share in its debut performance in local body polls, emerging as a viable option to both the Congress and the BJP, in Gujarat. Meanwhile, BJP increased its vote share to 53.08% -- the highest it has achieved in past 25 years. Only once has the BJP crossed the 50% mark, and it was in 2010. In comparison, the Congress vote share registered a sharp decline of 14.48% in the same period. The AAP managed to get 28.47% vote share in Surat and 17.4% in Rajkot. The two corporations had seen a major Patidar agitation in 2015. The AAP performance was also good in Ahmedabad (6.99%), Bhavnagar (8.41%) and Jamnagar (6.17%). However, in Vadodara, it could not make much inroads and managed only 2.81 per cent vote share. Barring Surat, the BJP managed a vote share of above 50% in the other five corporations. The Congress got less than 35% vote share in all corporations -- the lowest being Surat where the party got just 18% vote share. Political sociologist Ghanshyam Shah said, “The middle-class is attracted towards the Aam Aadmi Party. This attraction began during the Anna Hazare movement and continues even today. I strongly feel that the middle-income group was looking for an alternative and now AAP has emerged as the alternative to BJP and Congress. The middle-income group now has dilution with the BJP politics and they never wanted to vote for Congress. I see a rise in the support for AAP in Gujarat." AAP spokesperson Tuli Banerjee said, "Winning against the BJP or Congress is a major achievement for us. After this performance, we feel we have a greater role in Gujarat and are emerging as a leading opposition party in the state. Our focus will now be the 2022 assembly election where we want to repeat this performance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/municipal-polls-aap-bags-13-28-vote-share/articleshow/81199586.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 25, 2021||Agra||Will bring 40 lakh tractors to Delhi, gherao Parl, grow crops at Boat Club: Rakesh Tikait||AGRA: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said on Wednesday that if the Centre does not repeal the three agriculture laws, protesting farmers will bring 40lakh tractors to Delhi and lay siege to the Parliament complex. Addressing BKU’s mahapanchayat in Agra’s Kirawali block, Tikait appealed to farmers to prepare for another “Delhi march”. “Harvest your crops in 20 days and get your tractors ready. Call for a ‘Delhi march’ can be given any time now. Leaders of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha will decide the date to ‘gherao’ Parliament. Farmers will grow crops at the Boat Club this time. 40lakh tractors will reach Delhi from different parts of the country," he said. Rakesh Tikait’s father and veteran farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait had laid siege to the Boat Club lawns with lakhs of farmers in 1988. Tikait during the Agra mahapanchayat also alleged that attempts were being made to divide farmers and break the stir. “They tried to divide us on the lines of different states. Then on the ground of small and big farmers. Then on the basis of caste. They tried to create friction between farmers on religious lines also. They tried to malign the image of the Sikh community. Their plan was to create an anti-Sikh riot. We have to save ourselves from such conspiracies and stay united,” Tikait told a 10,000 strong gathering. Without naming anyone, he said, “‘Yeh badi tanasahi sarkar hai, ye luteron ka akhri badhsha sabit hoga’ (This is dictatorship. He will prove to be the last king of robbers).” The outfit’s Agra chief Rajveer Lawaniya said, “Police and local authorities, on the instructions of the state government, stopped tractors carrying farmers for this mahapanchayat. Delegations of farmers from Rajasthan were also stopped. Defying all odds and despite the harvest season, over 10,000 farmers had come.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/will-bring-40lakh-tractors-to-delhi-gherao-parl-grow-crops-at-boat-club-rakesh-tikait/articleshow/81195287.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||AP govt doles out Rs 81k cr under DBT schemes||Hyderabad: Andhra Pradesh government has doled out Rs 81,196 crore to the public under direct benefit transfer (DBT) schemes since 2019. Under DBT cash transfer, 23 schemes are currently implemented in AP for the benefit of the poor. Apart from this, Rs 15,162 crore has been disbursed under five other (non-DBT) schemes, taking the total disbursal to Rs 96,358 crore. Most of the welfare schemes are for women, SCs, STs, BCs, Kapus and minorities. The recent victory of YSRCP in 80% of panchayats is an indication of the popularity of these schemes, say government officials. S Rajiv Krishna, advisor to government of AP, told TOI that the welfare schemes doled out by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will have a domino economic effect. “For instance, Amma Vodi scheme where mothers get funds for educating their children, we will be seeing the returns 10 years after the child enters the workforce. The state is investing around Rs 35,000 crore on health and education infrastructure like refurbishing the schools and hospitals,” he said. He said it will have a multiplier effect. “We can’t link GDP to everything. For us, welfare of the most deserving will always be the priority. A more educated and healthier state will definitely have a better GDP,” he said. A total of around 7.93 crore people that include repeated beneficiaries have availed the 28 schemes. Out of this, the biggest scheme is ‘YSR Pension Kanuka’ on which Rs 28,033 crore has been spent from June 2019 to January 2021, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-govt-doles-out-rs-81k-cr-under-dbt-schemes/articleshow/81198014.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Guv Tamilisai to give virtual appointments||Hyderabad: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan will meet the people who seek appointment virtually. “As she is in Puducherry, where she recently assumed an additional charge as the Lt.Governor, she has decided to meet the people through virtual appointment mode,” read a statement issued by governor’s office. The virtual appointments will be fixed by the Raj Bhavan officials. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guv-tamilisai-to-give-virtual-appointments/articleshow/81197976.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||RRR must be backed by infra funds: Developers||Hyderabad: The Telangana Developers Association, while welcoming the decision, said the peripheral highway must be backed by infrastructure funds for already developed Outer Ring Road (ORR) and surrounding areas. TDA president GV Rao, in a statement, said that if we jump to RRR without developing ORR surroundings, it will not be beneficial to Hyderabad. “It becomes another highway. Real estate will go into speculative mode without real demand. We hope the Centre does not want to see RRR as a highway, but to link RRR with ORR and help grow Hyderabad,” Rao said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rrr-must-be-backed-by-infra-funds-developers/articleshow/81198001.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||HC bars outsiders from using newly-laid road on UoH campus||Hyderabad: Finding fault with the state, revenue authorities and GHMC for behaving in a high-handed manner against the University of Hyderabad (UoH), the high court on Wednesday said a road laid forcibly in the varsity should not be used by outsiders. The usage of this road should be confined to students and staff of the university, the HC said. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this while hearing an appeal filed by the university, which felt aggrieved by the action of GHMC in laying the road over 18 acre land of the varsity at Kancha Gachibowli area. Though a single judge had earlier issued a status quo order last month on the issue, the order was found to be inadequate and was, in fact, being interpreted in a manner that was useful to GHMC. GHMC officials have been saying that since the road was already laid and was also thrown open to the public prior to the court order, maintaining the status quo would only help them. This was the reason for the varsity’s appeal before the bench. The bench did not accept the argument of GHMC that a road was proposed to be laid in the same land parcel in the master plan. The bench said the state, not GHMC, should follow due process of law before taking over land. The bench said they were sending the matter back to the single judge, who would adjudicate all issues. Any access provided to the public at this stage would affect the safety of the students and the varsity employees, the bench said, making it clear the access to the public on this road would be restricted till the single judge decides the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-bars-outsiders-from-using-newly-laid-road-on-uoh-campus/articleshow/81199589.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Traffic curbs as Andheri bridge to be rebuilt||Mumbai: Traffic may be affected as Gopalkrishna Gokhale bridge (Andheri) will be pulled down for reconstruction. Traffic police said light vehicles can use it restrictively till May 31. Light vehicles can use it from Andheri west to east and not vice versa (6am-3pm). Light vehicles can use it from east to west and not vice versa (3pm-11pm). Both bounds will be open, except for heavy vehicles (11pm-6am). Sahar Road to Teli Gully Slip road will be shut for all. Alternative route: Balasaheb Thackeray flyover at Jogeshwari, Milan flyover (Santacruz) & Andheri subway (light vehicles); Rajiv Gandhi flyover, from Andheri east to west. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/traffic-curbs-as-andheri-bridge-to-be-rebuilt/articleshow/81198051.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: SC junks Congress plea for ‘one-member, one-ward’||Ahmedabad: The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed an appeal filed by Congress party leaders objecting to the formula of four councillors in one ward, and demanded that there should be just be one member per ward. Rejecting the argument that provisions for multi-member ward will negate empowerment of weaker sections, SC said that this scheme should empower them instead. The SC also rejected the appeal with the observation that the demand has become infructuous as the notification challenged was already implemented in 2015. The appeals were filed in the apex court after the Gujarat high court in 2015 rejected the petitions. The appellants had questioned the constitutional validity of section 5(3)(iii)(a) and section 29A of the Gujarat Provincial Municipal Corporation Act and sections 2 and 3 of Gujarat Local Authorities Law (Amendment) Act. They had sought quashing of a notification issued by the state government on December 4, 2014 by which the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) was divided in 48 wards and provided for election of 192 councillors, four from each ward. Appellants’ counsel Kapil Sibal submitted that Article 243R of the Constitution does not contemplate a multi-member ward. Among various arguments that he put forth to substantiate the demand for ‘one-member, one-ward’ formula, the senior advocate argued that having more than one representative from a ward negates the very concept of empowerment of weaker sections – women, scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. He also argued that when there is only one member from a ward and if the ward is reserved for women, SCs and SCs, it is empowerment of the concerned category. And if there are four members in a ward, the representative of the weaker sections will not be able to effectively espouse their cause. After hearing the arguments, the bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah said, “Having more than one representation from a ward in no manner negates the empowerment of weaker sections rather it increases the empowerment of weaker sections.” The apex court heard the arguments against constitutional validity of law provisions and held that the sections of GPMC Act and Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act which were challenged in the appeal were not ultra vires to the Constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-junks-cong-plea-for-one-member-one-ward/articleshow/81199590.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Congress asks KCR to sack Kamalakar||Hyderabad: The Congress on Wednesday demanded that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao should sack BC welfare minister Gangula Kamalakar for his alleged attempts to encroach upon 15 acres of prime Wakf property on the outskirts of Karimnagar city. “Minister Kamalakar is trying to encroach upon the prime Wakf property through fraudulent means. When he failed to register 15 acres of land in his name, he went to court against his own government. Therefore, he should be immediately sacked from the cabinet for trying to grab Wakf property and also for opposing the new revenue law framed by his own government,” Telangana Congress minorities cell chairman Shaik Abdulllah Sohail said. However, minister Gangula Kamalakar brushed aside these allegations. “It is not a Wakf land. It is an Inam land. I have verified all the revenue records and no where it is mentioned as Wakf property. The Congress should stop making baseless allegations,” the minister said. Earlier, Abdullah Sohail pointed out that 55 acres of lands in survey Nos. 122, 126, 129, 154 and 177 in Qazipur of Karimnagar district are Wakf lands and their records are available in the Wakf Gazette issued on January 11, 1990.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-asks-kcr-to-sack-kamalakar/articleshow/81198039.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Foreign liquor price unlikely to change||HYDERABAD: The price of foreign brand liquor will remain the same despite the central government’s proposal to reduce excise duty. As part of Europe-India free trade agreement, the governmewnt of India has planned to reduce the excise duty, but the state government has no plans to reduce the base price. The state government is hugely banking on excise sales for income. It is the only income which did not reduce despite the pandemic and sales of foreign brand liquor are always high in the state. Currently, 150% excise duty is levied on foreign brand liquor, but now it is proposed to reduce to 75% which can provide some relief to foreign liquor lovers. The state government had increased the prices of local liquor brands during Covid-19 and derived the benefit as it ended up netting the same income it used to garner before Covid-19. There was also a proposal to hike the rates of foreign liquor brands also, but it was kept in abeyance. “If the central government decreases the excise duty, the base price will go up in the state. Then, there will be no change in the prices of foreign liquour,” officials said. By doing so, the present MRP can be maintained, which will entail no loss to the state government. In the state, there is more consumption of beer than hard liquor. Many liquor lovers in the recent past have taken to drinking foreign liquor. There are more than 500 types of liquor brands available in the state currently. “The situation is like petrol price. We cannot reduce our prices as excise and petrol are the only income generating sources,” said a top government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/foreign-liquor-price-unlikely-to-change/articleshow/81199598.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 25, 2021||Meerut||After a dozen birds fall prey to Chinese manjha, authorities initiate crackdown on kite sellers||Bijnor: Chinese manjha is posing to be a threat to birds in the district. In the past one month, the rampant use of the banned manjha has already claimed the lives of atleast 12 birds, including crane and kites. Forest authorities have launched an awareness programme urging the people not to use Chinese manjha. Besides, authorities are bracing up for a crackdown against shopkeepers selling it fearlessly. Notably, there are a large number of migratory birds that fly down into the region. They pass over villages and towns. Najibabad ranger Arvind Shrivastava said, “The rampant use of deadly Chinese manjha for kite flying in villages and towns is posing as a threat to birds. Unable to see the strings, birds fall prey to it and sometimes, they die on the spot. Over 12 birds have died in the past one month. Recently, a kite fell to the ground after getting injured in its right arm. We are treating it at Najibabad. As of now, it is unable to take off. Earlier, a crane was found dead in the area.” When contacted, Bijnor divisional forest officer M Semmaran said, “We have spread awareness against the deadly Chinese manjha. Even though it is banned, it is rampantly used in rural and urban areas. We are bracing for a crackdown against the shopkeepers selling Chinese manjha.” Talking to TOI, Bijnor-based student Harsh Deshwal said, “Earlier shopkeepers used to sell normal manjha to children for kite flying. However, after kids, who indulge in kite flying competition, demand sharp manjha to snap their competent’s kites, shopkeepers started selling it. Chinese manjha is dangerous for kids also. Some days ago, it had injured my nephew.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-a-dozen-birds-fall-prey-to-chinese-manjha-authorities-initiate-crackdown-on-kite-sellers/articleshow/81196492.cms||Harveer Dabas
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Hardik Patel under fire after Congress rout in Patidar strongholds||GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat Congress working president, Hardik Patel, is facing severe criticism after the Congress’s rout in Patidar-dominant areas in municipal corporation elections across Gujarat. Patel, who founded the Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS), joined the Congress and was appointed working president in July last year. A number of PAAS leaders joined the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the recent months, enabling it to win an impressive 27seats in Surat Municipal Corporation election. The Congress failed to win a single seat even though Hardik Patel campaigned extensively in Surat, along with the other five municipal corporation areas. After joining Congress, Hardik distanced himself completely from PAAS and Surat-based Alpesh Kathiria emerged as PAAS leader. In the run-upto SMC election, PAAS members had openly threatened Congress leaders against campaigning in their areas. Hardik is now facing fire from within the Congress for the party’s dismal performance in the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hardik-under-fire-after-cong-rout-in-patidar-strongholds/articleshow/81199614.cms||Kapil Dave
February 25, 2021||Delhi||N corpn clears way to increase licensing fees in refugee mkts||New Delhi: The standing committee of North Delhi Municipal Corporation has approved a policy for revision of monthly licensing fees for 1,100 commercial properties in 29 refugee markets. The matter has been pending for a long time and the policy was finalised by the standing committee on Wednesday following a meeting of civic officials with traders of these markets. It will now need the House approval. “The revised policy will give us Rs 60-80 crore,” said the leader of the House, Yogesh Verma. The shops in these markets were allotted to Partition refugees and some merchants of Old Delhi to remove encroachment. Around 40 years ago, the markets were transferred by Land and Development Office, the railways and New Delhi Municipal Council to the land and estate department of the corporation. The shop owners have been paying the rent/licensing fees as per a 1979 MCD resolution. Verma said the fees couldn’t be raised due to lack of consensus between the traders and the corporation. At some markets, traders were not paying the fees for seven years and more, he added. The prevailing fees are as low as Rs 4-Rs 140 in Kauria Pul shops, Rs 8-Rs 1,024 for khokha stalls at More Sarai Road, and Rs 14-Rs 922 on Mirdard Road. The revised policy suggests licensing fees on the basis of the area of a shop, not as per its property tax category. “For example, for shops measuring 30-50 sq m, the monthly fees will be Rs 5,500; for 50-100sq m shops, it will be Rs 9,000, and for those over 100 sq m, Rs 12,000,” said Verma. At many places, the ownership has changed multiple times without paying any transfer fees. “We will change the name of the owner in our record only when the amount is paid,” said Verma. Standing committee chairman Chhail Bihari Goswami said the panel had decided that the fees should be decided on the basis of the existing circle rates and revised from time to time. A survey of the markets was conducted to obtain details containing names of occupants, areas, monthly fees and dues, he added. During the survey, large-scale variations in licensing fees were found even within the same market, which was caused by permission for change in ownership through lump sum regularisation fees and four-fold increase in license fees on each instance. In 2014, a rate list was decided, but that was unacceptable to the shopkeepers while officials were not ready to review it. “Finally a private resolution was passed in a meeting in 2018 wherein it was mentioned that the licensing fees will be based upon the size instead of the property tax category,” said Verma. A committee was set up to look into the proposal and the standing committee passed it on Wednesday, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-clears-way-to-increase-licensing-fees-in-refugee-mkts/articleshow/81198094.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Mini jatara begins in Medaram||Mulugu: The four-day mini Sammakka-Saralamma jatara began in Medaram on Wednesday. The mini jatara is a biennal affair which begins on Magha Suddha Pournami. Although, the tribal priests perform the puja, dieties _ Sammakka and Saralamma _ will not be brought to the altars. On Wednesday, priests belonging to the Siddaboina and Kaka clans started the rituals by cleaning the temples of Sammakka in Medaram and Saralamma in Kanneboinapalli respectively. Siddaboina Jagga Rao, Muninder, Arun Kumar, Vasantha Raju, Laxmi, Dasaratham and Swamy cleaned the Sammaka temple while Kaka Saraiah, Bujanga Rao, Kiran Kumar and Laxmi Bai performed the rituals at the Saralamma temple. Both the temples were decked up with mango leaves and dhwaja stambams were erected. The priests offered country roosters to the dieties. The women enthusiastically participated in the jatara by decorating their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mini-jatara-begins-in-medaram/articleshow/81198089.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
February 25, 2021||Hyderabad||Student nabbed for harassing girl||Hyderabad: A student was arrested by cyber crime sleuths of Rachakonda, after he was accused by a girl of creating fake profile in social media and harassing her. Both the victim and accused were college mates. Since the victim rejected the accused’s love proposal, he bore a grudge against her. The victim, who is married, was being harassed constantly. The accused was arrested by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/student-nabbed-for-harassing-girl/articleshow/81199631.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 25, 2021||Ahmedabad||Average age 47, AMC grows younger||AHMEDABAD: With parties denying tickets to candidates above 60 years, the average age of newly elected councillors is just 47 years. At 24 years of age, Usha Rohit, who won on a BJP ticket from Nikol, is the younget councillor. Rafiq Wazir Shaikh, a 60-year-old Congressman who was elected from Behrampura, is the oldest councillor. According to the biodata provided by BJP, Bharat Patel from Chandlodia and Pradip Dave from Sardar Patel stadium are their oldest councillors. They both are 59 years of age. Usha Rohit who has BCom and LLB degrees, said, “This was my first election. I am from a scheduled caste community and always had an urge to serve my people. So, when the community member asked me for my biodata, I readily gave it and was chosen.” She added, “Being the youngest candidate, I am energetic and will work hard to give justice to the area and my ward.” BJP’s youngest councillors also includes Pratibha Dube from Amraiwadi who is 26 years old. Siddharth Parmar, 27, who won from Ramol Hathijan, is the youngest male councillor. In the Congress, Madhuri Kalapi from Dariapur is the youngest female councillor while Shahjadkhan Pathan is the youngest male councillor. Both are 32 years of age. Data reveals that the average age of BJP councillors is 47 years while the same for Congress councillors is 48 years. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen is the youngest party in the corporation with an average age of 43 years. AMC officials said that the average age of the 2015 body was over 55 years. However, since several senior members were denied tickets, the average age has come down this time, they added. Even the Congress followed the trend and those who won were all below 60 years. The present body has 63 graduates and 32 post-graduates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/average-age-47-amc-grows-younger/articleshow/81199624.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi-Meerut e-way to be nearly done by March: NHAI||NEW DELHI: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Wednesday gave an assurance to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the completion of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway by this March end, barring one rail over bridge (ROB). Reviewing the progress of the project for the third time in the monthly review meeting under PRAGATI initiative, Modi asked the officials whether they will adhere to this new deadline. The completion of the greenfield link from Dasna to Meerut has been delayed due to land acquisition related issues. The PM had earlier reviewed the project twice since the work started in 2015. “The PM observed that earlier some or other reasons were cited for delay in completion of the project. He asked whether now the project will get completed by March end. The PM also asked whether any issue is still pending before the Uttar Pradesh government with regard to this project. The officers said now all issues have been resolved,” said a source. NHAI officials have maintained that 98% work on this 82 km access-controlled expressway has been completed. One of the two ROBs will be completed in the first half of March. The other ROB is likely to be completed by December this year. “Once the first ROB is completed, traffic can be allowed on this stretch. The NHAI is giving finishing touches to the works,” said a government source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-meerut-e-way-to-be-nearly-done-by-march-nhai/articleshow/81198223.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: These ‘govt’ sites took many to the cleaners||NEW DELHI: The cyber cell of Delhi Police has busted a racket running fake websites impersonating genuine government sites and luring youths on pretext of registration on “Government e-marketplace (GeM)”. Unsuspecting people landed on these sites after searching GeM registration on Google. These sites were charging Rs 2,999 each as registration fee, whereas this facility was free on the government website, said DCP Anyesh Roy. The cops have detected two such sites so far and arrested four people. “Investigation has revealed that the fraudsters were paying huge sums to Google Ads for getting their fake website listed on the top in search results. Around 4,000 confirmed victims have been identified till now,” the DCP added. GeM is a government-run e-commerce portal to facilitate and enable easy online acquisition of consumer goods & services, which are needed by various government departments, PSUs and related organisations. Police started tracking this gang after receiving a complaint from a vigilant citizen, who had been duped by one such website. A probe was initiated and cops realised that many such websites were in operation. “A team led by ACP Raman Lamba located the suspects and arrested four of them — Yash Sharma, Tushar Naiyyer, Anurag Chug and Suraj Verma — from west Delhi,” the DCP said, adding that Sharma was running a portal www.govregistration.in and had allegedly duped at least 2,500 people of around Rs 70 lakh. The other three are connected with the website www.gov-registration.org, and have duped close to 1,600 victims of around Rs 35-40 lakh, he added. “Citizens are advised to verify the websites before making payment. In this case, the genuine GeM Portal is https://gem.gov.in. Genuine government sites have ‘gov.in’ at their end as extension,” DCP Roy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/these-govt-sites-took-many-to-the-cleaners/articleshow/81217354.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra logs 8,807 new cases, highest in 129 days, Mumbai sets 3-month record||MUMBAI: Maharashtra reported a significant jump in new Covid-19 cases and fatalities on Wednesday, continuing with the rise that started 10 days ago. A total of 8,807 cases, highest in 129 days (since 9,060 on October 18) were added to the state’s daily tally. The state reported 80 deaths, highest in two months (since December 24, when 89 deaths were reported). With this, the total cases in the state jumped to 21,21,119 and the death toll touched 51,937. Mumbai also saw a three-month high in daily Covid-19 cases. It reported 1,167 cases, highest in 119 days. The last time the city had more than 1,167 cases was on October 28, when 1,354 were detected and Mumbai was merely coming out of the peak. It is also after 88 days since November 28 (1,063) that the city has added over 1,000 cases in a day. The only silver lining for the city was that deaths continued to be in single digits (4). Mumbai’s total toll is now 11,458. Of the 80 deaths in the state, 27 occurred in the last 48 hours and the rest are older than a week, the state update said. Intensivist Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid task force, said the rise in cases was “concerning”. “A rise in critical cases or deaths is seen 7-14 days after a surge in cases,” he said, adding that the next 10 days would be make or break for Mumbai. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said over 21,000 tests were carried out on Wednesday. “Yes, there is a jump in cases and in positivity rate, which is at 6%. We are keeping a close eye on the situation. We have asked all jumbo facilities to reactivate beds,” he said. There was a detailed presentation in the state cabinet meeting where data on the Covid-19 surge and ongoing vaccination drive was presented. Nawab Malik, minister for skill development, said CM Uddhav Thackeray instructed all districts to increase testing and contact tracing. The health department said in the meeting that despite a rise in average cases in February, the case fatality rate (CFR) is low. The daily average of cases in January was 2,973 and the case fatality rate was 1.7%. The daily average cases are 3,347 and total deaths reported in February are 775, taking the CFR to 0.4%. Mumbai circle on Wednesday reported 2,018 cases, highest in the state followed by Pune circle with 1,811 cases. Akola and Nagpur circles from Vidarbha region that is currently the eye of the storm saw 1,679 and 1,323 cases respectively. The Nagpur municipal corporation reported a dozen deaths. Dr Shashank Joshi, another member of the state task force, said the coming 10 days will tell if the state was staring at a second wave. “This surge has started from Vidarbha, and it is hard to believe that mutant variants didn’t have a role to play,” he said. Another plausible explanation for the rise, he said, was that people who didn’t get infected in the previous months have all started moving freely. “Double masking is an absolute must to prevent coronavirus,” he said. From the MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli saw a sharp rise in Covid-19 patients. It reported 165 fresh patients and 2 deaths. There were 130 cases and two deaths within NMMC areas on Wednesday. The PCMC areas reported 55 fresh cases and one death on Wednesday. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta, Vijay Singh, BB Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-logs-8807-new-cases-highest-in-129-days-city-sets-3-month-record/articleshow/81200187.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 25, 2021||Nagpur||Water tax dues Rs101cr, OTS brings mere Rs17cr for NMC||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s one-time settlement (OTS) scheme for water bill dues failed to recover the outstanding amount. Like property tax amnesty scheme, the OTS scheme too elicited poor response with only 17% of over 2.57 lakh defaulters clearing their dues. Against Rs101.43 crore dues, the cash-strapped NMC collected mere Rs17.38 crore as the scheme ended on February 22. The OTS scheme was implemented from December 21 last year and continued till February 22, 2021. Under the scheme, the civic body had offered 100% waiver on interest if the citizens pay outstanding bills by January 21, the date later extended to January 31. The NMC reduced the waiver to 30% for the defaulters paying the outstanding bills between February 1 and February 22. The city has 3.72 lakh water consumers and of these 2.57 lakh have defaulted on bills to the tune of Rs212.67 crore, including the principle amount of Rs98.51 crore and the rest being penalty thereon. Data obtained from the water works department revealed that 35,969 consumers made full payment totalling to Rs15.79 crore, while 2,664 cleared Rs1.59 crore dues. The highest number of defaulters was from East Nagpur. Lakadganj and Satranjipura zones have 65,277 consumers who have defaulted on bills to the tune of Rs12.15 crore and Rs14.95 crore, respectively. The recovery from these two zones under the OTS was just Rs4.40 crore. In the past too, the water works department had introduced the OTS scheme twice. In 2016-17, the scheme had recovered Rs12.45 crore from an outstanding amount of Rs33 crore. Similarly, in 2017-18, NMC had once again offered rebate and only Rs13.80 crore was recovered out of the outstanding dues of Rs103 crore. The NMC had experienced similar poor response in its amnesty scheme launched for property tax defaulters. Of the Rs400 crore property tax arrears from more than 3.73 lakh defaulters, only 50,548 property owners had cleared Rs43.88 crore tax, which comes to around 11% availing the penalty waiver scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/water-tax-dues-rs101cr-ots-brings-mere-rs17cr-for-nmc/articleshow/81196513.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 25, 2021||Goa||1,400 illegal hoardings identified across Goa||PANAJI: Authorities have identified 1,400 illegal hoardings in the state along the National Highways, state highways and major district roads and have asked the public and stakeholders to inspect the list of illegal hoardings within five days and submit their objections within seven days. Based on the directions of the high court, the government had formed two committees, one for each district to identify illegal hoardings and to submit a report to it. “The public are invited to inspect the report submitted by the North Goa district magistrate to the high court within five days at the respective offices of the deputy collectors & SDMs in North Goa district”, the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1-4k-illegal-hoardings-identified-across-state/articleshow/81199640.cms||---
February 25, 2021||Surat||Doctor aims to treat poor planning||SURAT: He is one of the 27 candidates of AAP who have won in the Surat Municipal Corporation polls. And this doctor wants to treat city’s imperfect planning. As a student at the Government Medical College, Surat, Dr Kishor Rupareliya (49) had worked for several social causes. But he had no idea that he would enter active politics. Rupareliya has made diamond city his home since 1989. A practising dermatologist, Rupareliya also regularly spends time in carrying out social activities. With the support of youth, he has carried out awareness campaigns on Right to Information, traffic and plaguing infrastructure in publicly funded education system. As one of the seven petitioners, he had approached the National Green Tribunal (NGT) demanding cleaning of Tapi river. It was following the NGT order that Gujarat government sanctioned over Rs 900 crore budget for cleaning the river. “I think we need a better planned city where there is no space for corruption. I will work to solve day to day issues faced by citizens,” said Rupareliya, who won by a wafer-thin margin of 825 votes against BJP’s heavyweight Lalit Vekariya in ward number 7 (Katargam-Ved). Father of two daughters Rupareliya belongs to a family of farmers having their roots in Lunivav village, located near Gondal town of Rajkot district. His elder brothers too are settled in the city. "I met various political leaders, officers in the past to raise issues. But I never got a permanent solution of such issues. Hence, I decided to enter active politics,” said Rupareliya, adding that people have hopes that AAP will replicate Delhi model in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/doctor-aims-to-treat-poor-planning/articleshow/81198148.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
February 25, 2021||Mumbai||We will be ‘pawri poopers’ if norms flouted, says BMC||MUMBAI: Joining the ‘pawri’ trend on social media, the BMC posted an image on Twitter recently, warning Mumbaikars that if their ‘pawri’ flouts Covid norms, the civic body will play “‘pawri’ poopers”. The ‘pawri’ trend went viral after a clip was shared by a Pakistani social media influencer. In view of rising positive cases in the city, BMC has once again decided to impose certain rules and tighten others by taking action against those flouting it. The civic body has gone back to sealing of buildings and floors, stamping asymptomatic patients, tracking over a dozen high-risk contacts of those found positive and imposing stringent fines on those who do not wear face masks. In case of weddings, legal action is being taken against the organizers, parents of the bride and groom, and the venue management, said officials, in case they flout the 50-person rule. To monitor places of worship, marshals will be deployed. The tweet posted from BMC’s handle @mybmc says, “Responsible ‘Pawri’ Mode: ON!. If COVID norms are not practised at social gatherings, due action will be taken against the attendees, organisers and management. Let’s not put down our guards, Mumbai – let’s beat the virus before we start the party! #MissionZero #NaToCorona.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/we-will-be-pawri-poopers-if-norms-flouted-says-bmc/articleshow/81198230.cms||Richa Pinto
