February 26, 2021||Chennai||Chennaiites bring out a logbook to keep memories about the city intact||Eighty-four--year-old Manohar Devadoss’s voice perks up when you ask him what the city in the ‘50s looked like. “I still remember jumping into a running tram and getting a ticket for just about 1 anna coin. Those were the days when ticket prices were appallingly low,” the visually impaired artist adds with a chuckle. Manohar Devadoss’s memories with trams of Madras is one of the many fascinating stories that find an appearance in Nam Madras Log Book, a nostalgia project launched by Nam Veedu Nam Oor Nam Kadhai (NVNONK), a history collective in the city.  Curated by architects Thirupurasundari Sevvel and Srishti, the project urges anyone with a Madras connection to log their memories of the city into this log book. “A log book is something you use to record things. We wanted to create something similar, where people could log in their memories about Madras — it could be a specific experience, an artwork, poem, a picture, an essay or even a treasured bus ticket,” explains Srishti, adding that each contributor gets one spread or two pages to log in their memories. The idea was to extend it to people beyond artistic backgrounds, notes Thirupurasundari, adding, “A few people can depict their emotions through art and poems. And a few others might have a lot of memories, but cannot express it on paper. So, we will sketch their memories or turn it into any form if they want us to.” The logbook, which has gotten registrations from Delhi, Chennai, Pune, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Korea, the US, and Dubai, will travel from one person to the other if it is accessible by post. Contributors from abroad can scan their spreads via email. To make matters more interesting, each contributor will leave a word for the next person to weave into their entry in the book. “For instance, my entry was all about the reds of Madras — right from the reds of the public buildings, to the stark reds of the terracotta. And I left the word ‘trail’ for the next contributor, who will have to use the word in their theme,” Srishti notes, adding that the idea is to eventually weave a story through these words once the project is complete. Aafreen Fathima, a 22-year-old heritage enthusiast from the city used the canvas to recollect her memories from Royapuram. “In my logbook entry you can see a trail of me travelling from Royapuram to Royapettah because that’s the place I visited the most in recent years,” says Aafreen, who incorporated speed post bills, flowers and pieces from old books as part of her entry. Musician Anirudh Krishna, who moved to Chennai two years ago, correlates different parts of the city to a song. “I have also tried to give each and every area in Chennai that I have been to, a particular sound in the book,” he adds. Thirupurasundari, who started the collective a few years ago, is more interested in what Madras means to everyone. The logbook also comes with a Madras Memory Box, which prompts people to add an object that they associate with Madras. This detail is also an extension of the many workshops that she has conducted, including one on Household Heritage, curated by antique and household heritage collectors Venkatraman Prabhakaran, Sivagama Sundari and Akshaya Selvaraj. “We have collected many such articles from the workshops we have done earlier. The box includes intangible Madras souvenirs, including `1 notes, an old love letter, a lamp and tram tickets.” Thirupurasundari says the plan is to make this initiative into a moving exhibit soon. “I wanted to explore the collective history of the city. Anyone who loves Madras is welcome here to contribute,” she smiles. When trams plied through MadrasPadma Shri awardee Manohar Devadoss has the fondest memories with trams. “I used to climb atop the old lighthouse that was right in the middle of the Madras High Court to have a look at the trams from above. From up there, the trams used to look like chocolate boxes. I have done umpteen drawings of the Indo-Saracenic architecture of the domes of the lighthouse,” he says. His piece in the log book was sketched by Srishti, based on his memories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennaiites-bring-out-a-logbook-to-keep-memories-about-the-city-intact/articleshow/81215710.cms||Sruthi Raman
February 26, 2021||Bengaluru||Chikkaballapur blast: Quarry engineer planned to dump gelatin sticks into fire, says lone survivor||BENGALURU: The blast in Chikkaballapur district on Tuesday, which claimed the lives of six quarry employees, may have been triggered when the victims tried to throw gelatin sticks into a fire to destroy them, investigators said, quoting from the statement of the lone survivor of the tragedy. The finding negates the earlier suspicion that the blast happened when the men were carrying two sackfuls of explosives to hide them in a forested area in the wake of heightened police surveillance. Mohammed Riyaz, driver of the Tata Ace , which had been hired to ferry the explosives, and the lone survivor in the incident, told investigators that he had overheard a conversation between engineer Uma Maheshwar and others during the nearly 20-minute journey. Riyaz said his mini-truck was hired, but he wasn’t told for what purpose. He was first asked to go to a house near Peresandra village, where four members, including Uma Maheshwar, boarded the vehicle. The men carried two sackfuls of what he later learnt were gelatin sticks. The vehicle followed two others, who were on a motorcycle. All six men were employees of Sri Sai Shiradi Aggregate Quarry at Hirenagavali village nearby. “From what I heard, Raghavendra Reddy, one of the owners of the quarry, had directed Uma Maheshwar to dispose of the explosives by throwing them into a waterhole located on the outskirts of Hirenagavali village. But Uma Maheshwar was of the opinion that throwing the sticks into water would mean it’d take at least 3-4 days for them to dissolve or turn soggy enough not to be identified. Uma Maheshwar told his men that as police were already searching in the vicinity, including waterholes, and other places for illegal explosives, it is better they put the sticks into a fire as this way they would be reduced to ashes and no traces would remain,” Riyaz said in his statement to police. Accordingly, Nepalese national Mahesh Singh Bora, who was riding the bike with another person and had reached the spot ahead of the others, lit a fire. Bora met the team when the Tata Ace was halfway to its destination and rode back with them. “Uma Maheshwar and others walked towards the flames, carrying the gelatin-filled rice bags. Five minutes would have passed and the blast occurred,” an investigating officer said, adding: “We are shocked to hear Uma Maheshwar, despite being an engineer working with the quarry for over five years, was ignorant of the consequences of throwing gelatin sticks into fire.” 394 gelatin sticks found Cops recovered 394 gelatin sticks from a waterhole located near a village — Muttugadahalli — on Wednesday evening. “They were bundled into a gunny bag and dipped in waist-deep water. Locals informed us, saying a few men were seen dumping them in the waterhole on Wednesday morning. We are searching other waterholes in surrounding areas,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/quarry-engineer-planned-to-dump-gelatin-sticks-into-fire-lone-survivor/articleshow/81216149.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hubballi||Two from Karnataka's Belagavi arrested for marrying minors||BELAGAVI: A chance examination of Aadhaar cards of two young women who delivered babies in a Belagavi hospital in December set off investigations by police and child protection departments, leading to the arrest of two men for marrying minor girls. Though the incident took place in December, the men, aged 24 and 26 and who work as daily labourers, were arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso) in the third week of January. They are lodged in the jurisdictional police station. Sources said the duo will be produced before court after police file a chargesheet by the end of this month. Police officials said heavily pregnant girls, aged 16 and 17, were admitted to Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) in December for delivery, but on different dates. Doctors at the hospital were going through the documents submitted by the mothers-to-be and learnt from their Aadhaar cards that they were under 18 years of age. Immediately, the doctors brought the issue to the notice of the hospital’s medical officer, who, in turn, informed the district child protection officer, Ravindranath Ratnakar. The child protection officer told TOI that he spoke to the families to corroborate the girls’ birth details, besides filing complaints at the jurisdictional APMC police station in the second week of January. Soon, police booked cases under Pocso and picked up the duo from their villages a week later. This was, perhaps, the first time that husbands were booked under Pocso for impregnating minor wives. The child protection department’s legal officer Vaijusha Adake said the accused have been booked under Sections 4 and 6 of Pocso. The girls are now with their parents after the delivery. Ravindranath said the child marriage said the department received 115 complaints about child marriages between April and December in 2020, and 108 were stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/2-from-belagavi-arrested-for-marrying-minors/articleshow/81216150.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt to do audit of explosive materials||BENGALURU/DAVANAGERE: The state government will undertake an audit of explosive materials in all quarries and mines across the state. This comes in the backdrop of the recent blasts at quarries that left 12 people dead. “An audit of explosive materials will be undertaken jointly by officials of the home and the mines departments to find out the amount of explosives stored at quarries and mining centres,” home and law minister Basavaraj Bommai told reporters on Thursday. His statement comes two days after six people were killed at a stone quarry site in Chikkaballapur, when gelatin sticks exploded accidentally, the second such instance in a month. Six people were killed when a truckload of explosives went off near a quarry on January 22 on the outskirts of Shivamogga town. The minister said the state will crack down on illegal mining and stringent action will be taken if any unauthorised stock of explosives is found during the audit. The home minister said he will speak to mines and geology minister Murugesh Nirani about the audit. “There are illegal mines and quarries in the state against which we will launch a crackdown,” Bommai said.According to him, till now, these mines and quarries were inspected once in three months, but now a circular has been issued to revise the same to once a fortnight or once a month. Mines and geology department officials said the state government has also written to the Centre to revise laws and policies pertaining to mining to prevent illegal quarrying and storage of explosives. “We have asked the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change and the Centre to make it mandatory for all mines, regardless of size and type of mineral, to obtain environmental clearance,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-to-do-audit-of-explosive-materials/articleshow/81216153.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Bengaluru||Villagers rescue deer from dogs on Bengaluru outskirts||BENGALURU: Villagers of Gunjoor, near Varthur, on the eastern fringes of Bengaluru rescued a spotted deer on Thursday. Around 11am, residents heard stray dogs barking loudly and rushed out of their homes to see a spotted deer trying to run for its life. The deer entered an open bathroom and villagers immediately shut its door to save it from being attacked by the canines. Local animal rescuer Bahu Guna said the deer had bruises on its stomach. He covered its eyes to ensure it does not panic. Forest officials reached the village at 11.30am and shifted the deer to a veterinary hospital, where its wounds were treated. “It had minor cuts on the abdomen and the antlers were slightly damaged; it should recover in a week,” an official said. The animal was released into Varthur forest in the afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/villagers-rescue-deer-from-dogs-on-city-outskirts/articleshow/81216159.cms||---
February 26, 2021||World||Pakistani lawmaker lambasted for Hindu goddess tweet||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s televangelist-turned-politician Aamir Liquat Hussain has been forced to apologise for his controversial act of using the image of Hindu deity to mock Maryam Nawaz, the vice-president of opposition Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) party. Hussain has been a member of the national assembly of the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) from Karachi. On Tuesday, he had shared a screenshot of a news channel that quoted Maryam Nawaz, ex-PM Nawaz Sharif’s daughter, as saying, “They (government) will now see a second version of me.” Husain posted the quote on Twitter with the image of a Hindu deity, likening it to Maryam’s “dusra roop (second version)”. The move drew ire from a large number of politicians and netizens, condemning Hussain’s post, which he deleted on Wednesday evening. Later on that night, he also tendered an apology, saying the “sentiments of the Hindu community were hurt”. Hussain said he had not intended the tweet as a disrespect and had deleted the same. “I respect all faiths, this is what my religion has taught me,” he added. Condemning Husain’s tweet, PTI’s Hindu MNA from Tharparkar in Sindh province, Dr Ramesh Kumar Vankwani, who is also the chief of the Pakistan Hindu Council, called it a “shameful act”. “Strongly condemn this shameful act by someone who claims to be a religious scholar also but doesn’t know how to respect other religions. Delete this tweet immediately otherwise we reserve the right to demand strict action under the Blasphemy Act and protest across the country,” Vankwani posted on Twitter. He said Hussain’s post had not only hurt the sentiments of Hindus across the country but also created resentment among supporters of PTI. Another PTI MNA from Umerkot in Sindh, Lal Chand Malhi, tweeted: “Strongly condemn the blasphemous act of Aamir Liaquat and appeal PM Imran Khan to take notice of this immoral act. No religion including Islam permits him to do such illogical acts.” He added that the tweet, in fact, exposed Husain’s “second version”. Surendar Valasi, a provincial lawmaker of Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) from Tharparkar, issued a statement, alleging that PTI lawmakers like Husain had “lost their mental balance” and were using insulting language against their political rivals and the “weaker” communities of the country. He warned of a protest if an unconditional apology was not tendered by the “political clowns”. Rights activist Kapil Dev requested Prime Minister Imran to take strong notice of the act by a lawmaker from his party. He said Husain had used a Hindu deity for political point-scoring. “Hindus are abused and their religious sentiments are hurt even by those sitting in the parliaments,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistani-lawmaker-lambasted-for-hindu-goddess-tweet/articleshow/81217116.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 26, 2021||World||UK court clears Nirav Modi extradition, home secy’s sign next||LONDON: A British court on Thursday cleared the decks for fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi's extradition to India, accepting "prima facie" that he defrauded Punjab National Bank (PNB) of Rs 6,498 crore, laundered the proceeds and interfered with witnesses and evidence. Forwarding the case to UK home secretary Priti Patel for the formality of signing the extradition order, district judge Sam Goozée of the Westminster magistrates’ court said doing so would neither be oppressive nor a breach of 49-year-old Nirav's human rights. Patel must put her seal on the extradition within two months, failing which Nirav can apply to be discharged. During this time, he may make representations as to why he should not be extradited. If she goes ahead and orders his extradition, then he will have 14 days to apply for permission to appeal in the UK high court. Fugitive liquor baron Vijay Mallya lost the appeal against his extradition in the high court in April last year and was denied permission to appeal in the UK Supreme Court. However, he remains in the UK. Nirav's lawyer Anand Doobay said, "We are not commenting." Dressed in a black jacket and sporting a black and grey beard, Nirav appeared at Thursday's hearing via live link from HMP Wandsworth. He appeared to stare blankly as extracts from the 83-page judgment were read out. He was refused bail and remanded back in custody. Goozée said, "I do not accept the submissions that Nirav Modi was involved in legitimate business and using LOUs (letters of undertaking) in a permissible fashion. It would not be in PNB’s interests to create such enormous financial exposure. The circulation of pearls, diamonds and gold between Nirav’s firms and the Dubai and Hong Kong-based companies was not genuine business, and the companies were being used for transferring funds." He also accepted the prosecution evidence that Nirav had intimidated witnesses, including threatening to kill one, and destroyed evidence. The judge rejected the Section 91 challenge that it would be unjust to extradite Nirav to India because of his deteriorating mental health. The diamantaire had told consultant forensic psychiatrist Dr Andrew Forrester in prison that he "can always get razors" and wondered "if it’s better to commit suicide rather than be killed". "Albeit risk of suicide is assessed as high, Dr Forrester confirms in his report that there are no immediate suicidal intentions. Nirav’s mental condition is not such that it removes his capacity to resist the impulse to commit suicide. It is evident that any suicidal acts would be voluntary," Goozée said. "With regard to Nirav's fitness to plead, he is regarded as fit to plead at the present time. Having considered the assurances provided by GOI it is clear the Indian authorities have capacity to cope properly with Nirva’s mental health and suicidal risk. I also weigh up the strong public interest in giving effect to extradition treaty obligations." He rejected the evidence of prison condition expert Dr Alan Mitchell, who had argued that Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail was overcrowded and short-staffed, pointing out that Mitchell hadn't even visited the prison to make such an assessment. Goozée seemed convinced of the jail's condition from the video he received of "Barrack 12. He said "the cell looks well decorated and very clean", also mentioning the "flat-screen LED TV, high ceilings, fans and large clean en suite bathroom". "There is no doubt in my mind that the conditions Nirav will experience in Barrack 12 are far less restrictive and far more spacious than the current regime. The GOI will know that if the assurances are broken, that would create a perfect storm of publicity," he added. Goozée's ruling came after he sifted through a "32-lever arch folder of documents". There was just one area in which India came in for criticism. "Unlike the evidence from the defence, the evidence produced by the GOI in the case was poorly presented and very difficult to navigate," the judge said. "I hope the GOI takes these observations on board in relation to future (extradition) requests."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-court-clears-nirav-modi-extradition-home-secys-sign-next/articleshow/81217232.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 26, 2021||World||Nirav Modi case: UK judge's jibes at retired Indian counterparts||LONDON: UK judge Sam Goozée on Thursday slammed the "evidence" presented by retired judges Abhay Thipsay and Markandey Katju while arguing in favour of scam-accused diamantaire Nirav Modi. Thipsay had claimed that the evidence against Nirav would not meet the criteria of cheating and criminal breach of trust under Indian law. Referring to a presser by law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on May 13, 2020, during which he allegedly made derogatory remarks about Thipsay and said that his evidence was directed by Congress, Goozée said, "It was clear in my view that it was a press conference given purely in a political context, albeit as the minister of justice, in the context of the BJP making political commentary about the Congress. That, in turn, unsurprisingly garnered significant attention and headlines. I do not concern myself with political commentary and opinions of politicians in India about Justice Thipsay’s evidence. It is inevitable he could have foreseen his affiliation to the Congress party may attract interest." Read AlsoUK court clears Nirav Modi extradition, home secy’s sign nextA British court on Thursday cleared the decks for fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi's extradition to India, accepting "prima facie" that he defrauded Punjab National Bank (PNB) of Rs 6,498 crore, laundered the proceeds and interfered with witnesses and evidence.He was equally dismissive of former Supreme Court judge Markandey Katju's argument that the apex court was doing the bidding of the Centre and that 50% of judges in India were corrupt. Katju also said Nirav was being blamed for the collapse of the Indian economy as "the Jew of India", which Goozée described as "astonishing, inappropriate and grossly insensitive comparisons". "Despite having been a former Supreme Court judge in India until his retirement in 2011, his evidence was in my assessment less than objective and reliable," Goozée said. "His evidence in court appeared tinged with resentment towards former senior judicial colleagues. It had the hallmarks of an outspoken critic with his own personal agenda. I found his evidence and behaviour... to be questionable for someone who served the Indian judiciary at such a high level." Read AlsoMumbai's Arthur Road jail ready to lodge Nirav Modi in special cellWith a UK court forwarding the case to extradite Nirav Modi to India to the UK government for final approval, the city’s Arthur Road jail will be dusting its “VIP” quarters to welcome the flashy diamond trader who allegedly swindled Indians banks of thousands of crores.The UK judge also referred to instances of Katju's remarks about a former CJI. "Despite being critical of a former Chief Justice passing a verdict in a Supreme Court case, (allegedly) in exchange for a nomination to the Upper House of Parliament in India on his retirement on a quid pro quo basis, suggesting collusion and corruption, Justice Katju himself secured appointment by the government to the post of chairman of the Press Council of India following his own retirement," he said. "There is nothing in the voluminous defence bundles that gives any indication that politicians are trying to influence the outcome of any trial, let alone Nirav’s trial, or that the trial process itself would be susceptible to such influence. I reject any submission that the GOI have deliberately engineered a media onslaught. I attach little weight to Justice Katju’s expert opinion. In relation to Justice Thipsay, I attach no weight to his opinions."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-judges-jibes-at-retired-indian-counterparts/articleshow/81217390.cms||NAOMI CANTON
February 26, 2021||India||India, Pak agree to halt cross-border firing: NC, PDP & Hurriyat all welcome move||SRINAGAR: Mainstream politicians in J&K, as well as the separatist All Parties Hurriyat Conference, have all lauded the mutual agreement between India and Pakistan to defuse tensions in Kashmir Valley with a pledge to halt cross-border firing. Former J&K chief minister and National Conference chief, Farooq Abdullah said this is the first step towards dialogue for establishing peace in the region, “which we have always been advocating”. “We welcome it and hope that the statement will be followed in letter and spirit. JKNC has always been a strong supporter of the ceasefire along the LoC. This will allow people living along the LoC & IB (International Border) to go about their normal lives with minimal disruption & risk,” an NC statement said. Mehbooba Mufti, former J&K chief minister and People’s Democratic Party chief, said, “This is a welcome development for all of us and for the people living on the LoC as they always bear the brunt of ceasefire violations.” The move was the need of the hour as both countries have been facing challenges and dialogue was the only way forward, she reiterated. “The situation in Kashmir can only be solved through dialogue. We hope the ceasefire agreement between the two countries will be a success and the talk from the military operations level will also reach up to the political level,” Mufti said. In its statement, All Parties Hurriyat Conference (APHC) said, “It is a move in the right direction, which will provide huge relief to the beleaguered people living under constant threat on the LOC and end the bloodshed there..” APHC also said that the governments of India and Pakistan now need to address the core concern of J&K in keeping with the aspirations of its people in the valley.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-pak-agree-to-halt-cross-border-firing-nc-pdp-hurriyat-all-welcome-move/articleshow/81217576.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 26, 2021||India||J&K LG Manoj Sinha stops salary of social welfare dept dir||SRINAGAR/JAMMU: Jammu & Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, during the fifth round of his ‘Mulaqaat-Live Public Grievance Hearing’ on Thursday, ordered stoppage of salary of the director of Kashmir division social welfare department, Bashir Ahmad Dar, as punishment for not releasing the wages of staff members of a Srinagar-based school for specially-abled children for several months. The LG issued the order after a staffer of the said school raised the issue during the virtual hearing at Sinha’s official residence in Jammu. Senior administrative officer Veer Ji Hangloo coordinated the whole interactive session from the Technical Studio there. Another youth from Kulgam complained that the power development department has sent them inflated power bills, including surcharge for late payments, whereas the department itself defaulted on issuance of bills, delaying the same for two months. Reacting to this issue equally seriously, the LG immediately ordered that the surcharge amount be recovered from the assistant engineer concerned. Several other people, who raised their issues with the LG, also got instant solutions. They all came out of the session happy with an “extremely responsive LG”. The LG’s ‘Mulaqaat-Live Public Grievance Hearing’ initiative is a step towards gaining people’s trust under Jammu and Kashmir Integrated Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (JK-IGRAMS), which ensures on-the-spot directions for disposal of grievances of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-lg-stops-salary-of-social-welfare-dept-dir/articleshow/81217902.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 26, 2021||Business||No check-in bag? Prepare to fly cheap on domestic flights once fare bands go||NEW DELHI: Flying within the country without any check-in baggage could soon get much cheaper. Light fares offered by airlines for passengers with only cabin baggage, before the two-month domestic flight suspension last March, could be lower by a maximum of Rs 200 from the lowest level check-in baggage inclusive fares. While, flyers buying light fare tickets turning up at airports with check-in bag could be charged up to Rs 200 (for up to 15 kg bag). Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has now removed this restriction, paving the way for airlines to offer much lower light fares for domestic flights. However, this change will be effective when the fare bands for domestic flights are done away with, something that is likely to happen when flights return to pre-pandemic levels this summer. Read AlsoDomestic airfare bands to go when flights reach pre-Covid levels: PuriDomestic airfare band, that fixes the minimum and maximum fares that can be charged for different routes, may go when the summer schedule kicks in from April, aviation minister H S Puri said in Parliament on Wednesday .“Being able to offer light fares that were lower by only Rs 200 from the lowest level of check-in baggage inclusive fares meant there was not much difference and this scheme could not reach its potential. Now with the ceiling gone, airlines will be able to make use of cabin bag-only fares in a big way by offering really lighter fares. This is a really good move,” said an airline official. The order issued by DGCA chief Arun Kumar on Thursday has asked airlines to ensure that the charges for passengers who buy light fares and then turn up with airport with check-in bag are “reasonable”. Read AlsoDomestic airfares hiked up to 30%; capacity capped at 80% till March-endFlying within the country will cost up to 30% more from now. The government has increased the minimum and maximum fares set for different routes, while extending its earlier decision of allowing airlines to deploy up to 80% of their pre-Covid domestic capacity till March 31, 2021. While minimum fare“As part of airline baggage policy, scheduled airlines will be allowed to offer free baggage allowance as well as ‘zero baggage/no check-in baggage fares’. This will be subject to the condition that the passenger booking ticket under such fare scheme is made aware of the charges that shall be applicable if the passenger turns up with the baggage for check-in at airline counter. These applicable charges shall be reasonable; prominently displayed to the passenger at the time of booking of ticket and also to be printed on the ticket,” Arun Kumar’s order says. When scheduled domestic flights were resumed on May 25, 2020, the aviation ministry has put in place fare bands for them. The new rule for domestic flights’s light fares will be enforced when the fare bands are done away with, the order adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-check-in-bag-prepare-to-fly-cheap-on-domestic-flights-once-fare-bands-go/articleshow/81218143.cms||Saurabh Sinha
February 26, 2021||Business||RBI governor urges Centre, states to cut fuel taxes||MUMBAI: RBI governor Shaktikanta Das has again called upon the central and state governments to take coordinated action and cut down taxes on petrol and diesel as these are cost-push factors. “It’s not just passengers who are using cars and scooters. High petrol and diesel prices also have an impact on the cost of manufacturing, transportation, and other aspects,” said Das, while speaking at an event organised by the Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Pointing out that there were taxes imposed by both the Centre and states, Das said, “There is need for coordinated and calibrated reduction of taxes.” He said that while the government did need to raise money as it had to spend higher sums to tackle the Covid stress, action was needed to bring down prices as fuel rates have an impact on inflation through cost of manufacturing as well. Earlier this week, the RBI had released the minutes of the monetary policy committee (MPC), which revealed that its members were concerned over the rising fuel prices. This at a time when petrol prices are inching toward the Rs 100 mark in various states. “Proactive supply side measures, particularly in enabling a calibrated unwinding of high indirect taxes on petrol and diesel — in a coordinated manner by Centre and states — are critical to contain further build-up of cost-pressures in the economy,” Das had said in the minutes of the MPC. Das pointed out that during the early days of the pandemic, lower crude oil prices and weak demand due to the Covid-related lockdown squeezed India’s fuel import bill by 42.5% in April-January 2020-21. In his speech, Das said that even though merchandise trade has shown incipient signs of revival since end-2020, recovery in services trade is yet to gain traction as subdued cross-border tourism and travel restrictions continue to weigh on the overall performance of the sector. “The manufacturing sector is spearheading the growth recovery as many contact-intensive services sub-sectors are severely affected by the crisis,” said Das. He said that government measures to promote manufacturing along with reforms in the labour market can go a long way in propelling growth to an elevated trajectory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-guv-urges-centre-states-to-cut-fuel-taxes/articleshow/81218394.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Business||Reveal ‘originator’ of unlawful msg in 72 hrs, govt tells social media cos||NEW DELHI: Social media and global internet giants such as Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube will not be able to withhold information on the source of unlawful and inflammatory messaging beyond 72 hours when asked by investigating and cybersecurity agencies, and will need to be more mindful and prompt to the requests of their subscribers, particularly women, on the removal of objectionable content. These are among a host of changes the government announced on Thursday as part of sweeping revamp of IT rules governing social media companies and internet platforms, eroding the immunity or the "safety harbour" the big tech giants had enjoyed. The updated IT (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 mandate a series of responsibilities on the internet giants, asking them to be more accountable to "misuse and abuse", and also put in place officers to address user grievances and government/court compliance orders. "Social media platforms have empowered ordinary users, but they need accountability against its misuse and abuse. The new rules empower ordinary users of social media, embodying a mechanism for redressal and timely resolution of their grievance," said telecom, IT and law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad while announcing the new rules that were notified by late evening. The platforms will now need to take down any "unlawful" content on the request of the government, or the orders of a court, in a span of 36 hours. TOI had first reported on the 36-hour mandate in its edition dated February 19. The government also sought to tame internet giants on the vexed issue of identifying the source of unlawful and inflammatory content, much against the defence of companies such as Facebook-owned instant messenger WhatsApp that their platform is "end-to-end encrypted" due to which they cannot identify the source of the message as doing so may violate a user’s privacy. The new rules, which had been in the works for the past two years or so, come within days of an ugly spat between the government and Twitter over taking down accounts that were accused of carrying "inflammatory content" linked to the farmers’ protests. The new rules state that where the spread of such information leads to serious offences, the companies — especially the "significant" intermediaries or those having a large user base — have no option but to share the identity on the original source that first spread the unlawful messaging. "Significant social media intermediaries providing services primarily in the nature of messaging shall enable identification of the first originator of the information that is required only for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation, prosecution or punishment of an offence related to sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the state, friendly relations with foreign states, or public order or of incitement to an offence relating to the above or in relation with rape, sexually explicit material or child sexual abuse material punishable with imprisonment for a term of not less than five years," the new rules state, though Prasad added that the companies will "not be required to disclose the contents" of any message or any other information. The issue of identification, or traceability, has been a vexed one with WhatsApp holding firm time and again that it will not reveal the original source that triggered viral messaging. The government had a spat with the company a few years ago when "viral and fake messaging" on the platform was blamed for a series of lynching incidents across many states, even though the company did not pay heed to the request of the government to identify the source of the messages. Facebook, which has the biggest clout on the social media universe through platforms such as Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram, put out a statement on the new rules, but steered clear from the issue of traceability. "We have always been clear as a company that we welcome regulations that set guidelines for addressing today’s toughest challenges on the internet. Facebook is committed to people’s ability to freely and safely express themselves on our platforms. The details of rules like these matter and we will carefully study the new rules that were just published. We acknowledge and appreciate the recognition from the Minister (Prasad) on the positive contributions of social media to the country. Facebook is an ally for India and the agenda of user safety and security is a critical one for our platforms. We will continue to work to ensure that our platforms play an enabling role in fuelling the exciting digital transformation of India," a spokesperson for the company said. In subscriber-friendly rules, the government said users will have to be provided with a prior intimation and explanation when a significant social media intermediary removes content on its own. In such cases, users have to be provided an adequate and reasonable opportunity to dispute the action taken by the intermediary. The new rules also state that users who voluntarily want to verify their accounts should be given an appropriate mechanism to do so and be accorded a visible mark of verification, something that is currently tightly controlled by platforms such as Twitter and Instagram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reveal-originator-of-unlawful-msg-in-72-hrs-govt-tells-social-media-cos/articleshow/81218535.cms||Pankaj Doval
February 26, 2021||Business||Digital news platforms will need to tell govt where they publish, size of subscriber base||NEW DELHI: Digital news platforms and publishers of online curated content operating in India will have to inform the information and broadcasting ministry about where and how they publish, the nature of content they release, and the size of their subscriber base within 30 days of the notification of the Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, for existing platforms, I&B minister Prakash Javadekar said on Thursday. Clarifying that this was not a mandatory registration process, Javadekar said the information would enable future communication and coordination between the ministry and digital news media platforms, whose exact numbers are unknown as yet. He was responding to questions about why stakeholders in the digital news media segment were not consulted by the ministry ahead of notification of the draft rules. The newly-minted rules mandate that publishers of news and current affairs content and of online curated content set up a three-tier grievance redress mechanism and publish monthly compliance report containing details of grievances they have received and action they took. On Thursday, Javadekar said while he held consultative meetings with digital media companies, including OTT platforms in Delhi, Chennai and Mumbai, his appeals for setting up self-regulation mechanisms within 100 days were not met. “Therefore, we decided to set up an institutional mechanism for all media. Media freedom is the soul of democracy. We have fought for press freedom and I have gone to jail during Emergency, but let me also tell you that every freedom has to be responsible freedom. For that, we have decided to have a three-tier mechanism for OTT and digital news media platforms,” he added. Emphasising the need for a level playing field for all forms of media — print, online and television — Javadekar said news and current affairs digital platforms will need to follow the norms of journalistic conduct prescribed by the Press Council of India Act and the Programme Code of the Cable Television Networks Regulation) Act, as is done by print media and TV channels. Key features of the new rules include a three-tier self-regulation mechanism for digital media, including news websites, which includes a self-regulation body headed by a retired judge of the Supreme Court or high court, or an “eminent” person in the field. The digital media rules also provide for a government-appointed oversight mechanism and an Inter Departmental Committee (IDC) comprising representatives of various ministries including defence, external affairs, home, I&B, law, IT and women and child development, among others, empowered to seek hearings on violations of Code of Ethics. The rules add that a joint secretary level, or senior officer, will be “authorised” to direct the blocking of content. Digital platforms will also not “publish or transmit” any content prohibited under any law, the rules say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/digital-news-platforms-will-need-to-tell-govt-where-they-publish-size-of-subscriber-base/articleshow/81218721.cms||Swati Mathur
February 26, 2021||India||Vehicle with explosives found near Ambani residence||MUMBAI: An abandoned SUV with 20 explosive gelatin sticks and a threatening note was found in south Mumbai near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence on Thursday afternoon, raising security concerns around one of India’s most prominent business barons. Police sources said the abandoned vehicle, a green Scorpio, found on Carmichael Road close to the Ambani residence, Antilia, had the same number plate as a Range Rover in the industrialist’s security detail. The SUV was found parked outside Shikhar Kunj building, which is barely a few hundred metres from Antilia. It is learnt that Ambani’s security staff called the police around 2.30 pm though CCTV images show the vehicle was driven to the spot and parked there since 1.30 am. After a large posse of policemen arrived, a section of Carmichael Road was off limits till around 6 pm. Security was beefed up outside the Ambani residence following the discovery of the gelatin sticks by the squad. State home minister Anil Deshmukh said Mumbai crime branch will investigate the case. “The facts will be brought out soon,” he said. The handwritten note addressed to Mukesh Ambani and his wife Neeta, which was left behind in the vehicle, said the explosives had not been assembled but next time they would be. Police said the coarse language used in the letter suggested the writer was semi-literate or pretending to be so. Mumbai police spokesperson, deputy police commissioner Chaitanya S, said the “suspicious vehicle” was found under the jurisdiction of Gamdevi Police Station. “Police were alerted. The bomb detection and disposal squad team and other police teams reached the spot immediately, examined the vehicle and found some explosive gelatin inside. It is not an assembled explosive device. Further investigation is on,” he said. Police said that they have towed away the vehicle for investigation. “A few more number plates were also found from the vehicle and we are verifying it,” said an officer. Police said from the CCTV footage, it appeared the vehicle was parked at the spot early Thursday. Proprietor of a grocery named Vijay Stores, Rajesh Singh, outside whose shop the SUV was parked, told TOI that his CCTV showed the vehicle arriving around 1 am on Thursday. “The driver did not come out of the vehicle till around 3 am,’’ he said. Police are scanning his shop’s CTV footage to trace the person who parked the vehicle and left. “It appears to be a hoax, and somebody has played a serious prank. We will trace and arrest them soon,” said an official. The shopkeeper, Rajesh Singh, told TOI that when the cops broke open the car, they found several number plates inside. Till late evening, several police vans, commandos and dog squads were stationed outside Ambani's residence. Investigators are also checking CCTV cameras at various locations to trace the person who parked the car. Dozens of personnel from the Gamdevi police station were deployed on Carmichael Road all day. What are gelatin sticks:Gelatin sticks are highly effective as explosives. They are used for quarrying work. The Indian Mujahideen used gelatin sticks along with ammonium nitrate to carry out blasts in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vehicle-with-explosives-found-near-ambani-residence/articleshow/81218915.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Business||Rules framed in ‘opaque’ manner, may lead to censorship: Activists||NEW DELHI: Several digital rights activists questioned and criticised the “opaque” way in which the new rules to regulate digital news outlets were made by the Union government without any “public consultation”. Internet Freedom Foundation executive director Apar Gupta told TOI the implementation of the rules could lead to “political censorship” of any news organisation doing “investigative journalism” and pointing out flaws in government policies. “If any form of regulation on digital news media is considered it must be through a clear legislative power. Even here, first principles on the need for it and safeguards must be examined. Enforced by a regulatory system that insulates government interference/political censorship,” Gupta also tweeted later. In a statement, IFF said several proposals in their present form suffer from “unconstitutionality” and will “undermine free expression and privacy” for internet users. The body stressed on the importance of urgent public consultation and said: “The purview of Information Technology Act, 2000 does not extend to news media, and so the guidelines do not have the legislative backing to regulate news media... The vague definition of publisher of news and current affairs content may also lead to further arbitrariness.” Medianama founder Nikhil Pahwa agreed. “The government, by a huge stretch of imagination, has made rules on a subject which is not governed under the IT Act. This is yet another example of an undemocratic way of policymaking. The entire exercise needs to be challenged in court,” he said, also tweeting: “…MIB could have done a public consultation. Another advocacy group, Software Freedom Law Centre, added, “There has not been any consultation on the code of ethics and procedure and safeguards in relation to digital/online media." Shashank Mohan, a tech-policy researcher at Delhi’s National Law University Centre for Communication Governance, also said the rules indicate that there is an intention to regulate news portals. “It is unclear whether the IT Act would be the correct legislation to frame rules for regulation of digital news media and OTT platforms — the two kinds of stakeholders these rules intend to cover beyond traditional intermediaries... This will have a bearing on the right to free speech and expression,” he added. Mohan also pointed out that the “most concerning” part of the proposed changes was its emphasis on “traceability”. “What is concerning is the rules for the identification of the originator of messages, which is an obligation on significant social media intermediaries. This has the potential to impact the privacy rights of a large number of Indians as it may dilute the protection afforded by end to end encryption,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rules-framed-in-opaque-manner-may-lead-to-censorship-activists/articleshow/81219017.cms||Anam Ajmal
February 26, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Why surge in births at home is a worry||NEW DELHI: The latest birth registration data of municipal bodies has revealed that in the past few months, the consistent trend of institutional deliveries going up – less than 10% non-institutional births were registered in 2019 – got reversed because of Covid. As against a progressive increase in institutional deliveries over the past two decades, 35% to 42.5% births at home have been recorded in the areas under the jurisdiction of the three municipal corporations during the past few months. The new corporation portal on birth and death certificates automatically divides the birth certificates into categories of home and hospital/institutional deliveries, and experts have been surprised by what that has shown. During the past one week in south Delhi, 3,658 births have been registered by the south corporation, of which over 42% (1565 cases) were deliveries at home. Similarly, during the past two months, 23,780 births have been registered in the four zones of the south corporation, out of which 8,258 cases were of home births – around 35% women gave birth at home while 56% opted for institutional deliveries. Across the six administrative zones of the north corporation, the home delivery rate in the month of February has been even higher at 42.5% with 4,763 out of 11,202 cases being non-institutional deliveries. A senior official from a mother and child welfare centre run by the corporations said that the increase in non-institutional deliveries is cause for worry since the increase in institutional births was the key factor behind overall reduction in maternal and newborn mortality rates. According to Delhi’s annual birth and death vital statistics reports, the percentage of institutional births in 2001 was 62.11%, which rose to 73.72% in 2005; 78.51% in 2010; and 84.41% in 2015. The hospital/institutional deliveries constituted 89.1% births in 2017 and 91.15% in 2019. Delhi-specific studies on home deliveries state that fear of surgical procedures, unfamiliarity with hospital surroundings, financial reasons and loss of wages have traditionally been some of the reasons that drove women to choose home deliveries. It has been mostly prevalent in households with low literacy, a high number of pregnancies and migrant status. Dr Suneeta Mittal, former head of gynaecology department at AIIMS, said that the financial reasons have been tackled through various government schemes. “The Covid pandemic and its after-effects may be the main reason behind this rise in home delivery cases as there was a sudden 20% decline in institutional deliveries when the lockdown was imposed. The hospitals were tackling rising corona cases while people too were scared to come to the hospitals. There has also been a drop in outstation patients due to restrictions on movement,” she added. A senior municipal doctor said that they too had to create dedicated teams, which visited homes in case of complicated deliveries during the lockdown and later part of the pandemic. “Since the larger hospitals were declared to be Covid-only facilities, the load on the mother and child welfare centres also increased manifold,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/surge-in-births-at-home-in-delhi-due-to-covid-scare/articleshow/81219235.cms||Paras Singh
February 26, 2021||World||FATF retains Pakistan on its grey list||The global terror-financing watchdog Financial Action Task Force (FATF) retained Pakistan on its grey or ‘increased monitoring list’ even as it acknowledged “significant progress” made on the entire 27-point action plan Pakistan had committed to for checking money-laundering and terrorist financing. The Paris-based body said Pakistan had now largely addressed 24 of the 27 action items, and urged it to swiftly complete its full action plan before June 2021 as all action plan deadlines had already expired. Importantly for India, one of the three issues yet to be addressed by Pakistan relates to effective implementation of targeted financial sanctions against all 1,267 and 1,373 designated terrorists. India maintains that Pakistan has continued to provide safe haven to UNSC proscribed terrorists like Hafiz Saeed and Masood Azhar. While deciding to not go for onsite evaluation at this stage, FATF urged Pakistan to work on implementing the three remaining itemsin its action plan to address its strategically important deficiencies, namely by demonstrating terrorist financing investigations and prosecutions against target persons and entities acting on behalf or at the direction of the designated persons or entities and by demonstrating that terrorist financing prosecutions result in effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/fatf-retains-pakistan-on-its-grey-list/articleshow/81219293.cms||---
February 26, 2021||India||At UN, India defends ‘pre-emptive’ hits||Stating that some states are resorting to proxy war by supporting non-state actors such as terrorist groups to evade international censure, India said at the UN on Wednesday that a country would be compelled to undertake “pre-emptive strike” when confronted by an “imminent armed attack” from a non-state actor operating in a third state. The government also highlighted several proxy cross-border terror attacks, including Pulwama and Pathankot, perpetrated against India from its neighbourhood, even though it didn’t name Pakistan. India’s Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN K Nagaraj Naidu said at an Arria-Formula meeting organised by Mexico that non-state actors such as terrorist groups often attack states from remote locations within other host states, using the sovereignty of that host state as a “smokescreen”. On this, a growing number of states believe that the use of force in self-defence against a non-state actor operating in the territory of another host state can be undertaken if the “non-state actor has repeatedly undertaken armed attacks against the state; the host state is unwilling to address the threat posed by the non-state actor; the host state is actively supporting and sponsoring the attack by the non-state actor,” ambassador Naidu said. “In other words, a state would be compelled to undertake a pre-emptive strike when it is confronted by an imminent armed attack from a non-state actor operating in a third state,” he said on Wednesday. “This state of affairs exonerates the affected state from the duty to respect, vis-a-vis the aggressor, the general obligation to refrain from the use of force,” Naidu said. Arria Formula meetings are informal meetings of the Security Council, on ‘upholding the collective security system of the UN Charter: the use of force in international law, non-state actors and legitimate self-defence’. Naidu told the meeting that India has been subject to cross-border terrorist attacks perpetrated by non-state actors with the active complicity of “another host state”, a clear reference to Pakistan. He stressed that exercising self-defence is a nation’s primary right when a situation demands “immediate and proportionate action” and applies also to attacks by non-state actors. “Some states are resorting to proxy war by supporting non-state actors such as terrorist groups to evade international censure. Such support to non-state actors has ranged from providing and equipping the terrorist groups with training, financing, intelligence and weapons to logistics and recruitment facilitation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-un-india-defends-pre-emptive-hits/articleshow/81219301.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Business||Content on OTT platforms will be divided into five age-related categories||NEW DELHI: Over the top (OTT) platforms like Netflix, Disney Hotstar and Amazon Prime will have to provide age-related classifications as part of a mandatory Code of Ethics for online curated content under the government’s new guidelines for digital media content. The rules, notified by the ministry of information technology, said all content transmitted, published or exhibited by OTT platforms will be classified on the basis on the nature and type of content, and will be divided into five categories — suitable for universal (U) viewing, for ages 7 and above (U/A 7+), 13 and above (U/A 13+), 16 and above (U/A 16+), and Adult (A). After repeated instances of having run foul of public sentiment and political sensibilities in the past few months, all OTT content, the new rules mandate, will require platforms to consider, before exhibiting content, “implications of any content… and shall exercise due caution and discretion in relation to… content which affects the sovereignty and integrity of India… threatens, endangers or jeopardises security… is detrimental to India’s friendly relations with foreign countries… is likely to incite violence or disturb the maintenance of public order”. The content classification, the rules said, will also identify content on the basis of the themes and message, violence, nudity, sex, language, drug and substance abuse, and horror, and will have to be displayed prominently along with an advisory for viewers’ discretion. I&B minister Prakash Javadekar said publishers of online curated content who show content classified as U/A 13+ or higher must also ensure that access control mechanisms, including parental locks, are made available for such content, like restricting access of adult rated content to children. Implementation of appropriate access control measures also include measures to improve accessibility of online curated content by persons with disabilities. The rules also direct publishers to consider India’s multi-racial and multi-religious context and exercise “due caution and discretion” when featuring the activities, beliefs, practices, or views of any racial or religious group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/content-on-ott-platforms-will-be-divided-into-five-age-related-categories/articleshow/81219365.cms||Swati Mathur
February 26, 2021||Business||Days after Australia law, Indian papers ask Google for 85% ad revenue share||NEW DELHI: Days after Australia enacted a law to make tech giants Google and Facebook pay publishers of news content, the Indian Newspaper Society (INS), which represents the print media in the country, asked Google to increase the publishers’ share of advertising revenue to 85%. INS also said the technology giant should ensure greater transparency in the revenue reports it provides to publishers. In a letter to Google India, INS President L Adimoolam said publishers are facing a “very opaque advertising system” since they cannot get details of Google's advertising value chain and asked the company to compensate Indian newspapers “comprehensively” for using their content, and share the advertising revenues properly. Read also: Why government must make Google, Facebook pay for content“The Society insisted that Google should increase the publishers’ share of advertising revenue to 85%, and also ensure more transparency in the revenue reports provided to publishers by Google,” INS said in a statement, adding that the content it generates and publishes is proprietary material and that it is “this credible content that has given Google the authenticity in India ever since its inception”. INS said Google should pay for the news the newspapers generate at considerable cost, pointing out that while publishers have provided complete access to “quality journalism with credible news, current affairs, analysis, information and entertainment”, Google has been taking a “giant share” of the advertising spends. Read AlsoLearn from Australia: Net companies must pay for media contentIndia, like Australia, must ensure that the media are healthy and flourishing. This must be done without destroying the democratisation of information by internet firms. Many dilemmas and conundrums need to be resolved before rushing to legislation.It referred to developments in Australia and other nations where publishers have raised the issue of fair payment for content and for Google to share advertising revenue properly. “It is also noted that Google has recently agreed to better compensate and pay publishers in France, European Union and notably in Australia,” INS said. Referring to advertising as the financial backbone of the news industry, INS also pointed to newspapers’ advertising revenues shrinking in digital spaces and said Google should increase the publishers’ share. In its letter to the Google India chief, INS said greater prominence should be given to editorial content from registered news publishers to tackle fake news.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/days-after-australia-law-indian-papers-ask-google-for-85-ad-revenue-share/articleshow/81219417.cms||---
February 26, 2021||India||Co-Win is robust, issues are state-specific: NHA chief||NEW DELHI: Amid concerns about software glitches in Co-Win, the government said the software is robust and the issues are related to data in specific states like Maharashtra. “There are no software-related glitches. The platform can handle much more traffic than it is getting right now,” R S Sharma, chief executive of National Health Authority and head of the Empowered Group on Covid-19 vaccinations, told TOI. The comments come in the wake of session sites reporting a delay in vaccination because of use of Co-Win. However, officials say the delay is mostly from those sites where the beneficiary data have not been pre-populated into the system. Officials also pointed to the differences between states in achieving vaccination targets, which point to factors in addition to just Co-Win. Co-Win platform has a capacity to handle up to 50 lakh vaccinations per day. Till Thursday, a total of around 1.3 crore vaccine doses were given to health and frontline workers. Officials also highlighted that Co-Win is merely an enhancement of an already existing e-VIN system which has been in use for long for child immunisation in the country and all states are familiar with its operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/co-win-is-robust-issues-are-state-specific-nha-chief/articleshow/81219421.cms||Sushmi Dey
February 26, 2021||India||45+ with comorbidities will need doc certificate for jab: Govt||NEW DELHI: People aged between 45 and 60 years having co-morbidities will just need a certificate from a registered medical practitioner — from the public or private sector — verifying that they have a disease that can increase the risk of infection, hence eligible to get the Covid-19 vaccine on priority, according to officials. While the government is yet to release a protocol for doctors, people in the specified age group and suffering from one or more identified co-morbidities like uncontrolled diabetes, heart disorders, chronic pulmonary, kidney diseases, any types of cancer, transplant patients, those on immune medication and morbid obesity conditions are eligible for the shots. People with disabilities, neurological disorders like Parkinson’s or medical conditions that can result in higher chances of severe pneumonia, will be validated for vaccination, said officials involved in the rollout of the vaccines to cover an estimated 27 crore people in the 50 and above age group. While registration for vaccination will be mandatory, there will be options for recipients to produce the medical certificate at centres, an official said on Thursday. There is no clarity yet on the number of slots that will be available for walk-ins. Officials said the decision to expand the vaccination and also allow paid shots in private hospitals was taken after the drive stabilised. It was felt that the new and larger phase could be rolled out by early March. It is estimated that with vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers still continuing, and some in the category likely to have anti-bodies, the drive can be expanded. Even the new category is likely to have its share of vaccine hesitancy, but the wider pool of beneficiaries will make optimum use of the vaccination capacity. The government on Wednesday announced that it would start the third round of inoculation after healthcare and frontline workers from March 1. The government has roped in over 20,000 private hospitals where an eligible person can pay and schedule vaccination, apart from 10,000 public health centres where shots will be given free of cost. The cost of Covishield shot is expected to be around Rs 300-400. While preparations have begun at private hospitals, with many large ones set to organise multiple sessions, official intimation related to pricing and other guidelines are still awaited. “Even though the severity scoring of a co-morbidity is difficult to assess for large-scale vaccination, we could look at the age through ID proof and have a letter from the doctor on any underlying chronic disease, which increases the risk of Covid infections and/or severity of the disease,” Manipal Hospitals chairman Dr Sudarshan Ballal said. Apart from Co-Win, people will also have the option to register through web interface, Aarogya Setu, common service centres etc. They will be required to upload an identification document containing name, age, gender and photograph at the time of the registration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/45-with-comorbidities-will-need-doc-certificate-for-jab-govt/articleshow/81219452.cms||Sushmi Dey
February 26, 2021||India||Active Covid cases surge in 10 states/UTs||NEW DELHI: India recorded more than 16,000 fresh Covid-19 cases for the second day running, even as the number of active cases has surged in 10 states and Union territories in the last seven days while rising by nearly 15,000 nationally to more than 1.5 lakh.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); A rising count of active cases is an indicator of a spike in infections, with new cases outnumbering recoveries. In the past week (February 18-24, till Wednesday), Maharashtra saw an explosive spike of 21,358 in active cases, followed by Punjab (866), Madhya Pradesh (407) and Karnataka (379).  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); India recorded 16,554 fresh cases on Thursday. The day’s death toll was 117. Active cases in Maharashtra crossed 60,000 on Thursday, rising to 64,260. The state’s tally of active cases had gone past Kerala’s on Wednesday as the highest in the country. Kerala’s active case count has since dropped to 51,879 as new cases on Thursday dropped to 3,677.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); On Thursday, Maharashtra registered 8,702 new cases, the tally staying above 8,000 for the second day running.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/active-covid-cases-surge-in-10-states/uts/articleshow/81219466.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
February 26, 2021||Vijayawada||Govt officials to soon receive 1L e-vehicles||Vijayawada: In a bid to reduce air pollution in the state, New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (NREDCAP) vice-chairman S Ramana Reddy announced that one lakh e-vehicles would be provided to government officials. Addressing the 5th Air Quality Monitoring Committee (AQMC) meeting in Vijayawada on Thursday, Reddy hoped to increase charging points for e-vehicles to enable more people to choose the environmentally-friendly option. The eight non-attainment cities that were identified by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) submitted their actions plans for control of ambient air pollution at the meeting. The committee approved city action plans and recommended forwarding them to CPCB for further approval. Speaking on the occasion, environment secretary and member secretary of Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) G Vijay Kumar explained that earlier there were only five non-attainment cities in the state, namely Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Guntur, Nellore and Kurnool. The eight additions are; Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Rajamahendravaram, Eluru, Chittoor, Ongole, Kadapa and Anantapur. A K Parida, chairman of APPCB, issued a target to non-attainment cities to come up with ways to reduce air pollution by 20 to 25% in the next three years and suggested coordination between municipal commissioners of non-attainment cities and regional officers of PCB in districts. The AQMC initiative returned in 2018 with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) ordering all states and Union territories to prepare action plans to fight air pollution. The eight non-attainment cities submitted their action plans to CPCB in December 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-officials-to-soon-receive-1l-e-vehicles/articleshow/81215587.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Notice to Hry on plea to hold panchayat polls||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday issued a notice to the Haryana government on a plea seeking directions to hold Panchayat elections in the state. Justice Ajay Tewari of the HC issued the notice after hearing a petition filed by Devender Singh and several other residents of Jind. The petitioners sought directions to the state for issuance of notification for holding elections in accordance with the provisions of article 243E of the Constitution of India. The petitioners also objected to the state government’s decision of appointing administrators to run the affairs of village panchayats. The petitioners told the HC that the election of gram panchayats in Haryana were held in January 2016 and thus the election was to be initiated and completed on or before February 23, the expiry of the term of the panchayat. However, the state has failed to undertake the process of election to be completed before the expiry of term of the panchayats and appointed administrators against the mandate of the Constitution. It was pointed out that the gram panchayat forms an essential part of the local administration or model of self-governance. The action of the state of not holding elections within the stipulated time and the order of appointing administrators is arbitrary, unreasonable and ultra vires of the mandate given under article 243E as well as articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution. The issuance of the order for taking charge from sarpanches and for appointment of administrators is irrelevant and extraneous, it was argued. “It would not be possible for the single person/administrator to do the work in each and every village despite the fact that he has to do other works as being a government official. The action of the Haryana government to appoint administrators is malafide and malicious. The party in power has abused its position and in colourable exercise of power, orders have been passed,” the petition maintained. It was also stated that when a popular body is available and enabling provisions are present, it is not open to the state government to appoint foreign elements (administrators). Administrators are not from local soil and they do not have sufficient knowledge, experience and equipment as to local conditions and customs, the petition submitted. The matter will now come up for hearing on March 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/notice-to-hry-on-plea-to-hold-panchayat-polls/articleshow/81217625.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Patna||PMCH turns 96, eyes world-class tag||PATNA: The Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) turned 96 on Thursday even as health minister Mangal Pandey, who chaired the foundation day function of the institution, recalled the services of this largest hospital of the state and thanked its doctors and staff for their exemplary work in times of Covid pandemic. The minister said the government has approved projects worth Rs 370 crore for expanding and strengthening health services in the state. “Mother and childcare hospitals will be built in five districts while six sadar hospitals will be upgraded as model hospitals,” Pandey said. The minister assured PMCH administration of providing all support in its march to achieve excellence. Carrying behind a nine decade’s glorious history and producing hundreds of medical luminaries of national and international repute, PMCH is now gearing up to evolve as a world-class institution. About 50 alumni of the institution participated in Thursday’s function. PMCH superintendent Dr I S Thakur and principal Dr V P Choudhary welcomed the guests. Dr Satyajeet Kumar Singh, president of PMCH Alumni Association, urged the minister to spare some of the historic and heritage buildings from demolition as part of the renovation and development plan of the institute. He said the present principal’s office and the old Bankipore general hospital with British era lift were among the heritage structures. Dr CP Thakur felicitated the hospital superintendent for discipline and cleanliness on the campus. About 40 students securing the top position in different examinations were awarded gold medals on the occasion. Prominent alumni present on the occasion included Dr Amar Kant Jha Amar (president, state IMA), Dr Sachchidanand Kumar, Dr Vinod Kashyap and Dr Ram Raj Ravi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmch-turns-96-eyes-world-class-tag/articleshow/81215736.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||Mediation is a good solution for resolving disputes: CJ||Kolkata: Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court Justice T B Radha Krishnan, while inaugurating a mediation workshop in commercial disputes at the National Library on Thursday, said mediation is a good solution for commercial disputes for ease of doing business. He said mediation can help even in case of matrimonial disputes. Justice Radha Krishnan said that all commercial cases are to be resolved fast. He wanted dialogue between the two parties to resolve disputes quickly so both have a win-win situation. He added that no law bars anyone from going for mediation and thus, cases can be resolved quickly and court fees are refunded. “Even for income tax cases, the government gave a bargaining tool to taxpayers to settle pending cases. There is a need for more reconciliation,” he said. Justice Harish Tandon, president, mediation and conciliation committee of HC, said that in case of disputes with the Centre, PSU or states, it is often found that government officials are unwilling to settle disputes. He suggested each department should have a nodal officer to settle disputes. Justice Rajesh Bindal, executive chairman of WB state legal services authority, said: “The court cannot force mediation on the parties, so a change in mindset is needed.” Justice Subrata Talukdar said that pre-litigation mediation is mandatory for commercial cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mediation-is-a-good-solution-for-resolving-disputes-cj/articleshow/81216046.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Patna||Pratima Kumari, Ashish shine in ‘Run for Health’||PATNA: Altogether 550 police personnel, including 100 girls, participated in ‘Run for Health’, an event organized to mark the Police Week, on Thursday. While 460 participants had registered themselves online, the remaining 90 got themselves registered at the facilitation counters at the site. DG (BMP) R S Bhatti flagged off ‘Run for Health’ in which senior police officers like DGP S K Singhal, ADG (communications) A K Ambedkar, IG Vijay Kumar Verma and DIG (CRPF) Hasnain participated. Police personnel and officers from SSB also took part in the run. Later, the DGP gave away prizes to the winners both in the male and the female categories. Pratima Kumari (Buxar), Anjali Kumari (Saran) and Sugandha Kumari (BMP-05) received awards in the female category. Similarly, Ashish Bind (Madhubani), Krishna Kumar (Nawada) and Dinesh Kumar Singh (Buxar) were declared winners and given awards in the male category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pratima-kumari-ashish-shine-in-run-for-health/articleshow/81215729.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Vijayawada||AP likely to raise special category status issue at zonal council meet||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday held a meeting with officials on the agenda for the 29th Southern Zonal Council scheduled for March 4 at Tirupati. The officials briefed the chief minister on the issues concerning the state to be addressed at the Council, particularly in the post-bifurcation scenario. The officials said that 26 issues will be coming up for discussion during the meeting. Union home minister Amit Shah would chair the meeting which will be attended by the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Puducherry and the lieutenant governors from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep. As the host state, the state government has readied arrangements for the meeting, including accommodation and travel for the participating chief ministers. The chief minister also reviewed the security arrangements being made for the guests and at the venue. The state government is preparing to raise issues concerning the Polavaram project, special category status for the state, Ramayapatnam Port, railway zone, Visakha-Chennai industrial corridor and a package for backward districts. The chief minister has also asked the officials to prepare a detailed note on each issue and the importance of every project to be taken up in the residuary state of AP. Chief secretary Adityanath Das, special chief secretary Poonam Malakondaiah, principal secretary (health) Anil Kumar Singhal, women and child welfare secretary AR Anuradha, principal secretary (energy) Nagulapalli Srikanth, finance secretary Natarajan Gulzar, agriculture and cooperation special secretary Madhusudan Reddy, irrigation secretary Syamala Rao, Disha special officer Deepika Patil and other senior officials were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-likely-to-raise-special-category-status-issue-at-zonal-council-meet/articleshow/81215527.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP a top performer in meeting SDGs in Covid yr: Report||Visakhapatnam: The Covid-19 pandemic has not only created a global health crisis, but has exposed vulnerability to the vagaries of the disease – be it malnourishment, underemployment, school dropouts, exodus of migrants. The State of India’s Environment (2021) report by the Centre for Science and Environment, released on Thursday, has substantiated the fallout of this disastrous pandemic outbreak. Amid the pandemic, India ranked a poor 117th among 192 nations in terms of sustainable development, but the saving grace is that the two Telugu states – Andhra Pradesh and Telangana – have found a place among the top five performing states in India in meeting the sustainable development goals. Despite the two Telugu states suffering the worst outbreaks of Covid-19, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana could successfully contain the disease by the third quarter of 2020 by sticking to the scientific evidence in pandemic preparedness, response and management. Andhra Pradesh has also tied up with a private research university of the USA to seek science-based advocacy on the disease. From the initial panicky days with no definitive treatment, inadequate health infra and no testing facilities in February-March, the two Telugu states have constantly tweaked their strategies for the changing transmission dynamics. The states have seen it all before witnessing a drastic decline in the case numbers in the fourth quarter of 2020. Sunita Narain, director General, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said that the Covid-19 has made the world’s poor poorer. “About 115 million additional people might get pushed into extreme poverty by the pandemic and most of them live in South Asia. The defining event of the year that has gone by has been the Covid-19 pandemic, something which the world is still struggling to come to terms with. The time has now come to investigate what the pandemic is going to leave behind for us in the long term – a lost generation, scarred by ill-health, malnourishment, acute poverty and a debilitating break in educational accomplishments,” said Narain. According to the study, India is all set to usher in a ‘pandemic generation’. About 375 million children (from new-born to 14-year-olds) may suffer long-lasting impacts, ranging from being underweight, stunting and increased child mortality, to losses in education and work productivity. The pandemic also has its hidden victims as over 500 million children forced out of school globally, while India alone accounts for more than 50 percent of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-a-top-performer-in-meeting-sdgs-in-covid-yr-report/articleshow/81215500.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 26, 2021||Patna||Cops on toes as two traders among three killed in state||PATNA: At least three people were killed, a married woman was allegedly raped after being picked up from her house and two incidents of cash loot were recorded in the state in the last 24 hours. A young cement trader of Sitamarhi, Guddu Kumar, was shot at in his shop near Mohanpur on Sitamarhi-Sonbarsa road around 2.40pm on Thursday. Police said two motorcycle-borne criminals attacked Guddu and he was rushed to a private hospital in Sitamarhi, where he succumbed to his injuries. SHO of Sitamarhi town police station Vikas Kumar said the reason behind the murder was yet to be ascertained. Deputy superintendent of police Ramakant Upadhyay said raids were on to arrest the culprits. Earlier, a 19-year-old garment shop owner, Rajiv Kumar, was killed after being robbed of Rs 1 lakh in Muzaffarpur district. Rajiv, who owned a garment shop at Gannipur Bejha village, was intercepted by armed criminals near Dubaha railway crossing under Sakra police station in Muzaffarpur district and relieved of his money. The family members told the police that Rajiv was on way to his in-law’s house in Samastipur on his motorbike when the incident occurred. SHO of Sakra police station Ramnath Prasad said the victim’s motorbike was not found on the spot. In Siwan, a Jeevika coordinator, Sanjay Kumar, was shot dead by criminals between Laheri and Shahartola villages under the Basantpur police station area on Wednesday night. The incident took place when Kumar was on way to Basantpur from Siwan after attending a meeting. The deceased was a resident of Rasauli village in Saran district. In Gaya, a 30-year-old youth was shot at when he resisted loot attempt on Tekari-Panchanpur road on Thursday. The victim, whose identity could not be immediately known, has been admitted to a hospital at Gaya where his condition is stated to be critical. In Gopalganj, a group of criminals opened fire and injured three people after an abortive attempt to loot cash from the office of an LPG dealer’s agency under Uchakagaon police station on Thursday. The injured people – Dhirendra Baitha, Anirudh Yadav and Aamir Hussain – are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Gorakhpur. Earlier in the day, armed criminals looted Rs.5 lakh in cash after shooting at a collection staff of a cement trader on Ara-Chhapra road under Koelwar police station. The victim, Suraj Kumar alias Guddu Yadav, is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Ara. In West Champaran, a married woman was allegedly picked up from her house and later raped by one Ramji Patel under the Shikarpur police station area on Wednesday night. SHO Krishna Kant Gupta said the allegations against the accused, who is a panchayat samiti member, were being verified. The woman narrated her ordeal to her husband, who reported the incident to the police. In Aurangabad, Rs 2.90 lakh in cash was looted from a farmer, Ajay Yadav, at a place under the Barun police station area on Thursday. (With inputs from S K Singh in Sitamarhi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-on-toes-as-two-traders-among-three-killed-in-state/articleshow/81214765.cms||Ramashankar
February 26, 2021||Patna||Academics discuss issue of groundwater overuse at Nalanda varsity workshop||PATNA: Academics, farmers, panchayat representatives and NGO members took part in an international workshop on ‘Aquifer Storage and Recovery for Sustainable Agriculture’ organized by Nalanda University (NU) on its campus on Thursday. They discussed that the growing use of groundwater for wheat and rice farming was leading to its overexploitation in the region. In her welcome speech, NU vice-chancellor (VC) Sunaina Singh said, “Access to groundwater, which is one of the most dependable sources for irrigation in most parts of the country, is becoming scarce due to its overexploitation. Such a situation is likely to impact agricultural productivity and national food security.” The project on ‘Aquifer Storage and Recovery for Sustainable Agriculture’ is being supported by the Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research (ACIAR). While ACIAR-SDIP programme manager Tamara Jackson highlighted the need to understand the water-energy-food nexus, Basant Maheshwari from Western Sydney University spoke about the participation of farmers in groundwater management. Peter Dillon, an expert in the field of managed aquifer recharge, discussed ways of analysing costs and benefits and identifying indicators of sustainability. Aditi Mukherjee from International Water Management Institute-New Delhi discussed how electricity policies impacted groundwater use. Ravish Chandra from Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University-Pusa and Dipankar Saha, former member secretary of the Central Ground Water Board, also spoke on the occasion. The two-day workshop will conclude on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/academics-discuss-issue-of-groundwater-overuse-at-nalanda-varsity-workshop/articleshow/81214835.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Varanasi||Woman booked for raping minor boy in Siddharthnagar||Revised with Imp correction Gorakhpur: A case has been registered here against a woman on the order of Siddharthnagar special court for allegedly raping a minor boy under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The court issued the order under section 156(3) of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) on Thursday and subsequently an FIR was lodged. Police said a 45-years-old woman, Momina Khatoon, a native of Siddharthnagar district, sexually assaulted the boy first time on July 10, 2016. The boy then used to go for tuition classes to a teacher’s house and the woman was his neighbour. She sexually assaulted the boy repeatedly. Later, on December 20, 2020, she went to the boy’s house with two miscreants and asked the boy’s family to marry her daughter to the boy and also threatened them that she could trap the boy in fake cases as she had a high-profile network. The woman also threatened the boy, who was in class IX in 2016. He completed his intermediate in 2019 and at present is a graduate student. “With the court’s order, a case under 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) IPC and POCSO Act has been registered against the woman and police are on her lookout,” said Inspector Rajendra Yadav, in charge of Sadar police station, Siddharthnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/woman-booked-for-raping-minor-boy-in-siddharthnagar/articleshow/81215456.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Opposition members adopt unique ways to protest fuel price rise||PATNA: The budget session of the state legislature, which started on February 19, has seen members of opposition parties adopting novel ways to protest frequent rise in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders. The opposition legislators are also highlighting the problems faced by farmers and their nationwide agitation against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre. Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav took to the unique way of highlighting the problems of farmers. On February 22, when deputy CM-cum-finance minister Tarkishore Prasad was to present the state budget in the state assembly, Tejashwi, accompanied by his two staff, started from his official residence for the assembly driving a tractor to show his support to the farmers’ agitation and protest against the rise in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders. The image immediately went viral on the social media. Since the entry of a tractor into the campus of the state assembly is not allowed, security persons stopped Tejashwi at the main gate. “We are with the farmers. There has been frequent increase in prices of petrol and diesel. It has been done to dampen the spirits of the farmers,” Tejashwi had said. Such novel ways of protests have been on display on the campus of the state legislature right from February 19, the day the governor addressed the joint session of the state legislature in the central hall. As far as the state assembly is concerned, the opposition members have not protested on its floor, except the adjournment notice that was served on one occasion, which, however, was rejected by Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha. The members have also been asked not to display placards in the House. First-time RJD MLA from Mahua, Mukesh Raushan, had arrived on the assembly premises on February 19 riding a bicycle from Hajipur. “There has been steep rise in the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders. People have started abandoning their vehicles,” Raushan had said. The Congress members led by Shakeel Ahmad Khan and Pratima Kumari displayed an earthen oven to protest against price rise. They stood in the open lawn of the state assembly, as the House members are not allowed to make any kind of protest in the portico of the assembly building. “The prices of LPG cylinders have become unbearable for the people. They are abandoning LPG cylinders and reverting back to using fuel wood for cooking purposes. It is quite visible in the villages,” Khan had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opposition-members-adopt-unique-ways-to-protest-fuel-price-rise/articleshow/81215620.cms||Abhay Singh
February 26, 2021||Patna||SI killing case: two held, missing revolver found||PATNA: Two of the three named accused were arrested from their hideouts on Thursday in connection with the killing of a sub-inspector of police, Dinesh Ram, in Sitamarhi district on Wednesday. The service revolver of the slain cop, who was posted at the Majorganj police station, was also recovered from their possession. According to sources, all the three accused — Mukul Singh, Abhishek Singh and Ranjan Singh — have criminal antecedents. Ranjan’s bullet-riddled body was found in a banana orchard, which is almost 1km from Kuaari Madan village where the police team was attacked on Wednesday. A village chowkidar, Lalbabu Paswan, had also received bullet injuries in his leg and abdomen. IG (Tirhut range) Ganesh Kumar on Thursday visited the spot where Dinesh and Lalbabu were attacked and the place from where Ranjan’s body was found. He talked to a few residents of the village and inquired about Wednesday’s incident. He also cross-checked their statements with the local police officers. Later, the IG directed Sitamarhi SP Anil Kumar to intensify police vigil in the areas close to the India-Nepal border. Some locals told Ganesh that criminals fled to neighbouring Nepal after committing crimes in the district. Meanwhile, the mortal remains of the slain cop, Dinesh Ram, were consigned to flames at his native village, Sardaula, under the Lakhaura police station area in East Champaran district on Thursday. Sources claimed that Dinesh’s family would get an ex gratia payment of Rs 10 lakh and other retirement benefits. The police headquarters has written to the welfare department to provide benefits to the family under the SC/ST welfare scheme of the government. The process of special pension has also been initiated. Earlier, a guard of honour was accorded to the slain cop at the police lines. East Champaran SP Naveen Chandra Jha was also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/si-killing-case-2-held-missing-revolver-found/articleshow/81216003.cms||Ramashankar
February 26, 2021||Patna||Jeans, t-shirts and school uniforms made by migrant workers of Patna find many takers||PATNA: Jeans, t-shirts, school uniforms, bedsheets for hospitals and towels manufactured by migrant workers of Patna, who returned home due to Covid-induced lockdown last year, are now being sold in open markets. Also, paver blocks, handloom clothes, processed vegetables and fruits produced by them are being sold in markets and also supplied to different institutions under the district innovative scheme (DIS) being monitored by the district administration. “Five clusters with about 70 migrant workers are engaged in production of these items on popular demand,” Patna DM Dr Chandrashekhar Singh said, adding the units are located in Athmalgola, Anisabad, Naubatpur, Parev near Koilwar bridge and Sigodi in Paliganj. The DM said the National Institute of Technology (NIT)-Patna and Chandragupta Institute of Management-Patna (CIMP) are providing technical support for this innovative programme, aimed at providing job to skilled migrant workers who returned home from other states like Gujarat, Maharashtra, West Bengal and Delhi during the lockdown. Deputy development commissioner (DDC) Richie Pandey said Rs 10 lakh was provided as grant to each unit under the DIS for installation of machines and raw materials. “The profit earned by marketing will go to the workers of those units,” Pandey added. Pandey said while the paver blocks would be used for both government and private buildings, the handloom bedsheets and towels would be supplied to hospitals and nursing homes. With Holi round the corner, the Anisabad-based unit has focussed on bringing varieties of children wears and ‘kurta’ in the local market. “Each unit is led by a nodal person. The district industry cell (DIC), on the other hand, is monitoring their functioning,” Pandey said. DIC general manager Amarnaath Dubey said two local schools have already placed their orders for children’s uniforms. He said at Naubatpur unit, the workers are producing processed food after preservation of vegetables and fruits in a cold room set up under the scheme. The district administration has also provided a van for transportation. Dubey said products made by the migrant workers of Patna would also be sent to other places for which the marketing strategy was being worked out in consultation with the CIMP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jeans-t-shirts-and-school-uniforms-made-by-migrants-find-many-takers/articleshow/81215556.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Patna||30,000 private doctors in Bihar yet to get first dose of coronavirus vaccine: IMA||PATNA: The Indian Medical Association-Bihar (IMA) has claimed that 40% of the doctors and paramedics in the state are yet to be administered the first dose of the Covid vaccines and urged the health department to reopen the Co-WIN portal so that they can get themselves registered. A meeting in this regard was held under the chairmanship of IMA-Bihar president Dr Amar Kant Jha on Thursday. The association’s national president Dr Sahajanand Prasad Singh was also present on the occasion. Discussing the Covid scenario, Dr Amar claimed that nearly 30,000 doctors and health workers of different private hospitals, diagnostic centres and pathological labs had failed to get themselves registered for the first dose of the vaccines. “Most of them are not tech-savvy and are unfamiliar with the online registration process,” he added. Dr Amar urged the government to come with simpler methods like on-spot registration using identity cards issued by the IMA, registration numbers by the Medical Council of India or certificates by the heads of nursing homes. IMA-Bihar secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said, “Health workers from Begusarai, Khagaria, Gopalganj, Madhubani, Motihari and rural areas in Patna have urged us to get the Co-WIN portal reopened for fresh registrations.” The IMA members also demanded a government job on compassionate grounds for dental graduate Minakshi whose husband Dr Avinash Kumar, a medical officer at the Dalsinghsarai subdivisional hospital, had died due to Covid-19. The virus has claimed the lives of as many as 42 doctors in the state so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/30k-private-doctors-yet-to-get-1st-dose-of-corona-vax-ima/articleshow/81215418.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP: Six held for murder of history-sheeter||VISAKHAPATNAM: Six persons were arrested on Thursday in connection with the murder of history-sheeter Venkatesh Reddy alias Banda Reddy. All six were known to the deceased. The accused are K Siva Santosh Raja (36), Palla Anil Kumar (23), Sarapaka Durga Prasad, Teddu Raju (23), Mallisetti Mohana Rao (32) and Beta Uma Mahesh. Police also seized weapons used in the murder. According to Dwaraka Zone assistant commissioner of police GVSN Murthy, MVP Police Station cops led by inspector P Ramanayya arrested the accused within 36 hours of the incident. The deceased Reddy and the accused Santosh Raja were both involved in one Oil Ramu’s murder and had history sheets against them. Differences of opinion between the two, however, led to conflict. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/six-held-for-murder-of-history-sheeter/articleshow/81215557.cms||Siva G
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||HS question pattern sees Covid changes||Kolkata: The West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education on Thursday published the subject-wise question pattern for the upcoming higher secondary examination on the curtailed syllabus. The school heads were also informed by the H S council about methods of conducting the practical examinations, which are scheduled to begin from March 10. Lakhs of higher secondary candidates are elated since the question pattern will now allow the students to understand the changes which have been introduced after reduction in the syllabus in a Covid year. The HS syllabus in each subject mainly comprises MCQ, very-short-answer questions, short-answer questions and descriptive-type questions. “There was an existing pattern for the number of questions from each topic or chapter which had representation in the question paper. Due to the curtailing of the syllabus, some of the topics have been erased. Thus, the marks which were allotted to the removed chapters are now being redistributed among the existing topics,” said Saugata Basu, teacher of biological sciences at Uttarpara Government High School. Basu is also the general secretary of the West Bengal Government School Teachers’ Association. Another teacher pointed out that the information on the question pattern will cheer up the students because they now have a framework to follow while preparing for the higher secondary examinations starting from June. School heads have also been told about the protocol that is to be followed during and after the practical examinations, which have to be completed within March 31. This year, the HS Council will not send question papers for the practical examinations. Instead, topics have been suggested, from which the practical examinations have to be conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hs-question-pattern-sees-covid-changes/articleshow/81216007.cms||Somdatta Basu
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||CU calls meet on odd-sem examinations||Kolkata: Calcutta University has called for a PG Board of Studies meeting on Friday to discuss issues regarding the odd-semester examinations and to ratify the decisions. Among the proposals to be placed for discussion are conducting the entire process of paper setting, moderation, distribution of questions, collection and evaluation of answer scripts by the PG departments themselves. The individual departments are also likely to be given autonomy to dec-ide the mode of holding practical examinations. The odd-semester PG examinations will be held between March 8 and 26 on the virtual or digital mode according to the UGC guideline issued last September. Colleges which run PG programmes are, however, unhappy with the dates since students will get just 10 weeks to prepare. A section of CU teachers also plans to suggest that the practical examinations not be held on a virtual platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-calls-meet-on-odd-sem-examinations/articleshow/81215998.cms||Somdatta Basu
February 26, 2021||Pune||Cops step up action against goons, Ghaywal aides held||Pune: The city police, smarting under some recent show of strength by gangsters released from jails, have started going after members of various criminal gangs aggressively over the past few days. “Digging up pending cases and pursuing action in the same forms a strategy of this offensive,” a senior police officer said. Early on Thursday morning, the anti-extortion cell of the Pune police crime branch arrested Santosh Anand Dhumal (38) of Bhugaon in Mulshi and Musab alias Musa Ilahi Shaikh (29) of Kothrud, both “key members” of the Nilesh Ghaywal gang, in connection with a September 2019 case of robbing a garage owner (32) in Kothrud of an SUV. Dhumal and Shaikh had threatened the garage owner with dire consequences while taking away the SUV to participate in a rally of Ghaywal alias “Bhau”, police said. Three more accomplices in this crime are wanted. Dhumal had 15 serious cases to his name, while Shaikh had also been involved in serious crimes, the crime branch officials told a magisterial court later in the day. The duo were remanded in police custody till March 2. The action comes close on the heels of at least eight cases registered over the past few days against gangster Gajanan alias Gaja Marne after his much-talked about travel in a cavalcade of more than 500 cars and vociferous supporters from the Taloja jail to his Pune residence. Apart from the first case registered by the Kothrud police, other cases against Marne and his aides have been registered by the Warje, Bund Garden, Vishrambaug and Samarth police stations in Pune city, Hinjewadi and Talegaon Dabhade under the Pimpri Chinchwad police and Khopoli under the Raigad police in connection with the car rally. After getting bail in the Kothrud case, Marne is on the run. The police are also after his aides. They raided a farmhouse at Paud on Wednesday in search of Marne. Cases have also been registered against his aides like Rupesh Marne. Another gangster Sharad Mohol, who staged a similar show of strength after his release from the Yerawada jail in January, has been booked in three new cases. “We won’t spare any goon, come what may,” Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta told TOI. The crime branch officials, while referring to the latest arrest of Ghaywal aides, said Dhumal and Shaikh brandished sharp weapons and told the garage owner that they wanted to have an open SUV for Bhau’s rally in Kothrud. Crime branch inspector Balaji Pandhare and sub-inspector Vijay Zanjad swung into action after the garage owner approached the police on Wednesday with his complaint. Later, a formal FIR of robbery was registered with the Kothrud police. Ghaywal has been externed from the city and the district for two years. He was arrested three years ago and was released on bail seven months back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-step-up-action-against-goons-ghaywal-aides-held/articleshow/81217651.cms||Gitesh Shelke
February 26, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Railways reduces frequencies of five pairs of special trains till March 31||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has further reduced the frequencies of five pairs of special passenger trains till March 31. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the frequency of the Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi Sampoorna Kranti special (02393/02394) has been reduced till April 1. “The train will not run on Wednesdays from Rajendra Nagar Terminal till March 31 and will be cancelled on Thursdays from New Delhi till April 1,” the CPRO said. Similarly, the Jaynagar-New Delhi special (02361/02562) will be cancelled every Thursday from Jaynagar till March 25 and every Friday from New Delhi till March 26. The Gaya-New Delhi special (02397/02398) will not run on Mondays, Fridays and Sundays till March 30, while the Bhagalpur-Anand Vihar special (02367/02368) will be cancelled on Tuesdays from Bhagalpur and Thursdays from Anand Vihar till March 31. “The Kamakhya-Anand Vihar special (02549/02550) will be cancelled every Wednesday, Friday and Sunday from Kamakhya-end and on Fridays, Sundays and Tuesdays from Anand Vihar-end till April 2,” Kumar said, adding that the services of Alipurduar-Delhi special (05483/05484) and the Ajmer-Sealdah special (02987/02988) have been cancelled till March 31 and April 1 respectively. Likewise, the railways has cancelled the Habibganj-Agartala Express special (01665/01666) on March 25 and 28, while Dr Ambedkar Nagar-Kamakhya special (09305/09306) will not run on February 26 and 28. Sources said that the Saharsa-New Delhi Vaishali special (02553/02554) will be cancelled on February 26, 27, 28 and March 2 and one special train (02563) between Saharsa and New Delhi will not run till March 2. “The Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Saharsa intercity special (02327/02328) will be cancelled till March 3 due to non-interlocking work being carried out at Bachhwara station under the Samastipur division of the ECR,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-reduces-frequencies-of-five-pairs-of-special-trains-till-march-31/articleshow/81215589.cms||Kumod Verma
February 26, 2021||Patna||After ‘warm’ winter, expect hot summer: IMD||PATNA: After ‘warmer’ winter, residents should brace for a hotter onset of summer season from March 1 as temperature level is being recorded several notches higher than normal at most places in the state. The maximum temperature in Patna was recorded at 32.6 degrees C on Thursday, five notches higher than normal. Even the minimum temperature in the state capital was three notches higher than normal. Gaya in south Bihar was even hotter with maximum temperature of 33.2 degrees C.Sanjay Kumar, a meteorologist at Patna Meteorological Centre, said maximum and minimum temperatures at most places in the state are being recorded higher than normal. He said the current trend of above-normal temperature is likely to continue over at least the next one week. “The reason for above-normal temperature is clear sky and dry westerly winds. The westerly winds have cleared the lower level of atmosphere, leading to maximum penetration of solar radiation. This trend is likely to continue over the next few days as well,” he said. In its all-India bulletin released on Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) also said above-normal temperature would continue over most parts of the country over the next two to three days. The three-month winter season, which starts from December, is supposed to conclude on February 28. “This winter season was almost dry in Bihar with minimal rainfall. Also, discomforting weather conditions like cold wave or cold day were observed on much fewer days. In fact, the winter was observed normal in north-west India and comparatively warmer in eastern India and adjoining northern plains,” Sanjay said. Meanwhile, summer season, which is called pre-monsoon season in meteorological parlance, will commence from April 1 and conclude on May 31. According to sources, the IMD will issue a seasonal outlook for prediction of weather conditions during the summer season in the country later this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/after-warm-winter-expect-hot-summer-met/articleshow/81215708.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 26, 2021||Patna||With students’ safety in mind, schools in Patna take extra Covid-19 precautions||PATNA: Amid fears of a fresh Covid-19 wave in many parts of the country, city schools are following all the safety protocols and taking extra precautions. They are, however, confident that with proper protective measures and strict surveillance, the spread of the virus can be prevented. At Gyan Niketan more staff have been roped in to ensure proper sanitization of the school campus. According to its vice-principal Shailendra Mohan Jha, a committee of teachers reports to the school authorities thrice a day and keeps them informed about the implementation of the safety norms. “Since primary classes will begin in a week, we have appointed additional staff to look after the students of classes I and II,” Jha told this reporter. On February 19, the crisis management group of the state government had allowed schools to resume primary classes from March 1. However, many of them have decided to conduct exams next month and begin regular classes from the new academic session. Don Bosco Academy principal Mary Alphonsa said, “With a view to ensuring our students’ safety, we will resume primary classes from April 4. Such students will take their final exams through the online mode.”Some schools, on the other hand, will start the academic session a bit early to make up for the lost time. Abhishek Patrick, assistant director of Jesus and Mary Academy, pointed out, “We will conduct the final exams early and start the new academic session from mid-March. It is important that the students overcome the psychological barriers and attend offline classes in order to restore normalcy.” However, pupils, who are already burdened with mandatory health precautions, are not looking forward to a stricter surveillance. “It is suffocating to wear a mask all the time. I am not allowed to remove it from my face even for a second,” rued Mohit Mayank, a student of Loyola High School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/with-students-safety-in-mind-schools-in-patna-take-extra-covid-19-precautions/articleshow/81215521.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Business||HUL to be plastic waste-neutral this year||MUMBAI: Hindustan Unilever (HUL) will achieve 100% plastic waste collection this calendar year. This means the FMCG giant will collect and process more plastic packaging waste than what it uses. In the process, HUL will become the first FMCG company of a large scale to achieve plastic waste neutrality. This year onwards, HUL will enable processing of over 1 lakh tonnes of post-consumer plastic waste through collection from all states and Union Territories, covering over 100 towns. During calendar year 2020, HUL had collected and facilitated environmentally safe disposal of almost 60,000 tonnes of plastic waste. The nearly Rs 40,000-crore company makes Lux soap and Lipton tea, along with several daily use products sold at over 8 million outlets. Among other consumer firms, Nestle India has already attained plastic neutrality, while Dabur is expected to by March 2022. There has been growing concern around plastic pollution and its adverse impact on the environment. Repeated warnings issued by scientists on the negative impact of plastic waste such as wrappers, discarded packaging material and sachets — not only on the environment but also the health of people — have triggered action from packaged consumer goods companies. HUL CMD Sanjiv Mehta said, “Our vision is one where key stakeholders work together to ensure that plastic stays in the economy and out of the environment. As a responsible company, we are committed to playing our part.” Having developed an ecosystem of partners enabling the collection and safe processing of plastic packaging waste, HUL ED (supply chain) Willem Uijen said, “We have now scaled up our joint efforts to collect more plastic packaging waste than our total plastics footprint, four years ahead of what we previously thought was possible.” Nestle, with domestic sales of Rs 12,642 crore, collected plastic equivalent to post-consumer plastic waste generated by all its brands in 2020, said a company spokesperson. This ensured plastic neutrality. The spokesperson, however, did not provide the quantum of waste collected. ITC has a model for sustainable management of multi-layered plastic (MLP) packaging waste. In 2020-21, ITC will collect more than 28,000 tonnes of MLP waste, progressing towards plastic waste neutrality in this calender year, said a company spokesperson. Dabur too has a plan to become plastic waste-neutral by March 2022. For this, Dabur India CEO Mohit Malhotra said the company will be collecting, processing and recycling 22,000MT of post-consumer plastic waste from across the country. This covers both recyclables (like PET, HDPE, beverage cartons) and non-recyclables (multi-layered plastic). This year (in 2020-21), Malhotra said Dabur is well on course to collect over 11,000MT of post-consumer plastic waste. Most companies are implementing these initiatives by partnering with various organisations for collection of plastic waste and also reaching out to housing societies and commercial establishments. The plastic recycling industry, too, has been taking shape in India over the past few years, making it important to formulate product packaging from recyclable material. Marico uses around 95% recyclable material for packaging and has committed to make it 100% by FY2025. Marico’s chief supply chain officer Jitendra Mahajan said the company carries out its extended producer’s responsibility by collecting multi-layered plastic material equivalent to its consumption, and disposing it in an environment-friendly manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hul-to-be-plastic-waste-neutral-this-year/articleshow/81217383.cms||Namrata Singh
February 26, 2021||Vijayawada||Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy writes to Union minister for railways land||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has written to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal to consider regularisation of encroachments on Railways lands in Rajarajeswaripet of Vijayawada city. The chief minister said these lands were encroached upon 30 years ago and the residents been living there since. They have also built houses over the years, as the Railways did not attempt to clear them or make use of the land, the chief minister said. If regularisation is not possible, the chief minister offered giving alternative land to the Railways in exchange for the encroached upon land. The chief minister said the Railways already has a piece of land at Ajit Singh Nagar and the state government is ready to offer the land in lieu of land in Rajarajeswaripet. The chief minister further said the land offered by the government is of equal value and officials have already made a joint inspection of the same. He requested the minister to delegate the land to the state for regularisation of houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-writes-to-union-min-for-railways-land/articleshow/81215536.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Patna||Subhani frontrunner for state chief secretary post||PATNA: As chief secretary Deepak Kumar is completing his yearlong service extension on February 28, the bureaucratic circles are eager to know about his successor. Sources said if CM Nitish Kumar has to decide single-handedly, additional chief secretary (home, prohibition & excise and vigilance) Amir Subhani will be his first choice. “But, if the CM has to take advice from his major ally BJP, Subhani is bound to lose his bright chance of becoming the chief secretary, mainly because the saffron party leaders have time and again been openly opposing his continuance in the home department,” a senior IAS officer said on Friday. A 1987-batch topper of Union civil services, Subhani is known for his loyalty to Nitish. He has been serving as the state’s home secretary for many years except for a brief period of Jitan Ram Manjhi as the CM in November, 2014. Sources said as the state government has made up its mind not to give any further extension to Deepak, the officials of the general administration department (GAD) has begun the process of selecting a new chief secretary from among the senior most IAS officers. The GAD on Friday sent a list of senior IAS officers of the chief secretary rank to the CM office for selecting the new chief secretary. “Most probably, notification regarding the new chief secretary will be issued by Saturday evening,” a GAD official said. A 1984-batch IAS officer, Deepak took charge as chief secretary on May 31, 2018. He was scheduled to retire on February 29, 2020. But he was given two successive service extensions of six months by the Centre at the request of Bihar government. Development commissioner Arun Kumar Singh (1985-batch) and chairman, revenue board, Tripurari Sharan (same batch) are the senior most officers, but both are scheduled to retire in the next six months. Tripurari will retire on June 30 and Arun on August 31. Besides Subhani, other senior IAS officers who can be considered for the crucial post are additional chief secretary (social welfare) Atul Prasad, additional chief secretary (revenue and land reforms) Vivek Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (industries) Brijesh Mehrotra, additional chief secretary (road construction) Amrit Lal Meena and divisional commissioner (Bhagalpur) Vandana Kinni. “But, Subhani is the frontrunner, despite stiff opposition from a section of BJP leaders,” a GAD source said. Earlier, in February 2015, BJP had taken exception to the restoration of Subhani to the post of principal secretary (home), alleging that he had failed to deal with the law and order situation during Nitish’s previous five-year stint (2010-15) as CM which was marred by serial blasts in Bodh Gaya and Patna among a host of other major incidents. Then, senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi had said Nitish restored Subhani in the home department despite serial blasts at Bodh Gaya and Patna and the death of 33 people in the stampede during his period as the home secretary. “How come there can be improvement on law and order front under stewardship of an official whose previous tenure had seen rapid spurt in crime?" Sushil Modi had asked in a statement issued on February 25, 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/subhani-frontrunner-for-state-chief-secretary-post/articleshow/81234540.cms||Madan Kumar
February 26, 2021||Patna||Bihar among top 8 states to have given maximum number of vax doses||PATNA: With the deadline for the first dose of vaccination for frontline workers getting over on Monday, over 50% of registered beneficiaries are yet to be vaccinated in the state. On Thursday, 6,295 frontline workers got their first jab and so far, 1,47,539 of them have got the shots. This accounts for 54.3% of registered frontline workers. However, Bihar is among the top eight states to have given the maximum number of doses so far across the country. As per the data shared by the state health society, 5,47,017 beneficiaries have got the first dose and 7,5141 of them have got the second dose, taking the total number to 622158. As per data shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday, Dadra and Nagar Haveli was at the top of the list with 93.38% of frontline workers vaccinated. Bihar could not find a place in the top 10 states in this category. Chattisgarh, which was at the tenth position vaccinated 65.37% of frontline workers till Friday afternoon, 11.4% more than Bihar. Bihar is also not among the top 12 states, which have given the maximum number of the second dose to the eligible healthcare workers. On Thursday, 14,661 healthcare workers in Bihar got their second jab and so far, a total of 75,141 of them have taken their second dose. Meanwhile, 61 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state on Thursday against 32,961 samples tested, taking the tally to 2,62,418. In the same period, 91 people had recovered and total recovery has reached 2,60,401 and the recovery rate stands at 99.23%. Officially one death was reported from across the state and it was from Siwan. State toll has now reached 1,539. AIIMS-Patna reported two deaths, a 63-year-old male of Bakarganj locality and a 69-year-old male of Bhagalpur district. For the second consecutive day, no Covid-19 positive case was detected from the tests done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-among-top-8-states-to-have-given-maximum-number-of-vax-doses/articleshow/81215462.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 26, 2021||Patna||Central team in city to verify civic body’s cleanliness claims||PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) is leaving no stone unturned to perform and score better in the Swachh Survekshan 2021 even as a central team has reached the city to verify and evaluate the cleanliness claims made by the civic body. PMC commissioner Anand Sharma said the state capital is already a few points up in comparison to previous year’s points tally as the corporation has acquired the ODF plus (open-defecation-free) certificate and is aiming for three-star rating in the garbage-free category. “Apart from the administration, the citizens too need to be accountable for the cleanliness of the city. For better citizen participation, I urge the people to download the ‘Swachata’ app and post complaints and grievances, which will be addressed immediately by the corporation. The app will also help us resolve issues in a much coordinated manner,” he said. PMC’s public relations officer Harshita said the central team has arrived to verify the reality of the claims made by PMC regarding civic amenities. “Every month since August 2020, we are uploading a monthly management information system (MIS) report. The team will verify the authenticity of that,” she said. The cleanliness survey is based on the evaluation of three parameters – citizen’s feedback, service level progress and garbage-free city accounting for 1,800, 2,400 and 1,800 points, respectively. Patna had scored 1,552 out of 6,000 points in last year’s cleanliness survey. In order to increase public engagement and spread awareness regarding sanitation, the PMC has created wall paintings and organised street plays, theme dance, social media and awareness campaigns. A self-help women group, known as ‘swachhata didis’, regularly organise rallies and visit door-to-door to inform people about dry and wet waste. A ‘waste to wonder' park, to be launched on February 26, and an open garden library in Maurya Lok Complex have been established to promote the concept of reduce, reuse and recycle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/central-team-in-city-to-verify-civic-bodys-cleanliness-claims/articleshow/81215688.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Patna||Rubber dam on Falgu to be ready by Sept ’23: Minister||PATNA: Rubber dam on the Falgu river near Vishnupad temple, a bridge for commuters on the right side of riverbank to reach Sitakund and three ghats along the river will be made ready by September 2023, water resources department minister Sanjay Jha said in Bihar Vidhan Parishad on Thursday. Minor water resources department minister Santosh Kumar Suman informed the Upper House that 5,940 tubewells across the state were non-functional. Replying to a short-notice question raised by JD(U) MLC Sanjeev Shyam Singh, WRD minister said to sort the issue of water scarcity in Falgu river and make water available throughout the year, administrative approval for expenditure of Rs 266.50 crore has been given. He said the project would help in water storage by preventing the water to go below the bed and a borewell will also be used to replace stagnant water. Jha said instead of concrete dam, environment-friendly rubber dam would be built. “This project is very important from religious as well as environment and tourism points of view,” Jha said, adding a DPR for construction of bear dam on Falgu in Bithosharif village has been made ready. “Execution of this project will help in providing irrigation water to 5,600-hectare area in Manpur and Belaganj blocks,” he said. BJP MLC Rajnish Kumar raised the issue of non-functional tubewells across the state, because of which farmers are facing problems in irrigating their farmland. Replying to a starred question raised by Rajnish, the minor water resources department minister said there were 10,240 tubewells in the state – 4,300 functional and 5,940 non-functional. He said Rs 138 crore had been given to gram panchayats to start 2,904 non-functional tubewells. For the rest, DPR was being made, he added. To an issue raised a day before in the Upper House regarding teachers being asked by BSEB by evaluate answer-sheets in two shifts, education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said the department has taken note of the issue. “No evaluator will be compelled to evaluate answer-sheets in two shifts. Those who wish themselves to do the evaluation in two shifts will be welcomed,” he added. Before the beginning of the house, RJD MLC Subodh Kumar raised the issue of clash between police and liquor mafia on Wednesday in Sitamarhi, in which a sub-inspector was shot dead and another cop was injured. Subodh demanded adjournment of the House, which was not accepted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rubber-dam-on-falgu-to-be-ready-by-sept-23-minister/articleshow/81215636.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||IIM-C fixes LAN for virtual placements||Kolkata: IIM-Calcutta has upgraded its entire LAN cable connection to avoid network glitches during final placements that started on Thursday. Students were getting snapped out of online classes continuously, causing them to flag the issue with the management, resulting in a complete overhauling of the LAN connection in hostel rooms from where students are facing their placement interviews this time. The placements are being done virtually. “The whole network has been comprehensively tested. The faulty equipment is being replaced. There is dedicated manpower deployed on site covering all hostels,” said a communication from the director’s office. “Since LAN points in all hostel rooms are connected to high-speed stable internet, the students appearing for placements have been advised to use that support. The candidates are also being helped with extra hardware so that there is no time loss during an interview,” the communication said. “Our responsibility is to support our students with the right resources and infrastructure. The technical snag was addressed in the most efficient way, resulting in a seamless first day of our placement season,” said institute director Anju Seth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iim-c-fixes-lan-for-virtual-placements/articleshow/81216068.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 26, 2021||Goa||Panaji rival group gears up to unveil 30 names for CCP polls||Panaji: Former mayor Surendra Furtado and outgoing corporator Menino da Cruz will soon release the list of 30 names on the ‘citizens panel’ that will fight the Babush-BJP panel for the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) polls. Lawyer-activist Malisa Simoes, sports administrator and RTI activist Sandeep Heble, lawyer and former corporator Suresh Chopdekar, lawyer-activist Pundalik Raikar and youth activist Sayad Saquib Khadri have been nominated co-conveners of ‘We Ponjekars’. The team will announce the names of candidates in all 30 wards of CCP within the next few days, convener Surendra Furtado has stated. “There is strong resentment brewing against the political machinations and manipulations indulged in by Monserrate and the powers that be to take control of CCP. The support of the people has further strengthened the resolve of this citizen initiative to fight the CCP polls,” Furtado, who was not included in the babush-BJP list, said. The team is working on a five-year deliverable plan for the city covering intra-city traffic mobility driven by public transportation with e-vehicles, garbage management, revitalisation of perennially neglected water bodies, particularly St Inez and Rua de Ourem creeks and the Mala Lake, resolution of the murky market scam and the confusion there, health centre and football ground at Ribandar, besides several other neglected local issues from across the city, he said. The documented plan will also have a signature project to spruce up the Massano de Amorim square respecting its heritage value and taking back the lease expired National Theatre property. We Ponjekars’ vision document will also include a sub-plan to revive the NGPDA market project which is at a standstill for over a decade and will be released at the start of our city-wide campaign, he said. The team has invited suggestions from Panaji citizens, including professionals, engineers, lawyers, doctors, teachers, architects, engineers and consultants to provide practical solutions to Panaji’s perennial problems by March 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-rival-group-gears-up-to-unveil-30-names-for-ccp-polls/articleshow/81217648.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Electronics city in NCR to attract Rs 40k cr investment||Lucknow: The upcoming Electronics City in Yamuna Expressway Authority’s sector 7 will have clusters from Taiwan, Japan and Korea. A team from the authority will travel to these countries at a later date and interact with potential investors to invite them to UP. A government spokesperson said that the three countries have a strong base in electronics and several companies based out of these countries are manufacturing electronics. An investment by these countries will give a major boost to electronic manufacturing in UP, he said. “The government is looking at a possible investment of Rs 40,000 crore in the Electronics City. Each proposed cluster here would be set up in an area of 200 acres and out of this, 150 acres would be allotted to electronics companies. Subsidies and other benefits would be offered to companies interested in setting up their units in these clusters,” he said. Under the electronics policy, the authority will be offering land subsidy, rebate in power tariff, stamp duty and SGST. Along with the Electronics City, the Yamuna Authority is also going to offer land to electronics companies in sector 24 and sector 24A. The authority is expected to announce a scheme for this investment. “It is expected that especially foreign companies could be investing several crores under the new policy and scheme and this would result in job creation for lakhs of youth. The Electronic City is coming up near the upcoming Jewar Airport which will make the project even more viable for investors,” the spokesperson said. The site for the project is next to the Jewar Airport and close to Dadri, where freight corridors and a logistics hub are being planned. Other than this, other sectors which are likely to be invited to set up here include IT services, outsourcing, research and development, small, medium and big hardware.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/electronics-city-in-ncr-to-attract-rs-40k-cr-investment/articleshow/81218975.cms||Neha Lalchandani
February 26, 2021||Patna||Bhagalpur officials buckle up to check virus spread||BHAGALPUR: In view of a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in some states, officials in Bhagalpur are gearing up to check the spread of coronavirus. According to the medical superintendent of the Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital, Dr Ashok Bhagat, fresh corona cases have been registered in the district and adjoining areas. “People should continue wearing masks and follow social distancing norms,” Dr Ashok told this newspaper. Bhagalpur civil surgeon Dr Vijay Kumar Chowdhary also claimed that the district had been reporting new Covid cases for the last 10 days. “We have geared up our machinery for the treatment of patients. We are also creating awareness among the people to make sure that they do not ignore any Covid-related symptoms,” he added. With a lot of locals flouting the Covid safety protocols these days, city ASP Puran Jha has decided to reimplement the mass drive for penalizing those who do not wear masks. Malda divisional railway manager Yatendra Kumar has also asked the station managers to screen all the passengers strictly and ensure that the safety protocols are followed. Meanwhile, district immunization officer Dr Manoj Kumar Chowdhary said the first and second phases of the Covid vaccination drive were nearing completion and the third phase was likely to begin soon. “Discussions are underway for starting the registration for Phase III,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-officials-buckle-up-to-check-virus-spread/articleshow/81215535.cms||Kumar Rajesh
February 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||One injured as bike hits traffic DCP’s car||Ahmedabad: A 21-year-old man from Sanand town of Ahmedabad suffered injuries when a bike on which he was riding pillion collided with the car of DCP, traffic (admin), of city in Motera. Head constable Jayanti Patel, 50, who works with motor transport department of city police, said that he took DCP traffic Tejas Patel to Narendra Modi cricket stadium for the bandobust of VVIPs like President Ram Nath Kovind and home minister Amit Shah, in an SUV allotted to the police. After that the DCP traffic was supposed to provide escort to VVIPs till the city airport. When they were returning towards Motera stadium again for the bandobast, a motorcycle-borne man hit their car from the left in which fender of the DCP’s car got damaged and the motorcycle rider and a pillion rider fell on the road. The motorcycle rider fled and the pillion rider suffered injuries on his wrists and other parts of body. The injured person was identified as Surpalsinh Chavda, 21, a resident of Modasar village in Sanand taluka of Ahmedabad district. Some cops called up 108 ambulance and sent him to Civil Hospital in Asarwa. A complaint of causing damage to property and causing hurt has been registered with L Division traffic police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-injured-as-bike-hits-traffic-dcps-car/articleshow/81217697.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Patna||200 Bihar private hospitals, 1,000 wellness centres to be used for vaccination drive||PATNA: Altogether 250 private hospitals enrolled under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, and 1,000 health & wellness centres across the state, will be used to carry out the vaccination drive for priority groups, including senior citizens, which will begin from Monday across the country. Large spaces in the district headquarters are also being identified for this purpose, said a health department official. The official further said that in the first week, the primary health centres (PHCs) and wellness centres will be used at the lowest level to gather experience based on which the department will decide on vaccination centres at the grass-root level. Mangal Pandey, the state health minister, has informed the vaccination drive would begin from Monday, and details would be shared on Friday. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has already instructed all states to be ready for this mega drive. “Given the anticipated high number of beneficiaries to be vaccinated in the forthcoming days, the states and UTs are advised to ensure all public health facilities...should be prepared for Covid-19 vaccination on all designated days beginning March 1,” reads a part of the letter sent by Bhushan to the states. He further asked the states to ensure such facilities are mapped to specific cold chain points, and last-mile transport logistics from cold chain points to these facilities are finalized. Sources said the health department on Thursday reviewed the problems which may occur in vaccinating such a large group and is waiting for the SOP from the Centre, which is expected on Friday. An official said there are "certain confusions" over this phase of the vaccination that need clarity. For instance, while the Union health secretary in his letter to the states mentioned that people above 50 years and those with comorbidities would be vaccinated, Union minister Prakash Javadekar at a press conference on Wednesday said those above 60 years and those above 45 years with comorbidities would be vaccinated. Bihar will have around two crore beneficiaries if vaccination of those above 50 years is done. In the case of another priority group, the number will reduce. The Centre has also not given clarity on the use of the Co-WIN 2.0 app, which would be used for the registration of senior citizens or those with comorbidities. A day earlier, the state health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit had said they would first hold a mock drill on Saturday and Sunday before starting the vaccination of priority groups from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/200-bihar-private-hospitals-1k-wellness-centres-to-be-used-for-vax-drive/articleshow/81215439.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 26, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Tejashwi Yadav mocks ‘good governance’ plan||PATNA: The general debate in the assembly on the state budget for 2021-22 on Thursday saw the exchange of power-packed punches backed by data and rhetoric between the leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad, who gave the government’s reply to the questions raised by the former. Tejashwi, initiating the House debate set the tempo and tenor, dismissed the five-year good governance programme of the state government saying, “The government has announced its five-year governance programme, but there is no governance in the state.” He further said that crime control is at its nadir, as parallel economy through illegal legal trade of liquor has taken hold of the state, despite prohibition imposed in 2016 that deprived the state of around Rs 4,000 crore worth of revenue. “Today, not only there is home delivery of liquor, but those involved in the parallel economy through the illegal sale of liquor have also been taking on the police machinery. They, armed with sophisticated firearms, killed a sub-inspector (SI),” Tejashwi said, adding, “It is the criminals who are doing the encounter of police personnel.” In reply, Prasad took on Tejashwi head-on. “You have given data of various kinds and asserted that our mirror is not clean, but we have made progress on all fronts and also brought development. During your (Lalu-Rabri rule), dogs used to sit on hospital beds, infrastructure was rickety, and so on,” he said, adding, “Our budgetary provisions have been underlined by forwarding looking vision.” Tejashwi, citing figures, had said the expenditure under the plan head increased by 21% during 1990-05, despite the stepmotherly treatment meted out to Bihar by the Centre, including under the rule of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee. He said CM Rabri Devi had asked for special category status for Bihar at a public rally that was addressed by then PM Vajpayee, and the Congress-led UPA government gave Rs 1.44 lakh crore package to the state. Further, the country saw the launch of liberalization of the economy under the guidance of Manmohan Singh, Bihar was deprived of its fruits, as the Vajpayee government at the Centre provided assistance to states like Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat among others. Tejashwi also said the allotments made for the development and welfare of scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, backward castes, extremely backward castes and minority sections have been minuscule – in each case less than 1% of the total budget. However, Prasad did not appear rattled by the presentation made by Tejashwi. “The size of the proposed plan expenditure for 2021-22 is 51% of the total budget. It has been the underpinning for the last 15 years of the Nitish Kumar rule. There is no comparison or match between 21% plan expenditure under Lalu-Rabri rule and 51% plan expenditure under Nitish,” Prasad said. “Money has been allotted for the welfare and benefit of various sections in all departments,” he said, pointing out that Tejashwi had misrepresented the actual situation in the current fiscal, as the overall expenditure made till February in 2020-21 has been to the tune of Rs 1.41 lakh crore. Meanwhile, from Friday onwards, the House will pass the budgetary demands for various departments, culminating in the passage of the 2021-22 budget and appropriation Bill on March 17. Tejas: Sahni a ‘recharge coupon’: At one point during Tejashwi’s address, fisheries minister and VIP leader Mukesh Sahni made a fleeting remark at him. It elicited an instant counter remark in which Tejashwi described Sahni as a “recharge coupon” since he has been made MLC from the BJP quota for a limited tenure, not the six-year term. “You are just a recharge coupon. What will happen to your future, no one knows,” Tejashwi said, and sent the House in peals of laughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-mocks-good-governance-plan/articleshow/81215604.cms||Abhay Singh
February 26, 2021||Patna||Ethanol production will generate employment: CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar, who chaired a meeting on Thursday to devise ways for promotion of ethanol production, said the government would take steps to reopen closed sugar mills in the state. “This sector will attract many investors to Bihar, which, in turn, will lead to employment generation. Ethanol production will boost sugarcane farming in the state and farmers will get higher prices for their yield,” the CM said at a meeting held at Sankalp Hall of the CM secretariat. “Maize production has increased in the state. Maize will also be used for ethanol production. Overall financial condition of farmers will improve with ethanol production,” he said. The CM recalled that Bihar government had sent a proposal for ethanol production to central government in 2006. However, the then UPA government at the Centre had turned down the proposal. “An investor had come with an ethanol production project worth Rs 21,000 crore, but it could not materialise. I am glad that the present government has approved ethanol production,” Nitish said. The meeting was attended by deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi as well as industries minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain. Senior officials who attended the meeting included additional chief secretary of industries department Brajesh Mehrotra, principal secretary S Siddhartha and principal secretary (sugarcane industries) N Vijayalakshmi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-ethanol-production-will-generate-employment/articleshow/81215724.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||UGC scraps IDOL’s popular BSc (IT) programme||Mumbai: The University Grants Commission has directed Mumbai University to not admit students to the popular BSc (Information Technology) programme. UGC struck down permission to it citing insufficient faculty strength to run the course. BSc (IT) offered by Mumbai University’s Institute of Open and Distance Learning (IDOL) is among the easiest places to get into for this pogramme in the city. This unaided course is popular among students aspiring for a career in information technology. Moreover, most college fees run into tens of thousands, making IDOL an affordable choice for many. The course also attracts those who cannot afford an engineering degree but are keen to take up jobs in the IT space. “We have sent the expert committee report to all open and distance learning universities with the recommendations,” said a UGC source. A copy of the report with this paper stated that UGC’s expert committee pointed out deficiencies in two programmes, BSc (IT) and MSc (computer science). “The callous attitude on part of the university is evident from the fact that officials have been closing down many popular courses, especially unaided ones, offered at a high fee outside the campus in private colleges,” said Subhas Athawale, secretary of Mumbai University College Teachers’ Association. MU stopped offering the master’s programme a year ago. It, though, has already admitted candidates for the July 2021 intake for the undergraduate course when it conducted the recent admissions cycle for the January 2021 entry. The BSc (IT) course needs a minimum of three faculty members, though there was some discrepancy in the third faculty details submitted by MU to UGC. “We have several students who have signed up for the BSc (IT) programme. We understand that the course needs three faculty but the third professor’s curriculum vitae (CV) sent to UGC was not accepted as he is from computer science,” said a university official. MU plans to approach the commission regarding the same and provide an explanation on the fact that a third faculty is available. “We hope UGC will understand the issue and allow us to offer the course in the upcoming admission cycle,” added the official. With the university awaiting an expert committee from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council for a grade, the rap from the UGC will have a bearing on its score. “Over time, enrolment in IDOL has been falling as its quality has been deteriorating,” said a management council member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ugc-scraps-idols-popular-bsc-it-programme/articleshow/81216168.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Magadh University gears up for NAAC assessment||GAYA: The Magadh University administration has asked teachers to make their updated profiles available so that the same could be uploaded to the website of the varsity. The instruction came ahead of the assessment of the university by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). In 2015, MU had got C grade in NAAC assessment due to which it was deprived of financial grants on some occasions. The varsity administration is now making all efforts to improve grade. Since 2019, the NAAC assessment is being done through online mode and the university or the college has to upload the information annually. The marking is done through auto generated system. The NAAC team visits the campus for verification of the information uploaded and it reserves the right to deduct the marks obtained for uploading wrong information. “The university or the college has to upload information about teaching and the non-teaching staff, the working strength, conventional and professional courses offered, seats allotted for each course, number of students enrolled, seminars, conferences, sports events and achievements of teachers and the students,” said Aftab Ahmad Khan, teacher of zoology at Mirza Ghalib College and coordinator of the NAAC assessment at the college. “In the last NAAC assessment, Mirza Ghalib College had obtained B grade,” he added. MU vice-chancellor Rajendra Prasad has constituted internal quality assurance cell (IQAC), comprising senior teachers like Sushil Kumar Singh, Bharat Bhushan, Ehtesham Khan, Vinay Kumar, Sushil Kumar, Raushan Kumar, Divya Mishra and Ekta Verma, for the purpose of the proposed NAAC assessment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mu-gears-up-for-naac-assessment/articleshow/81214784.cms||Alok Kumar
February 26, 2021||India||Muluk gets interim shield from arrest in toolkit case||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Thursday granted climate activist Shantanu Muluk interim protection from arrest in the farm agitation toolkit case till March 9. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana, who heard Muluk’s anticipatory bail plea, passed the order after Delhi Police filed a reply mentioning the findings of the investigation so far but sought seven more days to submit a more “detailed and comprehensive” response. Additional public prosecutor Irfan Ahmed told the court that Muluk’s initial interrogation revealed several “inconsistencies and contradictions” in his statements. He said the police would need at least a week more to go into the extent of his alleged involvement in fomenting trouble in the name of backing the farmers’ stir. While adjourning the hearing to March 9, additional sessions judge Rana said no “coercive action” should be taken against Muluk till then. The climate activist’s counsels had urged the judge to order interim protection from arrest till such time his anticipatory bail plea was disposed of. In his petition, Muluk argues that simply talking to people from outside India to “internationalise” a protest couldn’t be criminalised. Delhi Police’s reply, however, accuses him of creating and sharing a digital toolkit on the farm agitation with the primary objective of “exciting disaffection against the government of India”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/muluk-gets-interim-shield-from-arrest-in-toolkit-case/articleshow/81219491.cms||Aamir Khan
February 26, 2021||Goa||Hike in LPG prices is anti-people move: Cong||Panaji: Congress criticised the Centre for the frequent increase in fuel and LPG prices, saying that the rising prices will negatively affect the poor and the economy. State Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar questioned BJP’s idea about ‘vikas’ and ‘ache din’. Congress said that prices of everything from fuel prices to basic groceries have increased over the last 12 months. “Rising gas prices are the perfect example of ‘vikas purush’ PM Narendra Modi who is all out to finish poor people and the Indian economy,” he said. Oil and gas marketing companies hiked the price of domestic cooking gas by Rs 25 per cylinder across all categories, including subsidised fuel and Ujjwala scheme beneficiaries. Panjikar’s statement came on the same day when the party held an unusual protest against the LPG price hike. A Congress spokesperson conducted a press conference sitting on an empty cylinder as the party accused the Modi government of being “anti-people”. “Be it LPG, petrol, diesel, vegetables or any other food item, electronic or just anything you talk about is more expensive than it were 12 months ago,” Panjikar said. Just a few days ago, the state Congress women’s wing held a protest against the increase in fuel and gas prices. State Congress women’s wing president Pratima Coutinho said that the increase in LPG prices has made a big dent in the finances of the poor and the middle class.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hike-in-lpg-prices-is-anti-people-move-cong/articleshow/81217694.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Ganga e-way to be taken up on mission mode: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has given direction to increase the pace for acquiring land for the 594km-long Ganga Expressway. He said that the project needs to be taken up on Mission Mode. He said the role of revenue department officials will be important in the upcoming panchayat elections and therefore, a special dedicated team should be set up for the Ganga Expressway project. Members of this team will not be involved with the election so that the land acquisition process can be completed at the earliest. Some DMs raised the demand for additional manpower for which the CM has directed the chief secretary and the Revenue Council to make arrangements in the next two days. To encourage registration of land, the CM said that the first 100 farmerst o register their land would be felicitated by the government. UPEIDA CEO Awanish Awasthi said land acquisition has to take place in 522 villages from 12 districts. This includes both public and private land. The proposed Ganga Expressway will begin from near the Bijauli Village in Meerut district and end near Prayagraj. The request for proposal and request for quote will be invited in April on PPP mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ganga-e-way-to-be-taken-up-on-mission-mode-cm/articleshow/81219008.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Goa||Goa University without NAAC accreditation for nearly 1.5 yrs||PANAJI: For close to one and a half years now, Goa University (GU) is without a valid accreditation from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). The five-year validity of the last accreditation, where GU was granted ‘A’ grade, ended in September 2019. Initially, the university deliberately delayed initiating the re-accreditation process by NAAC. This was because close to 50% posts at GU were without full-time faculty and it was felt this could bring down the varsity’s grading. Then, by early 2020, the Covid-19 pandemic arrived on the scene and almost eight to ten months were lost to it. “The Goa University is currently carrying out the process of preparing its self-study report, and all the meetings are currently being held at the university. The report is expected to be submitted to NAAC within a couple of months. Around a month or so after the self-study report is submitted, NAAC will begin its assessment,” said officiating Goa University registrar Radhika Nayak, while adding that “due to the pandemic, NAAC itself had stopped visits by its experts”. By the time, the new grade for the Goa University is announced, the state’s lone university would have gone almost two years without a valid accreditation, a rare occurrence since GU first began getting itself accredited by NAAC. “Prior to the pandemic, on two occasions, the university was forced to withdraw its advertisements for various faculty posts, as there was some controversy over non-domiciled persons being allowed to apply for the posts. By the time the issue was resolved, lot of retirements took place over the last two years and more vacancies were created,” said a source. The vacant teaching positions were being filled by employing faculty on contract basis, which would have greatly affected GU’s assessment by NAAC. Since the Covid-19 situation improved in the state, GU has managed to complete the recruitment process and now almost 80-90% of the 150-odd faculty positions have been filled. A backlog of only around 30 posts in the reserved categories are now waiting to be filled. With the recruitment issue addressed, GU officials now feel confident of bagging a higher grade at the NAAC assessment. In 2014, GU had managed to finally improve its grade from ‘B’ to ‘A’ and, it was felt it could not risk slipping down from its current grade. The Union ministry of education has recently altered the NAAC accreditation process and almost 70% weightage will go to quantitative aspects like the number of permanent faculty members, the qualification of faculty members, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-university-without-naac-accreditation-for-nearly-1-5-yrs/articleshow/81218898.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
February 26, 2021||Bhopal||Delhi’s Covid report demand sparks travellers’ test rush||BHOPAL: People planning to travel to Delhi are running around to get their Covid-19 test done as the Delhi government has made it mandatory for travellers from Madhya Pradesh to carry an RT-PCR Covid-negative report. Delhiites visiting Bhopal are hit the hardest as they are having to factor in a test run in the middle of their business or personal engagements. “I paid Rs 1,900 for a home collection RT-PCR test. The cost of the test is almost equal to the price of my travel ticket. There is no way around it,” said Ramesh (name changed), who has to appear for a job interview in Delhi on Saturday. He expects to get the Coronavirus test report a day before his scheduled departure. On Wednesday, Bhopal CMHO Dr Prabhakar Tiwari had said that free Covid-19 testing is available in government-run labs, and the report can be had in 12 hours. Private labs in Shahpura and Kolar conduct RT-PCR test in different shifts. Testing has slowed down since the beginning of the year as Covid numbers dipped, but may pick up again. Delhi’s insistence on Covid-negative report will add to the pressure of diagnostic labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/delhis-covid-report-demand-sparks-travellers-test-rush/articleshow/81216160.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Goa||MGP offers to organise Shigmo||Ponda: Stating that Shigmo is an inseparable part of Goan tradition, former deputy chief minister and Madkai MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar has claimed that MGP is willing to organise Shigmo parades in the remaining nine talukas if the state government permits. Dhavalikar said that he has learnt that the state government has decided to organise the Shigmo festival at a mere three places, in three talukas. He said that MGP is making the offer as the government is not organising the festival at other places due to financial crunch. Claiming that each tableau costs around Rs 2.5 lakh and each romtamell has an expenditure of Rs 1.5 lakh, Dhavalikar said “these teams would not be able to recover the money spent on the tableau or romtamell even if they won the first prize at all three places”. “We (MGP) can organise the parades across the nine remaining talukas of Goa by engaging willing businessmen, if the government allows us to do so,” the senior MGP leader said. He was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a programme held at Codar, Ponda, on Wednesday. The senior MPG leader honoured artistes of the Marathi play ‘Swami’, staged by Chaurang, Bandora. The play had excelled at a recent Marathi drama contest held at Ponda Rajiv Kala Mandir. Dhavalikar said that Shigmo is a festival of farmers and every village of Goa is home to farmers. Over 30,000 Goans showcase their talents during the annual Shigmo parades, including 300 folk artistes in each romtamell. Shigmo is a festival that has roots in Goa’s folk art and, Dhavalikar said that this was why the then government has started the parades, to inculcate values of the state’s rich tradition among the younger generation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mgp-offers-to-organise-shigmo/articleshow/81217741.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Property tax details lead to man’s arrest after 34 yrs||NAGPUR: A man who had been jumping bail for 34 years was nabbed by a special team of crime branch on Wednesday after his address was traced through the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) property tax records. On Thursday, Ramesh Aware was produced before court which released him on bail after paying a surety of Rs3,000. Aware was booked in a case of assault at Sitabuldi police station in 1987. He was granted bail then but did not appear on dates given by the court. Later, court had issued a non-bailable warrant against him on several occasions. Aware had disposed off his residence at Dhantoli around 30 years ago and moved to Vithubaba Nagar in Jaripatka. A police team comprising Naik police constable Vilas Chobitkar of crime branch, who had in the past nabbed offenders who had evaded arrest for 30-40 years, visited several government and semi-government offices to check whether Aware’s names could be found in any of the records. Chobitkar came across Aware’s name at the NMC property tax department which had his new address recorded in the online system. Cops, under DCP Gajanan Rajmane, visited Vithubaba Nagar. On inquiring with the locals about Aware, cops learnt that he earlier stayed at Dhantoli. Cops then nabbed Aware.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/property-tax-details-lead-to-mans-arrest-after-34-yrs/articleshow/81216183.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 26, 2021||Pune||State BJP vice-president slams police for ‘inaction’ over woman’s death||Pune: State BJP vice-president Chitra Wagh on Thursday slammed the city police for “doing nothing” in the case of 22-year-old woman’s alleged death by suicide in a Mohammadwadi housing society on February 8 despite CM Uddhav Thackeray ordering a probe. Wagh on Thursday morning visited the Wanowrie police station. She was seen engaged in an animated discussion with the police station in-charge and senior inspector Deepak Lagad, accusing the police of doing little under pressure and not registering an FIR. Speaking to reporters, Wagh demanded that the investigation should be taken away from the Wanowrie police and handed over to some independent agency. The woman’s death has kicked up a political storm with senior state BJP leaders, including former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, demanding a thorough investigation in the wake of a series of posts on social media linking her with a state cabinet minister and suggesting the latter’s involvement in driving her to take the extreme step. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar already said the police would do their job. Wagh told TOI, “I met the senior inspector and later the city police commissioner, Amitabh Gupta, but they did not reply to my questions nor did they share details of the investigation so far. They told me the probe was on but did not give me any assurances. I had earlier met the director-general of police, Hemant Nagrale, and appealed to him to transfer the case from the Pune police to an independent agency or appoint an IPS officer for the investigation, but he only said he would look into the matter.” Wagh insisted, “We are not politicizing the death. A crime against woman has been committed and we want the police to do justice. The police are telling us that they are checking her call data record and analysing messages exchanged by her on social networking sites. I suspect, the police are planning to file ‘B’ summary (no evidence found) report in the case.”Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta told TOI, “Wagh raised certain points during our meeting. We have taken a note and will verify them as a part of the ongoing investigation.” Deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Namrata Patil said, “Our investigation is on the right track. We have submitted a report to our superiors regarding the progress of investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-bjp-vice-president-slams-police-for-inaction-over-womans-death/articleshow/81217736.cms||Asseem Shaikh
February 26, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Airport, railway stations yet to get directives for Delhi travellers||BHOPAL: The Raja Bhoj airport and railways in Bhopal are waiting for formal directives from their higher authorities to start Covid testing of passengers travelling to New Delhi. Notaly, any passenger arriving in Delhi via private or state-run buses, flights or trains will have to show a negative RT-PCR test report on their arrival in the national Capital. The test report will have to be that of the last 72 hours from the time of the person’s arrival in Delhi, stated the officials. It was likely that the rule would come into force from 11.59 pm on February 26. It will be in force till March 15. Passengers using public transport to arrive in Delhi from Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Chhattisgarh will have to show a negative RT-PCR Covid-19 test report. When contacted, director (Raja Bhoj airport), Anil Vikram, said that the airport has not received any directions about it. “I have only read in the media that such tests have become mandatory. However, we have not received any such directions. Till then, the existing system will continue,” said Vikram. Same was the situation with Bhopal railway division. A senior Bhopal division official said that they were not directed to conduct any such tests. “We have no such information about it. Without any formal directions, there will be no change in the existing system,” the official said. A second official said RT-PCR test reports of passengers who plan to stay in guest houses or “bhawans” of any of the five states will be checked by the resident commissioner of that state in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/airport-railway-stns-yet-to-get-directives-for-delhi-travellers/articleshow/81216177.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Pune||Pune: Over 33,000 medical workers yet to be vaccinated in region||PUNE: Nearly 33,000 health care workers are yet to be vaccinated in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) even as the deadline ended on February 24. While some have cited reasons such as not registering on the CoWin app, others faced technical glitches in data entry and were unable to get vaccinated. Even frontline workers are falling behind the target due to the same problems. As per PMC officials, crowding at some centres has also been an issue and a few beneficiaries had to go back from the vaccination site. “Issues like spelling mistakes while entering names on the app have caused obstacles in vaccination. We are planning to give these beneficiaries one more chance as per instructions by the state and union governments,” said Ashish Bharati, head of PMC’s health department. According to Bharati, the deadline was aimed at encouraging beneficiaries and does not mean that health care and frontline workers will not be vaccinated later. This helped increase the footfall. “We will wait till March 7 as some clarification on the remaining beneficiaries is expected from higher authorities. After that, we will decide whether to continue the vaccination as per schedule or make some other arrangements,” said a senior PMC official. The data shared by civic and district administrations states that around 1.06 lakh health care workers were supposed to get vaccinated but only 73,000 received the shot till February 24. As many as 56,000 beneficiaries were registered with the PMC, of which 33,000 have been vaccinated. In Pimpri Chinchwad, 17,000 beneficiaries were registered but 13,000 took the vaccine. Among the 33,000 beneficiaries in rural areas, 27,000 have taken the jab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-33000-medical-workers-yet-to-be-vaccinated-in-region/articleshow/81217747.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Hospitals gear up to accelerate pace of Covid-19 vaccination from March 1||Mumbai: Hospitals across the country are gearing up to accelerate the delivery and pace of vaccination from March 1, aiming to increase it up to 10x in the initial phase, from the existing daily average of around 3 to 4 lakh. The pricing which is still to be determined is expected to be capped by the government at around Rs 400-450 per jab, sources in the healthcare sector told TOI. “We have the process mapped out, with the training, supervisors and logistics in place. Once the government supplies the vaccine, all 20,000 private facilities will be ready to roll out the jabs for the vulnerable population (as defined by the government). This will translate into a huge ramp up of the vaccination drive,” Sangita Reddy, joint managing director of Apollo Hospitals group, told TOI. On a conservative basis, the private sector initially could vaccinate 40 lakh people daily, with an average of 200 jabs a day, she said, adding that the only challenge is countering vaccine hesitancy. If all goes well, India’s vaccination drive could touch 1.3 crore in a week. On February 25, the total number of vaccinations crossed 1.3 crore. The private sector has drawn up the capacity and volumes it can handle across hospitals, and submitted the list to the state government. It is also waiting for clarity on whether only PMJAY-empanelled hospitals will be allowed to roll out the vaccination drive. In Mumbai, private hospitals, including PD Hinduja, are readying to roll out vaccination for the vulnerable population. “At Hinduja Hospital, we are aiming to handle jabs for 250 beneficiaries on a daily basis. Our current programme of vaccination of healthcare workers has strengthened the process. The vaccination will be done through a prior appointment process, and in compliance with all government policies,” Joy Chakraborty, COO P D Hinduja Hospital, said. The hospitals already involved in vaccination of healthcare workers including Jaslok, Kokilaben and Fortis could be roped in for this drive. At this stage, the registration process of the beneficiaries by Bombay Municipal Corporation is underway. The vaccine will be supplied by the government, while the designated private hospital will levy an additional charge on handling, administration, and storage of the vaccine. The pre-vaccination screening, post-jab counselling, and follow-up of those being vaccinated are important functions to be followed, Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hospitals-gear-up-to-accelerate-pace-of-covid-19-vaccination-from-march-1/articleshow/81219018.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||Airlines make a dash to text flyers about RT-PCR norm||Kolkata: All airlines on Thursday scurried to send out text messages to flyers booked to travel from Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kochi to Kolkata from Saturday, informing them that they would be required to reach the airport with an RT-PCR report to board the flights. The state government on Wednesday night had announced that all passengers from four states — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana and Kerala — needed to mandatorily undergo RT-PCR test before boarding flights for Kolkata, Bagdogra and Andal.“We are contacting all passengers booked on flights departing from these cities and reaching Kolkata after Saturday noon to inform them of the need to adhere to the new protocol announced by the Bengal government. We shall comply by the norms. If any passenger turns up without the Covid report, he or she will not be allowed to board the flight. On a case-to-case basis, we may allow some passengers to reschedule the journey so that they can get the test done. But if too many passengers turn up without the report, it may not be possible to do so,” an airline official said.Kolkata airport got a taste of what may happen at other airports on Saturday if passengers don’t turn up with valid Covid reports when Port Blair-bound flyers booked on GoAir were denied boarding as they did not have the test reports. They staged a demonstration at the terminal for several minutes.Travel agents who have booked flights for their clients also called them up to inform them of the new rule. In some instances, they advised clients to reschedule flights if they found the schedule for RT-PCR test too tight. “Passengers on flights departing from Kochi after 9am or Bengaluru after 9.30am or Hyderabad after 10am on Saturday will need the reports. Since there are no flights from Maharashtra during the weekend, those taking flights from Monday will have to get the Covid test done 72 hours before departure,” a travel agent pointed out.In addition to Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur, Bengal currently has restricted flights from Chennai and Ahmedabad to three days a week. But travellers from Chennai and ahmedabad are not required to furnish RT-PCR reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airlines-make-a-dash-to-text-flyers-about-rt-pcr-norm/articleshow/81216178.cms||Subhro Niyogi
February 26, 2021||Pune||Regions with spikes should get priority vax supply: State||Pune: Maharashtra officials have now asked central authorities that for the next phase of inoculations, they should prioritise vaccine supply for states currently registering spikes in daily cases.The next phase, which includes those who’re above 60 and those who’re above 45 with comorbidities, is set to start on March 1. In Maharashtra, there are an estimated one crore people who fall in these two groups. The state also has districts recording spikes. Officials said priority supply will help them hold ‘mega’ vaccination drives to quickly cover large numbers of people who’re at risk. Currently, the state has a supply that’ll last till March 15, meant to cover healthcare and frontline workers. It will need more doses to launch a fast phase 3, officials said. Dr Subhash Salunke, state Covid advisor, said, “The government should ensure allocation is according to caseload. It’s the Centre that decides the allocation as per population that needs to be vaccinated. And that data has been drawn from electoral rolls. But regions with high caseload should speed up vaccination to reach higher immunity levels.” The state currently has over 800 vaccination sites. An additional 1,000 private hospitals have been roped in to increase this number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/regions-with-spikes-should-get-priority-vax-supply-state/articleshow/81217727.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 26, 2021||Vadodara||Robber parked his scooter in another area||Vadodara: Investigations into the broad daylight robbery at a jewellery showroom on Old Padra Road has revealed that the accused had parked his two-wheeler in another area. Police scanned CCTV footage of the localities near the shop and got images of the man, who had stabbed the showroom owner Rajesh Kumar Soni , locked him in the cabin and walked away with a bagful of ornaments kept on display. “He had parked his two-wheeler in another area. After the robbery, he walked till Manisha Crossroads and boarded an auto-rickshaw. He alighted in another area, took his non-geared scooter and left. We are trying to ascertain the license plate number of the scooter,” said Shamsher Singh, city police commissioner. The rober had also made a phone call from his mobile phone when he was in the jewellery shop on Wednesday. Investigators are scanning the mobile calls made in that period on Old Padra Road and trying to zero in on his mobile number. Teams of crime branch and special operation group (SOG) have been formed to track down the robber. On Wednesday afternoon, the robber had entered the shop in Rajvi Towers posing as a customer. After spending some time in the shop, he attacked Soni with a knife and locked him in a room in the shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/robber-parked-his-scooter-in-another-area/articleshow/81215301.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Pune||137% turnout in PMC limits, PMR hits 76% jab coverage||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation had an impressive 137% vaccination turnout on Thursday, with a higher than expected number of people receiving jabs at sites within its limits. Coverage among healthcare and frontline workers in the Pune Metropolitan Region is now at 76%. On Thursday, rural areas recorded a 44% turnout and the PCMC recorded a 61% turnout in its limits. Ashish Bharati, head of the PMC’s health department said, “We are appealing to all who have been registered to get themselves vaccinated. And apart from these appeals, we are also reaching out to private hospitals. Follow-ups are being done consistently to increase the turnout.” As per data provided by the civic and district administrations, a total of 5,225 listed beneficiaries got their first jab on Thursday, while 1,255 received their second second dose in the district. The list included both healthcare workers and frontline workers who make up phases one and two of the Covid inoculation drive. The beneficiaries in PMC areas included 586 healthcare workers and 2,769 frontline workers.  A total of 787 beneficiaries were administered the second dose. In the PCMC limits, 125 healthcare workers and 442 frontline workers got their shots on Thursday. A total of 446 beneficiaries were given their second doses. And in the rural areas, as many as 194 healthcare workers and 1,143 frontline workers got their first dose while 756 beneficiaries got their second doses. Officials from the region said planning is also underway to ensure the next phase — for priority citizen groups — takes off smoothly. “All healthcare centres in the state have been asked to augment their facilities. Along with the manpower and infrastructure, Internet link should be checked before the phase starts,” said a senior official from the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/137-turnout-in-pmc-limits-pmr-hits-76-jab-coverage/articleshow/81217761.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal among top 5 states after vaccinating more than 10 lakh healthcare workers||Kolkata: Bengal crossed the 10-lakh vaccination mark on Thursday with another 1,17,722 people taking the Covid-19 shot on the last day of the first dose for healthcare workers. Bengal was among the five states that recorded the highest vaccination figures on Thursday. The other four states were Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.“We crossed the 1-lakh mark on Thursday again for the second day in a row. About 10.1 lakh recipients have been vaccinated in the state over the last 34 days,” said state director health services Ajay Chakraborty. The high turnout over the past two days was reportedly due to the health workers, who had not taken the jab initially, rushed to get vaccinated in the last moment. “On Thursday, the turnout increased by about 40%,” said a source at RG Kar Medical College.“I was unable to decide whether to take the vaccine or not. But I saw my colleagues, some of whom have even taken the second shot, doing perfectly fine. So I did not want to miss the out on the opportunity,” said a nurse at Medical College and Hospital. Health department sources said 70% to 80% of healthcare workers attached to medical colleges in the city got vaccinated. Above 80% healthcare workers in Bengal have been covered.“Of the 1,460 health workers at our institute, 250 had contraindications, like pregnancy, breastfeeding and allergy, because of which they could not be inoculated,” said a source at ID Hospital. Private hospitals have performed even better, with the percentage ranging between 85% and 95%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-among-top-5-states-after-vaccinating-more-than-10-lakh-healthcare-workers/articleshow/81216186.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 26, 2021||Pune||Civic staffers threatened, 6 booked||Pune: The Kothrud police on Wednesday booked six men on the charge of abusing and threatening a civic body official and other staffers over the issue of removing encroachments on Paud Road. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s anti-encroachment squad had launched a drive to take action against roadside encroachments between Shilavihar colony in Bhimnagar and Mayur colony. PMC officer Prakash Dhumal said in his FIR that six men had picked up a dispute with him by saying that no action should be taken against their house because they had not encroached on the roadside. The FIR read that the menrefused to come out of their house and threatened the civic staffers by saying that they would hold the latter responsible if anything happened to them in the process of the demolition drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-staffers-threatened-6-booked/articleshow/81217795.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||Give us space from Congress room: AIMIM||Ahmedabad: On Wednesday the municipal central office’s administrative wing received a request from the All-India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) seeking space for their seven elected councillors. They have asked the AMC to carve out space from the large Congress councillors office room on the third floor of the AMC headquarters in Danapith. In its first election in Gujarat, AIMIM managed to win seven seats in the AMC polls. Most of these corporators were elected from Jamalpur and Maktampura wards. Jamalpur has been a Congress bastion for decades, and saw infighting in the party over tickets this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/give-us-space-from-congress-room-aimim/articleshow/81217809.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||E-fraud victim recovers Rs 74k with cops’ help||Mumbai: Hours after a senior citizen from Powai lost Rs74,500 in an online fraud, Sakinaka police swung into action and managed to retrieve the entire amount. Sujit Goswami, 62, a retired civil engineer, was duped after a woman impersonating as an army officer got in touch with him via video conferencing arranged through a real estate broker. After showing an interest in renting his flat at Nahar, Sakinaka, the woman tricked him into sharing details of his bank account. In an appreciation letter to the police on Thursday, Goswami compared Mumbai police force with Scotland Yard “in terms of aggressiveness to solve the problem in prime time”. Goswami said he came to Mumbai in November 2020 to either sell his flat or rent it out. “I was looking for a customer when I got a call from a real estate broker, Soham Awate, on Wednesday. He visited my house around noon and fixed a conference call with the woman who showed an interest in taking my flat on rent. She claimed she was from Pune and lived with her husband and child. She also shared her IDs in official uniform. She repeatedly called up and said she wanted to make payment for the deal,” Goswami told TOI. On the pretext of paying Rs2 lakh security deposit and Rs50,000 as rent for the first month through e-wallet to Goswami, the scamster, identified as Sunita Kumari, convinced him to share his bank details and OTP.  “By 1.30pm, Rs74,500 was transferred out of my account in several transactions,” Goswami said. He immediately lodged a complaint with Sakinaka police, who collected information about the transactions. They managed to block and reverse the transactions. Some of the money had been transferred to e-wallets. “Meanwhile, the woman called up and asked me why I had blocked my card as she was unable to transfer the money. When I told her I had lodged a police complaint, she claimed she would transfer the money the next day,” said Goswami. Senior inspector Balwant Deshmukh said the cyber team acted swiftly and blocked the transactions and managed to recover all the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/e-fraud-victim-recovers-rs-74k-with-cops-help/articleshow/81217854.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||UP surges to second spot on GSDP list, beats Gujarat & TN||Lucknow: Despite Covid-induced slowdown in economies across the world, Uttar Pradesh has become the second largest state of India in terms of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), surging ahead of even industrialised states like Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. The finance department data, accessed by TOI, reveals that the state’s GSDP in the 2020-2021 financial year has crossed Rs 19.48 lakh crore, equivalent to $268 billion, and UP has climbed to the second spot from number five in 2019-2020. Maharashtra continues to lead from the top position while UP moved up three ranks past Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Karnataka. UP’s GSDP at Rs 19.48 lakh crore is more than Tamil Nadu’s Rs 19.2 lakh crore, Karnataka’s Rs 18.03 lakh crore and Gujarat’s Rs 17.4 lakh crore. Tamil Nadu was second and Gujarat third last fiscal while Karnataka was at the fourth slot. “Our state has been making rapid strides in industry and economy under the able leadership of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who has ensured an industry-friendly eco-system in the state as a result of which UP had achieved the second position among all states in ease of doing business in a short span,” said MSME and export promotion minister Sidharth Nath Singh. The increase in GSDP when the economy contracted severely in the first two quarters of the financial year 2020-21 due to pandemic outbreak and lockdown indicates revival of economic activities in manufacturing and services. Agriculture played a key role in giving livelihood to vast population during lockdown and layoffs, but the upsurge in GSDP proves that other non-agriculture activities are also showing signs of resilience, say experts. Of late, the state has been in the headlines for leaving an impact at the national level and jumped to second rank in the ease of doing business and was declared best performing state in Kisan Samman Nidhi distribution. CM Yogi had on Wednesday announced in the assembly that the state government has received a certificate from the Union government for benefiting 2.37 crore farmers under Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. The CM has been pushing industrial growth as his key agenda and organised the investors’ summit in which MoUs of Rs 4.28 lakh crore were inked, out of which projects of nearly Rs 3 lakh crore have started at the ground level. The exports from Uttar Pradesh also increased by 32% in the last two years. “It is indeed a major achievement and an unexpected feat of the state which has done well in a pandemic-affected year,” economist Yashvir Tyagi, former Lucknow University professor, told TOI. The way the chief minister handled the corona crisis and did not let the economy be badly hit also played a key role in saving the state from a financial crisis and has resulted in an increase in the state’s GSDP, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-surges-to-second-spot-on-gsdp-list-beats-gujarat-tn/articleshow/81219023.cms||Subhash Mishra
February 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man fined for alleging medical negligence||Ahmedabad: A consumer court in Gandhinagar has imposed a cost of Rs 2,000 on a litigant from Udaipur for accusing doctors of medical negligence after his father passed away two days after a surgery on him. It observed that it has become a routine practice that kin of patients drag doctors into a legal battle to extort money. The case involved 83-year-old physician Dr Narendra Singh from Udaipur, who was sick and was operated upon at Apollo Hospital in Gandhinagar in 2006. Two days after his surgery, he passed away in the hospital. His son, Lokendra Singh, sued gastroenterologist Dr Rupesh Mehta, who performed the surgery, the hospital and two other doctors, Dr Jay Kothari and Dr Sunil Chugh from Udaipur, who had referred the patient to doctors in Gujarat for surgery. The complainant alleged that two hours after the surgery, his father was tied to the bed in the ICU and had very low blood pressure. A day later, the patient was put on ventilator and survived for one more day. He alleged medical negligence and demanded Rs 19 lakh as compensation from the hospital and doctors. After hearing the case, the consumer court said that there was no evidence of medical negligence. Accusing doctors of medical negligence has become a common practice for relatives of patients before or after operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-fined-for-alleging-medical-negligence/articleshow/81217810.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Pune||Survey for early detection of Covid||Pune: The district health office is banking on resumption of ‘My family, My responsibility’ survey for early detection of Covid-19 cases in rural areas. The survey was conducted in September and October last year and will be organised again from Tuesday. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), Pune Zilla Parishad, told TOI that the earlier two rounds of the survey proved useful as more than 1,000 positive cases were identified. He added that the survey will be carried out on priority basis in areas identified by the district health office as having more cases. Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer (DHO), Pune ZP, said, “We have identified 17 hotspots in seven talukas in the district. These areas will be surveyed on priority basis.” Subhash Salukhe, member of the state’s technical committee, said, “Initiatives such as ‘my family, my responsibility’ is the need of the hour for they lay stress on Covid-appropriate behaviour. If there are any symptomatic people, they can be detected, and treatment started.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/survey-for-early-detection-of-covid/articleshow/81217779.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 26, 2021||Goa||WAITING TO CATCH IT FRESH||A flock of migratory seagulls wait for fresh fish as a ramponkar pulls his net out of the sea at CaranzalemA flock of migratory seagulls wait for fresh fish as a ramponkar pulls his net out of the sea at Caranzalem||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/waiting-to-catch-it-fresh/articleshow/81218957.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||Curating narratives from Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: One can marvel at the dragon-shaped wooden supports at Harkunvar Shethani ni Haveli signifying the city’s trade links with the East, or the cherubic figurines from the British Raj on several houses in Khadia –but what symbolizes Amdavad? The city,which will turn complete 610 years of its foundation on Friday, is also a treasure trove of tales spanning six centuries – from the Sultanate era to Mughal and Maratha periods to post-Independence.A project initiated by the Ahmedabad World Heritage City Trust (AWHCT) under the aegis of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) aims to create a cultural map of the city that can delve deeper into the intangible heritage of India’s first Unesco World Heritage City.AMC officials said that about 17 teams – some of which have come from Delhi, Mumbai and Jaipur – are engaged in the project and each will bring out a different facet of the city’s way of life over the centuries. While some are established architectural firms, some are groups of enthusiastic students.What have they found so far? Aditi Dalia and Gati Shah from the HCDC team worked closely with the family of Vasantrao Hegishte, who, along with his friend Rajabali Lakhani, laid down his life in 1946 for the sake of communal harmony. “The 150-year-old house in Raikhad gives us a peek into the life of that time and also feels part of the city’s history – few might know that it has a secret space beneath the floor, where freedom fighters used to hide,” said Dalia.She also points to the book store on the ground floor of the structure, which has been passed on from one generation to another.Another team, Dharatal Architects, is exploring Desai ni Pol. “The residents remember prominent residents and havelis of yore. For example, the KC Mehta Haveli hosted Swami Vivekananda and Mahatma Gandhi among other prominent visitors and residents of the city,” said Nishant Upadhyay, founder architect of the firm. “We also got tales related to Chinubhai Baronet and how he brought the city’s first drainage line to the area.”The group recently organized a public meeting in the pol to share their findings in a form of vaarta (tale).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/curating-narratives-from-ahmedabad/articleshow/81217807.cms||Parth Shastri
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Rajnath well-wisher of farmers,can settle issue: Naresh Tikait||Gorakhpur: Bharatiya Kisan Union held a Mahapanchayat at Munderwa in Basti on Thursday where its national president Naresh Tikait said defence minister Rajnath Singh is a real well-wisher of farmers and he could resolve the issue. “Defence minister Rajnath Singh is a true well-wisher of farmers and if he gets full power, the issue could be resolved,” said Tikait at the first Mahapanchayat in Purvanchal. “The king should think of his subjects too. If there is any problem in front of the government, it should share it with us and we will cooperate as we are not against the country. The PM should respect farmers. PM Modi and Amit Shah don’t know anything about the condition of farmers. If Rajnath Singh gets a free hand, things could get resolved,” he added. “We will continue our protest and hold Mahapanchayat in different areas of the country to demand roll back of all three farm laws,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rajnath-well-wisher-of-farmerscan-settle-issue-naresh-tikait/articleshow/81215464.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Pune||Representatives of societies to keep watch on home isolated patients: Rao||Pune: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Thursday reached out to all housing societies and municipal corporations’ officials to ensure strict monitoring of the Covid-19 patients in home isolation.“We are reaching out to housing societies through residents’ welfare associations and federations to ensure that they can work in coordination with the local authorities to ensure better monitoring. Society members can help ensure better vigilance,” said Rao after speaking to the residents’ welfare associations, adding that the ward-level monitoring system had been re-activated as was done at the beginning of the pandemic last year.The housing society representatives were told to be in touch with the ward officers to ensure that the home isolated patients followed the rules after the administration received several complaints regarding norms violation.Rao, the Pune divisional commissioner, said local authorities had been directed to reactivate Covid care centres in case any individuals required such isolation facility.President of Pune District Housing Society Federation Suhas Patwardhan said they had tied up with various societies and formed social media groups. “We are helping out the societies requiring any help regarding Covid cases. Many societies have formed charts and helping out the families who have to follow the home isolation norms,” said Patwardhan.A society in the Katraj area held a meeting recently and created a dashboard of patients under home isolation and those admitted to hospitals. A resident who attended the meeting said the moment a Covid case was detected in the society, all supports were being given to the family concerned. He said the society had agreed to cooperate with the ward officials and was helping in monitoring the patients in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/representatives-of-societies-to-keep-watch-on-home-isolated-patients-rao/articleshow/81217812.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 26, 2021||Allahabad||Lawyers continue work boycott, to take our march today||Prayagraj: Working in Allahabad High Court remained disrupted on Thursday as lawyers continued to boycott the judicial work on the third consecutive day in protest against the Education Service Tribunal Bill, which provides for setting up of the principal bench of the Education Service Tribunal at Lucknow. In a resolution passed on Thursday, the Allahabad High Court Bar Association (HCBA) also resolved to continue to boycott judicial work on Friday and take out a march in the city. Earlier, the lawyers here got agitated as HCBA had been demanding for the last two years that the principal seat of this tribunal be set up in Prayagraj and its bench at Lucknow. However, a bill was passed in the state assembly during the current budget session prescribing principal seat of the said tribunal at Lucknow. In a press release, issued by HCBA joint secretary (press) Rajendra Kumar Singh, a general house meeting of the Association was organized on Thursday, where its office-bearers discussed the issue and condemned the state government for going back from its earlier promise to set up the principal seat of the said tribunal at Prayagraj. Hence, it was resolved to continue the boycott of judicial work on Friday. It was also resolved in the general house that the lawyers of high court will assemble at Hanuman Temple near High Court at 11.30 a.m. on Friday and will take out a procession upto Subhash Crossing in protest against the Bill. The meeting was presided over by HCBA president, Amrendra Nath Singh, while secretary Prabhashankar Mishra conducted it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/lawyers-continue-work-boycott-to-take-our-march-today/articleshow/81214309.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||Two bldgs of fire-proof bamboo centre in Chandrapur gutted||Chandrapur: Two mega buildings of world’s largest bamboo-made campus of Bamboo Research and Training Center (BRTC) at Chichpalli, 20km from here, were gutted in a massive fire on Thursday afternoon. Two-storey sprawling structures of administrative building and workshop disappeared in the inferno leaving just ashes. In a letter sent to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday, former forest state minister Sudhir Mungantiwar has demanded CID probe to know whether the BRTC fire was result of sabotage. “The grand project was going to generate massive employment and self-employment opportunities for local people,” he said, claiming that fair inquiry into the matter is only solution to clear the mystery of suspicious fire incident. Four fire tenders from Chandrapur Municipal Corporation and Mul Municipal Council were rushed to the spot to douse the fire. However, by the time fire was brought under control, entire bamboo structure of the two buildings was gutted, leaving just remnant rammed-soil wall constructed at the base of the destroyed buildings. The BRTC campus, a dream project of Mungantiwar, is a grand architecture marvel made of bamboo constructed at a cost of Rs88.8 crore. It was in the final stages of completion. The main buildings of administrative complex and workshop building were completely gutted, when the public works department ( PWD), which was constructing the campus, was about to hand it over to the BRTC in a few days. The fire reduced the two buildings to ashes even as every bamboo used had undergone fire test and entire bamboo structure was coated with fire retardant polish for safety. Executive engineer, PWD-II, Anant Bhaskarwar, maintained that there was no electricity supply into the building that could cause short circuit. He said BRTC building is first of its kind designed at such a large scale by consultant firm SHIFT, appointed by Tata Trusts. He said the fire broke out at the roof of the administrative building, but cause of the fire is still shrouded in mystery. The sparks then spread to adjacent workshop building and bamboo-made toilet complex, gutting them completely. Zilla Parishad president, Sandhya Gurnule, collector Ajay Gulhane, CCF, Chandrapur, NR Pravin, and other senior officers visited the spot to inspect the scene. Founder president of Sanjivani Prayawaran Samajik Sanstha, Rajesh Bele, had filed a complaint with superintending engineer of PWD here alleging massive corruption in the construction work. He had objected to the quality of work and pointed out several lacunae, forcing the superintending engineer to order inquiry into the matter in January this year. “PWD officials have yet not submitted the report. Possibility of sabotage cannot be ruled out to hide the corruption done by the contractors in connivance with PWD officials,” Bele alleged, demanding inquiry. Gulhane refused to comment. Bamboo technologist and organizing secretary of Aam Aadmi Party in Nagpur, Pratap Goswami, also raised suspicion over BRTC fire. “Extraordinary delay in completion of the BRTC complex raises suspicion. If the officials involved in construction were clean, why was the inquiry report on the complaint made by local NGO on poor quality of construction not submitted,” he asked. Goswami claimed that entire complex was being constructed at exorbitant price, nearly thrice the cost of normal building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-bldgs-of-fire-proof-bamboo-centre-in-chandrapur-gutted/articleshow/81216223.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 26, 2021||Pune||Pune: Aggressive testing in Chakan, 11 villages||PUNE: The Khed tehsil’s administration will test potential superspreaders like eatery owners, milk and vegetable vendors, shopkeepers in Chakan and 11 industrial villages nearby for early detection and treatment of Covid-19 persons. Tehsil health officer B B Gadve said, “The testing will focus on persons who come in contact with people in large numbers. We will follow an aggressive testing drive in tune with the number of cases coming to the fore. ” The active cases are from the three municipal councils of Rajgurunanagar, Chakan and Alandi. “We have told the respective chief officers to carry out house-to-house surveys to check the health of senior citizens and people with symptoms,” Gadve added. Pune ZP CEO Ayush Prasad, said they have instructed all tehsil administrations to carry out aggressive testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/aggressive-testing-in-chakan-11-villages/articleshow/81217802.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Cong to launch ‘Nadi Adhikar Pad Yatra’ from Mar 1 to woo Nishads||Prayagraj: With an eye on 2022 assembly polls, the Congress party is all set to take out ‘Nadi Adhikar Pad Yatra’ from March 1 to connect with voters of the Nishad community. The Yatra being launched by Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (OBC cell) will pass through around 1,200 villages dominated by Nishad community in Prayagraj, Mirzapur, Varanasi and Ballia districts. Congress leaders and around 200 activists will also interact with people of the Nishad community that plays a decisive role in many assembly seats of Prayagraj, Varanasi, Bhadohi, Mirzapur and Chandauli districts. UPCC (OBC cell) acting chairman Manoj Kumar Yadav told TOI, “The Nadi Adhikar Pad Yatra will start from Baswar village in Prayagraj and pass through Mirzapur and Bhadohi districts. The yatra will reach Varanasi on March 10 and our activists will attend Ganga Arti on the ghats.” The Pad Yatra will resume for Ballia on March 11 and will pass through Chandauli and Ghazipur before culminating at Manjhi Ghat on the UP-Bihar border on March 20, he added. Yadav said atrocities on the people of Nishad community had come to light after 17 boats were allegedly damaged in action against illegal sand mining by authorities at Baswar village. AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had announced Rs 10 lakh economic assistance to the people whose boats were damaged after senior leaders of UPCC took cognizance of the incident. Yadav alleged that atrocities were committed on the Nishad community on the pretext of following NGT guidelines. The Nishad community is dependent on rivers for their livelihood since ages and the government is trying to snatch their bread and butter, he alleged. Yadav claimed that illegal mining through machines is rampant in Banda, Chitrakoot and Hamirpur districts and he has even collected evidence of it but the state government is sitting like a mute spectator. UPCC leaders said people of Nishad community are real protectors of rivers and their rights should be protected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-to-launch-nadi-adhikar-pad-yatra-from-mar-1-to-woo-nishads/articleshow/81214376.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Goa||IIT-Bombay to submit study report on Vasco pollution next month||Panaji: The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay will submit the final report of its source appropriation study which will pinpoint the cause of air pollution in Vasco next month. Goa State Pollution Control Board (GPSC) chairman Ganesh Shetgaonkar said, “IIT-Bombay has informed me that they will submit the report in March. The report is delayed because of lockdown and nobody was coming to the institute to carry out chemical analysis.” “The study will reveal whether air pollution in Vasco is due to coal handling or other reasons,” he said IIT-Bombay had asked GSPCB for the continuous ambient air quality monitoring system (CAAQMS) and the national ambient air quality monitoring programme (NAMP) data of six locations from the port town to assess the air pollution at Vasco during the lockdown. IIT-Bombay has been tasked with conducting a source appropriation study at Vasco following allegations of coal pollution in the town. The institute has completed data collection for the second phase of the study and chemical analysis is in progress. The first phase report stated that coal is not the only mineral behind the air pollution in the town. A senior GSPCB officer said that the interim report didn’t pinpoint the reason for pollution in Vasco, but the second phase study will give details about the source of pollution. The first phase began in April and was completed on May 2018. The Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) will bear the cost of the entire study, which has been pegged at over Rs 94 lakh, a senior GSPCB officer had said. Identification of sampling locations, monitoring ambient air quality, and locating pollution sources are part of the study’s scope, and will be carried out as per guidelines of the Central Pollution Control Board. There have been allegations from the people of Vasco and NGOs that the port town in suffering because of coal handling at the port.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iit-bombay-to-submit-study-report-on-vasco-pollution-next-month/articleshow/81217841.cms||Murari Shetye
February 26, 2021||Kochi||PSC rank holders to continue protest in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has refused to budge to the demands of the protesting last grade servants (LGS) rank holders and civil police officer (CPO) rank holders, who seek the revival of an expired rank list and appointments from the PSC LGS rank list. In the wake of the government failing to come up with a decision in their favour, the protesters have decided to continue their stir. An order issued on Thursday based on the official-level talks with the rank holders has refuted the claims made by the rank holders. As per the order issued by the home department in this regard, as many as 5,609 job aspirants out of 7,580 in the CPO rank list have been served advice by the PSC. However, since the validity of the CPO rank list has expired, no one from that list can be appointed. The order also said that the point raised by the protesters that as many as 1,200 vacancies have not been reported is not true to the facts. It said that all the vacancies that can arise till December 31, 2021, have been reported to the PSC. The order has remained non-committal about the remaining demands raised by the LGS rank holders but said that the validity of the rank list has been extended till August 4, 2021, and all the departments have been instructed to report maximum vacancies to the PSC in a time-bound manner. The government is doing everything legally possible to provide jobs to the maximum number of aspirants, it said. The government had deputed additional chief secretary (home and vigilance) T K Jose and ADGP (headquarters) Manoj Abraham to hold talks with the protesters. In the discussions last Saturday, the rank holders had raised seven major concerns. Some of their demands include restricting the working hours of night watchmen to a maximum of 48 hours a week (which now according to the protesters is 16 hours a day), and then filling the remaining vacancy from the rank list, making appointments to the office assistant posts in the higher secondary schools from the rank list, extending the validity of the existing rank list till the new rank list is published and reporting all the vacancies to the PSC immediately. Meanwhile, the protesters said that since there was no decision in their favour, they would continue the protest. Later in the day, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the government has done everything possible to address the issue of the protesting rank holders and is still ready to hold talks with them. However, he said that nothing could be done regarding the police rank holders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/psc-rank-holders-to-continue-protest/articleshow/81215298.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Rift in Congress after Godse worshipper joins party||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh Congress stood divided on Thursday over the joining of a former Hindu Mahasabha leader, Babulal Chaurasia, allegedly a Nathuram Godse follower, in Gwalior. Chaurasia joined Congress on Wednesday in the presence of former chief minister Kamal Nath, but it has not gone down well within the party. Chaurasia is a former Congress worker, who quit the party in 2014 after being denied a ticket to the municipal election. Former PCC chief Arun Yadav on Thursday tweeted a photograph of Chaurasia with Nath and wrote, “Bapu hum sharminda hai (Bapu we are ashamed)”. After leaving Congress, Chaurasia contested the civic polls from ward 44 of Gwalior and was elected corporator. He later joined Hindu Mahasabha, an organisation that supports Nathuram Godse and his ideology. In 2017, Chaurasia was allegedly part of an event in which Godse’s statue was installed in the Hindu Mahasabha office in Gwalior. With urban civic polls due in MP, Babulal Chaurasia is likely to contest on a Congress ticket. But his association with Hindu Mahasabha has triggered a deep rift within the Congress. State Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta, however, said, “Mahatma Gandhi used to say ‘hate the sin, not the sinner’. This is why, when Godse first attacked him in Pune with a knife, Gandhiji called him and spoke to him. He forgave him. Gandhism teaches us to give a person one more opportunity. If a person who was originally a Congress worker wants to return to the party, we should actually allow him or her that one more opportunity.” In Gwalior, Chaurasia told reporters, “I have always been a Congressman. I quit the party after being denied a municipal poll ticket. I contested and won, joined Hindu Mahasabha. Later, I realised that I did not believe in their ideology.” State BJP took a dig at Congress. Party spokesman Rajneesh Agarwal said, “A leader committed to take Godse’s ideology to every home has now joined the Congress party to fulfil his goal. This is Congress’ hypocrisy on Gandhi and Gandhism. Those who worshipped Nehru murdered Gandhi’s ideology. Now, they are giving importance to Godse’s worshippers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rift-in-cong-after-godse-worshipper-joins-party/articleshow/81216211.cms||Suchandana Gupta
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||5 of a marriage party killed in accident, 22 injured||Chandrapur: Five people were killed while 22 others seriously injured after a mini truck carrying a marriage party back home met with an accident near Kacchepar village in Sindewahi tehsil on Thursday afternoon. The marriage party was returning to Ratnapur from Ekra. Sources informed that the mini truck was carrying around 30 people. While taking a turn at Kacchepar, the driver lost control and the vehicle turned turtle. Five persons were killed on the spot. The injured, comprising women and children, were rushed to Chandrapur government medical college and hospital. The deceased have been identified as Raghunath Koram (41), Sahil Koram (14), Kavita Borkar (30) and Rani Gane (27). Name of the fifth victim wasn’t known till filing of this report. Sources said that victims were crushed under the weight of the mini truck. Shindewahi police have registered offence against the driver who fled the spot after the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-of-a-marriage-party-killed-in-accident-22-injured/articleshow/81216251.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 26, 2021||Allahabad||AU to conduct UG exams in online mode from April 15||Prayagraj: The annual examinations for the academic session 2020-21 of the Allahabad University and its constituent colleges, will be conducted in online mode from April 15. Controller of examinations, Prof Ramendra Singh released a detailed schedule of examinations For the exams of undergraduate courses, i.e. BA, BSc, BSc Home Science and BCom (second and third year), the exams will be between held between April 15 to June 1. These exams will be conducted in the first shift from 8 am to 10 am. Whereas, the second-year examinations will be conducted in the second shift from 2pm to 4pm from April 15 to May 23. UG exams would be completed in around 45 days. Only four questions will be asked in the exam and the students would have to solve all four questions in just 12 pages. The Controller of Examinations told that the program of PG courses will also be released soon. Prof Ramendra Kumar Singh said page limit of three pages per question has been set. The answer to the new question will have to be written in the new page. The time duration of the written examination has been fixed at two hours. Examinees will be given a separate time of 30 minutes, so that they will be able to upload and convert their answer sheets to PDF format and upload the same. Maximum marks for each question will be decided by the departments concerned. Students were also suggested to keep a screenshot of the answer book with them before uploading. All online examinations will be under the supervision of the Controller of Examinations. Likewise, Ewing Christian College (ECC) has also completed the preparation for conducting the UG and PG semester examinations from March 15. The college’s Controller of Examinations, ADM David, said in the online examination, the candidates will have to solve seven questions. A time of three hours has been fixed for this. Four short answers and three long answers will have to be written in the answer sheets. Detailed exam schedule will be announced soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-to-conduct-ug-exams-in-online-mode-from-april-15/articleshow/81214350.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||Revitalizing heritage||The open house held at the wooden mosque in Tankshal ni PolAhmedabad: When inquisitive minds from across India come to the city to understand conservation architecture, what better way to teach it than within the Walled City’s built heritage? This was the idea behind the Conservation Site School started by the Centre for Heritage Conservation (CHC) of Cept University. The school organized its first major event, Open House by Tutin Aryanti, an architecture education scholar from Indonesia, on February 20.Prof Jigna Desai, executive director of CHC, said the idea is to revitalize the city’s heritage. “We will conduct two workshops – one on LIDAR scan techniques and another on non-invasive structural analysis – at the same site. It will not only take students right inside the city’s heritage but will also give them a perspective on its needs and challenges,”she said.The initiative also aims to improve local participation. One organizer said the event on February 20 saw great support from locals who not only provided amenities, but also welcomed use of one of the few surviving wooden mosques of the Walled City so it remains abuzz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/revitalizing-heritage/articleshow/81217855.cms||Parth Shastri
February 26, 2021||Kochi||MoU row: Kerala CM defends ministries, blames official||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan defended the action of fisheries and industries departments with regards to the talks and memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the US-based company EMCC International, while finding fault with KSINC managing director N Prasanth for not informing the government about the decision to enter into an MoU with the company. The chief minister said that the matter was not informed by the KSINC MD to the additional chief secretary in charge of the KSINC or the government. “The MoU signed by KSINC managing director without informing the government was not in line with the government’s policy in this regard. Once the matter came to the notice of the government, the government ordered the cancellation of the MoU,” he said. Vijayan said that additional chief secretary (home and vigilance) T K Jose, who is also holding the charge of inland navigation, has been entrusted to probe the circumstances under which the MoU was signed by the KSINC MD. Vijayan said that it is the openly declared policy of the government that no multi-national or corporation will be allowed to undertake deep sea fishing in the state’s coast. At the same time, he defended the actions of the principal secretary (fisheries) and the KSIDC’s decision to allot four acres of land for the company in the government food park in Cherthala for setting up a marine food processing plant. He said that when the company approached principal secretary (fisheries) on August 3, 2019 with a concept note, the officer had written to the ministry of external affairs seeking the whereabouts of the company. Later, when the company submitted another representation, the company was asked to appear before the Indian consulate with its credentials. He said that the MoU with the company signed in Ascend was not for promoting deep sea fishing. It was part of 117 expression of interests and 34 MoUs signed in Ascend, that will not elicit any support against the government’s declared policies. Even then, the MoU has been cancelled as the government feels that there should not be an iota of doubt in the minds of the public. The chief minister said that the land allotted for the company in Cherthala was for marine food processing, which has nothing to do with deep sea fishing. At the same time, he left it inconclusive on whether the representatives of EMCC had met him or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mou-row-cm-defends-mins-blames-official/articleshow/81215309.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Pune||Emphasis on more beds & manpower in cure centres||Pune: Local self-government bodies in the urban and rural parts of the district are ramping up the number of beds as well as manpower in their respective medical facilities in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) commissioner Rajesh Patil said they have around 2,575 beds available at present, of which 1,107 are occupied and if the need arises, they will ramp up beds in private hospitals, too. As per the bed availability dashboard of the Pune divisional commissioner’s office, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has around 4,181 beds available, of which 1,520 beds are occupied. In Pune rural, Ayush Prasad, CEO, Pune Zill Parishad, told TOI, “We have 177 medical facilities ready to take care of Covid-19 patients across Pune rural areas. There are over 18,000 beds available at these facilities, of which over 900 are ICU beds.” Meanwhile, Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital is gearing up to increase the beds to 150. Sassoon General Hospital dean Murlidhar Tambe told TOI that they will need additional manpower to treat more Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/emphasis-on-more-beds-manpower-in-cure-centres/articleshow/81217845.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 26, 2021||Pune||Pune: 1,542 turn Covid positive, eight individuals succumb||PUNE: More than 1,500 Covid-19 cases were registered in Pune Metropolitan Region on Thursday, while 1,033 patients recovered from the contagion. Eight people succumbed in the region on Thursday. At 766, Pune Municipal Corporation accounted for more than half the new cases. Pimpri Chinchwad added 453 cases, while the rural areas, municipal councils and cantonments together reported 323 new patients. This was the fourth consecutive day that the region witnessed an increase in the number of daily cases. The overall caseload for the region now stands at 4.03 lakh. As per a report issued by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar, the region’s total recoveries increased to 3.85 lakh on Thursday evening. About 1.91 lakh patients have recovered in PMC limits, while Pimpri Chinchwad has over 99,510 discharged patients. The rest of the district (rural areas, municipal councils and cantonments) had 94,400 recoveries. The DHO’s report further stated that, of the eight deaths on Thursday, four were reported in PMC limits. Three patients died in Pimpri Chinchwad and one person breathed their last in the municipal council areas. As of Thursday, the active case count in PMR increased to 8,759, owing to the steadily increasing positive cases. More than 5,110 people were under home quarantine, while 3,649 were being treated at various hospitals across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1542-turn-positive-eight-individuals-succumb/articleshow/81217851.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 26, 2021||Delhi||Speeding truck hits 4||New Delhi: Four people sustained severe wounds after a speeding truck lost control and rammed a tempo and three two-wheelers in northeast Delhi’s Harsh Vihar on Friday. Police said, the accused driver first hit a tempo and later rammed the bikes. The driver and the injured were rushed to a hospital, while a case has been registered, police said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/speeding-truck-hits-4/articleshow/81236497.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Allahabad||HC turns down anticipatory bailplea of Purohit in ‘Tandav’ case||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Thursday rejected the anticipatory bail application filed by Aparna Purohit, head of India Originals, Amazon Prime Video in connection with an FIR where it was alleged that the makers of web series ‘Tandav’ had hurt the religious sentiments of a particular community. ‘Tandav’ is an Indian political thriller web series on Amazon Prime Video. Rejecting the application of Purohit, Justice Siddhartha observed, “On the one hand, the sentiments of majority community have been hurt by display of the characters of their faith in a disrespectful manner and on the other hand, an attempt has been made to widen the gap between the higher castes and the scheduled castes when the object of the state is to bridge the gap between the different castes and communities and make the country a united force socially, communally and politically.” Regarding the plea of the applicant that the offences alleged against her were not made out and that her company has not been impleaded as an accused, the court said, “The fact remains that the applicant had not been vigilant and has acted irresponsibly making her open to criminal prosecution in permitting screening of a movie which is against the fundamental rights of the majority of citizens of this country and therefore, her fundamental right of life and liberty cannot be protected by grant of anticipatory bail to her in the exercise of discretionary powers of this court.” The court took a serious notice of the fact that the applicant was not cooperating with the investigation in connection with an FIR lodged against her at police station Hazratganj, Lucknow, where the court while entertaining her anticipatory bail application had granted her interim protection from arrest by the order dated February 11, 2021. Taking notice of it, the court observed, “This conduct of the applicant shows that she has scant respect for the law of the land and her conduct further disentitles her to any relief from this court, since co-operation with investigation is a necessary condition for grant of anticipatory bai.” Earlier, the court had on earlier reserved its order on February 4, 2021, directing that till the pronouncement of order in the case, no coercive action should be taken against Purohit. The plea taken by the counsel for the petitioner was that the web series ‘Tandav’ was a work of fiction. There was no intention of the applicant to outrage the religious feeling of any community. To recall, on January 19, 2021, an FIR was lodged on the complaint of Balbir Azad of Raunija village under Rabupura police station of Greater Noida alleging that the series depicted Uttar Pradesh and its police in a poor light. It further alleged that the series had deliberately denigrated Hindu gods and goddesses. The Prime Minister of India has been depicted going against democratic norms and deliberate comments have been made to disturb caste and communal amity. The makers of the series wanted to disturb the peace and tranquillity with the aim of making money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-turns-down-anticipatory-bailplea-of-purohit-in-tandav-case/articleshow/81214336.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Pune||Welder dies after robot crashes on him at Chakan||Pune: A 44-year-old welding worker was killed after he was hit on the head and neck by an arm of a robotic machine that fell on him at Automotive Stampings & Assemblies Ltd (Asal) at Chakan on Wednesday morning. His skull was completely damaged, police said. A company representative said in a statement that the welding worker was not wearing helmet at the time of the accident. The Chakan police have registered an offence under section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC against five officials of the company. The accident occurred when Umesh Dhake was carrying out spot welding, police said. He was taken to the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital, wherehe was pronounced dead by doctors. “Dhake was an employee of the company,” said Prakash Rathod, assistant inspector, Chakan police. His wife Priya (43) lodged an FIR with the police. Rathod said that around 8.30am on Wednesday, Dhake was assigned to do some spot welding on a fixture in the plant. “There are sensors installed in the cabin. If anyone enters the cabin, the sensors immediately halt the movement of the robot,” he said. “When Dhake was doing the welding work, the machine robot started moving suddenly. Its arm hit Dhake’s head and neck. His skull was completely damaged,” Rathod said. He said, “Prima facie probe revealed that the accident occurred due totechnical fault in the sensors. The company has suspended three officials.” A spokesperson for the company said, “At Asal, we lay utmost importance on safety and mandate that every employee adhere to safety norms and wear appropriate PPEs while working on shop floor.” The spokesman said, “This was an nfortunate incident that the deceased was not wearing helmet at the time of accident. We are investigating the causes that led to the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/welder-dies-after-robot-crashes-on-him-at-chakan/articleshow/81217847.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||HC allows Rao’s lawyer to meet him in hospital||Mumbai: Bombay HC on Thursday allowed P V Varavara Rao’s lawyer Sathyanarayan to meet him in Nanavati Hospital to get his signature on an application seeking permission from the HC to modify his bail conditions. Rao, 82, is accused in the Elgar Parishad case. On Monday, an HC bench had granted him interim six-month bail on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 50,000 with two solvent sureties. On Wednesday, his counsel Anand Grover approached the HC seeking Rao be permitted release on depositing cash as bail till the sureties are in place. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-allows-raos-lawyer-to-meet-him-in-hospital/articleshow/81219055.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Varanasi||UP: BHU students stir continues for second day||VARANASI: The students’stir at the main gate of Banaras Hindu University in Lanka entered the second day on Tuesday. A group of student has been protesting by staging a sit-in blocking the BHU main gate since Monday. They are demanding to reopen the classes of first and second year of under graduate courses. However, the BHU administration issued an official statement making it clear that as safety of 32,000 students cannot be put at risk, the university will be opened as per the prescribed guidelines of the Government of India in view of Covid-19 protocol. The university appealed to the protesters to leave BHU main gate as many people, especially the patients and their attendants, are suffering due to it. As per the decision of restarting classes in phases as well as in the hybrid mode taken by the BHU administration in a meeting held on December 10, the offline classes for third year students of UG courses were reopened from Monday. Continuing their sit-in on the second day, the protesters kept lauding slogans in support of their demands and displaying banners and placards with message ‘Unlock BHU’. They said that they would continue their protest till the classes are reopened. Taking note of the protest the varsity administration released an official statement making it clear that all the decisions like conducting online classes, open book examination and others were taken in view of the prescribed guidelines of Government of India in view of Covid-19 protocol. As per the same guidelines the classes are being reopened in phases, said the BHU spokesman adding that in the first phase the classes of UG third years were started from Monday while scheduled for restarting classes of first and second years would also be released as per the decision of the university administration only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-students-stir-continues-for-second-day/articleshow/81213756.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Allahabad||Atiq’s aide house demolished||Prayagraj: A joint team of the Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), police and district administration on Thursday demolished a three-storey semi-constructed house, allegedly owned by one Asaad, a close aide of ex-MP and jailed don Atiq Ahmad. The semi-constructed house was located on 60 Feet Road in the west side of the city. The driver of a JCB narrowly escaped when the debris of the broken house fell on the JCB all of a sudden. The team members had to launch immediate rescue operation. The driver was unhurt but a portion of the JCB was trapped in the debris. PDA official Alok Pandey told TOI that Asaad, a close associate of mafia-turned-politician Atiq Ahmad, had constructed a three-storey house on half-a-portion of a 300 sq ft land without sanctioning of a map from the concerned agency. He added that the cost of the house was estimated to be worth around one crore rupees. He further added that the demolition work started on Thursday morning after completion of records and orders. Heavy police bandobast was in place to deal with any protest or disruption, said the official. The police also restricted the movement of vehicles and locals towards the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/atiqs-aide-house-demolished/articleshow/81214358.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Smugglers grounded: 100kg gold seized at UP airports since 2015||Lucknow: As the gold smuggling cartel keeps adopting innovative ways to sneak in precious yellow metal into the country, the customs department too has been devising measures to curb the menace. This fact gets established by the seizure data which shows that about 100 kg of illegal gold has been confiscated by the customs department since 2015. Interestingly, out of the total seizure, nearly 18.5 kg gold was seized just after lockdown at two international airports in the state, Lucknow and Varanasi. According to the data, accessed exclusively by the TOI, UP customs department seized 77.27 kg gold worth Rs 28.63 crore from 108 passengers at Lucknow airport between January 2015 and February 2021. After relaxation in lockdown norms from the last week of July 2020, the customs department sleuths recovered 15.01 kg gold worth Rs 2.8 crore. Similarly, the customs department recovered 20.53 kg gold worth Rs 7.27 crore from 50 passengers who landed at Varanasi airport from countries like UAE and Saudi Arabia. Post-lockdown, the Varanasi customs teams have seized 3.47 kg gold worth Rs 87.76 lakh. Talking to TOI, joint commissioner, customs, Ajay Kumar Mishra said: “The total seizure made by customs department at airports is on the rise with the use of technology and better training of officials. Every day, the gold smuggling cartel comes up with new ways to bring gold illegally from Middle East countries and our job is to prevent it.” “We are yet to make a big breakthrough by catching the kingpin of the racket but we often nab the carriers. They, however, hardly have any strong information about the people running the cartel. Most of the gold carriers are unemployed youth who are hired for a few thousand bucks and are given tickets to visit Middle East and return with gold concealed in their body cavities or luggage. Both men and women act as carriers,” he added. In April 2019, a woman attempted to smuggle 399.68 grams of cylinder-shaped gold piece worth around Rs 13 lakh inside her vagina, while last year in September a passenger landed at Lucknow airport with 354.37 gram gold paste hidden inside his rectum. The gold was worth Rs 19.13 lakh. A few weeks later, another passenger attempted to pass security with 180.5 gram gold which were moulded into trolley bag screws. “It’s not an easy task to identify gold carriers among thousands of genuine passengers. We have to take many things into consideration before laying a trap on the carriers. If someone whose clothes don’t match with his or her social status or someone who has returned from a foreign visit in just one or two days without any business are put on the radar,” the joint commissioner said. He said the biggest problem was even after arrest, the offenders secure bail and return to smuggle another illegal consignment of gold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/smugglers-grounded-100kg-gold-seized-at-up-airports-since-2015/articleshow/81199470.cms||Arvind Chauhan
February 26, 2021||Goa||Fresh tender likely for design of towers atop new Zuari bridge||Panaji: The two viewing towers with a spectacular view of the sea planned atop the new eight-lane Zuari bridge are unlikely to be constructed by the bridge contractor Dilip Buildcon, as was earlier expected, sources said. Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari has already announced that the viewing towers over the bridge are planned as an international tourist attraction. The bridge contractor had submitted its designs to the Union ministry for road transport and highways (MORTH) two years ago. But, sources said, that a separate tender is now likely to be issued for the works. “A separate tender is expected to be issued. The work is likely to be taken up on a PPP model,” said the source. The Union ministry, as per the earlier brief, is looking out for a design for the towers which is like no other presently existing in the world. Like the Eiffel Tower and the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, the towers, once ready, are expected to turn into revenue generating tourist attraction. An observatory gallery or museum with a café is being planned atop the towers. As per the design proposed by Dilip Buildcon, based on the brief from the ministry, the two towers were planned atop the new Zuari bridge of a height of 125 metres from the water level. Each tower was proposed to have two floors each, with each floor having a carrying capacity of maximum of 500 persons at a time. One high-speed elevator in each of the towers was to carry the tourists to the top. During the design stage, location of the two pylons — one each on the Panaji and Margao side — was shifted closer to the shoreline where depth of water is shallow. It was felt that marginal shifting of the pylon foundation would solve the problem of access to the tower. However, no design for the towers has been finalised yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fresh-tender-likely-for-design-of-towers-atop-new-zuari-bridge/articleshow/81218869.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh slams BJP govt, saysGanga still not pollution-free||Varanasi: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav began his three-day trip of east UP and asked the Union and state government what happened to their pledge of cleaning the Ganga as it is still not free from pollution. Talking to reporters at LBSI Airport after landing on Thursday morning, Akhilesh questioned the progress in making Ganga and its tributaries, especially Varuna, free from pollution. “Why don’t the people who had come with a pledge to clean Ma Ganga answer questions on pollution in it. They should tell why Ganga and its tributaries like Varuna are still polluted,” Yadav said. He also asked when will Varanasi become a smart city. Yadav alleged that BJP has forgotten the ‘Sankalp Patra’ it had used to mislead the people to come to power. People of the state had voted for BJP thinking it will act as per its Sankalp Patra, he said. Reacting to BJP’s allegations that opposition is patronizing mafia and criminals, he said BJP should first see who goes to meet criminals in jail before making allegations. Targeting the Union government for setting a target of monetising 100 government-owned assets worth Rs 2.5 lakh crore, Yadav said the government has already generated more funds than this by hike in petrol and diesel prices. “When government will sell all public sector units, how will the benefits of quota in jobs be availed,” asked Akhilesh. Commenting on BJP president JP Nadda inaugurating a new party office in Varanasi, Yadav said, “”BJP is opening new offices of its own while the country is waiting for the inauguration of industrial units where unemployed youths could get jobs.” He also asked government to clarify when all the citizens will get Covid-19 vaccine. Akhilesh left for Jaunpur where he visited the residence of former MLA Jwala Prasad Yadav, who died recently, in Machhlishahar to meet his family and pay tributes. He also visited Chakmirzapur village in Baksha area to console the family of Kishan Yadav, who had died in police custody recently after which a murder case against four policemen was lodged and nine cops were suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-slams-bjp-govt-saysganga-still-not-pollution-free/articleshow/81215490.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Varanasi||Dredging of Ganga to saveghats in Kashi to start soon||VARANASI: Following relocation of the tortoise sanctuary from the opposite bank of the Ganga in Kashi to Prayagraj-Mirzapur, the irrigation department is all set to begin he long overdue dredging to reduce the velocity of flow on ghat side which has been eroding the ghat steps and historical structures. The irrigation department plans to remove about 12 lakh cubic metre sand but will spare a sand island to host activities like Rann Mahotsava of Kutch, Gujarat. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “The irrigation department has completed the formality of tender for dredging in the Ganga on the opposite bank of the ghats. The cost of dredging will be met by auctioning about 12 lakh cubic metre of sand.” “The sand dredged from the opposite bank will also be utilized for refilling the area hollowed near the ghat steps and other structures due to erosion, due to increased velocity of flow on the left bank due to heavy sedimentation on the right bank in three decades,” he added. During dredging, the irrigation department will spare a sand island between left and right banks of the river. The gap between the sand island and right bank will be 45 metre, he added. The sand island will not only attract picnickers but will also be used to host mega cultural events like Rann Mahotsava, said Agrawal. This dredging will be done in the seven-km stretch between Ramnagar Fort and Malviya rail-road bridge that had been notified as a tortoise sanctuary in 1989 under the Ganga Action Plan. No dredging was done after the notification of sanctuary that led to massive sedimentation along the right bank in Varanasi. The officials initiated the process for dredging on the opposite bank after the tortoise sanctuary was denotified in 2020 and relocated between Prayagraj and Mirzapur in the upstream Ganga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dredging-of-ganga-to-saveghats-in-kashi-to-start-soon/articleshow/81213748.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||Sans NBA stamp, LIT students abroad face admission, job losses||Nagpur: Students who graduated from the Laxminarayan Institute of Technology (LIT), particularly in the last few years, are facing cancellation of their admissions and jobs abroad. The prestigious institution has never applied for mandatory accreditation from the National Board of Accreditation (NBA) since inception, thanks to the apathy of its own management and NU administration. Confirming the development, vice chancellor Subhash Chaudhari said his office received many letters from aggrieved students, who were abroad, and their parents in this regard. Some of them even approached the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court in this regard. “For all of us, it was a big surprise that one of the oldest and more prestigious institutions for chemical engineering in India never attempted to get NBA accreditation. We’ve now set an objective to get autonomy for it as early as possible. We will be starting with National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) accreditation for the institution and try to receive a top grade. Later, we will go for NBA certification for its branches,” said Chaudhari. The VC told TOI even LIT alumni had approached him in this regard after receiving complaints from students. “After directives from the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, the Maharashtra government had granted approval to fill up 17 posts in LIT. However, the appointments were delayed as the government failed to clear the roster. Even 92 teaching posts cleared for NU departments and affiliated colleges are stuck due to the same reason. The deadlock on Maratha reservations led to further delay in finalizing the roster.” Chaudhari clarified, though, there was no need to have full-time regular teachers for getting NAAC or NBA accreditation. “As per the Lonere-based Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Engineering University Act, there should be full-time teachers, but not necessarily approved by the university like mentioned in Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016. So, we can appoint contractual teachers, who will work full time for 10 months of an academic year. A majority of engineering colleges get NBA certification on the basis of contributory teachers. Therefore, even LIT would get it,” he said. NU had applied for ‘deemed to be university’ status for LIT In 2018, NU administration under then VC SP Kane had made efforts to get ‘deemed to be university’ status for LIT, and even submitted a detailed report to the University Grants Commission (UGC). But nothing has materialized till date. The move was initiated following a suggestion from Union minister Nitin Gadkari, who was approached by LIT Alumni Association (LITAA), comprising noted individuals from India and abroad. They had requested him to take steps to improve the deteriorating condition of their alma mater. LIT director Raju Mankar had drafted a comprehensive proposal in the form of a colourful booklet containing vital information and statistics, right from its conceptualization to present day status. The booklet also mentioned vacancies, clearly indicating that 49.2% faculty positions were vacant while 58.22% non-teaching posts are yet to be filled up in LIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sans-nba-stamp-lit-students-abroad-face-admission-job-losses/articleshow/81216261.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 26, 2021||Allahabad||NCR to restart unreserved spl train service||Prayagraj: In a major step towards normalisation of train services, authorities of North Central Railways (NCR) have decided to start operating unreserved special trains which were cancelled earlier to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. This follows the decision of the railway board which has decided to introduce unreserved ticketing system in some trains. In the follow-up of the guidelines of the board, NCR alone would start operating four such trains from February 26. In light of the decision, UTS ticket booking facility would also be restored at all related stations where stoppages of these trains have been scheduled. The facility of UTS and enhancing the number of trains on the selected routes would be introduced in phased manner by the railways. NCR would start operating train number 04102/04101, Kanpur Central-Prayagraj Sangam unreserved special express train, which would run daily. Likewise, train number 04110/04109 Kanpur-Chitrakutdham Karvi unreserved special express train, would also start operating from February 26. These trains would be of immense use for pilgrims, students and daily wagers who used to come to Kanpur on daily basis but were dependent on bus service alone, informs chief public relation officer (CPRO), NCR, Ajeet Kumar Singh. NCR would also start running train number 04117/04118 Khajuraho-Lalitpur unreserved special express train on all the seven days of the week and train number 04171/04172 Mathura-Alwar unreserved special express will also be back on tracks from February 26, informed Singh.  Apart from it, the catering units which were closed due to unavailability of trains on few stations, will also start operating with the restoration of trains in graded manner. “There were many prominent stations like Prayagraj Junction, Kanpur central etc which were being touched by these trains since starting of Unlock 1.0 and the catering services on these stations too was introduced. But there were several smaller stations which were not being touched by passenger trains since Lockdown. Catering services would now start at these stations”, said Singh. “The railways have appealed to all the passengers, who would be using the trains starting from February 26, to follow all the Covid protocols and to cooperate with railway authorities in implementation of these protocols,” said the CPRO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ncr-to-restart-unreserved-spl-train-service/articleshow/81214394.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Annu Rani, Sagar show class at Patiala athletics meet||Kanpur: Annu Rani of Meerut and Ajay Kumar Sagar of Varanasi on Thursday won javelin throw and 1,500 metres race, respectively, in the Indian Grand Prix-II athletics meet being held at Netaji Subhash National Institute, Patiala. Javelin thrower Annu Rani (Uttar Pradesh), seeking an Olympic qualifying mark of 64.00m, wound herself up and delivered a 61.22m throw with her opening effort. She followed that up with two throws over the 60m mark. PK Srivastava, honorary secretary, UPAA said, “Annu Rani has already qualified for Tokyo Olympic and is in the elite group of athletes which is being trained . Her present world ranking is 12.” Sanjana Chaudhary of Rajasthan stood second when her throw measured the distance of 53.27 mtrs. Sharmila Kumari of Haryana got third place hauling javelin 50.93 mtrs. Ajay Kumar of Varanasi emerged as winner of 1,500 meters race clocking 3:44.31 seconds. Rahul of Delhi recorded 3:45.98 time and got second place. Ajeet Kumar of Gujrat stood at third place recording 3:51.30 S time. Yugan Shankar of UP got a silver in the long jump event when he took a leap of 7.85 mtrs. First place was won by M Sreesankaran of Kerala when he jumped 8.05 mtrs. MA Yahia of Kerala got third place with 7.76 mts long leap. Rohit Yadav of UP also got a silver in javelin throw when he hurled javelin 77.33 mtrs. Sahil Siliwal of Haryana got first place when he hurled javelin 77.40 mtrs. Manu DP of Karnataka got third place by throwing the javelin 75.28 mtrs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/annu-rani-sagar-show-class-at-patiala-athletics-meet/articleshow/81216427.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Criminal out on parole held for loot||Jhansi: A criminal, who was out on parole, was arrested for his involvement in a recent loot while two more managed to escape during an encounter with the police on the intermittent night of Wednesday and Thursday in Lalitpur. Two police personnel also sustained injuries. As per the details, the incident took place in Rajghat area when police tried to stop three suspected moving on a motorcycle. Seeing the police all the three speeded away in a bid to escape but their motorcycle slipped into a roadside trench. On seeing the police approaching them, one of the accused opened fire on the police. The police also retaliated. One of the criminals got injured after sustaining bullet injuries on his leg while rest of the two managed to escape. The arrested criminal has been identified as Brijendra Yadav who was out on parole and was involved in a loot of a salesman few days ago in Jakhlon area. On the other hand, two personnel of SOG team also sustained injuries while trying to catch the criminals. As per SP Lalitpur, Pramod Kumar, both the personnel are under medical observation in hospital. He also informed that the police is trying to hunt down the rest of the two accused who managed to escape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/criminal-out-on-parole-held-for-loot/articleshow/81216459.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Allahabad||Tandav: Allahabad HC turns down anticipatory bail plea of Amazon Prime’s Purohit||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Thursday rejected the anticipatory bail application filed by Aparna Purohit, head of India Originals, Amazon Prime Video in connection with an FIR where it was alleged that the makers of web series ‘Tandav’ had hurt the religious sentiments of a particular community. The applicant, Purohit, is accused of inappropriate depiction of UP police personnel, Hindu deities and adverse portrayal of a character playing the prime minister in the web series ‘Tandav’, an Indian political thriller web series on Amazon Prime Video. Rejecting the application of Purohit, Justice Siddhartha observed, “On the one hand, the sentiments of majority community have been hurt by display of the characters of their faith in a disrespectful manner and on the other hand, an attempt has been made to widen the gap between the higher castes and the scheduled castes when the object of the state is to bridge the gap between the different castes and communities and make the country a united force socially, communally and politically.” The court further added, “Such people make the revered figures of the religion of the majority community as a source of earning money in the most brazen manner taking benefit of the liberal and tolerant tradition of the country.” The court, after hearing the parties concerned, observed, “The basic philosophy of the Constitution is to permit the people of all faith to practise, profess and propagate their religion freely without hurting or acting against the people who profess or practise different religious faith than theirs. Therefore, it is an onerous duty of every citizen to respect the feelings of the people of other faith even while making a fiction.” Referring to certain scenes of the web series, the court observed, “The scenes in dispute are likely to cause disturbance and threats to public order. The reference to Hindu Gods and Goddesses in the scenes in dispute in berating light cannot be justified.” The court then observed, “Western filmmakers have refrained from ridiculing Lord Jesus or the Prophet but Hindi filmmakers have done this repeatedly and still doing this most unabashedly with the Hindu Gods and Goddesses.” Regarding the plea of the applicant that the offences alleged against her were not made out and that her company has not been impleaded as an accused, the court said, “The fact remains that the applicant had not been vigilant and has acted irresponsibly making her open to criminal prosecution in permitting screening of a movie which is against the fundamental rights of the majority of citizens of this country and therefore, her fundamental right of life and liberty cannot be protected by grant of anticipatory bail to her in the exercise of discretionary powers of this court.” The court took a serious notice of the fact that the applicant was not cooperating with the investigation in connection with an FIR lodged against her at police station Hazratganj, Lucknow, where the court while entertaining her anticipatory bail application had granted her interim protection from arrest by the order dated February 11, 2021. Taking notice of it, the court observed, “This conduct of the applicant shows that she has scant respect for the law of the land and her conduct further disentitles her to any relief from this court, since co-operation with investigation is a necessary condition for grant of anticipatory bail.” Earlier, the court had reserved its order on February 4, 2021, directing that till the pronouncement of order in the case, no coercive action should be taken against Purohit. The plea taken by the counsel for the petitioner was that the web series ‘Tandav’ was a work of fiction. There was no intention of the applicant to outrage the religious feeling of any community. To recall, on January 19, 2021, an FIR was lodged on the complaint of Balbir Azad of Raunija village under Rabupura police station of Greater Noida alleging that the series depicted Uttar Pradesh and its police in a poor light. It further alleged that the series had deliberately denigrated Hindu gods and goddesses. The Prime Minister of India has been depicted going against democratic norms and deliberate comments have been made to disturb caste and communal amity. The makers of the series wanted to disturb the peace and tranquillity with the aim of making money. State government counsel’s argument was that total 10 FIRs and four criminal complaints have been filed relating to the disputed web series in the country. It shows merely one person is not affected by the conduct of the applicant, rather a number of persons across the country have felt that the web series is offensive and hence, they have lodged FIRs/complaints. “It is not a stray case of some over-sensitive individual lodging the FIR against the applicant and other co-accused persons regarding objectionable character and content of the web series in dispute,” added the state government counsel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/tandav-hc-turns-down-anticipatory-bail-plea-of-amazon-primes-purohit/articleshow/81219040.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
February 26, 2021||Kanpur||159 couples to be given ‘sahjan’ saplings at mass wedding in Kanpur||KANPUR: Kanpur Dehat district administration is all set to organise an eco-friendly wedding for 159 couples under chief minister mass marriage scheme at the Eco-Friendly Park in Mati on Friday. There is a tradition to give traditional gifts to newly married couples during their wedding ceremony. However, this time along with the traditional gifts, they would also be given a sapling of ‘sahjan’ (drumstick plant) at their wedding ceremony, informed chief development officer Kanpur Dehat Saumya Pandey. “The core objective of the initiative is to make couples, besides the gathering, to thank and think about nature. With the help of the social welfare and forest department and others, a special counter has been arranged in front of the stage to distribute saplings of ‘sahjan’ to all 159 couples,” she told TOI. A selfie point is also being set up at the mass wedding venue this time for newly married couples, the official informed further. A forest department official said that drumstick plant (Moringa oleifera) also known as sahjan in Hindi is a very common vegetable of our country. “But most of us are unaware about the amazing health benefits of this plant. It is known all over the world for its nutritious leafy-greens, flower buds, and mineral-rich green fruit pods. The drumsticks are packed with proteins, vitamins, minerals, anti- oxidants and all these nutrients that are vital for the growing baby,” he said. Also, the occasion, which is going to be memorable, will certainly increase our green cover, he said. “All couples will be requested during the ceremony to plant them in their premises and water them regularly,” he added. “Though the distribution of saplings is the main draw of the chief minister mass marriage programme, the new generation usually gets attracted towards the fun, fair and other activities on such occasions. Keeping this in view, we have created an exclusive spot for clicking selfies in a bid to make people aware and popularise the CM mass marriage scheme,” said the CDO further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/159-couples-to-be-given-sahjan-saplings-at-mass-wedding/articleshow/81216425.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||UP 2022 polls in mind, parties useRavidas Jayanti for Dalit outreach||Varanasi: Ahead of the state assembly polls due next year, the 644th birth anniversary celebration of 14th century mystic poet-saint, Sant Ravidas, is going to witness vigorous Dalit outreach programmes by various political parties. Despite no invitation from Shri Guru Ravidas Janmasthal Charitable Trust (GRJCT) to any politician or celebrity in view of Covid-19 protocol, the arrival of Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at Ravidas temple to bow head on Saturday has been confirmed so far. The temple at the birthplace of Sant Ravidas in Seer Goverdhanpur of Varanasi had become politically significant after the visit of then chief minister Mayawati in 2008. Later, many top politicians including Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the temple and also attended Ravidas Jayanti celebrations. The three-day birth anniversary celebration started with the arrival of trust’s chairman and head of All India Ravidasiya Dharm Sant Niranjan Das on Thursday while the main function will be held on Saturday. GRJCT’s Kishanlal Saroa said, “The religious recitals and other activities of Ravidas Jayanti celebration have begun.” Saroa said, “The trust had decided to avoid huge gatherings like past years due to Covid and so gathering of thousands of followers from across the country and abroad was cancelled. We also decided not to invite any politician or celebrity due to same reasons.” On reports of visit of some political figures, Saroa said the temple is open to all. The itinerary of three-day east UP visit of SP chief shows he will reach Varanasi on Saturday morning and take part in Ravidas Jayanti celebration by visiting Ravidas temple at 11am, said former minister Manoj Rai Dhoopchandi. This will be Akhilesh’s first visit to Ravidas temple. The arrival of Priyanka was also confirmed by senior Congress leader Ajay Rai. The party also convened a meeting for preparations of Priyanka’s visit, said Congress city president Raghvendra Chaubey. Priyanka will be taking part in Ravidas Jayanti celebration for the second consecutive year as she had attended it in 2020 also. Saint Ravidas has a huge following across the globe, but Dalits from UP and Punjab form the majority. The temple and annual event started drawing politicians after Mayawati attended Ravidas Jayanti celebration as CM in 2008 and gifted a golden palanquin. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had attended Ravidas Jayanti celebration in February 2016 when he shared dais with Sant Niranjan Das and addressed the gathering after offering prayers. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had also visited the temple. On February 19, 2019 Modi had again attended Ravidas Jayanti celebrations on the invitation of GRJCT. CM Yogi Adityanath had also attended Ravidas Jayanti in 2018 after which a project for development of Sant’s birthplace was announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-2022-polls-in-mind-parties-useravidas-jayanti-for-dalit-outreach/articleshow/81215485.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
February 26, 2021||Kochi||MoEF issues memorandum to regularize constructions||Kochi: The ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC) has issued an office memorandum for regularizing those constructions for which environmental clearance is needed and have not obtained coastal regulation zone (CRZ) clearance yet. The order is issued in view of earlier directives issued by the Supreme Court in its judgments dated November 28, 2014 and April 1, 2020 for constructions which have been done with temporary licence or without CRZ permission. The office order sent by Sujit Kumar Bajpayee, joint secretary, MoEF&CC, to all coastal states says that it is necessary to establish a process of appraisal of such cases of violation arising due to not obtaining prior clearance for permissible activities in CRZ areas. This order is mainly for projects which need environmental clearance and could mostly include urban building projects or commercial ventures above Rs 10 crore. All activities which are otherwise permissible under CRZ notification but have commenced construction without prior clearance would be considered for prospective clearance wherein documents, including CRZ map, marine EIA report or terrestrial EIA report and nod from state pollution control board (SPCB), are required. The CZMA has been asked to assess damages caused by such an action and give specific recommendations to be taken up within a period of three years from date of clearance under compensatory conservation plan and a community resource augmentation plan. The CZMA should also certify that there is no violation of norms. Then they should apply for MoEF clearance in Parivesh online portal with all documents. The CZMA or state environment department should oversee implementation of conservation plans. “ The state should seek the permission of the central government to regularize those constructions, at least residential buildings,” said senior high court lawyer P B Sahasranaman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/moef-issues-memorandum-to-regularize-constructions/articleshow/81215318.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
February 26, 2021||Pune||nCoV tests up 35% over past 10 days||Pune: Covid-19 testing in the Pune Metropolitan Region went up by 35% between February 15 and February 24, compared to the previous week (February 5 to February 14). Officials said the increase was due to better contact tracing and ward-level checks of those with flu-like symptoms. Over the last 10 days, some 79,000 Covid tests were conducted across Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural parts of the district, up from 21,000. In fact, Wednesday saw daily tests in PMR going above 11,000 for the first time in February. Officials from the health department said they are testing all high/low-risk contacts of patients and are requesting those with flu-like symptoms to get themselves checked. Testing has been ramped up across PMC and PCMC limits. For instance, the PMC on February 25, conducted about 6,500 tests. On February 5, it had carried out just 3,300 tests. Sanjeev Wavre, assistant health chief of the PMC, said, “The civic body was operating 17 swab collection centres. Four more will come up soon. Contact tracing levels have also been increased.” An official from the Hadaspar-Mundhwa ward office, said, “As per protocol, teams are expected to trace at least 20 contacts per patient. We also requesting patients to give us correct contact details, which will help speed up tracing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ncov-tests-up-35-over-past-10-days/articleshow/81217870.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 26, 2021||Pune||18 in jail for possessing weapons||Pune: Police on Wednesday night arrested 18 men for possessing two countrymade pistols, 14 sickles and two swords as part of a combing operation. In a statement, the crime branch said that five criminals were also arrested for breaching externment orders. The police also registered two FIRs against a 25-year-old man for brandishing a sword while riding a motorcycle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/18-in-jail-for-possessing-weapons/articleshow/81217887.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||Irrigation dept snaps water supply of Lloyd Metals||Chandrapur: Irrigation department on Thursday disconnected water supply of Lloyd Metals and Energy Ltd, a sponge iron and power plant in Ghugus, for reportedly not paying dues to the tune of Rs1.48 crore. Department has also discovered that the company was “stealing water” from the reservoir of a nearby WCL mine for the last few years. The department’s executive engineer (EE) has issued an order to file police complaint in the matter. Official sources claimed that the action was taken following a complaint lodged by Sanjeewani Paryawarn Samajik Sanstha (SPSS) with the EE who ordered an inquiry. The inquiry revealed that Lloyd Metals was lifting water illegally from water reservoir formed in the pit of WCL opencast mine at Nakodo village. The company had laid down a pipeline allegedly without permission and was lifting water with the help of submersible pump and electric room. Sub-divisional engineer DN Madankar said that Lloyd Metals had unpaid due of Rs1.48 crore against the water charges. “The company had signed an agreement with the irrigation department to lift water from Irai river. However, it has not paid the dues since some years,” said Madankar. Madankar sealed the pump room of the company at Wardha river. Later, the officer sealed the submersible pumps and electric panel “meant for illegally lifting water at WCL mine pit”. A police complaint is likely to be lodged against the company management on Friday, said sources. SPSS president Rajesh Bele also charged the company with discharging effluents into the water body, thus causing pollution and killing the fish. The matter is under investigation by Maharashtra Pollution Control Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/irrigation-dept-snaps-water-supply-of-lloyd-metals/articleshow/81216264.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 26, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Medical oxygen demand much lower than October, when caseload was similar||PUNE: Demand for medical oxygen in Maharashtra is currently much lower than October last year, when the state was recording almost the same number of average daily Covid-19 cases, data from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) here has shown. Medical oxygen is used in the treatment of patients with moderate to serious Covid-19 infections. The oxygen demand has presently gone up marginally to an average 350 tonnes per day, but it’s still much lower than the requirement in the peak period of September and even the latter half of October last year. Maharashtra was then recording 6,000-8,000 cases a day, almost similar to the numbers now. During October, the oxygen demand was 430-450 tonnes daily, an official from the state health department said. Data also showed that around October 28 last year, Maharashtra had 7,348 non-ICU patients on oxygen support. Currently, that number stands at 4,410. Officials said serious cases requiring oxygen support are presently much less than during the peak pandemic phase last year. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services (Pune region), said, “Even in Pune circle, the number of daily cases being recorded currently reflect the situation that was seen around October 20 last year. But the present lower oxygen demand indicates high SARS-CoV-2 transmissibility, with low virulence. Home-isolation and asymptomatic cases are much more now. These patients do not require hospitalisation or oxygen support.” Deshmukh said there has been only a 1-1.5% rise in the number of critical patients in Pune circle presently, compared to the recent months. “Use of oxygen beds in October last year was much more than what it is now,” he added. Citing other reasons for the reduced oxygen demand, another state health department official said hospitals now have good oxygen storage capacity. “Last year, hospitals would procure oxygen on a daily basis due to lack of good storage. Today, they can buy and store medical oxygen in bulk. Covid treatment protocols are also much more streamlined now, reducing chances of the illness turning severe. There’s also no panic buying of oxygen among hospitals, which we saw last year,” the official said. Shashank Joshi, member of the state Covid task force, said, “Covid deaths are currently less compared to the peak last year. We need to wait 2-3 weeks to see if the current form of the disease is mild, moderate or severe as we started seeing these small spikes last week.” Joshi said the state has enough oxygen beds. “In fact, 80% of these beds are currently vacant,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/medical-oxygen-demand-much-lower-than-october-when-caseload-was-similar/articleshow/81217906.cms||Neha Madaan
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Over 69% health, frontline workers vaccinated in UP||Lucknow: More than 1.76 lakh health and frontline workers took the novel corornavirus vaccine on the final mop up round held across 75 districts on Thursday. According to an official release, as many as 2,751 sessions were organised to vaccinate over 2.7 lakh people. In this way, the achievement for the session was about 63.2% which is better than the turnout on the previous mop up round held on February 22. As per available data, the total number of health and frontline workers vaccinated in the state reached 13,48,734 which is over 69% of the total target of 19,55,043. Officials stated that the data was being updated till late at night and the turnout may improve. Also, category wise break-ups will be shared in a day or two. A good number of the health workers who got their first dose in January also took their second shot. They also stated that only a few cases of adverse events after immunisation were recorded but none required hospitalisation. All eyes are now set on phase three of the vaccination in which elderly above the age of 60 will be vaccinated. A meeting to draw the plan for the same was held on Thursday. Officials urged people to contact the state/national helpline in case of any query or problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-69-health-frontline-workers-vaccinated-in-up/articleshow/81219063.cms||Shailvee Sharda
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||DM raids RTO office following complaints||Kanpur: The district magistrate on Thursday conducted a surprise raid at the Regional Transport office in Sarvodaya Nagar and instructed the authorities to curb the activities of the middlemen there. He also directed them to procure CCTV footage and zero in on such agents. There were complaints that despite the online process, irregularities have been prevailing, and the nexus between the middlemen and the RTO is churning out undeserving motorists in hordes on a daily basis. He further said that action would not be taken only against these middlemen but also against employees if they are found guilty. DM Alok Tiwari raided the RTO office following complaints regarding the menace of middlemen on Thursday. As soon as the DM reached the office, he ordered to close the main gate and began checking the people inside the RTO premises. Meanwhile, several agents managed to escape after scaling the boundary wall. A senior district official accompanying DM Tiwari said, “Numerous complaints were pouring in against such agents who enter the office premises, and therefore, a surprise inspection was conducted.” “Strict warning has been issued to the authorities to deliver their responsibilities effectively and keep the middlemen at bay,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dm-raids-rto-office-following-complaints/articleshow/81216429.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Dehradun||Cabinet approves project to provide cattle fodder; 600-bed temporary hosp for Covid treatment during Kumbh||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand cabinet, which met on Thursday, gave a nod to the Chief Minister Ghasyari Kalyan Yojana. Under the scheme, the state government aims to reduce the burden of “fodder on the heads of lakhs of women in the state”. An initial amount of Rs 19.06 crore has been approved for the project which aims to procure 10,000 metric tonnes of Total Mixed Animal Ration (TMR). The Rs 19.06 budget earmarks Rs 2.50 crore for civil infrastructure, Rs 10.41 crore for plants and machines, Rs 15 lakh for miscellaneous, and Rs 6 crore as working capital. For the distribution of the TMR, the state would create a ‘Complete Value Chain’ to provide fodder at subsidised prices to village women. The scheme aims to help the women who cover long distances and trek in the forest areas of the Himalayan state to collect fodder for livestock. In the past, there have been several instances of women being attacked by animals and also meeting accidents while picking leaves and woods from the forest areas. Rough estimates show that around 70% of the population in the state is associated with animal husbandry. In another key decision, the cabinet has approved a 600-bed hospital, including 50 ICU beds, for Covid-19 treatment during Kumbh. The initial proposal was to set up a 1,000-bed temporary health facility for the devotees coming for Kumbh. However, taking into account the reduced duration for Kumbh and lesser number of pilgrims coming for the festival in view of the SOPs issued by the Centre and the state government, the cabinet has given nod for a 600-bed hospital. The cabinet also approved renewal of lease on forest land and gave nod to a new lease policy. For projects related to drinking water, irrigation canal, panchayat ghar, schools, and public welfare projects, no charge would be taken for renewal of lease on forest land. From private parties, Rs 100 per year would be taken as lease rent. For lease holders having more than one hectare land, the rent amount would be decided on the current market rate. The district magistrate concerned would calculate the rates and the new rates would be taken for the remaining period of the lease period. The cabinet also approved two posts of Additional Project Director and Superintendent Engineer under the Jal Jeevan Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cabinet-approves-project-to-provide-cattle-fodder-600-bed-temporary-hosp-for-covid-treatment-during-kumbh/articleshow/81215331.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||AIMPLB series to explain its stand on personal law||Lucknow: The All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) will hold an online interactive series to explain its stand on various court cases pertaining to the personal law to the people. The idea was first mooted by AIMPLB member Dr Asma Zehra in 2017 but was given a go-ahead in its executive council meeting held on February 21. Members unanimously agreed that there was a need to spread awareness among the public on the legal stance taken up by AIMPLB on religious subjects. The 45-members AIMPLB executive council re-accepted the proposal by Hyderabad-based Dr Asma Zehra who has been made the coordinator of the online series. “Many questions are addressed to the board in the public domain about our stand on particular legal issues where the board is involved. We want these queries to be addressed, and not by anyone but advocates and members of the board’s legal committee who can dispel all misconceptions,” Dr Zehra told TOI over phone. “The series of web discussions will be interactive where viewers would be able to ask questions and it can also be in the format of legal panelists discussing a case being fought by AIMPLB,” she added. Citing the instant triple talaq issue, Dr Zehra explained, “Both the intellectuals and common people want to know the board’s opinion on the topic from the horses’ mouth and this web series will address it. Matters such as inheritance, child custody, age of marriage and minority rights in the light of the Constitution will also be discussed. This will also act as a repository and reference point saved for future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aimplb-series-to-explain-its-stand-on-personal-law/articleshow/81219077.cms||Yusra Husain
February 26, 2021||Pune||Healthcare aspirants face trouble getting admit cards||Pune: Thousands of candidates appearing for an examination on Sunday for the recruitment of healthcare workers in government hospitals are facing several difficulties in getting their admit cards. Director of health services Archana Patil said a special email id has been created where candidates can send a message to seek their admit cards. The provision was made after complaints came from candidates over technical issues in downloading the admit card. The Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena (MNVS) had taken up the issue with the health services department. Kalpesh Yadav of the organisation in Pune said, “The admit cards were open to download on the portal from February 22. However, students could not get the cards online and with the exam just two days away they started to panic. We took up the issue with the department and insisted that an immediate solution should be given to students to have their cards.”The written examination is on Sunday followed by a shortlisting of candidates and a final round. A notification issued by Patil on Thursday said the hall tickets have been put up on the health department website -- mahaarogyabharti.com. Candidates can click on the tab ‘click to raise ticket to seek their card. If they are unable to download from the website they can send an email on admitcardissue@gmail.com with application details and they will be sent their card via email.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/healthcare-aspirants-face-trouble-getting-admit-cards/articleshow/81217956.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
February 26, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra farmer held on charge of cultivating opium on farm||PUNE: The police on Wednesday arrested a 60-year-old farmer on the charge of cultivating opium at his sugar cane farm near Dehu Road. The police also seized opium plants worth Rs35,000. Senior inspector of Dehu Road police station Vilas Sonde said that the police received a tip-off that a farmer from Vithhalnagar was cultivating opium at his farm. “We informed the anti-narcotics cell of the crime branch and raided the farm. We have seized the opium plants worth Rs35,000,” Sonde said. He added that the farmer claimed he had cultivated plants of poppy seeds. “That will be proved after tests are conducted at the forensic laboratory,” Sonde said. The farmer has been arrested under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/farmer-held-on-charge-of-cultivating-opium-on-farm/articleshow/81217969.cms||---
February 26, 2021||India||Centre scraps curbs on hosting webinars||NEW DELHI: The government has withdrawn its order that required scientific institutions to seek prior approval before organising any international online seminar or conference. In its fresh order, issued on Wednesday, the MEA said the guidelines, issued on November 25, regarding political clearance for international conferences/ seminars/ training etc. due to the Covid pandemic were “no longer applicable” in view of the easing of restrictions on travel and assembly of people. It said all such events will, however, continue to be governed by the same rules and regulations that were applicable to political clearances prior to the pandemic. The fresh order comes in the wake of objections to the November 25 order by the scientific community. Two leading academies of the country — Indian Academy of Sciences and Indian National Academy of Sciences — had written to the government seeking withdrawal of the order, saying such restrictions could halt all topical scientific discussions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-scraps-curbs-on-hosting-webinars/articleshow/81219505.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||BJP: Probe SRA delay in handing over school to BMC||Mumbai: BJP MLA Ashish Shelar has demanded an inquiry into the nearly ten-year delay in handing over a primary school in Khar to the BMC by the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA). The school was handed over only recently after local residents raised the issue with Shelar, the local MLA. The school comprising 10 classrooms and an administrative room was constructed on the first floor of a SRA building at 5th Road in Khar West. “The plans were approved by SRA in 2011 and the occupation certification (OC) for the scheme was granted in 2013. Usually, the OC is issued only after all conditions are fulfilled. While the developer failed to hand over the school to the BMC, the SRA issued the OC,” said Shelar, who visited the school premises on Thursday.  “The school has a separate entrance with two toilet blocks, but is in such poor condition that it cannot be used. I have demanded that the SRA not process any other scheme of the developer till this school is properly repaired,” he added. The SRA said that it had issued several notices to the developer, Pioneer India Pvt Ltd, to carry out rectification of the school, but the latter had not responded. The SRA chief executive officer has now ordered stop-work notices to all ongoing works of the developer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-probe-sra-delay-in-handing-over-school-to-bmc/articleshow/81218006.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Video of BJP MLA losing cool goes viral||VADODARA: A video of BJP MLA from Sankheda Abhesinh Tadvi losing his cool went viral ahead of district panchayat polls. Tadvi, during a village meeting in Haripura of Naswadi taluka, had snapped at a man when he questioned Tadvi about the construction of houses. In the video, Tadvi is heard shouting at the man to keep quiet and then asking him to leave the meeting. Later Tadvi told others present there that all work will be done and that he has made efforts for it. “I will come again to the village, you all have received grains and eaten it so you will have to pay back … Government gives money and loan and MLA has also given,” Tadvi is heard saying in the video. Local sources said that villagers were miffed with Tadvi over the way he talked with the man. “The man had simply asked a question and there was nothing offensive about it. If the MLA did not have an answer, he could have said that he will find out and get back, but he insulted the man,” a resident of Haripura said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/video-of-bjp-mla-losing-cool-goes-viral/articleshow/81215347.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Pune||IAS officers, entrepreneurs to guide rural students||Pune: The technical education department will start a new initiative for students who can pay just Re 1 per day for listening to and interacting with a serving Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer or a class I officer or an entrepreneur who have done well in their fields. These invitees will give them advice about the Union Public Service Examination and their area of expertise. The project especially for rural students who are unable to get the kind of exposure that urban students get. There is need to stop the migration of rural students to urban areas in search of better facilities because it is inconvenient and expensive. This programme helps government officers guide the students who can be home or college in their home towns. “Each professional college will call a person online and about 100 students can attend the programme. The different experiences of the actual administrative officers will inspire and motivate the students and help change the attitude of youths towards the administrative services,” C T Kunjir, assistant joint director, directorate of technical education (DTE), said. He added that while the programmes can be started immediately, the idea is for it to become a regular 365 day feature from June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ias-officers-entrepreneurs-to-guide-rural-students/articleshow/81217986.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 26, 2021||Business||Centre-state talks must to lower taxes on fuel: Finance minister||AHMEDABAD: As skyrocketing fuel prices hit consumers, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday underlined the need for negotiations between the Union government and states to chart a path to reducing tax on fuel. Sitharaman termed the issue a major dilemma (‘Dharam Sankat’) for the Centre, while responding to a question during a session organised by the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A). “It is a major dilemma to commit a specific time frame to lower taxes on fuel. It is not just the cess, but also excise duty imposed by the Centre and then each state has imposed VAT . We can bicker about who earns more. But there is a revenue consideration for both, Centre and the States,” said Sitharaman, responding to a question on when the Centre is expected to reduce the cess on the fuels. Petrol price stood at Rs 88.08 per litre in Ahmedabad on Thursday while diesel cost 87.57 per litre. “If we want the consumer not to be bearing so much of burden, it is the Centre and states that should be talking on this. Yes, I concede, that is where the action has to be and both the Centre and the states need to talk. We hope to arrive at a consensus soon,” Sitharaman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-state-talks-must-to-lower-taxes-on-fuel-fm/articleshow/81217982.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Our govt gave the maximum MSP’||Answering a question on the ongoing farmers’ protest, the Union finance minister said that the stir was supposed to be against the three farming-related laws. “They don’t include any mention of minimum support price (MSP). The issue was added later on,” said Sitharaman. “We have tabled data in Parliament about the MSPs given and the beneficiaries. It’s for all to see that our government gave the maximum MSP to the maximum number of beneficiaries.” She said that more crops were covered under MSP. “During talks with the leaders, they have been asked which parts of the laws they have issues with,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/our-govt-gave-the-maximum-msp/articleshow/81218022.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Pune||Science Day with IUCAA, IMD goes virtual this Sunday||Pune: The Science Day this year, which falls on Sunday, will be a virtual celebration as citizens can attend the talks, take a tour of the scientific institutions in the city, participate in online exhibitions and competitions. All scientific institutions in the city have taken the virtual mode by creating YouTube channels and other platforms. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, has planned various sessions for the entire day for students, teachers, science enthusiasts, parents, and the general public. IISER Pune has organised a session on hands-on mathematics, toys from trash, six talks by eminent scientists, demonstration of science models curated by school children and teachers and also Screening of the award-winning film - ‘The Trials and Triumphs of G N Ramachandran’. At the the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics, all virtual programmes will be live-streamed on their YouTube channel. Short talks, public lectures, a virtual visit to the IUCAA’s Girawali Observatory have been organised. Citizens can also send their questions to IUCAA using Tweet #askiucaa which would be answered by astrophysicist Jayant Narlikar, Somak Raychaudhury, Surhud More and other eminent personalities. Center for Science Education and Communication (Science Park) at Savitribai Phule Pune University had organised competitions on poems and story writing for teachers and the results will be announced on Sunday. Besides, an aeromodelling show, virtual tour of science park and a session on colours through chemistry have been organised on their YouTube channel. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) will upload all the activities and an interactive science exhibition on their YouTube channel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/science-day-with-iucaa-imd-goes-virtual-this-sunday/articleshow/81217999.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||11-year-old’s book now part of Unesco digital library||She is just 11-year-old, but Aarya Chavda has already published four books on various facets of Ahmedabad’s heritage. Recently, her book ‘Intangible Ahmedabad,’ on oral narratives collected by her from the Walled City with her illustrations, became part of Unesco’s digital library. The book was brought out by Unesco along with AMC and AWHCT earlier this year. “The city’s heritage also lies in the narratives preserved by generations,” she said. The book depicts the tale of city’s founding, the way of life in Pols over the years and traditions such as Maholla Mata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-year-olds-book-now-part-of-unesco-digital-library/articleshow/81218028.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||If Akhilesh Yadav did everything right, why did people shunt him out of power: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Snubbing Samajwadi Party MLCs during his address in Vidhan Parishad on Thursday, Chief Minister yogi Adityanath said that if everything that Akhilesh Yadav did was right, why did the people of UP shunt him out of power? “If Akhilesh Yadav had done everything right then why did the people of UP reject him? Why did SP lose in 2017 Vidhan Sabha and also in Lok Sabha elections of 2019,” the CM asked when some SP MLCs tried to intervene when he was listing out achievements of his government. The CM also accused the SP of day-dreaming and taking people of UP on a ride besides putting it on the track where its resources would have been sold while living their dream. “Aapne Mungerilal ke bare mein suna hoga… Sapne dekhte dekhte aap log pradesh ko bechne ki kagar pe le aye they,” he said. Citing an example of Azamgarh, he said: "Today Azamgarh is a synonym of development. But not long ago the district was having a severe identity crisis and its people were looked upon with suspicion. What did Akhilesh Yadav and Mulayam Singh Yadav give to this district? We have given it expressways and university… it is being brought in the mainstream of development now,” the CM said, crediting PM Modi for giving the right guidance and vision. Yogi later said that all governments and parties had the chance to serve the state but none of them made serious efforts. “We have changed the picture of UP on different fronts,” he said. He also cited two examples to make his point. “Encephalitis had been taking toll on children since 1977 but none of the governments – be it Congress or SP or others – could bring down the cases and deaths,” the CM stated adding that encephalitis cases have deaths have declined since 2017 after BJP launched dedicated drive to beat the killer disease of the east. He advised the ‘Samajwadi friends’ to accept their failure which was a reality to lead a better life. Rapping the Congress he said that the people of this land used to send its leaders to Parliament but they abused the same people. In an oblique remark on Rahul Gandhi, he said he had been indulged in maligning the image of this state. He could not open a medical college even in Amethi. "We are opening a medical college there too," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/if-akhilesh-did-everything-right-why-did-people-shunt-him-out-of-power-cm/articleshow/81219081.cms||Shailvee Sharda
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||Cops in mufti near city girls’ schools||Kolkata: Kolkata Police has started posting cops in plain clothes outside some girls’ schools in the city to nab those who have been harassing the students. Besides the specific all-women Winners unit, local cops have started moving around the areas to identify the accused. Lalbazar sources indicated that these measures will continue till CCTV cameras are installed outside these select schools — this move has already received a green signal from the administration. Recently, the city witnessed two repeated incidents where girl students were allegedly followed while they were returning home from schools and colleges in various areas off EM Bypass after resumption of classes IX to XII. The first incident was reported from Gobinda Khatick Road in Tangra on Tuesday evening. Sk. Asif (25) allegedly harassed a teenager on her way to home from school. The accused, a resident of Keshab Chandra Sen Street, was nabbed on Wednesday. He was alleged to have used objectionable language and threatened the girl with dire consequences. “The accused has been charged for stalking and outraging the modesty of the student,” said a police officer. The second incident was reported from the same area on Wednesday when another young student was allegedly followed while she was returning home. The accused, Pratap Sarkar, had also harassed the victim previously as well, according to the complaint. "The eastern suburban division had formed anti eve-teasing groups sometime ago and received immediate success in bringing down such crimes. The same experiment is being repeated here off EM Bypass," said an officer. A senior police officer said it would be easier to monitor and prevent such incidents after the installation of CCTV. Almost more than 13 months after it was initially planned under the Nirbhaya fund scheme, cops had last month finalized the plan to spend over Rs 32 crore (out of the projected Rs 181 crore that it plans to use till 2021 in various projects) to secure the areas outside schools and colleges by installing over 1,000 CCTV cameras across 259 educational institutes under 71 police stations across the city. In the first phase, the girls’ schools will be covered along with a few co-educational schools. It will be followed by the colleges. Sources said a tender has been floated to install these cameras outside the schools and their nearest crossings. “Several city schools have CCTVs installed on their premises. But there is not much cover outside on the main road. our aim is to cover these stretches, from where we often get the complaints of harassment,” said an officer. Sources said several government schools will be benefited under this scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-in-mufti-near-city-girls-schools/articleshow/81216322.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 26, 2021||Pune||Gutka worth Rs 11 lakh seized, two arrested in Pune||PUNE: The Hinjewadi police on Wednesday arrested two men from Tapkir Vasti in Susgaon and seized gutka worth Rs11lakh from them. Police have also seized two vehicles, worth Rs13 lakh, used for transportation of gutka, which is banned in the state. Choturam Devasi (22) of Kothrud and Ramdev Soda (24) of Baner were arrested following a tip-off. “We have also booked a suspect from Kothrud who stored gutka at his godown,” Balkrishna Sawant, senior inspector, Hinjewadi police, told TOI. The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Wednesday arrested a person from Thergaon and seized 1.2kg of ganja worth Rs 34,000 from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gutka-worth-rs-11-lakh-seized-two-arrested/articleshow/81218008.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Vadodara||CM Rupani invokes ‘love jehad’ law during poll campaign in Godhra||VADODARA: The law against ‘love jehad’ now seems to have become material for the election campaign. Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday said at an election rally that the bill for a strict law will be tabled in the budget session of the Assembly. Speaking at a rally in Godhra, Rupani on Thursday said that anyone taking away Hindu girls will not be tolerated any more and the law against ‘love jehad’ will ensure this. Rupani added that the law will ensure that girls are not enticed into religious conversions. Rupani, who had earlier this month said that the government was intending to bring such a law said on Thursday that the bill was intended to end conversions due to lure, threats and money. The public meeting was held for the elections of municipalities as well as taluka and district panchayats scheduled on Sunday. People like Dabhoi BJP MLA Shailesh Mehta have been demanding a law against ‘love jehad’ ever since such a law came up in Uttar Pradesh. When asked about parties like AAP and AIMIM making forays in the state, Rupani said that this was a concern for the Congress and not the BJP. He said that these parties had eaten into seats of Congress and its vote bank was shifting towards other parties. On the possible effect of petrol and diesel prices on the ensuing civic polls, Rupani told media persons that the prices had not affected the municipal corporation polls.“People weigh and understand things before they vote,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cm-invokes-love-jehad-law-during-poll-campaign-in-godhra/articleshow/81215358.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Was being harassed by Rakesh Singh, Pamela Goswami tells cops during Lalbazar interrogation||KOLKATA: BJP worker Rakesh Singh and his party colleague Pamela Goswami were questioned face-to-face for two hours on Wednesday night in Lalbazar with Goswami and Rakesh accusing one another of being part of an elaborate “frame-up”. Investigators say the key to the probe now will be tracking down a person — who Goswami alleges worked for Rakesh and slipped out moments before the police raid after planting 90 gram cocaine in her car on February 20. Police sources indicated that this person, suspected to be on the run, is now in a Bihar hideout. Two persons believed to be linked to the case are also likely to testify before a judicial magistrate on Friday. An Alipore court on Thursday extended the police custody of Goswami, her friend Prabir Kumar Dey and her personal guard till March 4. Goswami, who was produced before an Alipore special court on Thursday, reiterated her charges alleging she had nothing to say against any BJP leader, barring Rakesh. She said she was confident that police would unearth the conspiracy. “I have full faith in law. I have been victimised. I have evidence against Rakesh Singh,” said Goswami. She also alleged that she had been intimidated and physically assaulted by Rakesh and she had tried to report the issue to New Alipore police.  Goswami also said that on February 20, when she was arrested, an aide of Rakesh was with them, who had promised to introduce Dey to a senior BJP leader and slipped out before the police raid. She claimed that since February first week, she had been collecting evidence against Singh. Singh, too, had earlier alleged that he was being framed for “political” reasons and Goswami was part of a larger conspiracy. Rakesh’s lawyer Francis Samson Correa said: “Each day, she is coming up with new conspiracy theories. This only shows how Singh is being framed by the police in this case.” Police said they have questioned both Goswami and Singh on the WhatsApp messages and some audio notes. Police sources said that besides a raid on a salon at a New Town mall, they also raided another mall at Park Circus for fresh leads. Along with Singh, police are also questioning Jitendra Singh, also arrested in connection with the case. Police said they are questioning Jitendra on whether he was the last person who had called on Rakesh Singh’s aide before his arrest. “A convicted drug peddler, he is a link in this case,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/was-being-harassed-by-rakesh-pamela-tells-cops-during-lalbazar-interrogation/articleshow/81216353.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Armed man attacks hotel receptionist after being stopped from entering guest's room||Mumbai: A hotel employee was attacked by an armed man who had barged into the premises at Borivali West to meet a hotel guest on Wednesday morning. A preliminary probe showed that an altercation broke out between the accused and the hotel's receptionist, Salim, after the accused was stopped from entering a guest's room. No arrest has been made so far. Salim, 19, was on duty at Hotel Divine located near Borivali West railway station. Around 8 am on Wednesday, a guest arrived in an auto and entered his room at the hotel. Soon after, an unknown man entered the hotel and started heading towards the rooms. Salim ran after him to inquire what he was upto. The man said he was going to a hotel guest's room. At this, Salim stopped him as the hotel couldnt permit outsiders to enter guests' rooms in this manner. This sparked a row between the two men and resulted in a scuffle. Another employee stepped in and tried to help Salim. In the meantime, the intruder pulled out a gun but couldnt fire and dropped it during the scuffle. He then pulled out a knife and slashed Salim on the wrist, before escaping. The other hotel employee was not hurt. Police will investigate if the intruder intended to attack the hotel guest he was trying to visit. The hotel guest is believed to be a businessman from another state. Investigators are going through CCTV footage from the establishment and footage from other cameras in the neighbourhood. "We have registered a case under section 307 of IPC against the unknown man for 'attempt to commit murder.' Salim's health is stable," a police officer said. Police are trying to establish the identity of the suspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/armed-man-attacks-hotel-receptionist-after-being-stopped-from-entering-guests-room/articleshow/81219131.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Madurai||HC seeks report on TNPSC exam scam||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday directed the chief secretary to file a report on a plea which sought CBI probe into the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) Group IV exam scam where candidates were involved in malpractices. Observing that prima facie the anomalies and peculiar distribution of the successful candidates arouses suspicion, a division bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice R Hemalatha said the allegations should be looked into by the chief secretary. The judges directed that all papers and documents pertaining to the selection process must be kept preserved and the chairperson of TNPSC would be personally liable if a page from an answer script or any other document pertaining to the process goes missing. The court was hearing a petition filed by I Mohamed Razvi, a resident of Ramanathapuram district. The petitioner stated that lakhs of candidates appeared for the TNPSC group IV exam which was conducted in September 2019. After the results were published, TNPSC filed a complaint before the CB-CID director general of police on suspicion that 99 candidates indulged in malpractice to clear the exam. Based on the complaint, a probe was ordered by forming special teams. He stated that the CB-CID sleuths who arrested a few people in connection with the scam found out that the candidates who were involved in the malpractice and used pens with evaporative ink to mark the answers and the same was corrected by the corrupt officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-on-tnpsc-exam-scam/articleshow/81218049.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Pune||Pune: People drinking in the open irk SV Road residents||PUNE: Every evening, a corner of Salunke Vihar Road in Kondhwa turns into a liquor den, with people drinking, smoking and creating nuisance. Often the drinking bouts descend into a slanging match, with people shouting, screaming and fighting with each other. The venue of the gathering is a small corner, located next to a liquor store and a makeshift paan shop. After the police action last year, the gathering stopped. The pandemic further brought it to a halt. It resumed a few months ago following the unlock process. “We are tired of this,” a resident, who lives in a flat in the same building that houses the liquor shop, said. Another resident wondered why the police had not acted against them yet. “Every evening, many people start to assemble. They buy liquor bottles and water from the shop. Since a small shop selling cigarettes is located at the same place, they smoke and create ruckus under the influence of liquor. An old lady has set up a small shop selling gram, peanuts, boiled eggs etc. None of the people who gather wear masks or care to follow social distancing norms,” the middle-aged resident said. Even the representatives of other shops located nearby said the gathering was a major issue for them. “Why will customers come to our shop when there is a big crowd of drunkards shouting and screaming right next door? There have been instances of eve teasing. Not just during the evening, one can find some people drinking in the morning, too. For them, Covid-19 doesn’t exist at all,” a local shopkeeper said. A resident of Clover Village housing society, located just across the street, said that police patrolling was minimal. “The last time I saw police patrolling was during the lockdown. Women hesitate to walk along the road. At the liquor shop, no one cares about social distancing,” he said. Sardar Patil, senior inspector, Kondhwa police station, said they were given instructions on Thursday to take strict action against those breaking Covid regulations. “Till Thursday afternoon, action was taken against 35people for different offences, mainly for not wearing masks. We have been given the target of taking action against 80 people every day. The matter will be looked into seriously,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/people-drinking-in-the-open-irk-sv-road-residents/articleshow/81218065.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||UP Vidhan Parishad passes bill against forced religious conversion||LUCKNOW: Vidhan Parishad on Thursday passed the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Bill 2021 by voice vote amid protest by the opposition. It will now become an Act once governor Anandiben Patel gives her assent. The state cabinet in November last year had cleared the Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance 2020. It was passed by state assembly on Tuesday. The bill was tabled in Vidhan Parishad, where the government does not enjoy a majority, on Thursday. Leader of Opposition Ahmed Hasan of Samajwadi Party and Deepak Singh of Congress pointed to the shortcomings of the bill and urged that it be sent to a select committee. SP MLC Ahmed Hasan said, “The bill should be sent to a select committee. There are reports that police are misusing it.” “There are provisions in IPC to check religious conversion and new law is not needed. The government has brought the bill to cover up its failures of the last four years,” Deepak Singh supported Hasan. Another SP MLC Shashank Yadav said that a few sections of the bill were totally against the basic value of the Constitution. “The view of the government that religious conversion cannot be done by violating law is right, but for this laws are already present,” he added. “There have been some cases in which the parents of the boy and the girl are saying that the marriage is taking place with consent from both sides. But, any person is lodging a complaint citing blood relationship, and the police is registering a case,” Yadav said. BSP member Dinesh Chandra said there are provisions already present in the Constitution to stop forcible religious conversion, and hence there was no need for a new law. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said, “This law is not related to any particular religion. Many other states have such a law, but with different names. The state government has no intention to allow its misuse. If there is any such report, strict action will be taken.” BJP MLC Mohsin Raza said that the bill was meant to bring justice to people. Chairman Kunwar Manvendra Singh rejected the proposals of amendments given by the leader of the Opposition and SP members, saying that the proposals are not as per the law. Amid the ruckus made by the SP members, the chairman declared that the bill had been passed by a voice vote. After this, SP members trooped into the well and tore copies of the bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/parishad-passes-bill-against-forced-religious-conversion/articleshow/81219108.cms||Neha Shukla
February 26, 2021||India||LPG refill price hiked by Rs 25, now up Rs 100 in just February||NEW DELHI: Household cooking gas became costlier by Rs 25 on Thursday, marking the third increase this month, taking the total increase to Rs 100 per cylinder. The increase comes on a day benchmark Brent crude hit a 13-month high at $67.70 and global LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) has spiked on higher demand due to the recent cold wave that swept across the United States and Europe. Cooking gas prices have been rising since December. Rates have cumulatively gone up by Rs 150 per refill since then. After the latest increase, a 14.2-kg domestic cylinder in Delhi now costs Rs 794 against Rs 769 earlier. Consumers have to pay the market price and the government is supposed to give subsidy to domestic consumers covered under the subsidy But the subsidy was erased in metros and major cities through successive price increases over the past couple of years. So in Delhi, for example, consumers have been paying the market price without subsidy support. Executives at state-run fuel retailers said that a small subsidy is paid to customers in remote and far-flung areas to compensate for higher freight charges. LPG prices were increased this month first by Rs 25 per cylinder on February 4 and by Rs 50 on February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lpg-refill-price-hiked-by-25-now-up-100-in-just-february/articleshow/81219536.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Madurai||HC notice in plea to expedite trial in custodial deaths case||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday ordered notice to the CBI on a plea which sought to expedite the trial in the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district last year.Justice K Murali Shankar was hearing a petition filed by Selvarani, wife of the deceased Jeyaraj. The petitioner had stated that her husband and son died due to the brutal custodial torture at the hands of the Sathankulam policemen as they registered a false case against them. The CBI, which took over the investigation filed the final report before the Madurai chief judicial magistrate court and after the committal proceedings the final report was taken on file by the I additional district and sessions court at Madurai for trial.She stated that when the accused were produced before the court on December 10, 2020, the suspended inspector Sridhar was seen speaking to someone over a mobile phone inside the court campus. She stated that she had made a complaint in this regard to the Madurai principal district judge on December 11, 2020.Since all the accused are policemen, there are possibilities of tampering with the witnesses who are common people and subordinate police personnel. Stating that a delay in completing the trial would vitiate a fair trial, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench seeking to expedite the trial within a stipulated period.It maybe recalled that 10 policemen were arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of the father-son duo. Since a special sub inspector Paldurai died on account of Covid-19, the CBI had filed a final report against nine accused cops. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-notice-in-plea-to-expedite-trial-in-custodial-deaths-case/articleshow/81218070.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Cong blamesPM Modi for high price of vehicle fuels||Mumbai: State Congress unit president Nana Patole on Thursday squarely blamed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the spiralling prices of petrol and diesel, saying the common man was suffering owing to the ill-advised policies of the NDA government. He said the world over price of petroleum products had reduced drastically but in India the prices were the highest owing to a “huge” road development cess, which he said should be abolished. “Central government is charging Rs 18 per litre towards road development cess and another Rs 4 towards agriculture cess. Further, every person has to pay massive toll charges on national highways,” Patole said. Patole said that between 2001 and 2014, the UPA government charged Re 1 towards central road cess, but after Narendra Modi took over in 2014, it was enhanced to Rs 18 and renamed central road and infrastructure fund. He said the Cente also levied Rs 2.5 on petrol and Rs 4 on diesel as agriculture cess.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-blamespm-modi-for-high-price-of-vehicle-fuels/articleshow/81218113.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||Trade strike today, no major impact likely||Kolkata: The trade bandh, called on Friday by a section of traders’ organisations, is not likely to have any major impact in the city. Majority of the traders and transporters organizations in the state are opting out of the strike that, they feel, should be the last resort. Most of the organisations, support the cause of a tweak in GST but oppose the method of calling a bandh. The president of Confederation of West Bengal Trade Association, Sushil Poddar, said, “The trading community already suffered huge losses due to the pandemic and the lock down, so we do not feel that the strike is a solution for it.” The secretary of Federation of West Bengal Truck Operators’ Association, Sajal Ghosh, said, “We are supporting the cause but not taking part in the strike.” However, Calcutta Goods Transport Association’s general secretary, Sunil Agarwal, said, “E-way bills and diesel price rise have hit us. We are taking part in the strike in letter and spirit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trade-strike-today-no-major-impact-likely/articleshow/81216380.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Surat||BJP trying to ‘entice’ our elected candidates, alleges AAP||Surat: One eve of AAP national convenor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s visit to Surat, the city unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday alleged that BJP trying to ‘entice’ their winning candidates in the recently concluded Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) election. AAP won on 27 seats, mostly in Patidar dominated areas of Diamond City. Though AAP leaders did not divulge finer details of the ‘offers’ received but claimed that several of their winning candidates have got phone calls from BJP leaders over the phone asking them for a meeting. “Our elected councillors are being called by some BJP leaders. They have been asked to come to meet but none of our elected councillors will fall in their trap,” alleged Manoj Sorathiya, AAP secretary and in-charge of south Gujarat. Sorathiya further alleged that the AAP candidates were made offers even before elections and attempts were made to convince them to withdraw their nominations. “Our candidates are loyal to the people and the party. If BJP continues with such tactics we will expose them through sting operations,” Sorathiya added. However, the Surat city BJP refuted the claims as baseless and alleged that AAP was trying to sensationalise an issue. “BJP has 93 councillors and we have more than enough numbers to control SMC. Why would we try to lure any AAP councillor?. The allegations are totally baseless,” said Niranjan Zanzmera, city BJP president. He further added, “AAP leaders are making allegations before media without giving evidence. This shows that they are replicating the politics of creating nuisance like in Delhi.” Kejriwal roadshow today AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal will hold a meeting with a group of businessmen and citizens before holding a roadshow in Varachha on Friday. He will begin the roadshow by offering garland to the statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in Mangadh Chowk. The procession will then pass through Hira Baug, Kiran Chowk, Yogi Chowk, Simada and end at Sarthana crossroads. Kejriwal will address a public meeting near Takshashila Arcade at Sarthana crossroad. He will also pay homage to the victims of the May 2019 Takshashila Arcade fire, in which 21 students and a child had died. Earlier it was announced that Kejriwal was going to meet a delegation of business and industry representatives from Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI). However, the event was cancelled under some mysterious circumstances on Wednesday. “SGCCI cancelled the event under some political pressure. This was expected. A group of businessmen want to meet Kejriwal and they will do so,” said Manoj Sorathiya of AAP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bjp-trying-to-entice-our-elected-candidates-alleges-aap/articleshow/81215387.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Madurai||4 woman, man killed in TN fireworks unit blast||Cleared/Gopa) Madurai: Barely two weeks into a blast that ripped apart a fireworks unit at Sattur in Virudhunagar district killing 23 people, an explosion rocked a cracker unit at Kalayarkuruchi village in the district on Thursday afternoon killing four women and a man. In all, 14 people sustained injuries and have been admitted to Sivakasi government hospital for treatment. Except for a woman resident of Elinganayakanpatti village named Selvi, the identity of the four others is yet to be ascertained. As in the Sattur incident, the workers were filling chemicals for fancy variety of crackers in a working shed in the afternoon when the explosion happened apparently triggered by friction. The fire spread to the nearby working sheds damaging 13 of them. Fire and rescue services personnel from Sivakasi station rushed to the spot, but they could put out the fire and carry out rescue only after the explosion stopped. The cracker unit, named Thangaraj Pandian Fireworks after its owner, is licensed by Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO). There are nearly 30 working sheds in the unit. Officials from revenue and police visited the spot and conducted an inquiry. A team from PESO also visited the cracker unit and conducted an inquiry. PESO deputy chief controller of explosives K Sundaresan told TOI that the incident happened due to a faulty method of drying pellets. “Usually pellets take five days to dry. It has to be dried under the shade for two days before being exposed to sun. Some go for shortcuts and directly dry them in the sun leading to such accidents,” he said. M Pudupatti police have registered a case and are conducting investigations. This is the third fire accident at a fireworks unit in Virudhunagar district this month after the one at Sattur on February 12 and another near Sivakasi on February 13 which injured a man. Condoling the deaths and injuries, PMK leader S Ramadoss tweeted that the government should award Rs 25lakh each to the family members of the deceased as compensation and Rs 10lakh to the injured. Meanwhile, around 10.15 pm on Thursday, a cracker making shed was destroyed in yet another blast at Abinaya fireworks near Muthalipatti village. Luckily nobody was injured as it happned after working hours. A National Green Tribunal (NGT) team headed by a retired judge from Punjab and Haryana high court will on Friday visit the Sattur blast site. The team will also visit another cracker unit and conduct a review meeting at the district collectorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/4-woman-man-killed-in-tn-fireworks-unit-blast/articleshow/81218087.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||City corp budget projects low revenue receipts||Thiruvananthapuram: In his maiden budget, deputy mayor P K Raju looked like someone who had been hung out to dry. He was totally at sea, be it dealing with figures or presenting schemes. He stammered his way ahead in a supposedly self-written budget speech, skipped a page and when reminded, he read a page all over again which he had barely finished a few seconds ago. While everything can be attributed to nerves and his first term as the chairman of finance standing committee, he did something with the figures which none of his predecessors had dared. Perhaps for the first time, he projected the revenue receipts of the city corporation at a lower figure than the previous fiscal. It almost looked like a confession that he doesn’t trust his team to increase the revenue receipts. In 2020-21, former deputy mayor Rakhi Ravikumar projected revenue receipts at Rs 560 crore. It had to be revised to Rs 547 crore later. However, in the budget for 2021-22, Raju brought it further down, even lesser than the revised estimate; Rs 543 crore. Projection of revenue receipts has always carried with it a clear sense of optimism. While lowering the expected revenue income for 2021-22, he projects higher returns from tax receipts, rental income, fees and user charges and income from investments. One probable reason for scaling down revenue receipts could be an anticipated shortfall of grants and plan fund. Again figures under revenue grants and contributions show that plan fund (special component) is expected to increase from Rs 21 crore to Rs 22 crore. Even the general development fund is estimated to drop slightly from Rs 74 crore to Rs 72 crore. The award from finance commission has also been fixed at same figure; Rs 86 crore. Even he expects property tax revenue of Rs 64 crore in 2021-22 while the estimate was Rs 62 crore in 2020-21. It remains unanswered how would revenue receipts slide in the coming fiscal when the deputy mayor expects revenue from almost all sources and funds and grants from the government to increase. P K Raju also seems not to have taken into account the latest tax revision order from the state government which proposes a unilateral basic tax rate and projects an increase of 5% in tax in urban local bodies. The most befuddling of figures appear in expenditure. It shows that corporation’s total expenditure has nearly doubled in past five fiscals. Going by the latest figures, the total expenditure of civic body increased from Rs 682 crore in 2016-17 to Rs 1,359.5 crore by 2021-22. While this astronomical figure could be accounted for duplication of revenue and capital expenditure, deputy mayor has also missed the part that corporation’s actual tax revenue has dropped from Rs 125.91 crore to Rs 108.7 crore between 2018-19 to 2019-20. The revenue receipts have also dipped from Rs 383.81 crore to Rs 333 crore in the same period. As corporation’s revenue dropped and expenditure swelled, deputy mayor is in no mood to scale up revenue receipts. Even his choice of projects was devoid of anything to create avenues for revenue generation in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/city-corp-budget-projects-low-revenue-receipts/articleshow/81219387.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Goa||Afghani abduction case: Bail pleas of accused rejected||Panaji: A sessions court has rejected the bail applications of two accused allegedly involved in the abduction of an Afghani national for a ransom of 20,000 dollars. The victim was kept in a bungalow after his abduction and the ransom demand was made to his family. The court stated that on perusal of the complaint and statement of the victim, and case papers, it is clear that many persons are involved in the racket not only in India, but other countries as well. “Therefore, the angle of conspiracy needs to be unearthed, and for that purpose, the investigating agency must be given time to conduct the probe thoroughly,” the court stated. On February 11, a complaint was filed stating that on February 9, two unknown persons abducted Shapoor Zarifi, 28, and kept him at some unknown place. “Looking at the material collected by the investigating agency in the present matter, it cannot be said at this stage that the applicant was not knowing anything about such a conspiracy. In fact, the victim’s statement and the other person kept in captivity clearly shows the involvement of the present applicant in such abduction/kidnapping for ransom and their involvement in ill-treatment of the victims,” Justice B P Deshpande stated. Counsel Nihal Kamat representing the two accused stated that one was a taxi driver and the other a travel agent, and they were not supposed to know the profession of their customer and that they were falsely roped in for a serious offence without their involvement. Public prosecutor V G Costa stated that though the applicant is a taxi driver/owner, he is one of the conspirators along with other accused persons, and this aspect is prima facie established through the statement of the victim and other witnesses. In the case of the “travel agent”, the court was told that this man claiming to be a travel agent contacted the owner of the bungalow at Porvorim, which was rented out to the other accused persons for two months. The victim also mentioned his name being present throughout the period in the bungalow along the other accused, and more specifically during the assault.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/afghani-abduction-case-bail-pleas-of-accused-rejected/articleshow/81218117.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Goa||Rajasthani man held for creating Rane’s fake profile||Panaji: Goa police on Thursday arrested a person from Rajasthan for allegedly creating a fake account of health minister Vishwajit Rane on social media. Speaking to TOI, superintendent of police (SP) crime branch Shobhit Saxena said they have arrested Arman, the son of Rafeek, who is a resident of the village Nandera Satwas, Kaman, Bharatpur, in Rajasthan. Saxena said that during Arman’s interrogation, the accused revealed that he would make fake profiles of public personalities in the hope of cheating people by sending them messages and asking for money. However, he failed to do so in this case due to the proactive response of the cyber cell, which immediately disabled the profile. Saxena said that they received a complaint from Rane stating that someone had created his fake social media account and was sending messages to people from his constituency. Based on the complaint, police registered a first information report (FIR) and blocked the fake account. “As the account was blocked, the accused was not able to cheat anyone,” he said. The crime branch SP said that the modus operandi is that once the fake account is created, people start engaging with the culprits for some work or the other, and then the conmen demand money from these people to get their jobs done. “Further investigation regarding other accused, if any, is underway,” the police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rajasthani-man-held-for-creating-ranes-fake-profile/articleshow/81218093.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Goa||Community farming picks up, more register with govt||Panaji: When the coronavirus pandemic shut down major state and national borders, Panaji-based lawyer Anup Kudtarkar saw it as a chance to do a re-think and get involved in farming. Going back to his ancestral farm in Collem, 8,000sqm of which was lying fallow since two decades, he got a handful of villagers all aged between 18-37 years to register as a group and take up community farming. Kudtarkar was not alone in experiencing a moment of epiphany due to the lockdown. A total of ten groups have adopted community farming in Goa by registering with the directorate of agriculture in 2020-21. During the previous financial year, three such groups had registered themselves. “Land fragmentation is a common issue that potential farmers face in Goa, as these small holdings are not economically viable. In this situation the concept community farming proves to be very useful. The ten new groups are from Bardez, Bicholim, Canacona, Quepem, Valpoi and Pernem. Ever since they have adopted community farming many new areas have also come under cultivation,” an official from the agriculture department said. After forming their community farming group, Dat Dev Shetkari Sangh, Kudtarkar started growing cowpeas or alsalno. After this harvest, vegetables like okra, watermelon, amarathus and lady finger are grown during the rabi season. “We have been able to procure Rs150-200 per kg for alsalno. We are planning to increase our plantation by another four hectares,” Kudtarkar said. In another instance and in what could be an inspiring story for women’s empowerment, Vishnudev self-help group (SHG) in Loliem decided to try its hand at farming during the pandemic and applied for the agriculture department’s community farming scheme. “We started growing chavli (lobia) to see if we could withstand the pressures of farming but all the women involved put their efforts together to successfully grow the crop. We then went on to grow many other vegetables,” said Vinda Satarkar, president of the SHG. Similarly, Mahendra Phaldesai, a Netravali-based farmer applied for the scheme by registering the existing farm group Parshuram Shetkari Sanghatna of which he is a member. “There are new technologies and farm inventions that can be extremely useful in farming. In a bid to afford them we must come together as a community. The scheme helps us bridge that gap besides enabling us to work as a one unit.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/community-farming-picks-up-more-register-with-govt/articleshow/81218140.cms||Nida Sayed
February 26, 2021||Dehradun||Two villages in Nainital to be developed for astro-tourism||Nainital: The Nainital district tourism department is planning to develop two villages — Takula and Devasthal — as model villages for astro-tourism. The technical support for the project will be provided by Nainital-based Aryabhatta Research Institute of Observational Sciences (ARIES). The tourism department officials told TOI that the two villages were chosen because of their proximity to ARIES. The fact that ARIES hosts the country's largest telescope at Devasthal has also been touted as one of the positives for the development of astro-tourism here. Further, the villages are not too far from Nainital which in itself is a major tourist attraction. “We want the people coming to Nainital to take this experience as well. Therefore, we chose the villages which are near to both ARIES and Nainital. The tourists visiting Nainital can easily come to these villages and enjoy activities like stargazing as well,” said district tourism officer Arvind Gaur. The administration has said that it will develop homestays at both the villages and procure telescopes as well. Both the homestays – termed astro-stays by the tourism department – will be run by locals who would also receive a 16-day training at Mussoorie. “We estimate that developing these homestays would cost us around Rs 1.4 crore and procuring four to six telescopes would cost around Rs 60 lakh. We want locals to run the entire enterprise and therefore, they will receive training as well,” Gaur said. Meanwhile, ARIES director Dipankar Banerjee said that they are in consultation with the district administration for the project and that it will provide its students as well as professors, if needed. Banerjee added that places like Ladakh and Kutch have already excelled in the field. “If the project is to succeed, the locals will need training and therefore, our students as well as researchers can help them. Further, we will need to coordinate with the administration so that tours and different activities could be organised,” Banerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-villages-in-nainital-to-be-developed-for-astro-tourism/articleshow/81215394.cms||Prashant Jha
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||Man stabs self in Patuli home||Kolkata: Unable to cope with illness, a 63-year-old man reportedly stabbed himself at his residence in Patuli around 9pm on Wednesday. The man, a resident of I-block in Baishnabghata, Patuli and a transporter by profession, has been suffering from neurological problems and depression for the last few years, cops said. According to the police, the man had inflicted stab injuries on his abdomen in his room. Cops spoke to his wife, son and some local people. The investigating officer recorded the statement of the wounded man. “He claimed that he wanted to end his life because of his illness. He did not complain against anybody. He has been admitted to the trauma care, SSKM Hospital. We have started an inquiry in this regard,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-stabs-self-in-patuli-home/articleshow/81216389.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow suffers hottest February day in 15 years||LUCKNOW: The city witnessed its third ‘extreme weather’ condition this year, when the mercury spiralled to 33.4 degree Celsius on Thursday — the hottest February day in 15 years. The temperature, which has been rising over past 20 days, is poised to breach an all-time high of 35.9 degrees recorded on February 25, 2006, with the weatherman predicting another spike of 2-3 degrees by the weekend. Maximum temperatures have been hovering 1-3 degrees above normal since February 8, but it shot up by 5.3 degree units above normal on Thursday, making it extremely hot in this part of the year. The nights are ‘hot’ as well with a steady rise in mercury levels for past three weeks. On Thursday, the minimum temperature soared to a record 16.7 degrees Celsius — 4.4 units above normal. Extreme heat may create a local phenomenon that can cause dust storms or high-velocity winds in next couple of days. An all-time high record means the highest temperature recorded in over seven decades, since the Met department began recording data in an organised manner. “High temperatures these days are because of western disturbances that have been hitting the Himalayas in quick succession,” said state Met director J P Gupta. “Western disturbances, which are triggering rain and snow in hills, have restricted flow of cold air towards the plains, leading to a rise in temperatures. Adding to it is bright sunshine due to a clear sky in the day,” he added. Similar conditions will prevail till March 1 when the current disturbance will fizzle out, making way for cold winds from mountains to sweep the plains. It will also bring down temperatures to normal levels, he said. On January 1, the first extreme weather condition was witnessed in the city, when minimum temperature dropped to freezing levels, lowest on a new year day in 70 years. Thereafter, temperatures shot up, ushering in an ‘unusually warm’ winter spell that led the city to record its hottest January day in 14 years when maximum temperature touched 28.9 degrees Celsius. A comparison showed that in past 70 years, the frequency of extreme weather conditions has increased in past decade, which experts say could be because of climate change. “Be it low temperatures or excessive rain, possibilities of climate change behind extreme weather conditions cannot be ruled out,” said Met director J P Gupta. All three extreme weather conditions over last two months this year were because of western disturbances. In January, cold winds sweeping the state and the city after heavy snow in the hills was caused by this phenomenon. Later in January first week and now in February last week, temperatures are high because western disturbances have cut off the flow of cold winds. Experts said, these disturbances are a common phenomenon in winters. Usually, it causes thunder showers in plains, keeping temperatures in control. However, this year, their impact has been limited to the hills. As a result, the winter rainfall in the city has been 71% below normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-suffers-hottest-feb-day-in-15-yrs/articleshow/81219133.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Corp budget: Thrust on farming & welfare schemes, ignores asset creation||Thiruvananthapuram: The first budget by the newly-elected council outdid the previous budgets in terms of number of projects being announced. Deputy mayor P K Raju listed down 117 projects bettering the previous record of 113 by former deputy mayor Rakhi Ravikumar in 2018-19. The list was so long that Raju didn’t even bother to elaborate on the schemes he announced. He read out the names of projects and matched them with corresponding cost estimates. A brief description that usually emphasizes the actual objectives of the project was included in the budget speech which Raju didn’t find necessary to read. The budget with a projected surplus of Rs 130 crore showed an evident lack of homework as many of the projects looked like a hurried rehash of schemes of the previous councils. To add to that, P K Raju conveniently borrowed names of on-going schemes of various government departments like ‘Take a Break’ and ‘Nilavu’ LED project and presented it as fresh inclusions. As if to prolong the list of projects, he rode on centre-sponsored schemes like Smart City and Amrut. Extension of sewerage lines, subways, vending zones, multi-level car parking, solar city, mosquito density measurement, and drinking water supply schemes were leisurely picked from the project components of Smart City and Amrut. The budget even gave the impression of planning for a civic body that had just been converted from a remote rural panchayat. Unmindful of failure of projects aimed at promoting agriculture in the city in the past, Raju said that a kitchen garden in a house was equivalent to having a doctor at home. “The aim is to make each family self-sufficient in vegetable farming in the city. Our city is rooted in agriculture and technologies that would enable farming in limited areas will be implemented,” he said. He also declared schemes in pisciculture employing aquaponics and biofloc fish farming. He announced ambitious schemes in agriculture including aid to farmers to cut infected coconut trees and to help them plant new ones with high productivity. While listing down projects to promote coconut farming, fish farming and dairy farming in the city and welfare schemes like upgrading ‘laksham veedu’ colonies, Raju ignored the asset creation part and confined that aspect to a highly improbable shopping complex project. The discussion on the budget will be held on March 1 and 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/corp-budget-thrust-on-farming-welfare-schemes-ignores-asset-creation/articleshow/81219394.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Illegal constructions continue to flourish in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Illegal constructions continue to flourish in parts of city. Deviations in construction by raising double the number of floors allowed are seen in parts of Kondapur in Serilingampally circle, parts of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s (GHMC) Kukatpally zone and Malakpet circle (Old City). A recce of Serilingampally circle revealed several property owners in Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Sudarshan Nagar Colony have raised double the number of floors than permitted. Town planning officials, who are under the lens of state vigilance department, have already been promoted even as the investigation in previous cases is underway. Also on cards after MLC elections is transfers of assistant city planning officers (ACPs), who are responsible for ensuring illegal constructions do not occur. “Several officials are trying to bag the post of ACPs in GHMC circles where construction activity is more,” said a civic official. “Special drives were held post the lockdown, and demolitions carried out. But many owners have approached the courts. In Serilingampally circle alone, more than 400 people have moved court. In such cases, we need to follow orders,” said P Srinivas Rao, GHMC deputy city planner of Serilingampally circle and in-charge city planner. Experts said additional floors in violation of rules spell danger to inmates of the buildings and passers-by too. “Illegal floors increase load on soil and pillars and can result in a serious accident,” said SP Anchuri, vice-president (south), Structural Engineers World Congress. “GHMC has stopped Prajavani (weekly meeting), and video conferencing where people report irregularities and air civic grievances,” said Harish Daga, an activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/illegal-constructions-continue-to-flourish/articleshow/81218149.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||Amherst Street clash: FIR lodged||Kolkata: Cops have lodged an FIR, naming a BJP worker, Rakesh Sahani and eight to 10 unidentified people a day after a clash took place between BJP and Trinamool Congress supporters on Amherst Street during a rally. The FIR was registered by Piyal Chowdhury (62), a resident of Amherst Street. Till Thursday evening, no complaint has been received from BJP. No arrests have been made so dar in connection with this incident. However, some BJP members indicated that another FIR might be lodged with Muchipara police station against Trinamool Congress members as an activist of the party had been injured on the Santosh Mitra Square premises. Cops are using technical evidence to identify the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amherst-street-clash-fir-lodged/articleshow/81216397.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 26, 2021||Madurai||Court issues arrest warrant against jallikattu protesters||Madurai: Though the state government had announced that the cases against those who participated in the jallikattu protests across the state would be withdrawn, 63 were summoned by the Madurai sessions court here on Thursday while arrest warrants were issued to 56 out of them for not appearing.Only seven of the summoned including activist Mugilan appeared in court. The others had presumed that the cases against them had been withdrawn as per the chief minister’s order and failed to appear in court.Madurai District Additional Sessions Judge, before whom they appeared, adjourned the hearing to March 25 and also issued arrest warrants against the rest. Speaking to reporters at the court premises, Mugilan said that the arrests warrants showed that the chief minister’s announcement, that the 308 cases against 26,480 persons who participated in the pro-jallikattu protests would be withdrawn, was false. He said as per the GO (Ms) No 99 dated February, 20, 2021, 308 cases against 26,460 except cases filed for damaging public property, setting fire to vehicles and attacking police personnel would be withdrawn. “But, only 24 of these cases were under investigation, so the others would get dismissed on their own. CB-CID had filed cases against people in various parts of the state including 124 in Madurai and those cases have not been withdrawn. If the government fails to withdraw these cases, they said that they would work towards the downfall of the AIADMK government in the coming elections. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/court-issues-arrest-warrant-against-jallikattu-protesters/articleshow/81218145.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Man held for making gun powder illegally||Hyderabad: Task Force sleuths have arrested a man for illegally manufacturing gun powder at Vattepally. The accused has been supplying the explosive to quarry operators in the state to use it in low-intensity stone blasting. Acting on specific information, Task Force sleuths raided a godown at Vattepally in Falaknuma and busted a gun powder manufacturing gang. Police arrested Shabbir, the main accused who is operating the gun powder manufacturing unit. Police said Shabbir had obtained licence to manufacture gun powder in 2018, did not renew it subsequently and it lapsed. Despite that, Shabbir continued to manufacture gun powder using raw materials including sodium sulphate. Task Force sleuths handed over the arrested accused to the Falaknuma police for further probe. “Shabbir has been selling gun powder manufactured in Vattepally to buyers in Karimnagar area. His customers are quarry operators. It is used for setting up low intensity blasts in quarries,” Falaknuma inspector R Devender said. Police found that Shabbir had been packing gun powder in cartons and transporting it to Karimnagar through a cargo company located at Jambagh. “Shabbir created fake documents to mislead the cargo company people that he was sending non-explosive material,” police said. A case was registered against the accused under the Explosives Act. He would be produced before court for judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-making-gun-powder-illegally/articleshow/81218129.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Madurai||58 fresh Covid-19 cases in south TN, 37 in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state reported 58 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday. No death has been reported in the region for the 4th day in a row. Meanwhile, the central region including Trichy recorded 37 fresh cases taking the tally to 77,082, which include 295 active cases. The region also recorded a death in Thanjavur. Dindigul with 12 fresh cases recorded the highest in the region. Tenkasi (11) and Tirunelveli (10) are the other districts with 10 or more cases. With one fresh case each Theni and Ramanathapuram recorded the lowest in the region, followed by Tuticorin (2), Sivagangai (3), Virudhunagar (4), Kanyakumari (6) and Madurai (8). The number of active cases saw a marginal increase from 371 on Wednesday to 379 on Thursday. Active cases in Theni (9) came below 10 for the first time in nearly 10 months. Ramanathapuram (14), Virudhunagar (18) and Tuticorin (22) maintained less than 25 active cases. Kanyakumari (62) has the highest, followed by Tirunelveli (57), Dindigul (56), Madurai (54), Sivagangai (45) and Tenkasi (42). In the central region, Thanjavur (14) recorded the highest number of fresh cases. Trichy came next with eight fresh cases. While Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam reported four cases each, Pudukottai and Karur recorded three cases each. Ariyalur reported only case. Perambalur registered zero fresh cases. The death toll of the region touched 957 with a casualty in Thanjavur on Thursday. A 56-year-old man from died due to viral pneumonia and respiratory failure at Thanjavur medical college hospital on February 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/58-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-south-tn-37-in-central-dists/articleshow/81218154.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||City churches self-impose restrictions to curb cases||Nagpur: As the Christian holy month of Lent is observed across the world, Churches in the city are self-imposing restrictions over and above what authorities have ordered in the wake of the spike in Covid-19 cases. Even though there is no restriction on holiday prayer and worship services, all major churches have decided to shift back to online-only mode. Reverend Ramakrishnan, district superintendent of Methodist Church, said safety of citizens comes first. “Since cases of Covid are rising, it is our responsibility as citizens to ensure that everyone around us is safe. We will not hold any prayer service in physical mode in church for the public with immediate effect,” said Ramakrishnan. He was one of the first in Nagpur to start online prayer service in April itself for church members, when the lockdown had started. Churches of North India (CNI) too have decided to completely stop prayer service in physical mode till the situation gets better. Bishop Andrew Rathod said all affiliated churches in Nagpur will remain closed for the public on Sundays. “I have directed all priests to ensure that we do not conduct prayer and worship in physical mode for now. The Covid-19 situation is a cause for concern for everyone. I think the online mode of prayers will continue for some time now,” said the bishop. Even in districts where there are no restrictions, the bishop has asked churches to follow protocol. “In other districts I have told the pastors to first contact the local police station and inform about the prayer services to be conducted,” said Rathod. Lent is a holy period in the Christian calendar which marks the 40 days during which Jesus Christ fasted and prayed in isolation. It begins on Ash Wednesday (February 17) and ends a day before Easter. During this period, prayer meetings are held at homes of church members, sometimes referred to as cottage prayer meets. Here, the host family invites some members of the community for a prayer service hosted by either the priest or someone designated by him. This time, however, Nagpur churches have changed that format as well. Ramakrishnan said, “Nobody except the priest will be invited for the home prayer meet. So it will be only the host family and the preacher. This way the prayer meetings will continue and there won’t be any chance of social distancing violations.” While every religious establishment is free to self-impose restrictions, Nagpur Municipal Commissioner Radhakrishna B clarified that no order for closure has been issued. “All religious places can continue with their regular prayers and rituals as normal. We have only directed that religious gatherings must not happen,” said the civic chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-churches-self-impose-restrictions-to-curb-cases/articleshow/81245267.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||3.4L farmers pay up power bill arrears of Rs 312 crore||Mumbai: State energy minister Nitin Raut on Thursday announced that 3.4 lakh farmers in Maharashtra have paid electricity bill arrears to the tune of Rs 312 crore in the past four months. This is a huge recovery for MSEDCL, considering farmers had not paid arrears to the tune of crores of rupees for many years. While Rs 139 crore was recovered from Pune zone, Rs 96 crore came from Konkan belt, while Aurangabad saw recovery of Rs 59 crore and Nagpur Rs 18 crore. For those who participated in the latest scheme by the ministry, there was a rebate of up to 66% for making prompt payments, and these farmers now have electricity bills with “zero dues”. According to the scheme, farmers who were willing to clear dues within a year got a rebate of 50% in their pending bills. “This is besides the waiver in penalty and interest charges which had accumulated over the years,” a senior official said, adding the actual benefit to the farmer was up to 66% rebate, and this was one of the highest rebates given for electricity bill dues. “For those who participate in settling arrears within two years, a rebate of 30% will be given. For three years, the rebate is 20%,” the official said. Expressing gratitude to the farmers, Raut said, “We need the money for day-to-day expenses of MSEDCL besides the power purchase costs. I am happy that over three lakh farmers have paid their bills.” Across Maharashtra, electricity bill arrears had mounted to Rs 48,500 crore of which Rs 242 crore was pending in MMR, sources said. Nearly two lakh consumers in MMR had not paid their monthly electricity bills during the past 10 months of lockdown, they added. “Though there were grievances from scores of consumers frustrated over high bills, we took efforts to redress them through webinars, camps and also on helplines,” an official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-4l-farmers-pay-up-power-bill-arrears-of-rs-312-crore/articleshow/81218217.cms||Somit Sen
February 26, 2021||Dehradun||BJP govt plans a string of events on completing 4 years; state-level programme in CM’s constituency||Dehradun: As BJP is all set to complete four years in office in Uttarakhand on March 18, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday gave nod to a string of events to “inform the people about the development works carried out in the last four years”. In each constituency, the party members would distribute handbooks containing details of development work carried out in that assembly seat. Also, programmes “Vikas ke Chaar Saal: Baatein Kam Kaam Zada” would be organised in all 70 constituencies of Uttarakhand and a state-level event will be held in Doiwala, the CM’s constituency. In the event, the CM would address people in all 70 assembly constituencies through video conferencing. “We are completing four years in office on March 18 and events would be held in all districts to inform people about the development works carried out by us in this duration,” CM Rawat. In each assembly, a committee – to be headed by a legislator or senior leader – would be constituted to coordinate for the event. For preparing the handbooks, the CM directed the legislators to inform the information department about the works done in their assembly segment by February 28. Further, rallies would be taken out in each assembly constituency and the folk artists would be roped in to perform in them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-govt-plans-a-string-of-events-on-completing-4-years-state-level-programme-in-cms-constituency/articleshow/81215417.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||80 motorists jailed for violating rules||Hyderabad: A total of 80 motorists, who were found driving under influence of alcohol and without driving licence in Cyberabad police jurisdiction were sentenced to undergo imprisonment ranging from one day to 14 days. While 143 cases were disposed off by the court for drunk driving, 25 cases were disposed off for driving without license and one case for minor driving, on February 24. “The driving licences of those caught in drunk driving will be seized and sent to the concerned RTAs for suspension as per section 19 of the Motor Vehicles Act 1988,” the traffic police said. Around Rs 5,12,300 was imposed as fine by the court in the drunk driving cases, around Rs 1,02,400 was imposed as fine in the cases related to driving without a driving license and Rs 5,000 was imposed as fine for minor driving. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/80-motorists-jailed-for-violating-rules/articleshow/81218166.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Man wanted for murder bid held at RGIA||Hyderabad: A person, who is wanted in a case of attempt to murder and rioting in Kerala, was caught by immigration authorities of RGI Airport on Wednesday, when he attempted to flee the country. The accused, Hidayathullah, has been missing and Kerala police issued a Look Out Circular (LOC) against him some time ago. Two days ago, the accused allegedly came to RGI Airport and attempted to take an international flight to Dubai. But since there was LOC issued by Mallapuram police, the immigration authorities got alerted after the wanted person came to the airport. Immediately, he was detained and the airport authorities informed Kerala police. On Wednesday, Kerala police came, took him into custody and produced him in a local court. By late night, they left the city by taking the accused along with them. He was facing charges of rioting, attempt to murder and others. DCP (Shamshabad) Prakash Reddy confirmed the accused was taken away by Kerala police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-wanted-for-murder-bid-held-at-rgia/articleshow/81218155.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Madurai||15 days after 23 deaths, 6 killed in another Tamil Nadu fireworks unit blast||MADURAI: Barely two weeks after a blast ripped apart a fireworks unit at Sattur in Virudhunagar district killing 23 people, an explosion rocked a cracker unit at Kalayarkuruchi village in the district on Thursday killing six people. In all, 14 people sustained injuries and have been admitted to Sivakasi government hospital. Except for Selvi, a resident of Elinganayakanpatti village, the identity of the others is yet to be ascertained. As in the Sattur incident, the workers were filling chemicals for fancy firecrackers in a working shed when the explosion occurred apparently triggered by friction. The fire spread to the nearby working sheds damaging 13 of them. Fire and rescue services personnel from Sivakasi station rushed to the spot, but they were able to put out the fire and carry out rescue only after the explosion. The cracker unit, named Thangaraj Pandian Fireworks after its owner, is licensed by Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO). There are nearly 30 working sheds in the unit. Officials from revenue and police visited the spot and conducted an inquiry. A team from PESO also visited the unit and held an inquiry. PESO deputy chief controller of explosives K Sundaresan told TOI that the incident happened due to a faulty method of drying pellets. “Usually pellets take five days to dry. They have to be dried under the shade for two days before being exposed to the sun. Some go for shortcuts and directly dry them in the sun leading to such accidents,” he said.M Pudupatti police have registered a case and are conducting investigations. This is the third fire accident at a fireworks unit in Virudhunagar district this month after the one at Sattur on February 12 and another near Sivakasi on February 13 in which a man was injured. Condoling the deaths and injuries, PMK leader S Ramadoss tweeted that the government should award Rs 25lakh each to the family members of the deceased as compensation and Rs 10lakh to the injured. Meanwhile, around 10.15 pm on Thursday, a cracker making shed was destroyed in yet another blast at Abinaya fireworks near Muthalipatti village. Fortunately, nobody was injured as it happened after working hours. Meanwhile, a National Green Tribunal team headed by a retired judge from the Punjab and Haryana high court will on Friday visit the Sattur blast site. The team will also visit another cracker unit and conduct a review meeting at the collectorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/15-days-after-23-deaths-6-killed-in-another-tn-fireworks-unit-blast/articleshow/81218157.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Rampaging jumbo kills four in Nawada||PATNA: Four people, including a 10-year-old boy, were trampled to death by a rampaging wild elephant in Nawada district on Thursday. According to senior forest officials, a quick response team from Patna zoo along with a tranquilisation team are already at the spot to tackle the jumbo that has reportedly strayed from Koderma forest in neighbouring Jharkhand. “The first casualty was reported around 7 am in Nardiganj block, followed by two more deaths around 1 pm and the fourth casualty was reported at 4 pm. The first three persons were senior citizens (60 years or above), and they encountered the elephant in the agriculture fields. The fourth casualty was a 10-year-old boy walking on a village road under Sitamarhi police station,” A Nawada forest department official told TOI on Thursday. The Nawada official added that the elephant's last known location till 6 pm on Thursday was at Guljar Bigha village in Hisua block. “Teams have come from Patna and we are keeping a strict vigil on the elephant. The effort is to chase the elephant back to the forests or tranquilise it if needed,” he said. He added that teams of forest department officials from Gaya as well as Nawada are tracking the jumbo and chasing it away from human settlements. “Announcements have been made in the nearby villages for people to remain alert,” the official said. A senior forest department official said the elephant is a male and is around 15 years old. “It has strayed from forests in Koderma district in neighbouring Jharkhand and entered Nawada via Gaya,” he said. Environment, forests and climate change minister Neeraj Kumar Singh said in a statement that a QRT and tranquillisation team was sent to Nawada. Besides, a special team has been requisitioned from West Bengal to chase away the elephant. The minister added that compensation as per norms would be paid to the next of kin of the victims within ten days. Earlier this month, a tigress from Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) killed three persons and injured a forest department staff in the West Champaran district. It died at the Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna zoo, on February 19. Forest officials had claimed that the tigress was very old and had strayed into a human settlement near VTR as she was unable to hunt for food in the forest. She was trapped by a team of 60 staff and officials from the forests department after a weeklong track and trap operations in the Manguraha range in the tiger reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rampaging-jumbo-kills-4-in-nawada/articleshow/81215776.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Pvt ICUs fill up, jumbo Covid hospitals see admissions rise||Mumbai: Jumbo Covid-19 hospitals have gone on a recruiting spree once again with an increase in admissions in the past few days. With a sharp increase in positive cases, private ICUs have started to fill up, while wards have seen an uptick in admissions as well. At BKC’s jumbo Covid-19 hospital, dean Dr Rajesh Dere said they have been hiring doctors, nurses and ward boys for the past two days. The hospital on Thursday had 321 patients, up from an average of 180 till last week. “We have nearly 700 active beds, but we are hiring manpower that is needed to run 2,000 beds,” Dere said. For now, the plan is to recruit over 200 doctors and staffers. The ICU occupancy has now gone up to 40 from an average of 30 till last week. A similar recruitment drive was underway at the Nesco jumbo hospital in Goregaon. On Thursday, the field hospital was preparing to activate 769 beds in addition to the 886 that are already functional. Dean Dr Neelam Andrade said the average bed occupancy has increased from 32 last week to over 100. On Thursday, 141 patients were admitted. “We had shut down wards and ended contracts with several healthcare workers as we were seeing merely 2-3 admissions in a day. But daily admissions have increased to 20-22 now,” she said. Nesco’s ICU had only eight patients on Thursday, but over a dozen on oxygen support. “Till last week, we didn’t have anybody on oxygen support on most days,” Andrade said. From 4,238 cases reported between February 1 and 10, the number jumped to 6,416 in the following 10 days. Active cases in the city increased by 41% within these 10 days to touch nearly 9,000. BMC officials, however, said that merely 3,879 beds of the 13,125 Covid beds were currently occupied. Of the 1,554 ICU beds, 42% were occupied on Thursday. The occupancy on ICU beds in public hospitals was 39%, but over 46% of the 575 private ICU beds were occupied. At Fortis Hospital in Mulund, the ICU was nearly full on Thursday. At Powai’s Hiranandani Hospital, nearly all 72 beds, including isolation and ICU beds, were occupied. Dr Rahul Pandit, intensivist at Fortis and a member of the state task force, was flooded with inquiries for ICU beds on Wednesday, the highest he had in the past two months. At public hospitals with higher ICU beds, there is no paucity of beds still. Dr Rakesh Bhadade, ICU in-charge at BYL Nair, said admissions have marginally risen from an average of two to six. “But the severity or deaths are nowhere close to previous numbers. People are going to stepdown facilities sooner,” he said. The demand for Covid care centre beds that admit mildly symptomatic positive cases has seen some increase. Dr Bhupendra Patil, medical officer of health, said that several asymptomatic patients from his ward, M-West, wanted to shift to institutional quarantine as they live in small homes. Former KEM dean Dr Avinash Supe said that despite the surge, Mumbai’s death rate has remained below 1%. “People must be cautious, watch their symptoms and get hospitalised soon as they see warning signs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pvt-icus-fill-up-jumbo-covid-hospitals-see-admissions-rise/articleshow/81216419.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 26, 2021||Rajkot||Three held for killing man over loading coal at Navlakhi port||Rajkot: Three persons, who had allegedly stabbed a 45-year-old man to death at Navlakhi port in Morbi on February 22, were arrested on Wednesday.The three accused Suryadeepsinh Jadeja, his brother Mayursinh Jadeja and Mayursinh Velubha Jadeja were nabbed on the outskirts of their native village Mota Dahisara in Maliya Miyana taluka. The trio had gone to the port following arguments over phone with the victim Dashrathsinh Jadeja, who works at the port in a coal company. Police said that Mayursinh Jadeja had called Dashrathsinh a few times on the night of February 22 and had heated arguments over loading the coal first in their trucks at the port. Following heated arguments on calls wherein they hurled abuses at each other, Suryadeepsinh, his brother and Mayursinh Velubha went to the port in an SUV and stabbed Dashrathsinh. The victim was taken to government hospital in Morbi but he was declared dead before admission. Dashrathsinh’s younger brother Kiritsinh had lodged a murder complaint against the trio on February 23. On Wednesday while police were on watch around the trio’s native, they arrived in the same car, used on the night of the murder, and were nabbed. Police also found the knife used for murdering Dashrathsinh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-held-for-killing-man-over-loading-coal-at-navlakhi-port/articleshow/81215425.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Shut colleges sans fire safety nod: Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday made it clear that it will not show any lenience towards intermediate colleges that are running in old buildings without fire safety approvals and declared that they have to be closed down. “You better shift to new buildings that have NOCs from the fire department,” a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli, and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said, addressing the advocates representing some of private colleges which are opposing the decision of the state in this regard. Several corporate groups like Sri Chaitanya, Sri Gayatri and Gautami colleges challenged the circular issued by the fire department that made it mandatory for them to equip themselves with the required safety apparatus in order to run their colleges. “We know how these colleges are running on highly commercial lines in congested areas that have no access to fire-fighting vehicles. They run chit fund companies on one side and junior colleges on the other,” the bench said, while brushing aside the argument of their counsel CV Mohan Reddy, who wanted the court to order the constitution of a committee to study the issue. “These errant colleges are doing this for the last 25 years by showing scant regard towards the norms,” the bench said. “No need for any committees. We cannot wait for the accidents to happen and endanger the lives of the children,” the bench told the counsel for the private colleges. State’s special counsel Sanjiv Kumar told the bench that their drive to make the intermediate colleges comply with fire safety norms did yield some results. “We could ensure the closure of 40 such colleges so far and many of them belong to Chaitanya, Narayana, etc groups,” he said. “There were some colleges that complied with the norms and we accorded them fresh permissions to run their colleges,” the state counsel added. To persistent argument of Mohan Reddy as to why the state was now hurriedly doing this, the bench told him: “The state has woken up from its deep slumber now. That too after this court’s orders in a PIL. Let them act now.” The bench also rejected the suggestion made by the counsel for the colleges that private colleges would now equip themselves with water pouring equipment, as an alternative to the standard norms, to douse the fire in the unfortunate event of fire accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shut-colleges-sans-fire-safety-nod-hc/articleshow/81218187.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Motorists protest late fee for docu renewal||Hyderabad: Motorists who could not renew the motor vehicle documents due to Covid-19 pandemic, the lockdown or other reasons, are now caught in a difficult situation as they are being imposed with a penalty, despite an advisory from the Union government to extend the validity of all motor vehicle documents till March 31. The ministry’s statement, which was released on December 27, 2020 requested the states and UTs to implement the “advisory in letter and spirit so that the citizens, the transporters and various other organisations which are operating under this difficult time during the pandemic may not get harassed or face difficulties”. “It is advised that the validity of all the motor vehicle documents whose extension of validity could not or not likely to be granted due to Covid-19 pandemic and which is expired from Feb 1, 2020 or would expire by March 31, 2021, be treated as valid till March 31, 2021. Enforcement authorities are advised to treat such documents as valid till March 31, 2021. This will help of the citizens availing transport related services,” an excerpt from the advisory reads. Applicants who recently applied for renewal of their motor vehicle documents have also shared the payment receipts with TOI after paying a fee of Rs 1,000 for renewing the driving license after one year. “The economic challenges caused by the pandemic have are growing worse with many still not preferring to travel by cabs. The pandemic has thrown hundreds of cab drivers out of their jobs. It is not fair on part of the state transport department to collect Rs 1,000 as late fee from us even after the Union government has issued an advisory to consider our pleas,” said Bheeshma Chary G, a cab driver said. The applicants urged the state government to intervene in the matter and pass an order to waive off the late fee. Shaik Salauddin, chairman, Telangana State Taxi and Drivers JAC said, “At a time when the fuel prices hitting the roof and cab aggregators not increasing the rate per km for cabs in Hyderabad, paying late fee just because most of us were not able to get the renewal done during lockdown and financial woes due to the pandemic is becoming a huge burden on the citizens as well as cab drivers. I request the government to look into the matter.” When contacted, P Ravinder, RTO Uppal said, “Since all transactions in transport department are now online, everything is as per the central server. The Union government has not passed an order to not collect the late fee.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/motorists-protest-late-fee-for-docu-renewal/articleshow/81218226.cms||Moulika.KV
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Parishad passes bill against forcedreligious conversion by voice vote||Lucknow: Vidhan Parishad on Thursday passed the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Bill 2021 by voice vote amid protest by the opposition. It will now become an Act once governor Anandiben Patel gives her assent. The state cabinet in November last year had cleared the Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance 2020. It was passed by state assembly on Tuesday. The bill was tabled in Vidhan Parishad, where the government does not enjoy a majority, on Thursday. Leader of Opposition Ahmed Hasan of Samajwadi Party and Deepak Singh of Congress pointed to the shortcomings of the bill and urged that it be sent to a select committee. SP MLC Ahmed Hasan said, “The bill should be sent to a select committee. There are reports that police are misusing it.” “There are provisions in IPC to check religious conversion and new law is not needed. The government has brought the bill to cover up its failures of the last four years,” Deepak Singh supported Hasan. Another SP MLC Shashank Yadav said that a few sections of the bill were totally against the basic value of the Constitution. “The view of the government that religious conversion cannot be done by violating law is right, but for this laws are already present,” he added. “There have been some cases in which the parents of the boy and the girl are saying that the marriage is taking place with consent from both sides. But, any person is lodging a complaint citing blood relationship, and the police is registering a case,” Yadav said. BSP member Dinesh Chandra said there are provisions already present in the Constitution to stop forcible religious conversion, and hence there was no need for a new law. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said, “This law is not related to any particular religion. Many other states have such a law, but with different names. The state government has no intention to allow its misuse. If there is any such report, strict action will be taken.” BJP MLC Mohsin Raza said that the bill was meant to bring justice to people. Chairman Kunwar Manvendra Singh rejected the proposals of amendments given by the leader of the Opposition and SP members, saying that the proposals are not as per the law. Amid the ruckus made by the SP members, the chairman declared that the bill had been passed by a voice vote. After this, SP members trooped into the well and tore copies of the bill. The bill seeks to replace the ordinance promulgated in November last year that provides for imprisonment up to 10 years and a maximum fine of Rs 50,000 for violators. Under the provisions of the bill, a marriage will be declared “null and void” if the conversion is solely for that purpose, and those wishing to change their religion after marriage need to apply to the district magistrate 60 days in advance. As per the bill, no person shall convert, either directly or indirectly, from one religion to another by use or practice of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage nor shall any person abet, convince or conspire such conversion. The onus to prove that the conversion has not been done forcibly will lie on the person accused of the act and the convert, it said. In the 100-member Vidhan Parishad, SP has 51 members followed by the BJP's 32. Bahujan Samaj Party has 6 MLCs, while the Congress has two. Apna Dal (Sonelal) and Shikshak Dal (non-political) have 1 MLC each. There are five independents. Two seats are vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/parishad-passes-bill-against-forcedreligious-conversion-by-voice-vote/articleshow/81219184.cms||Neha Shukla
February 26, 2021||Dehradun||Yoga fest to be held in Rishikesh from March 1||Dehradun: The week-long International Yog Festival at Ganga Resort in Muni-ki-Reti at Rishikesh would commence from March 1. In addition to yoga classes, a number of cultural events have been planned during the seven-day event. The state tourism department has roped in several yoga teachers, spiritual gurus and cultural artists and performers for the event. Swami Avdheshanand Giri, Sister B K Shivani, Swami Parmatmanand, Gaur Gopal Das, Acharya Balkrishna, Swami Atma Swaroopanand, and Grand Master Akshar are scheduled to attend the yog festival. Besides, a number of musical performances, including Susmit Sen, Ritesh Mishra, Rajnish Mishra, Indra Naik, Tribuvan Maharaj, Sumit Kutani, Hansraj Raghuvanshi and Mrigya Band are scheduled to perform on different days of the festival. A health session by Masterchef Pankaj Bhadouria would also be organised for people attending the event. ` Tourism minister Satpal Maharaj told TOI, “Rishikesh is known as Yognagri and people look forward to attending the yog festival. We have focused on various aspects and in addition to yoga classes, musical and cultural activities are being organised for people coming for the event.” He, however, maintained the social distancing norms would be strictly followed. “We will have special teams, which will ensure social distancing norms. People coming to Rishikesh have been requested to follow Covid-19 norms,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/yoga-fest-to-be-held-in-rishikesh-from-march-1/articleshow/81215429.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 26, 2021||Dehradun||CPI-M members protest against fuel price hike in Almora||Almora: The functionaries of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a sit-in protest at the Almora-based Gandhi Park to protest against the hike in the price of fuel. During the protest, the CPI-M members raised slogans against the Modi government. Addressing the gathering, senior CPI-M members said that the party has been opposing the neo-liberal policies which are being rolled out in the name of economic reforms since 1990. The party members also slammed the incumbent central government for privatising the public sector undertakings. CPI-M’s in-situ district convenor RP Joshi said that the hike in prices of petrol, diesel, and LPG is burning a hole in the pockets of the common man and asked the government to slash the prices at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cpi-m-members-protest-against-fuel-price-hike-in-almora/articleshow/81215430.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Man falls in well while escaping from ex-lover’s brother, dies||RAJKOT: When his wife went to a wedding with their two children at Viramgam, a 28-year-old man found it a perfect opportunity to rekindle with his former girlfriend. But never in his wildest dream, Ujjain Singh Gautam would have thought that he will never return alive. Four days after he went missing, the body of Gautam, a native of Uttar Pradesh living in Rajkot for the last five years, was found from a well on a farm at Gundasara village of Gondal taluka in Rajkot district on Wednesday evening. On February 20, after Gautam’s wife Jyotika went to Viramgam to attend marriage with their children, he went to Gundasara to meet his old flame Anju. Gautam and Anju fell in love with each other while working together at a company in Shapar Veraval in Rajkot district, before he got married and she moved back to live with her family and work as a farm labourer. On the night of February 20, when Gautam and Anju were having their private moment, her brother woke up to a noise and switched on the light inside the house. Under the fear of being trapped, Gautam started running from there and when Anju’s brother saw his shadow, he too went behind him. Gautam jumped across a well and started running on the farm of one Suresh Ranpariya. Since it was dark, Gautam did not notice a well without any walls and fell in it. The next day when Jyotika returned home, she did not find her husband, so she approached the police. Cops while searching for Gautam, found his bike lying abandoned on the outskirts of Gundasara village. On Wednesday while investigating in the village, they were led to Anju, who admitted that Gautam had come to see her on the night of February 20 and had to flee as her brother had woken up. While going in the direction in which Gautam had run, cops noticed the well and found his body in it. The body was brought out on Wednesday evening and after post-mortem, it was handed over to his wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/married-man-falls-in-well-while-escaping-from-ex-lovers-brother-dies/articleshow/81215441.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||BMC aims to vaccinate up to 50k elders and 45+ daily from March||MUMBAI: With the aim of vaccinating 20,000 to 50,000 Mumbaikars every day from March onwards, the BMC on Thursday sent feelers to various private hospitals involved in Covid-19 care about providing shots for the general population. “We will need many Covid-19 vaccination centres to be able to vaccinate such a huge set of beneficiaries,” said a senior civic officer. The Centre has announced March 1 as the date to start the third phase meant for people over 60 years of age and those over 45 with comorbidities. It is estimated Mumbai has over 10 lakh citizens who are over 60 years old. “We still don’t have an exact number as far as people over 45 years with comorbidities are concerned,” said the officer. AMC Suresh Kakani said his department’s goal at the moment is to have over 100 vaccination centres to start the third phase. At present, there are 37 public and private hospitals involved in the first and second phases meant for healthcare and frontline workers. With over 100 centres, the BMC can manage over 20,000 on the first day itself, said Kakani. “If we are allowed to work in two shifts, we would be able to manage up to 50,000,” he added. The Centre sent the BMC a list of 25-30 hospitals empanelled with the state insurance scheme that could act as vaccine centres. “We have been told to train their staff immediately on the process,” he said. The Central health ministry will hold a virtual conference on Friday with officials from states to spell out guidelines. Even the staff at the Centre Government Health Scheme hospitals and dispensaries will be roped in. Kakani said even non-enrolled hospitals that have ICU facilities would be roped in. “We will inspect these hospitals before allowing them to carry out vaccination,” he said. State immunization officer Dr Dilip Patil said there are already over 800 vaccination centres across Maharashtra. “We can upscale it at short notice on the Centre’s guidelines. We have over 1,800 primary health centres that could also be roped in if needed,” he said. Meanwhile, Mumbai breached the 2 lakh mark for vaccinations on Thursday. Across the state, 53,712 got vaccinated on Thursday. Of these, 33,125 were healthcare workers, mainly for the second dose. The state has now managed to complete 11.4 lakh vaccinations so far. The BMC managed to complete 82% of 11,200 vaccinations targeted for Thursday. Of the 9,237 who turned up, 4,506 were healthcare workers while 4,731 were frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-aims-to-vaccinate-up-to-50k-elders-and-45-daily-from-march/articleshow/81216475.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 26, 2021||Chennai||Eye on polls, Tamil Nadu CM gifts staff additional year of service, 27L kids all-pass||CHENNAI: Keeping with his populist pitch, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday declared nearly 27 lakh students belonging to Classes IX, X, and XI in TN to have passed this academic year without annual or board exam. The state will soon release guidelines for assessment of marks, he said. The decision has been taken “considering the extraordinary situation faced by students and teachers, requests from parents, and views of academicians,” said the CM in his suo motu statement in the assembly under Rule 110. The move, however, evoked mixed response with some parents demanding that the government conduct at least school-level tests and award marks to help students retain interest in studies and a section of teachers calling it a hasty decision that had rendered the whole academic year useless. While some teachers said the decision could have been announced later, parents said the present Class XI batch will appear for Class XII board exams without any prior experience and the move may affect their performance in competitive exams such as NEET and JEE. Speaking on the floor of the TN assembly, CM said students this year had to learn entirely through state-run Kalvi TV. Considering the difficulties faced by them in learning through online classes, the government had even reduced the curriculum this year, he said. The state government had started classroom coaching for Classes X and XII only from January 19 this year after shutting down schools and conducting online classes for the whole of last year to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Palaniswami said the government also supplied vitamin and zinc tablets to students to boost their immunity. Following the guidelines of the Union government, the state invoked the provisions of the Disaster Management Act and imposed lockdown on March 25 last year and brought in multiple tranches of relaxations in keeping with the Centre’s guidelines from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eye-on-polls-cm-gifts-staff-addl-year-of-service-27l-kids-all-pass/articleshow/81218220.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Aurangabad||3 Marathwada districts have single-digit contact-tracing ratio||Aurangabad: The confirmed Covid-19 patients’ contact-tracing ratio in Marathwada varies majorly with eight districts recording an average of 13.8 contacts traced per positive patient.The three districts of Nanded, Osmanabad and Parbhani have single-digit contact-tracing ratios — 8.2, 9 and 9.7, respectively. Beed, Hingoli and Latur have slightly better figures of 23.4, 22.5 and 20, respectively. In Jalna it is 13.5 while Aurangabad’s contact-tracing ratio is 11.3 individuals per confirmed patient.Notably, Aurangabad divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar has asked all the eight district administrations to increase the contact tracing ratio to at least 20.Nanded collector Vipin Itankar on Thursday said the contact tracing exercise has already been scaled up. “We have improved our contact tracing number to 14 per patient now. The health authorities have been tracing both high-risk and low-risk contacts in a more rigorous manner,” he said and added that all the traced contacts have been asked to undergo mandatory Covid testing and remain in quarantine till the lab reports are received.Parbhani collector Deepak Mugalikar said the latest contact-tracing ratio is better than the average of the district over the past 11 months. “The entire machinery is on its toes to contain the second wave,” he said.Latur district administration on Thursday announced curbs on private hostels — each facility is allowed to accommodate only 50 students, said an official release. The administration has also announced a janata curfew for two days beginning February 27. Aurangabad district reported 275 new cases on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 49,566. This includes 1,262 deaths and 46,793 recovered patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-marathwada-districts-have-single-digit-contact-tracing-ratio/articleshow/81214508.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||New projects announced to give big push to e-mobility||Thiruvananthapuram: The corporation budget for 2021-22 proposes to encourage use of e-vehicles in the city. Deputy mayor P K Raju said a project to establish a tie up with public sector financial institutions to give aid to councillors to purchase electric scooters will be implemented at a cost of Rs.50 lakh. The fine print of the project will be announced later. Raju said councillors should set an example for the public in the use of alternative energy and controlling air pollution in the city. He also announced a project to switch corporation-owned vehicles to electric ones. Charging points will also be installed in the city. The project will be executed at a cost of Rs.30 crore. Purchase of new cars has always been a contentious issue in the council and with e-vehicles priced at higher costs than the normal vehicles, the viability of the project is a big question. Recently, Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Limited (SCTL) was selected for Elets Awards of Digital Excellence. SCTL’s project for promotion of e-mobility through e-autos was selected for the award under the category ‘innovations in smart cities’. SCTL has procured 15 e-autos to promote better electric mobility in the city. The cost of each vehicle is around Rs.2.95 lakh The vehicles are being driven by women beneficiaries shortlisted by Thiruvananthapuram municipal corporation, based on applications received. This project was conceived to have socio- economic benefits for citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/new-projects-announced-to-give-big-push-to-e-mobility/articleshow/81219409.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal talks up Delhi growth model for civic bypolls||NEW DELHI: A day before his scheduled visit to Surat in Gujarat, where AAP has won 27 of the 120 seats in the municipal corporation, national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said it was the only party to challenge BJP across the nation. He stated this while addressing roadshows in Seelampur, Kondli, and Trilokpuri in east Delhi ahead of the municipal bypolls for five wards to be held on Sunday. Kejriwal said that Congress was being wiped out from everywhere and AAP, which was in government in Delhi for the past six years, was the only party to challenge BJP across the nation. “The municipal by-elections are on Sunday. Aam Aadmi Party is in government for the last six years in Delhi. We have taken all measures to develop the city, improve schools for your children, improve hospitals for your families, made the bus rides free for women, and provided free electricity. If you vote for us and our councillor wins, we will work together for the development of the capital,” said the chief minister. Claiming that Congress was the “B-team of BJP” and it had received zero seats in the Surat municipal elections, Kejriwal said, “It has accepted its defeat in front of BJP. Only AAP is contesting against BJP in all states. You all have defeated BJP in Delhi thrice. It is a miracle in itself that you all have voted for AAP three times. Voting for Congress here is of no use as your vote will be wasted. Vote for jhadu and make AAP win.” “To be able to further develop Delhi, the people need to vote for an AAP councillor who will work with the AAP government, said Kejriwal. He was accompanied by Mohammad Isharaq Khan, the candidate from Chauhan Bangar ward, Dhirendra (Bunty Gautam), the candidate from Kalyanpuri ward and Vijay Kumar, the contestant from Trilokpuri East ward. Addressing hundreds of AAP supporters and residents of Seelampur, Kejriwal said, “In the last one year, the people of Delhi have taken all precautions to tackle coronavirus. The fight is not over yet and your health is your responsibility.” At Kondli, Kejriwal stressed on the development works done by the Aam Aadmi Party government over the past six years. “If you vote for us, your councillor will work with us for the development of Kondli. If you vote for BJP, they will play dirty politics instead of working. Press the jhadu button on Sunday,” he said. Apart from Seelampur, Kondli and Kalyanpuri, AAP has fielded Ram Chandra, a former MLA from Bawana for Rohini ward, and Sunita Mishra from Shalimar Bagh North ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-talks-up-city-growth-model-for-civic-bypolls/articleshow/81218255.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Dehradun||Ensure 100% vaccination of people involved in Kumbh duty: CS Om Prakash||Dehradun: In a meeting with health officials and Mela authorities, chief secretary Om Prakash on Thursday directed them to ensure 100% vaccination of staff deployed on Kumbh duty. The 28-day Kumbh is scheduled to start from April 1. Prakash directed the authorities to act against those refusing vaccination barring the pregnant and lactating women, whom he said should not be deployed for duty at all. The CS added that those officials and employees, who were refusing vaccination, should not be deployed for duty. He said that people from across the country will come for the Kumbh and “no risk should be taken.” The CS asked to ensure that the police and paramilitary forces coming from other states should be vaccinated at the earliest. He pointed out that by March 15, a team of 100 doctors and 148 paramedical staff from Uttar Pradesh will reach Haridwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ensure-100-vaccination-of-people-involved-in-kumbh-duty-cs-om-prakash/articleshow/81215444.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Metro 2A and 7 begin testing prototype rakes at Charkop||Mumbai: The dynamic tests of the prototype of the rake to be used for Metro 2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro 7 (Dahisar-Andheri via Western Express Highway) commenced at the Charkop depot. The entire trial process is expected to be completed by July after which commercial operations will begin. A total of 96 rakes have been ordered by the MMRDA from Bharat Earth Movers Ltd. The first prototype rake arrived at Charkop depot on January 28. An MMMRDA spokesperson said: “The dynamic test commenced after the prototype was flagged off by metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev.”The MMRDA had hoped to complete the trials soon as it had plans to resume the service in May. Now, the MMRDA expects to complete trial runs in four to five months, after which it will be ready to start the commercial run. The MMRDA spokesperson said: “On February 25, dynamic trial of the train was undertaken on the 520m long test track at low speed. Now, various sub-systems like vehicle control circuit, braking, auxiliary power supply, automatic door system, etc, will be tested in the depot.” These activities will be completed in a month, after which field trials will begin. The second rake is expected to arrive in March, after which integrated testing of train with signalling system will commence simultaneously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/metro-2a-and-7-begin-testing-prototype-rakes-at-charkop/articleshow/81218339.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 26, 2021||Delhi||NDMC clocks mere 42.6% vaccination rate, Narela zone lowest at 11.8%||NEW DELHI: At a time when the city is gearing up to move to the next phase of Covid vaccination, the official data of North Delhi Municipal Corporation shows that only 42.6% of its targeted healthcare and frontline workers have taken the jab. The outer Delhi zones like Narela have as low as 11.8% vaccination rate, indicating severe resistance in rural belts, while the count is slightly better in Keshavpuram (33.1%) and Karol Bagh (38.1%) zones. The data shows that a total of 33,534 staff members, nurses, doctors, sanitation workers and teachers were expected to be vaccinated by February 23, but only 14,286 — 42.6% — have taken the shot. The overall vaccination rate in Delhi is around 60%. A zone-wise analysis shows that Rohini region has been at the forefront with 54.8% vaccination rate, followed by City-Sadar Paharganj zone — mostly Old Delhi and Walled City areas — where half of the targeted 5,979 municipal employees have taken the jab. Civil Lines zone has vaccinated 40.2% of the beneficiaries while the vaccination rate is 49.1% at Civic Center, the north corporation’s headquarters. Sanitation workers unions have alleged that their members were being verbally warned that their attendances would not be marked if they didn’t turn up for vaccination. Delhi Commission for Safai Karamcharis had warned that pressure tactics would invite summons from it. The civic body has since announced that it is a completely voluntary process. The sanitation department had projected that 21,455 workers would be vaccinated, but only 8,723 (40.6%) has taken the shot. The rates have been lowest in the house tax and community service departments with 21% and 12.5% vaccination rates. The public health department has shown the highest rate at 70.63%. A senior municipal official said several steps had been taken to encourage the staff members to take the shot, including flexibility in assigning the vaccination centre and departmental heads taking the shot first to boost the confidence of lower-rung staffers. “The process is completely safe, but we can’t force anyone,” the official said. With schools pushing towards return to offline teaching, the low vaccination rates among teachers and school staffers indicate a worrying trend. Only 2,249 out of the 6,865 education department staff have taken the shot. The corporation has over 700 primary schools with over 2.9 lakh children and over 8,000 teachers. According to the civic body’s education department data, 1.56 lakh students are being taught through WhatsApp groups. The four big municipal hospitals have been at the forefront of the civic bodies’ vaccination drive. On February 23, 453 shots were administered in these facilities and only two cases of adverse events were reported. Cumulatively, Hindu Rao Hospital has seen 1,838 vaccinations, Kasturba Hospital 1,156, Balak Ram Hospital 991 and Gidhari Lal Maternity Hospital 974 shots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-corpn-clocks-mere-42-6-vax-rate-narela-zone-lowest-at-11-8/articleshow/81218290.cms||Paras Singh
February 26, 2021||Chennai||Staff to retire at 60, Tamil Nadu saves Rs 5,000 crore for now||CHENNAI: In a bid to appease the large government workforce ahead of the assembly poll, the AIADMK government on Thursday raised the retirement age to 60 years from the existing 59. The move may help the government, which is at the fag-end of its tenure and is facing a fund crunch, to defer payment of Rs 5,000 crore towards retirement benefits in the next fiscal year. The decision, however, has evoked mixed response from government staff. The state had raised the superannuation age of its staff to 59 from 58 in May last year amid a raging Covid-19 pandemic, falling revenue, and pressure to meet mounting expenses. Making a suo motu announcement in the assembly, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said, “The order is applicable to all government employees in service and those who retire on May 31, 2021.” The announcement is applicable to teaching and non-teaching staff in the government and government aided educational institutions, constitutional statutory bodies, local bodies, boards, commissions and societies. Those due for superannuation on May 31, 2021 will now leave service on May 31, 2022. The state’s widening revenue deficit and the estimated outstanding debt burden of Rs 5.7 lakh crore has not deterred the EPS dispensation from rolling out welfare schemes ahead of the election. The government has allocated Rs 5,000 crore towards crop loan waiver for farmers in the interim budget with Covid-19 expenses straining its finances and huge borrowings resulting in higher fiscal deficit. The government had originally planned to extend the retirement age to 60 years last year, but then confined it to one year. “The government has postponed the terminal benefits of retirement by one more year. Annual retirement of around 25,000 of the 12-lakh workforce has been deferred. Among those whose services were extended, a section sought voluntary retirement to meet the domestic demands last year,” said a source. A section in the government criticised the decision as illogical and untimely. The government schools have 3.5 lakh teaching staff. Tamil Nadu government employees association (Tngea) president M Anbarasu said raising the age of retirement would ruin the prospects of youngsters longing to get into government service. “The staff rationalisation committee set up by the government had already recommended outsourcing of jobs and the government is eyeing that. The state only incurs additional expenditure by retaining the services of its staff,” Anbarasu said. Incidentally, Tamil Nadu was the only state that did not defer payment of any part of the salaries to the employees or of pension to pensioners in this fiscal despite Covid necessitating additional expenditure of Rs 12,917.85 crore on the revenue account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/staff-to-retire-at-60-tn-saves-rs-5000cr-for-now/articleshow/81218296.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 26, 2021||Dehradun||17 new Covid cases surface in U’khand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 17 new coronavirus cases on Thursday. With this, the total number of cases shot up to 96,837 in the state. However, the active cases in the state came down to 388. Till the time of filing this report, 10 Uttarakhand districts had less than 30 active cases. Four districts — Pithorgarh (1), Bageshwar (3), Rudraprayag (2), and Uttarkashi (9) — have less than 10 active cases. Among the positive infections, Dehradun recorded nine cases, followed by Haridwar (4), Nainital (2), and one each in Chamoli and Champawat districts. The toll of the virus stands at 1,690 in Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, the state also recorded 52 recoveries on Thursday. With this, the tally of cured cases of Covid-19 reached 93,400. Also, test results of 7,810 Covid-19 samples are still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/17-new-covid-cases-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/81215465.cms||Shivani Azad
February 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad land broker kidnapped, tortured for Rs 1-crore ransom||AHMEDABAD: A 26-year-old land broker from Ghodasar was allegedly kidnapped, beaten and tortured by 10 persons who allegedly demanded Rs 1 crore from him. Complainant Karan Bhatt, on Wednesday, filed a complaint with the Detection of Crime Branch against Mahesh Rabari, Phulo Rabari, Nagji Rabari, Alpesh Hirwadi and Karan Marathi, all residents of Bhaipura, and five unidentified accomplices. He claimed that they had assaulted him on the night of February 17. In his FIR, Bhatt stated that these men demanded Rs 1 crore from him and took his 36-tola gold chain worth Rs 14 lakh. He was only let go after he got a friend to stand as guarantor for the rest of the money that he promised to pay up in two instalments. According to the complaint, Bhatt was riding his scooter home after meeting a friend at 9pm on February 17. He had neared Cadila Bridge in Jashodanagar when Mahesh, who was standing next to a blue Baleno car, gestured to him to stop. He stated that there was a maroon Brezza car parked near the Baleno. "Mahesh forced me to get into the Baleno, where Nagji and a fat unknown man flanked me. Mahesh instructed the driver to go to 'their place' and both cars took off," Bhatt stated in the FIR. "The Baleno then drove into the basement of Naiya Complex in Vastral, while the Brezza was parked on the road outside. There, Mahesh said to me 'you have made a lot of money, and will have to give us Rs 1-crore ransom or I will shoot you'. When I said I did not have that kind of money, they grew enraged. Mahesh and men from the other car began to beat me, demanding the money." He alleged that Mahesh then told the others to get the other car, take Bhatt to Gatrad village and kill him. He stated that on the road to Gatrad, he told them that he had a gold chain worth Rs 14 lakh. "They called my mother from my cellphone and had my brother Chintan leave the gold chain with a paan parlour owner. Mahesh called his friend Jayu Sindhi and had it collected,” Bhatt stated in his complaint. "At Gatrad, they kept torturing me and demanding Rs 70 lakh. They took me to a place near a canal, lifted me up and began preparing to throw me in. To save myself, I told them I would give them the money in 2-3 days," he stated. Mahesh and Phulo then took him to his friend Ravi Rami's house in Odhav. “They forced Rami to get in the car. Mahesh spoke to Rami who took responsibility for Rs 70 lakh on my behalf. They then agreed he would pay Rs 35 lakh in 3-4 days and another Rs 35 lakh by March 4. Finally, around midnight, they dropped me and Rami off on the road, and drove off,” the FIR states. Bhatt added that both he and Rami later received several threatening calls from Mahesh and Phulo. He added that as these men are notorious, he was scared and hence did not go to file a police complaint earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/land-broker-kidnapped-tortured-for-rs-1-cr-ransom/articleshow/81218291.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Bareilly||Shahjahanpur horror: Two booked for rape||BAREILLY: Police in UP’s Shahjahanpur on Thursday booked two youths under the section of rape a day after a college girl they were accused of kidnapping and setting ablaze told a magistrate that she was also sexually assaulted by them. Meanwhile, the condition of the 21-year-old student of a college run by former Union minister Chinmayanand remained serious. The girl has sustained over 54% burn injuries above the waist. Her vitals are stable but swelling on her face was a concern for doctors. “Major threat in such cases is septicaemia,” a senior police officer said, adding that she may be airlifted to Delhi if her condition doesn’t improve. The girl was referred to Lucknow’s Shyama Prasad Mukherjee (Civil) Hospital from Shahjahanpur due to her serious condition on Wednesday. In her “dying declaration” before the executive magistrate -- taken when someone sustains burn injuries of 50% or more—the girl had named her friend Sunita (name changed), Sunita’s brother-in-law Manish and an unidentified person. On Thursday, during the questioning of Manish, the name of the other accused also came to the fore. It was Subhash, Sunita’s cousin. Shahjahanpur’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) S Anand said, “We are going by the dying declaration and have added IPC sections 376 (rape) and 511 (attempting to commit offence punishable with imprisonment for life). The girl has levelled allegations against her classmate Sunita, Sunita’s brother-in-law Manish and one unidentified youth in her statement. During investigation we found that the third person is Subhash. He is also Sunita’s cousin and studies in the same college. We have arrested Subhash and Manish. Sunita is under our observation. We are taking required permission to arrest her. All the accused will be presented in the court on Friday.” When asked about the condition of the girl, the SSP said, “She is in one of the best facilities in Lucknow. But if needed then she would be referred to Delhi. Doctors are putting their best efforts to save her life. A police team is there with the family in Lucknow to ensure they don’t face any difficulty. I am in contact with the girl’s father and he has been informed about the action taken by police in this case.” Her father told TOI, “She is not able to speak much because of swelling in face. We want the accused to be punished for their heinous act.” The girl was found burnt under mysterious circumstances at Tilhar area in Shahjahanpur district, near the Delhi-Lucknow national highway, on Monday. She was sedated and put on fire during rape bid by the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/chinmayanand-college-student-case-2-accused-youths-booked-for-rape-arrseted-girls-health-stays-critical/articleshow/81214518.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||45-year-old hangs himself in Burail||Chandigarh: A 45-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his rental accommodation in Burail village, Sector 45, on Wednesday night. No suicide note was recovered from the spot, police said.The deceased has been identified as Kulbir Singh.Neighbours raised the alarm on seeing him hanging from a ceiling fan in his room on the third floor of the house.On receiving the information, cops reached the spot and took him to GMH-16, where doctors declared him dead.Sector 34 police inspected the crime spot and ruled out any foul play. Cops said there were no injury marks on the body and the cause of death would be known after the autopsy.Police said Kulbir had a matrimonial dispute and had been living separately from his wife for the past few years. Police have registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC and initiated inquest proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/45-year-old-hangs-himself-in-burail/articleshow/81216456.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Dehradun||On hunger strike for past 3 days, Matri Sadan seer says will continue ‘tapasya’ till the demand of free-flowing Ganga is met||Dehradun: On a hunger strike for three days now, Brahmchari Aatmabodhanand, the 28-year-old seer of Haridwar-based Matri Sadan, has said that he will continue the stir until his demands are met. The BTech graduate seer has been demanding scrapping of all hydropower projects being constructed on river Ganga and its sub tributaries in Uttarakhand. He has termed his stir a continuation of the efforts of professor GD Agrawal (Swami Sanand) who died fasting for a free-flowing Ganga. Aatmabodhanand has been surviving on a liquid diet — water, lemon and honey — for the past few days. He says that he is gearing up for a ‘tapsaya’ to protect Ganga and safeguard the aquatic ecosystem of the country from being devastated. Speaking to TOI, Aatmabodhanand said, “In view of the recent Chamoli tragedy, the government should at least take some easily executable decisions — like putting a blanket ban on the under-construction and proposed hydel power plants on the Ganga and all its tributaries — at the earliest. If that’s not done, I shall continue my tapasya to save mother Ganga.” The seers of Matri Sadan say they are determined that the ‘tapasya’ will only be concluded after their goals are met. “At present, I am intaking a liquid diet but if my demands are not met soon, I will quit that as well,” added Aatmabodhanand. Along with banning the hydro-electric projects, Matri Sadan demands that mining, stone crushing, and quarrying be stopped from Raiwala to Raighati in Haridwar, a 15-kilometre-long stretch. The body also demands the implementation of the Ganga Act (as drafted by late professor GD Agrawa) and formation of the Ganga Council, an autonomous organisation made up of only Ganga devotees. The council will be aimed at protecting the river from being exploited for materialistic gains. Aatmabodhanand added, “The Act made by Swami Sanand is a comprehensive one as it encompasses all the factors ranging from the scientific aspects related to the Ganga to the mythological significance of the river. Therefore, we want the same Act to be implemented and not any modified version.” In regards with the Ganga Council, the Matri Sadan seers said, “These devotees are not like corporate giants and thus, their main focus would always remain on enriching the river and protecting it from pollution,” said a seer. Earlier, Aatmabodhanand had sat on a strike for 194 days — from October 24, 2018, to May 4, 2019. He concluded his fast only after an intervention from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/on-hunger-strike-for-past-3-days-matri-sadan-seer-says-will-continue-tapasya-till-the-demand-of-free-flowing-ganga-is-met/articleshow/81215488.cms||Shivani Azad
February 26, 2021||Madurai||Death toll in Sattur blast climbs to 23||Virudhunagar: The death toll in the firecracker unit blast near Sattur in Virudhunagar district rose to 23 on Thursday. Kaliappan, 30, of Marknathapuram in Panayeripatti died while being under critical care in Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital. Hospital sources told TOI that the man was a diabetic and had suffered deep burns on 80% of his body surface. His medical condition made treatment all the more challenging. He died around 11am. On Wednesday, P Jaya, 50, of Nadusurangudi village in Sattur died in a private hospital in Sattur. The woman who suffered 70% burns was the 22nd person to lose life in the accident at Sri Mariyammal Fireworks in Achankulam village near Sattur on February 12. The accident had left nine people dead on the spot and 43 others injured. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/death-toll-in-sattur-blast-climbs-to-23/articleshow/81218328.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||HC raps Telangana, says daily Covid bulletin must||HYDERABAD: Two days after the director of public health issued a statement that Covid bulletins would no longer be daily but only weekly, the Telangana high court on Thursday directed that state must start giving daily medical bulletins within 24 hours. “Not in agreement with this abrupt decision,” a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said. “From Friday itself, you (government) have to start releasing the daily medical bulletin,” the bench said. The bench was hearing a batch of public interest petitions filed seeking steps to tackle the pandemic. The judges also sought a detailed report from the health authorities on the steps taken to prevent the fresh wave of Covid-19 sweeping neighbouring Maharashtra and Karnataka from entering Telangana. “Upload all the details of your tests into the state-run portal,” they said. Expressing concern over public congregations in the backdrop of reopening of schools and theatres, the judges said the authorities need to restrict the numbers at such congregations. Adjourning the case to March 18, the judges asked the government to file a report by that time. The judges directed the government to undertake serological surveys on its own. “The three serological surveys conducted till now were done by the central government. Time you did it on your own,” the bench said, addressing advocate general BS Prasad. The judges also wanted the government to update details of tests, vaccinations, etc., on the state health portal. “Also, inform the areas where elderly people can go for vaccination, about the methods through which they can go for online registrations, etc.,” they said. The judges also said adequate publicity must be given to these issues. Earlier, Chikkudu Prabhakar, counsel for one of the petitioners, brought to the notice of the court the decision of the public health director to stop issuing the daily bulletins. It may be recalled the high court has been monitoring the pandemic situation and giving directions to the health authorities on Covid-19 tests, medical facilities, treatment, etc. The public health director was also regularly briefing the court on the progress made on the Covid-19 front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-raps-t-says-daily-covid-bulletin-must/articleshow/81219193.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Delhi||AAP questions north corpn certificates to pvt schools||New Delhi: Objecting to issuing of “recognition certificates” to private schools —model schools up to Class V — AAP councillors at North Delhi Municipal Corporation alleged that the process was done without any verification of infrastructure and education facilities, risking lives of students and staff.Mukundpur councillor Ajay Sharma highlighted the condition of a school in an unauthorised colony at the standing committee meeting on Wednesday. A huge basement has been constructed at the private school, which is situated in a congested lane with narrow entrances, he said. “For fire safety, some fire extinguishers have been placed but these have already expired. On being questioned, they shared the recognition certificate issued by North Delhi Municipal Corporation. The building is 15 years old,” Sharma alleged.“How are certificates issued to schools in unauthorised colonies and what kind of a survey is being done by the education department,” he asked.Following a consensus, the leader of House, Yogesh Verma, put on hold all 23 such cases. Education officials have been asked to find out about the building sanction plan and property tax receipts of the schools. “We have asked the education team to ensure safety measures before issuing certificates. In case of unauthorised colonies, building department officials have been asked to accept property tax assessment records,” said Verma.A corporation official, however, said the education department usually goes by factors like total area, teachers’ strength, fire NOC, other safety measures, class-wise students’ strength. “We have a checklist of 41 points that has to be fulfilled before any school wants to apply for a recognition certificate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-questions-north-corpn-certificates-to-pvt-schools/articleshow/81218326.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 26, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabadreadies Covid care facilities||Aurangabad: The Covid care facilities are being made ready across Aurangabad district in the view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. District health officer Sudhakar Shelke said atleast one dedicated Covid care center (DCCC) is being made functional in every taluka. Five dedicated Covid health centres have been set up at the Aurangabad district civil hospital, Sillod, Vaijapur, Kannad and Pachod. “All the Covid care facilities have enough oxygen beds. Citizens sensing any possible symptoms of Covid-19 should get themselves tested at the earliest and report to the nearest Covid care facility,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabadreadies-covid-care-facilities/articleshow/81214522.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Highest 1-day case tally for February at 220||NEW DELHI: The city recorded 220 new Covid-19 patients on Thursday, the highest number of single-day incidences in February, while no fresh death was registered. This is the fourth time the single-day fatality count has been nil this month. On Wednesday, 200 Covid-19 cases and two new deaths were registered, pushing the toll to 10,905. From February 1 to February 23, the count of daily cases has been below 200. Delhi had recorded 199 fresh Covid-19 cases on January 28. From January 15-26, the daily figures ranged from 148 on January 25 to 299 on January 16, according to official data. After a gap of nearly nine months, no fatality from the novel coronavirus infection was registered for the first time this month on February 19. No death from Covid-19 was recorded on February 13 and February 17 as well. On Thursday, Delhi recorded 220 fresh Covid-19 cases, while the positivity rate stood at 0.34%, authorities said, adding that the infection tally in the city rose to 6,38,593, according to the latest health bulletin issued by the city government. The active cases tally on Thursday rose to 1,169 from 1,137 the previous day, according to the bulletin. On Wednesday, 63,998 people were tested for infection from the novel coronavirus, according to the health bulletin. Delhi had recorded 94 fresh Covid-19 cases on February 16, the lowest in over nine months. Experts say that the capital needs to be on high alert to detect the emergence of any new clusters of Covid-19 and to act promptly to prevent the spread of disease. With trains and flights operating in near-full capacity, public movement has increased across states. Therefore, there is heightened risk of the disease spreading again in the national capital from affected regions, say experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/highest-1-day-case-tally-for-feb-at-220/articleshow/81218313.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad frontline staff to get at least 1 vax jab in 10 days||Aurangabad: Around 60% of the healthcare workers in Aurangabad district have taken the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, which includes 11,507 beneficiaries in the city and 8,025 health workers in the rural areas of the district. As far as vaccinating frontline workers is concerned, the district has inoculated over 25% of the targeted beneficiaries with as many as 5,288 workers taking the first jab of the vaccine. District immunization officer Vijaykumar Wagh said, “We are targeting to vaccinate all the registered healthcare workers over the next one week. All the frontline workers will get the first jab in the next 10 days. The vaccination drive will have to be expedited considering that there are many other target groups which have to be inoculated against Covid-19, especially now that the viral infection has again raised its ugly head.” On the low response from frontline workers to the Coviid-19 vaccination,.health authorities said there were not enough vaccnators as most of them were engaged in pulse polio drive and other health programmes. “There was some resistance among healthcare workers and frontline workers during the early stages. There were fears and misconceptions about the vaccine but with time, all those rumours have died down,” said Wagh.On the Centre’s decision to facilitate Covid vaccination at the private hospitals, Wagh said the state government was expected to share the detailed guidelines soon. “While the Centre has given a nod for immunization of vulnerable groups at the private hospitals as well as the state-run institutions from March 1, the public health department is expected to hold a video conference shortly with all districts for sharing the future road-map,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-frontline-staff-to-get-at-least-1-vax-jab-in-10-days/articleshow/81214551.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Madurai||Govt staff unhappy with decision on retirement age||Madurai/Trichy: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s announcement to enhance the retirement age of government employees to 60 from 59 has not gone down well with government employees who say that they are going to demand that the government withdraw the order. Tamil Nadu Revenue Department Village Assistants Association district secretary S Manikandan, who is also demanding the old pension scheme, said that the new order on the enhancement of retirement age will be a big blunder. “It would have drastic effects on the system, and the government is just making these announcements to conceal its poor financial situation, without taking steps to stabilize it and denying employees their dues on time,” he said. Manikandan said they would demand the government withdraw the order immediately. “This is highly inappropriate and the government should withdraw this order immediately. Even last year’s order of increasing the age of retirement of 59 was against the welfare of government employees but we did not complain as Covid-19 was cited as the reason for the financial crisis,” said Tamil Nadu Government Employees Association (Madurai) secretary K Neethiraja. “If the government goes on increasing the age as such, there would be no need to conduct TNPSC examinations, which would be a final blow to the dreams of many youngsters who spend many years studying for it,” he said. “There are 80 lakh persons who have registered with the employment exchange and 4.5 lakh vacancies in the government department. The government should instead try to fill these posts,” he said. He said that they were even ready if the age was reduced to 55 for retirement, as many government employees become afflicted with diseases like diabetes and hypertension due to work burden. “Increasing the age makes it difficult for workers to discharge their duties. Many of us look forward to our retirement when we can fulfil other duties like marriage of children with our benefits,” he said. Tamil Nadu Thodakkapalli Asiriyar Mandram (Tamil Nadu primary school teachers association) sought the rollback of state government’s decision. State president of the association, N Shanmuganathan questioned if the decision reflected poor state of the exchequer and government is not able to give the retirement benefits of the staffs. “Many of the vacant government posts are being managed with contractual staffs by outsourcing. Further the state and central government jobs are largely being filled with candidates from other states,” he said. DYFI Madurai district secretary T Selvaraj said that government jobs were the only option for many educated youth in places like Madurai that did not have industries. “Hundreds of youth who are now working for online deliveries like Swiggy and Amazon are those striving to pass the TNPSC. If the government keeps increasing the age, these youngsters would end up being just delivery boys, even after graduation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-staff-unhappy-with-decision-on-retirement-age/articleshow/81218366.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC: At least 25 BJP corporators in a fix after win||HYDERABAD: At least 25 BJP corporators out of 48 who won in GHMC elections are facing the threat of disqualification. Their opponents, mostly TRS defeated candidates, have filed election petitions in the city civil court, citing various reasons like violating the two-children norm, suppressing information on assets, criminal cases and double votes enrolled of the same person. In one of the cases involving BJP Jubilee Hills corporator, Telangana high court has set a deadline of three months for disposal of the case. As per the rules, an election petition should be filed before 45 days from the date of publication of results. GHMC results were declared on December 4. Advocate K Anthony Reddy of BJP legal cell told TOI that TRS had filed 25 election petitions against their corporators based on petty reasons. “Two were filed against AIMIM corporators. Our losing candidates have filed petitions against three TRS corporators,” he said. BJP leaders allege that defeated candidates of the TRS misused official machinery, collected saffron party corporators’ data and filed petitions just one or two days before the deadline. For instance, K Suryanarayana of Jubilee Hills filed a petition against BJP corporator B Venkatesh. “They allege that I have three children. I have two sons. As I have no daughters, I am raising the daughter of my brother. Proceedings were going on in the city civil court. My party is defending my case,” Venkatesh told TOI. TRS legal cell functionary Ch Kalyana Rao said the TRS legal cell or the party didn’t file any petition or monitored it. “It was the individual decision of the defeated candidates and others to challenge. We just know that around 30 election petitions have been filed regarding GHMC elections,” he said. The BJP had just four corporators in the previous GHMC standing council and its numbers had jumped to 48 in the December 2020 elections. One of its corporators had died before taking the oath and the party’s strength in the council stands at 47 now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/at-least-25-bjp-corporators-in-a-fix-after-win/articleshow/81219228.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Painter strangles wife in Mohali||MOHALI: The police on Thursday booked a 26-year-old painter for murdering his 23-year-old wife at their house in Amb Sahib Colony, Jagatpura, Mohali, a day before. Kamal, who hails from Moradabad, strangled Manju, a homemaker, with her scarf. The couple has a one-and-a-half-year-old son. Phase XI SHO sub-inspector Jagdeep Singh Brar said “We received the information around 7.30am. The body has been handed over to the family after the post-mortem.” Manju’s elder brother Prem said, “Kamal’s brother Rakesh called me up on Thursday morning and asked me to come to their place as Manju was not well. When I was on way to their house, he again called me up. I told them to take Manju to a hospital. He said she could not be taken to hospital as she was no more. When I reached there, Manju was lying dead on bed.”  “Kamal is a hard drinker and addict. He had tied the knot with Manju three years ago. He had been harassing my sister for one-and-a-half years. Around three weeks ago, too, he had fought with my sister. My sister had then asked me to take her to our parents’ house. Later, they had reached a compromise,” he added. A case under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/painter-strangles-wife-in-mohali/articleshow/81216498.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||UT plans to extend solar plant installation deadline by 6 to 9 months||Chandigarh: The UT administration plans to extend solar plant installation deadline, ending on March 31, by six to nine months.Sources said, “The administration is contemplating extending the deadline till September-end or December-end. The final decision will be taken by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore.”The last deadline had ended on March 31, 2020. As lockdown was is in force, the UT had decided not to impose any penalty on residents, and extended the deadline till March 31, 2021.“The issue will be discussed next month when senior UT officials and the Chandigarh Renewal Energy, Science and Technology Promotion Society (Crest) will hold a meeting. The administration plans to extend the last date because of many reasons like people could not install solar plants due to national lockdown and coronavirus; shortage of manpower with companies for setting up of the plants on residential houses; and concern of residents on allowing people to enter their houses for installation of plants due to coronavirus, among others,” sources added.The Union government last year had notified the new subsidy scheme for the rooftop solar units. Under it, the subsidy amount has been raised from 30% to 40% for panels up to 3 kWp capacity. For solar units from 4 kWp to 10 kWp, the subsidy will be 20%. The same has been adopted by the UT administration. There will be no subsidy for plants above 10kWp. Earlier, 30% subsidy was given to all applicants irrespective of the capacity of the plant.The administration in a notification issued on May 18, 2016, had made installation of rooftop solar power plants mandatory in residential houses measuring 500 square yard and above and group housing societies. There are around 10,000 such houses in different parts of the city, including sectors 8 (417 houses), 11 (493 houses), 33 (643 houses), 35 (419 houses) and 36 (417 houses).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-plans-to-extend-solar-plant-installation-deadline-by-6-to-9-months/articleshow/81216464.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
February 26, 2021||Madurai||Fire from mosquito coil guts 3 houses in Nagercoil||Kanyakumari: Three tiled roof houses were gutted in a fire that broke out from a mosquito coil in Nagercoil in the early hours of Thursday. One woman suffered burn injuries, but is stated be out of danger. The incident took place near the Women’s Christian College in Nagercoil. Station fire officer M Thurai said that the three damaged houses are among four line houses that are located close to one another. The fire spread from the house of Vasanthakumari, 65, around 2.30am when her son lit a mosquito coil and kept it in the midst of a sack. The fire then spread to the adjoining houses of Daniel and Antonyraj. Though timely action averted life loss, efforts by the locals to put off the flames went in vain. Fire service personnel reached the spot around 3.45am with two fire tenders and doused the fire at aound 5.15am. The value of the damaged propperties is estimated to be around Rs 3 lakh. Vasanthakumari who suffered injuries on her leg was admitted in the Kanyakumari Government Medical College Hospital. The Vadassery police are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fire-from-mosquito-coil-guts-3-houses-in-nagercoil/articleshow/81218364.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Private hospitals to keep vaccine price low, add infra for new target groups||KOLKATA: Private hospitals plan to keep the charge for vaccinating the next priority groups low. From March 1, those above 60 years of age and the 45-plus population with comorbidities are set to receive the shot against Covid-19. Doctors are also worried about the duration of the exercise. Even though guidelines are yet to be issued, private hospitals could be charging a nominal amount to cover the cost of the consumables other than the price of vaccines. Several hospitals are also planning to add a counter to cater to the new groups. The exercise is expected to be a lengthy one as the second round of inoculation of healthcare workers and the first round for other frontline workers are still in progress. “We are going to work out the price as soon as the vaccination guidelines are issued. Since this is a public service exercise, we will charge just for the vaccine and the price of consumables. Arrangements are being made to add a vaccination counter,” said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua. Some hospitals are not sure whether the vaccine is going to be chargeable or not. “There are indications that the state will provide it free of cost. So, we are keeping our fingers crossed,” said the head of a hospital. Concerns have also been raised over the possibility of wastage of the vaccine, which is are now being provided in vials of 10 doses each. “Often, due to lack of enough recipients, we have to return the vials, which are half-empty. Since these are now provided free of cost, we don’t feel the pinch. But if we have to buy the vials, the wastage will amount to a substantial loss for us,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. Once opened, a vial of vaccine has to be used within six hours. Mitra pointed out that clarity was also required on how long the vaccination exercise for the 60-plus and 45-plus age groups would last. “These groups are far bigger than that of healthcare workers and frontline workers we are vaccinating now. So, this has to continue for at least a year, for which we must create a permanent infrastructure,” said Mitra. R N Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences that has inoculated several thousand people since January 16 is ready to set up the additional infrastructure required for the drive for the new groups. “It won’t take more than a couple of days to create the infrastructure. But we must have clarity on how and at what price the vaccine will be provided to us,” said RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh. According to Swasthya Bhavan, the number of vaccination sites will be scaled up from the existing 1,000. Senior health officials had a virtual meeting with officials of the Union health ministry on Wednesday, when they were told to start preparing for this third phase of inoculation. Sources at Swasthya Bhawan said that the state had the capacity to increase the number of sites to 10,000. “Increasing the number of sites is not an issue. The main issue is the process of registering the recipients. We are yet to get a guideline on this. But once we get more clarity, we will start working on this as well,” said Ashim Das Malakar from the state health and family welfare department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-to-keep-vax-price-low-add-infra-for-new-target-groups/articleshow/81216481.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
February 26, 2021||Delhi||Big Bird Day count sees decline from last year, warmer conditions may be to blame||NEW DELHI: A total of 244 bird species were spotted across Delhi-NCR this year during the Big Bird Day count on Sunday — a drop from last year’s count of 253 species. While the conditions were much warmer compared with last year, birders said lack of coverage in certain parts of NCR may have led to a lesser count. In 2019, the count was 247, while 237 bird species were recorded in 2018. The count also threw up only the fourth-ever sighting in NCR of the grey-headed fish eagle, which was spotted at Okhla Bird Sanctuary. Other rare sightings included grey-winged blackbird, Tickell’s thrush, great-crested grebe, greater-white fronted goose and the spotted crake. Birder Nikhil Devasar, one of the organisers of the event, said the count was extremely successful under the current Covid-19 conditions and lack of coverage of certain areas in the NCR may have led to fewer species being spotted. “One of the reasons for the low count is that we are still braving the pandemic. While the enthusiasm of birders cannot be marred, fewer people and teams were able to get out. To an extent, maybe the high temperature also played a role,” said Devasar, adding that 627 bird species were recorded across the country. He said these were good numbers for both the NCR and India. Team Peregrine, which consisted of birders Pankaj Sharma, Punit Mehta, Mohit, Nitin Kumar, Bhrigu KP and Ashish Chaudhary, recorded the highest tally of 175 different species across the NCR. Kanwar B Singh, a birder who covered the Bhondsi forest area, said the conditions were ideal this year as low visibility was often a negative factor in January. “By this time, we also start seeing some returning migrants. The temperature might not be much of a factor as migratory birds only depart from mid-March onwards, but maybe some locations were not covered as properly as the previous years,” he added. Birder Pankaj Gupta, who covered Budhera and Sultanpur, said a comparison would be done with last year’s findings to assess whether any major species were missing this year. “The numbers fluctuate each year. I don’t think we missed any major bird species this time around. Maybe some locations were not covered properly, but overall the count was good,” he added. The bird count is held either in January or February every year to determine how each habitat in Delhi-NCR is faring, along with a bid to record rare sightings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/big-bird-day-count-sees-decline-from-last-year-warmer-conditions-may-be-to-blame/articleshow/81218358.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 26, 2021||Dehradun||RTR asks Railways to reduce speed to 30kmph in reserve||Dehradun: It has been over two months now that the virtual tug-of-war between the Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) authorities and the Railways has been ongoing over the speed of trains in an 18-km patch of the 52 km stretch between Haridwar and Dehradun. The 18-km stretch comes under the tiger reserve and is a sensitive area that sees movement of elephants, leopards and now, possibly would start seeing movement of tigers too. The reserve authorities want the Railways to reduce the speed from the earlier agreed 35 kmph to 30 kmph at night and from 50 to 40 kmph during the day. The Railways officials say it is not possible as it will hit the frequency of trains on this route. Tarun Prakash, DRM, Railways told TOI that it is up to the state government to take a stand on whether they want more rail traffic in the state or not. He added that they are escalating the matter to the railways ministry which will take a final call on the issue. “We believe it is solely a state matter. The state government has to take a call on it if they want rail traffic to be increased. If in the future the plan is to connect Yamunotri and Gangotri with the rails through Doiwala then it is obvious that they will pass through Raiwala, Motichur and Kansro. But with a slow speed of 30 kmph it will be difficult to increase the number of trains on the route. The state has to take a clear stand on it,” Prakash added. Currently, there are about 16 pairs of trains that run between Haridwar and Dehradun on a daily basis, according to the Railways. “Further reduction of speed is not possible, therefore, now we will send RTR’s proposal to our ministry,” Prakash said. TOI has learnt that the National Tiger Conservation Authority after conducting inspection of the tiger reserve in January had “praised” the authorities for robust patrolling and suggested that the RTR authorities should continue to strengthen communication with the Railways to ensure that the newly-brought tigers from Corbett are safe in Western Rajaji. RTR director DK Singh told TOI, “We will ensure that the train moves at a bare minimum speed through the tiger reserve. Our entire focus in on protecting the wildlife.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rtr-asks-railways-to-reduce-speed-to-30kmph-in-reserve/articleshow/81215504.cms||Shivani Azad
February 26, 2021||Delhi||North corporation gives legal tag to temple on central verge||New Delhi: North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Thursday passed a private member proposal to legalise the prefabricated steel structure of the Hanuman temple at Chandni Chowk in the House meeting. It was then sent to Delhi government for the final nod before implementation.Councillors from all three parties unanimously decided to maintain the status of the temple on ‘as is where is’ basis.The proposal stated that the structure was located on the central verge and wouldn’t hamper traffic movement as 18 transformers are also located on the verge.A proper temple can come up here later, stated the proposal, which was sent to Delhi government’s religious committee and lieutenant governor Anil Baijal for the final nod.“Some people had apprehensions about utility services and drains passing below the central verge, but the structure won’t affect it, just like the transformers,” said north corporation mayor Jai Prakash.Leader of Opposition and Aam Aadmi Party councillor Vikas Goel and senior Congress councillor Mukesh Goel were also present in the House.The proposal stated that the removal of the Hanuman Mandir on January 3, in compliance with the order of Delhi High Court, had hurt sentiments of residents and devotees of Chandni Chowk.“Our country’s fabric incorporates people of all faiths and the Chandni Chowk road is the perfect example for this,” the proposal said. “The road has places of worship from different religions like temple, gurudwara, mosque, Jain temple, church, Arya Samaj temple. Any religious structures removed in the past due to narrow roads and lanes were rebuilt keeping public sentiments in view… The temple has been put up on the central verge so it doesn’t affect the traffic flow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-corporation-gives-legal-tag-to-temple-on-central-verge/articleshow/81218368.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Leopard cub hidden by villagers rescued in Lakhimpur Kheri district||BAREILLY: Foresters have rescued a leopard cub that was captured by villagers from a cane field and locked up in a toilet near Gola range of social forestry region in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Thursday. They are trying to unite it with its mother by placing it in the same cane field where it was found by some children on Wednesday. They started playing with it while a few of them shot videos. The villagers did not inform the forest department about the cub. When the foresters came to know about the video, a joint team of Dudhwa and social forestry region was sent to the village and the cub was rescued. Anil Patel, divisional forest officer, Dudhwa (buffer), told TOI, “The rescue team will try to unite the cub with its mother. In case, the leopardess doesn’t accept the cub back, then we will shift it to a zoo after taking permission from the wildlife warden.” Samir Kumar, DFO, social forestry, said, “We are trying to identify the people who captured the cub and locked it. Two persons have been detained and action will be taken against them as per the Wildlife Protection Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/leopard-cub-hidden-by-villagers-rescued/articleshow/81214533.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||Who will get the vaccine? No clear answers yet||Nagpur: Everyone above 60 years of age, and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get the Covid-19 vaccine from March 1. While the first criteria of 60+ is clear, there is a lot of confusion over the second one of 45+ with comorbidities. Who will define co-morbid conditions? Who will certify a person has comorbidities? Who will ensure that only genuine persons with co-morbid conditions get the vaccine? The answers are still awaited, but experts told TOI the government will come out with proper format to avoid any complications.“The known co-morbid conditions are diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular diseases, stroke, cancer and chronic respiratory diseases. But, how severe comorbidity will be considered in the criteria is not defined. In fact, we are waiting for the detailed description,” said a senior official from the state health department. As the vaccination is being planned and implemented by the central government’s health department right from the beginning, state machinery can only wait for clear orders.Dr Sushant Meshram, head of the pulmonology department of Super Speciality Hospital, Nagpur, said people who are on regular medication for hypertension and diabetes are most likely to get included in the category of co-morbid people. “Prescription of the physician treating them could be utilized as documentary proof. However, government could come up with other format too,” he said.Cardiologist Dr KK Agrawal said people must be careful while registering themselves for co-morbidities. “Government might come up with a pro-forma in which you have to click or tick mark on several options and self-certify as co-morbid patient. A certification from a registered physician could also be required,” he said, adding that people must fill their option correctly.“One should neither hide a comorbidity to avoid vaccine nor hype it in order to get the vaccine early. We must be truthful while entering our details,” he said. According to Dr Agrawal, all will get an opportunity to get the vaccine in future.Vaccine is must, said Dr Milind Bhrushundi. “Vaccine is the only way out from Covid-19 and it’s a golden opportunity for senior citizens to get a jab,” he said appealing to all eligible persons to register and get both the doses of vaccine without any hesitation in mind. “I have taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. It provides 70% protection from the disease and near 100% protection from severe Covid-19. Even if you get infected, your disease will be mild,” he said.Who will get the vaccine from March 1Above 60 years of age — all citizens45 to 60 years age bracket — All having co-morbid conditionsRegistrations: Web interface, Aarogya Setu App, Common Service Centers, IRFRegistration fees: Registration is free of costCenters: 10,000 Government centres, 20,000 private centres across the countryPrice: Vaccines free at Government centres; In private set-up, Covishield likely to available at Rs300 to Rs500 range, Covaxin yet not decidedChoice: Each centre will have one brand — either Covishield or Covaxin and beneficiaries have to take the available vaccineExpected people: 27 croreRecognized comorbidities: Diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular diseases, stroke, cancer and chronic respiratory diseasesWho will recognize: - Government will provide a format where vaccine aspirants have to click/tick their co-morbid conditions and get it certified by a physician/doctor- This format and details about how physicians will certify a person with co-morbid conditions are yet not published by the government||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/who-will-get-the-vaccine-no-clear-answers-yet/articleshow/81215520.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 26, 2021||Delhi||Aarogya Setu to be key link as 60+ take jab||New Delhi: With the next phase of Covid-19 vaccination set to begin next month, the Aarogya Setu mobile application is expected to be a bridge between the vaccine and the beneficiaries aged 60 years and above or those above 45 years with comorbidities.A Delhi government official said that while a Co-Win mobile application had not been launched for the public, a large section of the population were already familiar with the Aarogya Setu application and using it for a far longer period. “The two applications were linked to make the process of registration easier. Those who use the application can reach the Co-Win portal for vaccine information,” he added.“A final decision on how to populate the Co-Win portal is yet to be taken and we are expecting a standard operating procedure (SOP) in the next few days. It’s a mammoth exercise and we are waiting for directions from the central government,” a senior district official said. District-level health workers are also supposed to help in the new registration drive.“The number of people to be inoculated is massive and we are expecting some glitches initially but adequate arrangements will be in place,” the official said. “A meeting of district authorities is scheduled on Friday and we are expecting something concrete to come up in that,” he said.Dr Suneela Garg, director professor at the department of community medicine in Maulana Azad Medical College and a public health expert who is part of the vaccination programme, said that through the Aarogya Setu application, one could access the Co-Win platform even though there was only vaccine-related information on the app at present.“As of now, you can only get certificates of the first dose and the second dose on the Aarogya Setu application but now it will be extended to the registration of beneficiaries, too, as the module will be linked. This, however, will be one of the mediums through which you can do that,” she said.“Apart from direct registrations, there will be walk-ins and involvement of healthcare workers. There are many healthcare workers who would not be tech-savvy and that is where they would need help from the family member or a healthcare worker, who would get them to the vaccination point,” she added.In the capital, 1,44,346 (59.3%) healthcare workers and 2,02,945 (61.5%) frontline workers have been inoculated, including 18,945 beneficiaries who were vaccinated till 6pm on Thursday. This includes 13,403 beneficiaries who got their first dose and 5,542 who received their second dose, out of which six recipients reported only minor adverse effects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aarogya-setu-to-be-key-link-as-60-take-jab/articleshow/81218400.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||No restrictions or weekend curfew plans on UT’s mind||Chandigarh: Coronavirus cases are increasing by the day in the city, but the UT administration has no immediate plan to put any restrictions or weekend curfew. It is keeping a close eye on the situation and reviewing it weekly. Talking to the TOI, UT adviser Manoj Parida said as of now the situation was not alarming to put any kind of restrictions, like closure of congested markets, weekend or night curfew or limiting gatherings. UT has also sought opinion of doctors and would accordingly take a call, he added. “There is no immediate need for bans,” Parida stressed. On restrictions in neighbouring Punjab, Parida said things were different in Chandigarh, and the UT administration would take only the city's situation into account. “UT administrator VP Singh Badnore will hold a meeting on Friday and review the situation,” he added. Following a spurt in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Punjab, the state government had recently ordered a cap on indoor gatherings at 100 and outdoor at 200 persons from March 1. In Chandigarh, Covid-19 cases have been witnessing a rise since February 19, when 19 fresh cases were reported, and on Thursday 49 were registered. From 123 active cases on February 13, the figure increased to 279 on Thursday.A senior UT officer said they were spreading awareness about wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and handwashing to prevent a surge in cases. Daily rise: UT on 4th spot Chandigarh stands fourth in the country in daily growth rate (0.15%), which is higher than the national average of 0.13%. The figure indicates the rate at which the total reported cases grow on a daily basis. A seven-day average of daily growth is considered for analysis to minimise the effect of daily fluctuations in reported numbers. As per data updated till February 24, Kerala topped the country with 0.39%, followed by Maharashtra (0.31%), Punjab (0.22%) and Chandigarh 0.15%. Similarly, on total positivity rate (TPR), the UT stands at fifth position with 2.1%, which is also higher than the national average of 1.9%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-restrictions-or-weekend-curfew-plans-on-uts-mind/articleshow/81216517.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
February 26, 2021||Madurai||Student, 4 teachers test Covid-19 +ve in Palani school||Madurai: The health department has stepped up vigil at the Palani Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Dindigul district after four teachers and a student tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The school has nearly 1,400 students, who have started attending school after the government reopened schools recently. A teacher tested positive for Covid-19 two days ago, following which 125 people, including 64 teachers 61 students who had been in contact with her were screened for the disease. The tests results received on Thursday showed that four teachers and a 15-year-old student were positive for Covid-19. They have been admitted to Dindigul Government Hospital. District training medical officer Dr Varun Prakash said that they had intensified screening on the school premises, and that medical staff were closely monitoring the situation. The classrooms, which the student and staff attended, would be sanitized regularly. The rooms were now sealed. The school management has also been instructed to ensure that all Covid-19 norms including wearing of masks, hand sanitizing and physical distancing in classrooms were in place, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/student-4-teachers-test-covid-19-ve-in-palani-school/articleshow/81218403.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Madurai||Private schools ask TN govt to stop politicising education for votes||Madurai: Condemning the Tamil Nadu government’s decision to give all pass to students in classes IX to XI, the federation of private school associations (FePSA) - that has 6,500 schools across the state -- has asked the government to stop politicising the education of school students to garner their parents’ votes in the upcoming assembly elections. Federation president M Arumugam told TOI that the government had made students scapegoats and that the decision would blunt students as this was the second year that students of those classes have been declared all pass. “What is the need for such a hurried decision? That too, days after the announced that the Class XII board exams would be held May,” he asked. He said this destroyed the efforts taken to conduct online classes for seven months amid several constrains faced by students, parents and teachers, followed by reopening schools in a phased manner.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/private-schools-ask-tn-govt-to-stop-politicising-education-for-votes/articleshow/81218393.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Commercial, transport hubs planned on octroi naka land||MUMBAI: With the BMC facing a major financial crisis, it is now looking at one of its biggest land banks to bail itself out. The BMC will monetise its octroi nakas by converting these into commercial and transport hubs and raise revenue from this. The BMC will soon appoint consultants to help the civic body monetise the plots, which will be leased out to bidders who can use the plots for creating transport and commercial hubs. TimesViewGiven the financial crisis the BMC is facing, it is a wise move to monetise the octroi nakas lying defunct since 2017. Care should be taken to ensure monetisation does not turn into sale of these lands to private developers. The BMC must make sure that it generates the maximum revenue from commercial exploitation of these land banks without losing them permanently. The BMC must also ensure that these nakas are used for decongesting the city by creating bus terminals.The BMC has five octroi nakas that have been defunct since 2017, when octroi was abolished. These are located at Mankhurd, Mulund, Dahisar, Vashi and Airoli. According to BMC officials, for now only two nakas, the ones at Dahisar and Mankhurd, will be taken up for monetisation. The BMC plans to lease out the nakas instead of going for a public-private partnership (PPP). “For now, only two nakas will be developed. The construction cost will be borne by the BMC. There will be no PPP. We will lease the facilities and raise revenue. PPP is prone to scams and complaints. It will be mainly transport hubs and transport-associated commercial activities,” said P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects). Officials said they have asked consultants to suggest the estimated revenue that the BMC can generate by monetising these octroi nakas. Octroi, collected as a form of tax on goods entering the city, was BMC’s highest revenue generator. The five octroi nakas were scrapped following the introduction of the goods and services tax in 2017. Together these nakas are spread over 16 acres. Soon after octroi was scrapped, the then municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta had asked the newly formed parking authority to check the feasibility of the project and chalk out an outlay. While former police commissioner Subodh Kumar had written to Mehta requesting that the octroi naka land be given to dump scrapped vehicles, many had suggested that the space be used to build central business districts. BMC officials said a transport hub was the need of the hour for the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/commercial-transport-hubs-planned-on-octroi-naka-land/articleshow/81216546.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 26, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Man attacks & critically injures wife, arrested||Thiruvananthapuram: A woman was critically injured after she was allegedly attacked by her husband outside her workplace at Makki under Vithura police station limits on the outskirts of the city on Thursday. The two were living separately. Rani, 40, a resident of Maruthamala near Makki, is the victim in the case. Her husband Ramesh, who is also a resident of Makki, was arrested later on the day. The incident was similar to attempted murder of a 49-year-old woman by her husband early this month at Vizhinjam. In that case too, the woman was attacked outside her workplace, SBI’s Vizhinjam branch. Police said the alleged attack took place around 7.30am at Makki. Rani was an employee at a rubber sheet processing unit in Makki. She faced the attack as she turned up for work. Ramesh, who was waiting for her arrival, allegedly struck her with his helmet first and then hacked her several times using a machete. Vithura station house officer inspector Bipin Gopinath said marital problems were suspected to be the provocation behind the attack. “The couple had been living separately for the past few months. Their divorce case is proceeding before a family court,” the inspector said. The accused was waiting for his wife to turn up for work. According to eye witness accounts, the accused struck her with his helmet. She ran to a nearby house where an elderly couple lived. But the accused followed her to the house and continued to assault her. She tried to escape through the rear door of the house, but the accused followed her there too and hacked her using a machete. She sustained deep injuries on neck and both arms apparently while trying to resist the attack. The aged couple raised alarm and alerted neighbours and rushed the injured woman to hospital. She is currently undergoing treatment at Thiruvananthapuram government medical college hospital “We are yet to know the real provocation behind the attack as the woman is not in a condition to give her statement,” the inspector said adding that the accused will be produced before the court on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/man-attacks-critically-injures-wife-arrested/articleshow/81219418.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Delhi||Vax turnout dips 30%, total coverage 62%||New Delhi: The percentage of Covid-19 vaccination coverage in Delhi increased to 62% of current target on Friday with 13,320 beneficiaries – healthcare and frontline workers – turning up to receive the shots. Out of the total 13,320 beneficiaries who were vaccinated till 6 pm on Friday, 10,834 beneficiaries were those who received their first dose and 2,486 beneficiaries turned up for their second dose. The number of individuals who reported minor adverse effects was four, compared with six on Thursday. According to sources in the Delhi government, total 1,46,827 (60.4%) out of the registered 2.6 lakh healthcare workers and 2,20,694 (63.8%) of the 3.5 lakh registered frontline workers have been vaccinated so far with the registration of more frontline workers still going on. Compared with Thursday, when l 18,945 beneficiaries were vaccinated, the turnout on Friday saw a significant dip of 29.7%. Meanwhile, preparations are starting for the next and much bigger phase of the vaccination drive—the inoculation of those aged 60 and above and those aged 45 and more and have comorbidities. Sources in the Delhi government said that as soon as a standard operating procedure for the registration of these beneficiaries and other processes is formalised by the Centre, the government machinery would be mobilised to put the systems in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vax-turnout-dips-30-total-coverage-62/articleshow/81237057.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||RTO gears up as meters to be recalibrated from March 1||Mumbai: RTO officials are gearing up to handle the rush for meter recalibration and field track tests for meters from March 1, due to Covid. Auto/taxi drivers/owners will head for recalibration as minimum fares will be revised from Rs18 to Rs21 for autos, and from Rs22 to Rs25 for Kaali Peeli taxis here. Around three lakh auto/taxi owners will go in for upgradation of electronic meters to show revised fares. RTO has arranged around 250 centres across Mumbai for replacement of chips in electronic meters. “The government will ensure drivers/owners are not put at risk by limiting the number of people at meter repair shops and RTO premises,” said a senior transport official, adding that even passengers could be at risk if drivers get infected. Drivers are worried about the cost of meter chips (with new calculations and readings), which are yet to arrive from manufacturers. A senior RTO official said drivers will have revised tariff cards soon to compute fares. Transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne has called for a meeting of meter manufacturers and auto/taxi union leaders on Friday morning to finalise recalibration and cost in installing the new chip. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rto-gears-up-as-meters-to-be-recalibrated-from-march-1/articleshow/81218453.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Confusion, anger as people in pvt cars fined over masks||MUMBAI: With BMC intensifying a crackdown against citizens not wearing masks in view of rising Covid-19 cases, there is confusion among people riding in their personal vehicles over whether masks must be on inside. A glance at social media shows confusion as well as anger (see box) because a BMC circular signed by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal stating that those travelling in their private vehicles (white number plates) must not be penalised for not wearing masks inside has been widely reported. TimesViewWith Covid cases surging again, the authorities are rightly strictly enforcing social-distancing rules and fining people not wearing face masks. However, BMC marshals should focus on large public places like beaches, parks, railway stations, markets and bus stops to ensure that the rule is followed. Those driving in private vehicles — either alone or with their families — should not be targeted and penalised. The aim finally is not to collect money but to enforce discipline.An Andheri couple said at Kalina, they were penalised for not wearing masks while they were in their car with their daughter. “I did not know the rule and therefore paid the penalty without argument. My daughter had her mask on,” the man said, adding that they also took a photograph of him. Dhaval Shah, a member of the Andheri Lokhandwala Residents Association, said bikers being penalised for not wearing masks is understandable as they are in close proximity to pedestrians and other riders. But pulling up people in private vehicles feels like harassment. A civic official said while the BMC circular says a mask in a private vehicle is not needed, it is always a good idea to have it on when one steps out of their homes. “The mask is for citizens’ safety in Covid times and with a surge in cases, we have been insisting on it in all public places,” he said. Last week, the BMC chief directed doubling the number of marshals to 4,800. “It is necessary to put up deterrents against those roaming without masks. In view of this, punitive action should be aimed against 25,000 citizens every day against the current average of 12,500,” said a BMC statement. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar held a meeting with representatives of Clean-Up! marshals last weekend and directed that they must not harass people; their aim should be to ensure that most people have their masks on. An autorickshaw driver said marshals are very strict and are penalising even if masks are not worn properly covering the nose and mouth. BMC rules are clear that everyone in public transport vehicles, including autorickshaws, taxis, app cabs and hired vehicles with yellow number plates must have masks on at all times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/confusion-anger-as-people-in-pvt-cars-fined-over-masks/articleshow/81216519.cms||Richa Pinto
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||813 patients saved Rs94L as NMC stops excess billing at pvt Covid hospitals||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has so far helped 813 Covid patients and their families save Rs1.41 crore in all on hospital bills. This amount had been billed in excess of capped rates, and was detected during pre-audits at private hospitals.Another 60 citizens, who had already settled their hefty hospital bills, but later challenged them, have also benefited with NMC ordering a refund of Rs37.08 lakh.As per the state government notifications of May 21 and August 31, 2020, pre-audit is assessment of bills before being handed over to the patient at the time of discharge. This is done to ensure billing is as per terms and conditions of the government regarding 80% regulated beds in private hospitals. Of the Rs1.41 crore pre-audit difference, private hospitals refunded Rs94.23 lakh, while Rs34.11 lakh were returned with regard to the retrospective complaints.When asked about the NMC audits, Dr Pradeep Arora, who had moved the high court on behalf of VHA last year over price capping, said Nagpur bench of HC has already held that the capping of treatment charges of ‘non-Covid’ patients violated the fundamental rights of doctors. “Accordingly, the notification of Maharashtra government was set aside to that extent. For capping on treatment charges of ‘Covid’ patients also, the court determined that the state government is duty bound to compensate hospitals for their losses due to capping.”He said, in the light of this judgement, any kind of auditing of hospital charges is pointless as it is the duty of the state to compensate the hospital for the unpaid charges due to effect of capping. “Very soon, once the worst of this epidemic is over, VHA is going to move the high court for such compensation. As responsible citizens, we don’t want to assert our rights during these critical times of pandemic. But the civic authorities continue their illegal auditing unabashedly in blissful ignorance of this landmark judgement,” he said.Additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma, who is helming affairs to monitor private Covid hospitals, told TOI that most cases were due to interpretation of state government notifications of May 21 and August 31, 2020. “Some of the hospitals assumed certain charges were not specified in them, like oxygen charges or PPE kits. It is maximum Rs1,200 per day for PPE kits in ICU and Rs600 in wards. They were of the view that Rs600 per day was less and they were incurring more expenses on them,” he said.Led by Sharma, the NMC held training and seminars for hospitals to ensure the interpretation was same. “After the awareness drive, number of complaints dramatically reduced,” he said.Most of the complaints were from before the awareness drive. “Initially, only a few hospitals were reluctant to follow the rate schedule. They had also moved the court. As the compliance increased, the complaints reduced,” he said.Sharma said apart from pre-audits, NMC also accepted complaints from people even after they had settled the bills, got discharged and went home. “We are not dependent only on pre-audit to monitor compliance of norms but also complaints following patient’s discharge. The refunds from pre-audit are over Rs94 lakh and those from complaints are around Rs35 lakh,” he said.Sharma said they are still receiving complaints and still responding to citizens as per the rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/813-patients-saved-rs94l-as-nmc-stops-excess-billing-at-pvt-covid-hospitals/articleshow/81215530.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 26, 2021||Dehradun||Armymen douse forest fire near Kumaon regiment HQ||Almora: Several hectares of forest land were reportedly destroyed as raging wildfire reached near the military area of the Kumaon Regiment headquarters in Ranikhet on Thursday evening. Fire brigade and military officers brought the fire under control after battling the blaze for over an hour. Forest fire swept the low-lying areas of Kapina village on Ranikhet-Haldwani highway as well. It picked up mainly due to the wind. A fire team headed by a fire officer was dispatched to douse the blaze, officials said, adding that all heat control techniques were also used. Many military officers and soldiers joined in. Officer-in-charge Keshav Dutt Tiwari said the fire was intense, and just around 500 metres away from the Kumaon Regiment headquarters. "Fire brigade with the support of the Army managed to bring the fire under control after a struggle of one and a half hours," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/armymen-douse-forest-fire-near-kumaon-regiment-hq/articleshow/81215534.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Delhi||Act against illegal labs in capital: HC to Delhi govt||New Delhi: Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Aam Aadmi Party government to act against illegal pathological laboratories in the capital, in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court.“Take action as directed by Supreme Court against some of the illegal labs,” a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh informed Delhi government, while seeking by April 7 a report on the action taken.The oral direction from the bench came during hearing of a plea seeking urgent implementation of Delhi government’s Health Bill, 2019, or the Delhi Clinical Establishment Act, 2010.The plea by consumer rights activist Bejon Kumar Misra alleged that unauthorised pathological laboratories were being operated in the national capital without any checks and balances. Misra submitted that the government only seeks more time to implement the Bill or the 2010 Act, but till date nothing has been done and citizens need to know which labs in the capital are authorised and which ones are illegal. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/act-against-illegal-labs-in-capital-hc-to-delhi-govt/articleshow/81218428.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||Site engr suspended for Metro pillar mishap||Nagpur: MahaMetro has suspended site engineer of general consultant of Metro Rail Project and also slapped fine of Rs3 lakh on private company — ITD Cementation, which is constructing the corridor. The action has been taken after steel rods of under-construction Metro Rail pillar bent to one side badly on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday near HB Town, Pardi, in East Nagpur.A MahaMetro spokesperson told TOI, “High-level inquiry was conducted into the incident. Inquiry found serious lapse in works due to human error. Therefore, the action has been taken. ITD Cementation has also been given warning to avoid any such incident in future.” The bent rods did not obstruct traffic but raised question on quality of construction. This was the second such incident. In November 2017, a steel cage of under construction pillar at Sitabuldi had got bent and titled so much that it obstructed traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/site-engr-suspended-for-metro-pillar-mishap/articleshow/81215533.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Madurai||Transport strike hits commuters hard||Madurai/Trichy: Most buses stayed off the road in Madurai and Trichy cities as well as rural areas on Thursday as transport department employees struck work heeding a call from trade unions in support of various demands. Many commuters including office-goers, labours and students were caught off guard as they turned up at the bus terminals as usual. Key bus terminals such as Arapalayam, Periyar and Mattuthavani in Madurai saw fewer buses since morning while in Trichy, the central bus stand wore a deserted look with almost 60% of services not operating. The few buses that operated were crowded as the limited hands available were deployed only on trips to important towns and key routes, leaving people bound for villages high and dry. Those who turned up for work were transport employees affiliated to the ruling party’s trade unions, while those who took part in the strike prevented them from taking out buses. A group of employees protesting at Ponmeni TNSTC depot sat in front of a bus when a driver tried to operate it. The trade unions, including DMK-affiliated LPF, CITU, AITUC and INTUC are demanding that the government conclude the 14th wage revision talks immediately, clear provident fund and other dues of retired workers and absorb transport corporation’s losses in the budget. Private buses and autorickshaws made the most of the strike shipping passengers waiting for buses though some passengers were unconvinced and waited longer for buses. Many students reached their school on foot. A student, who had to walk from his house in Villapuram to South Gate, said, “I have to change two share autos to get to school. It would cost more, so we decided to walk.” Madurai TNSTC officials said they operated about 50% of the 690 services. Similarly, 210 of the 900 services were operated in mofussil areas. In Trichy, only 20% to 30% of the total 940 services operated from the seven depots of Trichy city, Thuraiyur, Manapparai, Thuvarankuruchi, Uppiliapuram, Ariyalur and Perambalur, operated till noon. “We have taken all the possible steps to ensure that commuters are not affected,” a senior TNSTC official in Trichy region told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/transport-strike-hits-commuters-hard/articleshow/81218432.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
February 26, 2021||Madurai||10 electronic goods shops gutted in Madurai||Cleared/245 Words Madurai: As many as 10 electronic goods shops on the Town Hall Road in Madurai were gutted in a fire that broke out on Wednesday night. While goods worth lakhs of rupees were gutted, no death or injury was reported. A fire and rescue services department official said they received a call at 10.45pm. A fire tender from Thideer Nagar station led by station fire officer Venkatesan reached the spot. The fire had already spread to three shops when the first tender reached. Other fire stations were alerted. Soon, fire tenders and personnel from Meenakshi Temple, Tallakulam, Anupanadi stations reached the spot. In total, six fire tenders were engaged. The Madurai Corporation continuously supplied water till the fire was completely extinguished. Officials said the fire was put out by 2.15am on Thursday. Smoke was spotted in one of the shops in the morning. A fire tender rushed there and doused it in 30 minutes. A fire officer said that the supply of water by the corporation helped put out the fire quickly. Usually, a tender has to make trips to bring water, he said. Madurai district fire officer S Vinoth and additional district fire officer Pandi coordinated the efforts. Another officer said all the shops were small ones selling small electronic gadgets. It was not clear in which shop the fire broke out at first. An electrical short circuit is suspected to be the reason for the fire. A police team conducted an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/10-electronic-goods-shops-gutted-in-madurai/articleshow/81218424.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur adds 51 cases, indicates slight increase||Kolhapur: Indicating a slight increase in the Covid cases, Kolhapur district reported 51 fresh cases, including 24 from the city, on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 50,337. As many as 15 patients were discharged after recovering on Thursday. With this, the number of recoveries rose to 48,373. The death toll stands at 1,741.  According to official communication, Radhanagari, Panhala and Hatkanangale did not any new case. As many as 10 cases from outside Kolhapur were also traced. Satara adds 111 cases  Satara district reported 111 fresh Covid cases and one death due to the infection on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 58,365. The death toll has now risen to 1,850. Maan taluka registered 13 cases, Satara taluka added 16 cases, Karad and Khatav talukas recorded 11 cases each. 15 people tested positive in Khandala taluka, 10 people in Wai taluka tested positive and Jawli taluka recorded nine cases among others.  As many as 55,405 patients have recovered and 1,110 patients are undergoing treatment 12 cases in Sangli  Sangli district added 12 new cases on Thursday, which included four from Sangli Miraj Kupwad municipal corporation, six from the rural areas among others. Fresh cases were registered in four talukas of the 11. As many as 46,540 patients have recovered after eight patients were discharged on Thursday. The district has 48,428 cases, including 131 active cases and 1,757 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-adds-51-cases-indicates-slight-increase/articleshow/81214556.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||No plans as of now to impose night curfew in Mohali||Mohali: There are no plans as of now to impose night curfew or lockdown in Mohali as the district is not that badly affected yet by the recent surge in Covid-19 cases, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Thursday. Although there has been an upsurge in cases in some areas, no specific cluster of positive cases has been detected so far, he said.However, both administrative and health department officials have been instructed to keep a vigil on the areas where positive cases are surfacing and also keep an eye on such pockets, he said.Dayalan said, “Mohali is safe at present and we believe that people here will continue adhering to the Covid-19 precautions and use mask and maintain social distance religiously, so that we are not forced to impose lockdown or curfew again.” He appealed to the residents to be extra cautious when outside their homes.However, being on the safer side, from March 1 onwards, ceiling of 100 and 200 persons on indoor and outdoor gatherings, respectively, would be strictly enforced, he said.The police authorities, municipal commissioner and other executive officers of the civic body, and the SDMs in Mohali district have been directed to continue to ensure strict implementation of all the extant directives of the MHA or the state government relating to Covid-appropriate behaviour.The DC warned that any violation of these guidelines shall be punishable under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and attract punitive action under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC.These restrictions have been imposed keeping in view the larger public interest during the pandemic, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-plans-as-of-now-to-impose-night-curfew-in-mohali/articleshow/81216530.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
February 26, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara reports 44 more cases||Vadodara: The city and district put together reported 44 new Covid-19 cases. The cases were reported from 2,118 tests conducted in the city and district. The number of fresh cases being reported in the city and district have largely remained stagnant since the last couple of weeks. On Tuesday, 43 new cases were reported and this dropped to 42 on Wednesday increasing again to 44 on Thursday. With no fresh deaths due to Covid-19 being confirmed by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) the total number of deaths remained at 241. The number of active cases on Thursday stood at 578, equal to those on Wednesday. The total occupancy of beds in hospitals in the city was of 625 patients. These include cases from Vadodara as well as nearby districts. On Wednesday, the bed occupancy was reported at 633.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-reports-44-more-cases/articleshow/81215558.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||Covid negative report, the new visa for state’s MP travellers||Nagpur: At Saikheda — the entry point into Chhindwara district of Madhya Pradesh (MP) — a Covid-negative report is the visa for travellers from Maharashtra to enter.A youngster pleaded to be allowed to go to a village just 25km away to meet a relative, but the cops at the check post did not relent. “You can ask them to come here and talk,” said a policeman. On Friday, the second day of travel curbs from Maharashtra to MP, policemen stood right in the middle of the road, unmindful of the sun. They ensured that each vehicle was stopped and questioned.“Kahan se ho (where are your from),” the officer in-charge asked the passengers in each vehicle. If the answer was Maharashtra, they were asked to produce a Covid-negative certificate.Among neighbouring districts, this rule is only being followed in Chhindwara. As inquired by TOI, rest of the districts bordering Vidarbha are only doing thermal scanning. Seoni, the other district bordering Nagpur, has only thermal scanning rule, said Sonal Maravi, the sub-divisional magistrate there.“I understand the issue, but we are helpless as there are orders,” said the officer at Saikheda. Pleas of attending relatives’ funeral just a few kilometres inside the border, or any other urgent work like seeing a doctor were turned down.The only choice the travellers had was to return to Saoner, 22 kms away in Maharashtra, to get a rapid antigen test (RAT) done and then enter MP.The officer showed a part of the order, which reads that travellers need to submit a Covid-negative report.Their place of residence is confirmed by checking documents like Aadhaar card. Those living in MP are allowed to pass after thermal screening. TOI spent over a couple of hours at Saikheda border to witness the scene.“The order came on Wednesday evening. We are here since 7am today,” said the officer.By 3:30pm, around 450 vehicles had reached the Saikheda border. More than half of them were returned for not having a Covid-negative certificate, said the personnel deployed there.However, only small vehicles like two-wheelers, cars and SUVs were stopped. As a bus passed, a policeman said, “The order says only small vehicles, so we are not stopping the trucks or buses.”Laxmi Jha, a resident of Manish Nagar in the city, tried hard to convince the policemen but in vain. “I had an appointment with an ayurvedic doctor in Chhindwara. Today was the second sitting, but they are not allowing us. The treatment has helped me avoid a surgery,” she said, but had to return.Manoj Pethkar from Akola, who came with an elderly woman suffering a paralytic attack was allowed only with one companion in his van. The rest were asked to get down and wait till they returned, a cop said. The group had to go close by only.One Aqeel Khan and his family had to go to Betul to attend a funeral but were stopped. Another family wanting to attend a burial in Chhindwara was stopped.Finally, one of the travellers, Yogesh Lalwani, returned with a negative certificate after getting rapid antigen test done at Saoner. He was heading for Bhopal with family. The tests could be done at the government centres.Those living in Maharashtra but working in MP could go if they showed their ID cards or their employer sent a card or undertaking on phone. Farmers having land close by on either side were allowed free passage too, said sources.An airlines employee Roy Weston from Nagpur was biking to Bhopal, where he works. He flashed his card and was allowed to go.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-negative-report-the-new-visa-for-states-mp-travellers/articleshow/81215577.cms||Shishir Arya
February 26, 2021||Business||CWBTA hails India-Mauritius free trade agreement||Kolkata: The Confederation of West Bengal Trade Associations (CWBTA), the apex trade body of eastern region, has welcomed the signing of India-Mauritius free trade agreement (FTA) on Monday. “The India-Mauritius Comprehensive Economic Cooperation and Partnership Agreement (CECPA) signed on Monday is a milestone. Over 300 domestic goods from agriculture, textiles, electronics and other sectors will get market access to the African nation at concessional rates. It is a gateway to the African continent and would greatly enhance India’s trade and export footprint. CWBTA welcomes this initiative by the Indian government,” CWBTA president Sushil Poddar said. The premier trade body is organising the ‘CWBTA Trade Excellence Award 2021’ on February 27, 2021, in Kolkata which will be attended by representatives of leading trade and commerce bodies, industrialists, trading houses and the diplomatic corps. The ‘Trade Excellence Award 2021’ would felicitate achievers across 14 different categories related to trade and commerce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cwbta-hails-india-mauritius-free-trade-agreement/articleshow/81218483.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 88 colleges opened in two years but lack infrastructure||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has announced 37 new colleges in the budget. However, there has been no word on faculty and infrastructure. In the last two years, 88 colleges were opened by the state government. However, no land has been allotted for these colleges due to which they run in rented buildings or schools. No new recruitments were done by the government and education experts are demanding that there should be a policy for opening colleges instead of just random announcement. President of Rajasthan College Teachers Association Narayan Lal Gupta said that opening up of colleges will not serve any purpose until there is enough infrastructure for them. “We were expecting announcement for new recruitment or at least money should have been allotted for the infrastructure of the colleges. You cannot expect colleges to run on their own without any planning on their functioning. The government should have strengthened the already existing colleges instead of opening new ones,” said Gupta. Overall, there has been an increase in the percentage of education budget by 7% this year but that will be spent on the hiked salaries of the government employees. Much amount was given to the universities last year which has been reduced to almost nil this year. Similar situation is being faced by engineering colleges. Rajasthan engineering colleges are facing severe faculty crunch as around 50% teaching posts in 11 different colleges remain vacant. At present in 11 engineering colleges, 526 faculties are working on regular basis and other 250 are on contract.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/88-colleges-opened-in-2-yrs-but-lack-infrastructure/articleshow/81216544.cms||---
February 26, 2021||India||‘Sethi’s linguistic & strategising skills were legendary’||( By Harsh V Shringla) I was deeply saddened and pained to learn of the death of ambassador Ranjit Sethi. Ambassador Sethi was by far one of our most outstanding ambassadors. His linguistic skills and the ability to strategise effectively in dealing with complex issues were legendary. I had the privilege of serving under ambassador Sethi in Paris from 1993 to 1995. As special assistant to the ambassador, this was a unique opportunity to serve under a senior ambassador of extraordinary and unmatched calibre. I not only observed him engage in the best practices of diplomacy but also took inspiration from his handling of the complex issues that came before us. Ambassador Sethi was mentor, tutor and guide to me in the process of developing the skills that went into the making of a diplomat. An area in which ambassador Sethi excelled was languages, one of the most important attributes of a diplomat. He was a linguist par excellence. His French was impeccable and it was not surprising that the then PM, Mrs Indira Gandhi, used him as an interpreter for her meetings with French-speaking dignitaries. Some of our French notables remarked that the ambassador spoke better French than them! Considering that ambassador Sethi’s officially allocated foreign language was Mandarin, in which he was reputed to be even better than French, this was indeed remarkable. Most important of all, ambassador Sethi possessed fine human qualities, which all of us who served with him remember and recall with a great deal of affection and poignancy. Kind and generous to younger officers of the Mission, I recall the many exceptional occasions spent socially with him and the family outside of the strenuous working hours. I maintained contact with ambassador Sethi until very recently. He was pleased to learn of my postings as ambassador and more recently as foreign secretary. I recall reading with fascination the compilation of essays he wrote of his experiences in different parts of the world after he retired. I realised that I shared some of the places he had been posted to, and still recall his evocative description of the Red river that flows past Hanoi. I have conveyed, on behalf of the ministry of external affairs, sincere and heartfelt condolences to Mrs Indu Sethi, Vivan and Diya. Ambassador Sethi will be greatly missed as a senior colleague and member of the Indian Foreign Service. For me the loss is personal and profound. (The writer is India’s foreign secretary)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sethis-linguistic-strategising-skills-were-legendary/articleshow/81219706.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Nashik||Civic chief direct officials to defer new projects||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has directed all the departments to undertake only the essential projects and hold the new ones, which are less important. Considering with the rise in Covid cases may again lead to a drop in NMC’s revenue through various taxes for the next financial year, municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav directed all the heads of the departments to not undertake new projects, which have budgetary provisions in the budget for the current and next financial year. He has issued a circular in this connection, directing officials to prepare the lists of those new work,s which can be deferred for a few months. The commissioner has also advised them to take up only essential projects considering the need of the work, feasibility and availability of funds. The revenue of the NMC through various taxes have already been affected in the current financial year due to the Covid outbreak. If the cases continue to increase, the revenue may be affected in the next financial year as well. The civic body had set the revenue collection target of Rs 1,842 crore for 2020-21. But the revenue has declined by Rs 342 crore. Jadhav recently presented the budget of the NMC amounting to Rs 2,361.56 crore for the next financial year, 2021-22, including the initial balance of Rs 253.86 crore. NMC has set a target of Rs 2,108 crore revenue collection through various taxes and GST grant for 2021-22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-chief-direct-officials-to-defer-new-projects/articleshow/81214595.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||KMC treasury counters open till Sunday 6pm||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation will keep all its treasury counters open till 6pm, extending up to Sunday, to enable property tax payers to clear their dues under a special 100% interest waiver scheme. The last date for application of waiver scheme expires on February 28.This decision was taken on Thursday after several property-tax payers could not pay their dues since the shutters were downed at 4pm. The applicants for the scheme will also be able to avail the treasury counters at Hatibagan, Tollygunge, Behala or e-Kolkata centres at Lake Mall, Baghajatin and other centres. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-treasury-counters-open-till-sunday-6pm/articleshow/81216579.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Pune||‘Prioritise phase 3 of vaccine supply to states, districts with high caseload’||PUNE: For the next phase of Covid-19 inoculations, prioritise vaccine supply for states and districts that are currently registering a spike in active cases, state officials have requested the Centre. The third phase, which includes those above 60 years of age and those above 45 with comorbidities, is set to start on March 1. In Maharashtra, there are an estimated one crore people who fall in these two groups. The state also has districts that are recording spikes, including Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Amravati and Nagpur. Officials said priority distribution will help them organise mega vaccination drives to quickly cover large numbers of at-risk people. Currently, Maharashtra has been allocated a supply that will last till March 15, meant to cover healthcare and frontline workers. It will need more doses to launch a fast phase 3, officials said. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state government on Covid-19, said that he has requested the Centre to prioritise states and districts with high caseload so that vaccination drives can be completed within three to four months. “The decision to start vaccinating those who are over 60 and above 45 with comorbidities from March 1, is a welcome move. But the government should ensure vaccine allocation is made according to caseload data. It is the Centre that decides the allocation as per population that needs to be vaccinated. And that data has been drawn from electoral rolls. However, states and districts with high caseload should speed up vaccination to reach higher immunity levels,” said Dr Salunke. The state currently has over 800 vaccination sites. Officials said an additional 1,000 private hospitals have been roped in to increase this number. Mega vaccination drives, officials said, will help to protect entire communities. “Vaccination is not just for individual protection. Communities have to be protected and for that, we need fast-paced vaccine drives,” Dr Salunke said. He added that the Centre should also ensure glitches in the Co-WIN app — that slowed down vaccinations among healthcare and frontline workers — are ironed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prioritise-phase-3-of-vax-supply-to-states-districts-with-high-caseload/articleshow/81219826.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||Stay home on Saturdays, Sundays: Mayor, civic chief||Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari and municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Thursday appealed the citizens to follow partial weekend lockdown and restrictions announced in view of the increasing prevalence of coronavirus cases in the city.“Though these restrictions are strict, they are beneficial for the health of the citizens. Therefore, establishments including both government, semi-government, private offices and shops should be closed voluntarily on Saturdays and Sundays. Stay home. Don’t go out unnecessarily,” they said in a joint statement issued by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation.Except essential services, no shops, malls, markets, theatres, restaurants, hotels, government, semi-government, private offices, slaughter houses, shops selling meat in the city will remain open on Saturdays and Sundays on February 27-28 and March 6-7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stay-home-on-saturdays-sundays-mayor-civic-chief/articleshow/81215588.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Thane||‘Prioritise phase 3 of vaccine supply to states, districts with high caseload’||PUNE: For the next phase of Covid-19 inoculations, prioritise vaccine supply for states and districts that are currently registering a spike in active cases, state officials have requested the Centre. The third phase, which includes those above 60 years of age and those above 45 with comorbidities, is set to start on March 1. In Maharashtra, there are an estimated one crore people who fall in these two groups. The state also has districts that are recording spikes, including Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Amravati and Nagpur. Officials said priority distribution will help them organise mega vaccination drives to quickly cover large numbers of at-risk people. Currently, Maharashtra has been allocated a supply that will last till March 15, meant to cover healthcare and frontline workers. It will need more doses to launch a fast phase 3, officials said. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state government on Covid-19, said that he has requested the Centre to prioritise states and districts with high caseload so that vaccination drives can be completed within three to four months. “The decision to start vaccinating those who are over 60 and above 45 with comorbidities from March 1, is a welcome move. But the government should ensure vaccine allocation is made according to caseload data. It is the Centre that decides the allocation as per population that needs to be vaccinated. And that data has been drawn from electoral rolls. However, states and districts with high caseload should speed up vaccination to reach higher immunity levels,” said Dr Salunke. The state currently has over 800 vaccination sites. Officials said an additional 1,000 private hospitals have been roped in to increase this number. Mega vaccination drives, officials said, will help to protect entire communities. “Vaccination is not just for individual protection. Communities have to be protected and for that, we need fast-paced vaccine drives,” Dr Salunke said. He added that the Centre should also ensure glitches in the Co-WIN app — that slowed down vaccinations among healthcare and frontline workers — are ironed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/prioritise-phase-3-of-vax-supply-to-states-districts-with-high-caseload/articleshow/81219827.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||‘Law to save people from credit coop society fraud’: CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday told the Assembly that lakhs of people have been victims of fraud by inter-state credit cooperative societies. He said the state government could think of enacting a law to protect the people with opinion of parties and the opposition so that the culprit is not only punished, but the victims can also get their money back. Gehlot, intervening on the issue raised in this regard during the Question Hour, said most of the people whose money has been duped are pensioners or villagers who deposited their money in the hope of high interest. These societies flee or close their offices and individuals lose their lifetime earnings. He informed that some of the cases are being investigated by the SOG. Currently, the recovery of money is possible only after the decision of the court. In this case, a letter will be written to the central government for necessary action. Minister of state for cooperation Tikaram Julie said the Unregulated Deposit Scheme Act-2019 has been enacted by the Centre to curb cases of fraud by credit cooperative societies. With this law, the state government will also get rights to act on these companies. Rules have also been sent by the state government to the central government, so that action can be taken. He said many cases were being probed by the SOG against such societies coming to the state. He said 14 complaints have been sent to the state under the central Act. He said a portal will also be made by the state government on which complaints could be lodged against such societies. Earlier, in a written reply to the original question of Dharmanarayan Joshi, minister Julie said 1,02,096 complaints involving a total amount of about Rs 16,518 crore in cooperative banks and credit cooperatives societies registered under Rajasthan Cooperative Societies Act, 2001 and societies registered under Multistate Cooperative Societies Act, 2002.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/law-to-save-people-from-credit-coop-society-fraud/articleshow/81216562.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Nashik||Malegaon’s Covid situation better than in Nashik city||Nashik: The thickly-populated and congested textile city of Malegaon in Nashik district is not witnessing any alarming spike of Covid cases as of now. This is in contrast to the steady rise in number of cases in Nashik city and in many other urban pockets in rural Nashik. However, Malegaon city registered one Covid-19 death after 37 days on Wednesday. A 40-year-old diabetic male patient died in the hospital. The previous Covid-related death had taken place on January 17. Malegaon had been a major Covid-19 hotspot in the state in the April-May period last year and the district administration had a tough time in keeping people indoors during the lockdown. During the peak period of the pandemic, about 70-80 daily positive cases were being registered and over half-a-dozen deaths were reported in the textile town. “Our daily positive cases hover between 10 to 20 now. On some days, it is also a single-digit figure. Things are under absolute control in the city,” said chief medical officer of Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) Sapna Thackeray. MMC is conducting over 100-125 tests daily. Of the total 158 active patients in the city at present, over 130 are in home isolation. There are three critical patients on ventilators and five on oxygen support. The recovery rate has improved from over 92% on February 14 to over 93% on February 24. “The good thing is that daily Covid positive cases from the eastern part of the city, which is extremely congested, are still low. Adequate tests are being carried out in that part,” she added. After the resurgence of Covid cases in Nashik, district collector Suraj Mandhare had a meeting with MMC and district health officials at Malegaon and instructed them to monitor the situation closely and take steps to prevent the spread of the virus. Even state agriculture minister and Malegaon outer MLA, Dada Bhuse, had directed the elected representatives of the civic body to impress upon the people of their wards to adhere to Covid-safety protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaons-covid-situation-better-than-in-nashik-city/articleshow/81214607.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||Trade bandh today, but not all shops will be closed||Nagpur: The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), apex body of associations of traders in the country, has given a countrywide trade bandh call for Friday demanding simplification of goods and services tax (GST). However, in some relief for citizens, one trade organization — Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT) — has asked its members to keep their establishments open to avoid a three-day continuous closure of markets.Other trade organizations like Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), Nagpur Grain Merchants Association etc have asked their members to keep their establishments closed.All shops will be closed on Saturday and Sunday due to an order issued by municipal commissioner in view of the Covid situation. CAMIT president Dipen Agrawal said closure of markets for three days in succession would cause immense hardships to common people, especially poor, who couldn’t afford to buy provisions in bulk. “I have urged members to keep their shops open and work wearing black bands to protest against the GST. If anyone wants to keep the establishment closed, he or she is most welcome,” he told TOI.Central government had invited trade representatives for talks, but this has not pacified CAIT. National president BC Bhartia said those who represented the government in the talks did not have the authority necessary for changing the GST regime. “We had announced February 26 bandh 20 days ago, yet there is not a single statement from the government showing willingness to simplify GST,” he added.Bhartia further said GST had been amended over 900 times to make it the most complicated tax system in the world. “The government talks of self-assessment and then asks GST inspectors to do our audit. This doublespeak has to be exposed. Unless the traders show their anger, the government won’t do anything,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/trade-bandh-today-but-not-all-shops-will-be-closed/articleshow/81215595.cms||Ashish Roy
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||‘Prioritise phase 3 of vaccine supply to states, districts with high caseload’||PUNE: For the next phase of Covid-19 inoculations, prioritise vaccine supply for states and districts that are currently registering a spike in active cases, state officials have requested the Centre. The third phase, which includes those above 60 years of age and those above 45 with comorbidities, is set to start on March 1. In Maharashtra, there are an estimated one crore people who fall in these two groups. The state also has districts that are recording spikes, including Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Amravati and Nagpur. Officials said priority distribution will help them organise mega vaccination drives to quickly cover large numbers of at-risk people. Currently, Maharashtra has been allocated a supply that will last till March 15, meant to cover healthcare and frontline workers. It will need more doses to launch a fast phase 3, officials said. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state government on Covid-19, said that he has requested the Centre to prioritise states and districts with high caseload so that vaccination drives can be completed within three to four months. “The decision to start vaccinating those who are over 60 and above 45 with comorbidities from March 1, is a welcome move. But the government should ensure vaccine allocation is made according to caseload data. It is the Centre that decides the allocation as per population that needs to be vaccinated. And that data has been drawn from electoral rolls. However, states and districts with high caseload should speed up vaccination to reach higher immunity levels,” said Dr Salunke. The state currently has over 800 vaccination sites. Officials said an additional 1,000 private hospitals have been roped in to increase this number. Mega vaccination drives, officials said, will help to protect entire communities. “Vaccination is not just for individual protection. Communities have to be protected and for that, we need fast-paced vaccine drives,” Dr Salunke said. He added that the Centre should also ensure glitches in the Co-WIN app — that slowed down vaccinations among healthcare and frontline workers — are ironed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/prioritise-phase-3-of-vax-supply-to-states-districts-with-high-caseload/articleshow/81216590.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||JK Lon hosp to get CT scan machine: Raghu Sharma||Jaipur: Health minister Raghu Sharma informed the assembly that a CT scan machine would be operational at the J K Lon Hospital in Jaipur soon. He said the machine has been approved by a donor and the location has also been identified. A three-member committee has been formed to finalise the terms of the MoU, he said The minister was replying to supplementary questions by the MLAs during Question Hour. He said that approval has been received from Dr Ajay Goenka who will donate the machine. The cost of the machine will be about Rs 2 crore. Specification and copy of MoU are also under consideration which will be decided soon, he said. He said that a block has been identified in front of X-ray department at the hospital for installation of the machine and an approval of Rs 13.61 lakh has also been issued by the principal of the Medical College for Infrastructure. The annual maintenance contract would be done by hospital itself, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jk-lon-hosp-to-get-ct-scan-machine-min/articleshow/81216578.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||Clear air on funding for projects: MLA Pali Gyanchand Parakh to CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: BJP MLA from Pali Gyanchand Parakh on Thursday attacked chief minister Ashok Gehlot on the slew of announcements made during his budget speech on Wednesday and sought to know “where will he get the money from to execute these announcements”. “Due to the financial crisis in the state, it raises questions over the announcements that were made during the budget speech. There is doubt over ‘from where will the money come’. This doubt has not been cleared yet. The CM must clear this doubt when he gives his reply,” said Parakh. “The revenue income estimate for the year 2020-21 was Rs1.80 lakh. However, it has been reduced by Rs 8,162 crore in the RE this year, which means there is no money. There is also an overdue of Rs 33,000 crore to be paid to the power companies,” he added. BJP MLA from Ramganj Mandi Madan Dilawar on Thursday attacked the state government for not having fulfilling the announcements made in the previous budget (2020-21). He also attacked the government for increasing the pension and scholarship amounts for students, widows and old-age people under social security schemes. He also attacked the government for not keeping itspromise of filling 75,000 posts, as promised in the last budget. “They are only misleading and fooling the people with their promises,” he said. An argument ensued between Dilawar and power minister B D Kalla, when the former asked why power connection was not provided to the farmers for 12 hours and alleged that the state government had lied about not increasing power tariff for five years. It led to an argument between Kalla and Dilwar as the former said wrong facts were being put on the floor of the House. Dilawar then said “Kalla was telling a lie about power connection to farmers even after swearing by ‘Bharat Mata’. After this ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai ho’ slogans were raised by Kalla himself, who said he can sacrifice his life for ‘Mother India’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/clear-air-on-funding-for-projects-mla-to-cm/articleshow/81216600.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur bomb blast case: HC gives bail to accused||JAIPUR: The high court on Thursday granted bail to one of the accused in the Jaipur bomb blast case. Shahbaz Ahmed, 43, was charged with sending an e-mail claiming responsibility for the blasts. A resident of Lucknow, Ahmed was the first to be arrested three months after the blasts. He was acquitted in all the cases for want of evidence. He was acquitted by the trial court, and ATS filed an appeal in the high court against his acquittal. But the ATS filed chargesheet only after six months of his acquittal. When the court asked why the ATS took so much time to file the chargesheet, to which the prosecution failed to give a satisfactory reply, based on which the court granted bail to the accused. The ATS claimed that he had planted the bomb outside the Hanuman temple at Chandpole, but the bomb did not explode. The prosecution said since the others in the case were given punishment, Ahmed, also guilty of the same offence, should not be let off as it was only a chance that the bomb didn’t explode. On December 17, 2019, the special court dealing with Jaipur bomb blast case had convicted four people for the worst-ever terror attack in Jaipur — eight bombs that ripped through the Walled City on May 13, 2008, killing 71 and injuring hundreds. The special court awarded death penalty to all the other four accused under various sections of the IPC, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and the Explosives Act, in eight cases registered by the ATS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-gives-bail-to-accused-in-blast-case/articleshow/81216614.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Transport panel nod to hand over Aapli Bus service to MahaMetro||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) transport committee on Thursday approved handing over of Aapli Bus service to MahaMetro. The decision was taken ahead of MahaMetro’s consent to take over the city bus service. Transport committee chairman Narendra Borkar told media persons that the decision was taken to curb financial loss to the already cash-strapped NMC. “The NMC incurs over Rs100 crore loss every year due to operation of city bus service, with ticket revenue at Rs64 crore per annum,” he said. TOI had recently reported that Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari was of the opinion that two public transport services—Metro Rail and city buses — should be operated by any one agency, which led NMC to go ahead with the proposal. At present, NMC is operating Aapli Bus fleet of 438, including 237 standard buses, 150 midi, 45 mini and six electric buses, through three red bus and one electric bus operators. “The NMC will hand over these 438 buses along with 40 electric buses to be procured under a central government scheme to MahaMetro, along with four bus operators, two ticketing agencies and the existing manpower of the transport department,” Borkar said. Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) corporators Nitin Sathawane and Narendra Walde, who are transport committee members, opposed the move. With a majority, BJP led panel okayed the move, which will now be tabled before the general body. Borkar claimed that the decision was taken by the civic administration headed by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B. In 2017, NMC had entrusted three bus operators — RK City Bus Services, M/s Travel Time Bus Services, and M/s Hansa Bus Services — to run city bus service for 10 years. Besides, it has already started the process to procure 40 electric buses, for which it had already received a grant from the central government. “Walde and Sathawane suggested that on the lines of NIT, MahaMetro too should have trustees comprising corporators from both ruling and opposition parties if they operate city bus service,” Borkar said, adding they have included their suggestion while approving the proposal. “Being a policy decision, the panel forwarded the proposal to the general body from where it will be sent to the state government,” he said. If okayed, it will be forwarded to the central government from where MahaMetro may get a nod to operate the city bus service, he explained. Commenting on the NMC proposal, MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit said the agency would examine the proposal once NMC submits it. “We are a special purpose vehicle (SPV) formed for executing Metro projects in the state. Running city buses was not part of our original brief. The NMC proposal will have to be put up before the board. The final decision will have to be jointly taken by central and state governments, as they are owners of MahaMetro,” he told TOI. Meanwhile, the panel also gave its nod to giving 18 mini buses to MahaMetro on a daily rent of Rs3,500 each.  However, the panel took objection to the civic administration’s decision to hand over one electric bus to operate between Nagpur airport and Airport Metro station on a daily rental basis of Rs 4,500 without the nod of the transport committee. But later it okayed the proposal on the condition that MahaMetro will also share advertisement revenue on the bus with NMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/transport-panel-nod-to-hand-over-aapli-bus-service-to-mahametro/articleshow/81215608.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Hawker who fled after rape held at wedding in Bihar town||Mumbai: A man on the run since August 2020, after sexually assaulting a 29-year-old homemaker from Juhu, was arrested from Madhubani (Bihar), where he married a girl and was part of the bride-biding farewell ceremony. Juhu police had gone to Bihar after tracking Mohitkumar Baleram’s (27) location but was surprised when it changed to Madhubani on February 23. Baleram, who used to run a Chinese food cart in Juhu, allegedly raped the housewife and fled on August 26, during lockdown. A case was registered after the victim revealed the incident to her husband, who is known to Baleram. DCP (zone IX) Abhishek Trimukhe supervised a team of senior inspector Shashikant Mane, sub-inspector Santosh Dhawale and detection staff to keep track of Baleram, who kept moving around Bihar. The team will reach Mumbai with Baleram on Friday. Baleram was booked under Indian Penal Code section 376 (rape). V Narayan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hawker-who-fled-after-rape-held-at-wedding-in-bihar-town/articleshow/81216672.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 26, 2021||Nashik||NMC tells private hosps not to allot Covid beds to others||Nashik: With the number of Covid cases rising in the city, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has directed all the private hospitals to ensure that the beds reserved for Covid patients by the civic body are not allotted to non-Covid patientsMunicipal commissioner Kailash Jadhav told TOI although the number of cases is rising, the situation is still under control as 66% of the patients are in home isolation.Since NMC is apprehensive that the cases may further rise, the civic body has issued this directive to private hospitals. Jadhav said the health department has been directed to revive the Covid-bed dashboard and call centres within a week for the convenience of the patients’ families. The online dashboard will help the patients and their family members know about the availability of Covid beds in various private hospitals across the city.“There is no issue ragrding the availability of beds, but we will require the health staff if the cases continue to increase. Last time, we had recruited over 500 health staffers on an honorarium basis, temporarily. Now, we have plans to recruit around 300 people and the advertisement for the same will be floated in a day or two,” said Jadhav. All the arrangement like staff, beds, medicines have been made, he said. The scarcity of beds will happen only if the number of active patients rises above 5,000. But at present, the city has around 1,500 active cases.He ruled out the possibilities of closing down schools since attendance is voluntary. Moreover, the Covid infection rate is very low among the children below the age of 18 years, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-tells-private-hosps-not-to-allot-covid-beds-to-others/articleshow/81214611.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||New Market traders fail to meet civic boss||Kolkata: A delegation of Joint Traders’ Forum (JTF), a platform representing traders of New Market and other markets around it, was turned away by the municipal commissioner when they went to submit a charter of demands on Thursday. The municipal commissioner, Binod Kumar, refused to meet the delegation or accept the memorandum as they had no prior appointment.The demands mentioned in the memorandum, including clearing all hawkers from the gates of various markets, restricting size of hawker dalas, free parking lots and ensuring free movement of traffic. The traders, however, threatened to go on a stir if their demands were not met.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-market-traders-fail-to-meet-civic-boss/articleshow/81216615.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Explosives, threatening note found in SUV near Ambanis’ Antilia, security enhanced||MUMBAI: An abandoned SUV with 20 explosive gelatin sticks and a threatening note was found in south Mumbai near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence Thursday afternoon, raising security concerns around one of India’s most prominent business barons. Police sources said the abandoned vehicle, a green Scorpio, found on Carmichael Road close to the Ambani residence, Antilia, had the same number plate as a Range Rover in the industrialist’s security detail. The SUV was found parked outside Shikhar Kunj building, which is barely a few hundred metres from Antilia. It is learned that Ambani’s security staff called the police around 2.30pm though CCTV images show the vehicle was driven to the spot and parked there since 1.30am. After a large posse of policemen arrived, a section of Carmichael Road was off limits till around 6pm. Security was beefed up outside the Ambani residence following the discovery of the gelatin sticks by the squad. State home minister Anil Deshmukh said Mumbai crime branch will investigate the case. “The facts will be brought out soon,” he said. The handwritten note addressed to Mukesh Ambani and his wife Neeta, which was left behind in the vehicle, said the explosives had not been assembled but next time they would be. Police said the coarse language used in the letter suggested the writer was semi-literate or pretending to be so. Mumbai police spokesperson, deputy police commissioner Chaitanya S, said the “suspicious vehicle” was found under the jurisdiction of Gamdevi Police Station. “Police were alerted. The Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad team and other police teams reached the spot immediately, examined the vehicle, and found some explosive gelatin inside. It is not an assembled explosive device. Further investigation is on,” he said. Police said that they have towed away the vehicle for investigation. “A few more number plates were also found from the vehicle and we are verifying it,” said an officer. Police said from the CCTV footage it appeared the vehicle was parked at the spot early Thursday. Proprietor of a grocery named Vijay Stores, Rajesh Singh, outside whose shop the SUV was parked, told TOI that his CCTV showed the vehicle arriving around 1am on Thursday. “The driver did not come out of the vehicle till around 3am,’’ he said. Police are scanning his shop’s CTV footage to trace the person who parked the vehicle and left. “It appears to be a hoax, and somebody has played a serious prank. We will trace and arrest them soon,” said an official. The shopkeeper, Rajesh Singh, told TOI that when the cops broke open the car, they found several number plates inside. Till late evening, several police vans, commandos and dog squads were stationed outside Ambani’s residence. Investigators are also checking CCTV cameras at various locations to trace the person who parked the car. Dozens of personnel from the Gamdevi police station were deployed on Carmichael Road all day. BOX: What are gelatin sticks: Gelatin sticks are highly effective as explosives. They are used for quarrying work. The Indian Mujahideen used gelatin sticks along with ammonium nitrate to carry out blasts in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/explosives-threatening-note-found-in-suv-near-ambanis-antilia-security-enhanced/articleshow/81219264.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Dehradun||Navy divers to check if water in lake formed near Rishiganga is reducing; one more body found||Dehradun: Four Indian Navy divers were air-dropped at the site of the lake formed near the Rishiganga river in Chamoli district on Thursday. This is the second such attempt in the past few days aimed at measuring the depth of the lake. Earlier, a three-member team of Navy divers was air-dropped at the site on Saturday. The divers had used hand-held echo sounders and estimated the depth of the lake to be between six and nine meters. Officials said that the fresh estimation will help in finding out how much water has reduced in the lake. The exercise will also suggest whether the lake is being reinforced with fresh glacial water. The officials added that constant monitoring of water level in the lake is being done. Meanwhile, the teams of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) continued clearing more logs and big boulders from the mouth of the lake in order to speed up the water outflow. “In the last three-days, a lot of water has discharged from the lake, which was formed after the February 7 flash floods,” said Vivek Pandey, spokesperson, ITBP. On Thursday, search and rescue teams also found the body of a disaster victim from a downstream area. With this, the total toll of the disaster rose to 71 whereas133 people continue to remain missing, according to the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC). Excavation work to clear the muck from the tunnel at Tapovan is also ongoing. The officials of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said that water is being pumped out of the tunnel and slush/debris has been cleared up to 180 meters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/navy-divers-to-check-if-water-in-lake-formed-near-rishiganga-is-reducing-one-more-body-found/articleshow/81214625.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 26, 2021||Nashik||50-bed O2 units planned in Nashik dist||Nashik: The state health authorities have decided to set up and keep a 50-bed oxygen facility ready in every taluka across the district to ensure timely treatment to Covid patients “Since the cases are rising, we have decided to keep the oxygen-support system of 50 beds ready in every taluka to treat the Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Anant Pawar, the resident medical officer, Civil Hospital, Nashik.  The average patients added per day in the rural areas were around 140 but now, 160 cases are reported per day. “Since the dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC) have been closed du to fewer patients in the recent times, we have now decided to start these facilities at every taluka level so people do not have to rush to the city,” said Pawar. There were 30 DCHCs across the district, 18 of which were in the government institutions. Since the cases were reducing and most of the patients were asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, 25 facilities were shut down. “We have few DCHCs still in service, especially in Sinnar, Niphad and other areas. DCHCs in Trimbakeshwar, Peth,Surgana, Igatpuri etc were closed down. As far as restarting these facilities is concerned, the situation will be reviewed frequently and decision will be taken at an appropriate time,” Pawar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/50-bed-o2-units-planned-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/81214627.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Voters with fake degrees rejected for MLC polls: CEO||Hyderabad: Telangana chief electoral officer Shashank Goel said voters who applied for enrolment using fake degrees were rejected in two graduate constituencies in Telangana. Goel said: “Electoral registration officers (EROs) weeded out the voters who tried to enrol with fake degrees. We have earlier received complaints from political parties and we have acted upon them.” Congress had in October 2020 filed a written complaint alleging that mass enrolment happened with fake degrees for graduates constituencies of Mahbubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad and Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam. Additional commissioner of GHMC S Pankaja said: “No specific instances have come to my notice.” ERO’s office said it has no information on complaints lodged with police regarding use of fake degree and it has no information on number of such cases detected. She said nine districts and 19 assembly segments fall in Mahbubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad constituency. Assistant electoral registration officers of RDO rank are appointed for each assembly segment. “They have got all enrolments verified with the help of booth-level officers,” Pankaja said. In 2015, in Mahbubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad constituency, three lakh voters were enrolled and this time, the number has increased significantly to 5.3 lakh. In Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency, the voter numbers have increased from 2.8 lakh to five lakh. The mass enrolments have led to several allegations with political parties accusing one another of resorting to dubious means, including using fake degrees for enrolment. ECI officials warned that criminal action will be initiated if it is proven that any voter using fake degree to get enrolled for the graduates constituency. Meanwhile, around 15 nominations were rejected after scrutiny and 96 candidates in fray for Mahbubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad constituency. “Friday is the last day for withdrawal of nominations. Around 179 sets of nominations by 119 candidates were filed. In the scrutiny, we rejected around 15. If there are any withdrawals, the number can go down further,” said Pankaja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/voters-with-fake-degrees-rejected-for-mlc-polls-ceo/articleshow/81216641.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Nashik||NMC starts two testing centres||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), owing to the rising cases of Covid-19, has started RT-PCR testing centres at two locations — Morwadi hospital in Cidco and another hospital in Satpur area of the city. The civic body is already conducting RT-PCR tests at Bytco and Zakir Hussain hospitals. “We have decided to increase the RT-PCR testing centres in the city. With the additional two RT-PCR testing centres, the number of the testing centres has now increased to four,” Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintending officer of the NMC, said. “We they wills start the RT-PCR tests at two more locations in the city within the next two days. These two centres are at IMA Hall and Indira Gandhi hospital in the city,” he added. During the last 15 days, the city has recorded an average of 150 new cases, tripling the total number of active cases — from 494 on Feb 10 to 1,500. The NMC official said although there has been a rise in number of new cases, over 80% of the patients are asymptomatic. Moreover, the coronavirus is in the mild form. “We have increased the tracing and testing of Covid suspects,” he said. Earlier, there was a spike in Covid-19 cases in the month of September last year and the city had reported an average of 867 Covid new cases every day. But the cases had then started reducing from October as the number of new cases per day on an average had reduced to 338.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-starts-two-testing-centres/articleshow/81214617.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Limited entry at Siddhivinayak temple||Siddhivinayak temple in Prabhadevi reiterated that only devotees with prior appointment will be permitted darshan at Angarki Chaturthi on March 2. Only those who register on its app and procure the QR code will be permitted from 8am to 9pm on the day of the festival. The decision comes in the wake of CM Uddhav Thackeray’s appeal to halt large religious and cultural gatherings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/limited-entry-at-siddhivinayak/articleshow/81216697.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||To enter Rajasthan, Covid-19 negative report must for people from Kerala, Maharashtra||JAIPUR: After a brief lull, Covid cases saw a sudden spike across the state on Thursday recording 128 fresh infections, the highest in 21 days. It was also for the first time in the last six days that the numbers breached the 100 mark. Apprehending further rise in cases, the state government made it mandatory for passengers coming from Maharashtra and Kerala to carry a RT-PCR Covid negative report. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the pandemic had not vanished completely as there had been significant rise in its numbers in Kerala, Maharashtra and a few other states. Asking people to stay alert, he appealed to people to wear masks and follow social distancing norms. He said passengers from Kerala and Maharashtra should get Covid negative report within 72 hours of beginning their travel. Directions have been issued to conduct screening of them at railway stations and airports on arrival. Health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said the active cases are just 0.38% and the recovery rate is 98.7%. The doubling time of Covid cases has increased to 2,521 days, but it is 586 days nationally. While Maharashtra continued to report the highest daily new cases followed by Kerala, the state government has taken it seriously and decided to check the health status of passengers traveling from the two states. “We will ensure that passengers traveling by air, railways and roadways from the two states, should have a Covid-19 negative report,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur (I). On February 4, the state had reported 139 cases and since then it was for the first time the state reported 128 cases. The health department acknowledged that for the last three days, cases had been increasing in the state. “Section 144 of CrPC has already been extended and directions have been issued to districts to remain alert,” said a senior health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/to-enter-raj-ve-report-must-for-people-from-kerala-maha/articleshow/81216642.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||CRPF jawan saves life of 3 with organ donation after death||Nagpur: A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawan, who died of neurological complications on February 24, gave a new lease of life to three needy persons through cadaver organ donation coordinated by the Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre (ZTCC), Nagpur.Sandeep Mahajan, 39, from Yerandol of Jalgaon was a cook with the CRPF. According to details provided by ZTCC, he was admitted to New Era Hospital last week with complaints of drowsiness with paraparesis. In spite of undergoing treatment for six days, his condition deteriorated neurologically and a team of doctors declared him brain-dead on February 24. After family members were counselled by New Era Hospital doctors, patient’s wife Monali Mahajan agreed to donate her husband’s organs, said ZTCC.Sandeep’s two kidneys, liver, lungs and eyes were found fit for retrieval. ZTCC allocated the kidneys and liver to local patients while lungs were allocated through National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization (NOTTO) to a 53-year-old man at Kokilaben Hospital, Mumbai. Doctors reached Nagpur from Mumbai by a chartered flight early in the morning, but could not retrieve lungs as they were found unfit for transplant while harvesting.As one of the kidneys was to be transported to Wardha, traffic police created a 88km green corridor from New Era Hospital to AVBRH, Sawangi, Wardha. Kidney reached there in 55 minutes.While this was the 71st cadaver donation in Nagpur zone, it was 43rd liver transplant of Central India. Of these, New Era Hospital alone has done 36 liver transplants. One of the kidneys was transplanted in a patient admitted to the same hospital. It was the 25th renal transplant at this hospital.Donating lifeDonor | Sandeep Ramdas Mahajan, 39Consent by | Wife Monali MahajanFamily members | Mother, father, brother Gyaneshwar, and two children1st kidney | Donated to a 52-year-old man at New Era Hospital, Nagpur2nd kidney | Donated to a 35-year-old man at Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital, Sawangi, WardhaLiver: Donated to a 60-year-old patient at New Era HospitalPair of corneas | Mahatme Eye Bank, Nagpur(As informed by ZTCC)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crpf-jawan-saves-life-of-3-with-organ-donation-after-death/articleshow/81215616.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||MLC polls: Magician hopes for new spell||Hyderabad: The field for the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahabubnagar graduates MLC constituency is getting stronger with senior politicians, popular academicians and prominent independents entering the fray. There is also a magician who has filed his nomination for this seat seeking to work for development of youth and bringing about changes in the education system. Fifty five-year-old Samala Venu is a magician by profession. This magician is confident of upsetting the apple cart of TRS, Congress, BJP and other independents, although this is his first election. “I want to work for the progress and development of youth. Show them the right direction and give our country progressive thinking youth having the skills to make India a superpower with their contribution. This can be done by prevailing upon the government to make changes in the education policies, set up a skill university, a youth development corporation, counselling centres for youth in every district,” he said.  Venu, a qualified MSc mathematics from Osmania University and MS in public relations from Sri Venkateswara University, wants to represent the aspirations of youth and other citizens in the state legislative council. He has worked hard to ensure that over a lakh youngsters are enrolled on the voters list and has been campaigning for several weeks now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlc-polls-magician-hopes-for-new-spell/articleshow/81216623.cms||Roushan Ali
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||NOC holders from ‘khatedars’ can apply for mining leases in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: In what may lend an impetus to the mining sector in the state, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had announced in the Budget on Wednesday that investors or entrepreneurs can now apply for mining leases on land owned by other people after obtaining their no objection certificate (NOC). Ajitabh Sharma, principal secretary, mines and petroleum department, said, “There are many people having small size mineral bearing land. Because the extant rules allow leases for land having more than one hectare, not only the people with smaller land sizes get deprived of economic opportunities but the state also loses the mineral resources and multiple benefits thereof. The chief minister’s announcement of allowing NOC holders to apply for leases was to help these small mine owners to combine their land with other portions of land and get the financial benefit from it .” As per industry estimates, the proposal has the potential of bringing into production of over 2,500 mines containing minor minerals and creating largescale cascading benefits. Akshaydeep Mathur, secretary general of Federation of Mining Associations of Rajasthan said, “The new policy measure will catalyse immediate allocation of over 2,500 mining leases in the state, augment revenue to the state and accelerate growth of the mining and mineral sector.” The growth-oriented move in the Budget led the mining industry to believe that the government is unlikely to reduce size of mines from the current four hectares. But the industry believes that if the limit gets increased and also if the government allots its mineral bearing land in the vicinity to the NOC holder, the mining sector alone would be capable of driving the growth of the state. In case of the 31 industrial minor minerals, the state is the regulatory authority. Earlier, the minimum lease area for minor mineral leases was 32 hectare. The rationale of giving bigger size blocks was to ensure safe and scientific mining. But the size was reduced to 5 hectare in 2006 and the state government kept it at 4 hectare since 2015. The new mining policy is awaiting the chief minister’s approval for announcement. The industry is apprehensive that the 4-hectare limit may get reduced further, instead of raising to 25 hectare that is ideal for mine management. “Very small lease areas are not conducive for the safety of workers,mines, environment upkeep, and all round mine management. Secondly, lots of mineral wealth gets lost forever since these are deep seated and the mine needs adequate width to dig deep due to slope stability issues,” said Mathur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/noc-holders-from-khatedars-can-apply-for-mining-leases-in-state/articleshow/81216627.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||ODOP has given 32% boost to UP’s exports, says Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Linking the one district-one product scheme, launched in 2018, with a 32% increase in UP’s exports, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that the scheme had been appreciated even by the Centre which included it in the Union Budget this year. Speaking in the Vidhan Parishad on Thursday, the CM said that at a time when large industries were shutting down, MSME and ODOP industrialists approached him for exporting their products and that he had taken up the matter with the Centre. “We organized an Investors’ Summit in 2018 and its result is that when the entire world’s economy was impacted during the Covid-19 phase, investments of Rs 7,000 crore were made in UP,” the CM said. He said that the web of expressways and highways that the government was laying in the state had improved its investment potential. Better law and order had aided in attracting several multinational companies to the state. “People are investing in UP because they know that their investment is safe. We are getting massive investments in the defence corridor. The state will follow its policies, and not a pick and choose method to promote industries. We are guaranteeing security and in turn, potential for employment generation and development are rising,” he said. Talking about connectivity in the state, the CM said that 80% of the work on the Purvanchal Expressway had been completed. Cities like Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Agra, Kanpur and Hindon had been linked with air connectivity. Work was ongoing at seven airports while the Bareilly airport project is to start shortly, he said, adding that before his government came to power, UP was limited to just two airports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/odop-has-given-32-boost-to-ups-exports-says-yogi/articleshow/81219263.cms||Neha Lalchandani
February 26, 2021||Nashik||Dhule collector orders random testing of students||Nashik: Alarmed by the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Dhule, district collector Sanjay Yadav has ordered all the government officials to come out on the streets and penalise every person found without a face mask or not following the Covid-safety norms. The collector has also asked the officials to carry out random testing of students going to school in order to contain the spread of the disease in the district. “With the cases rising in neighbouring district, Jalgaon,we have decided to take extensive steps to ensure we are not forced to impose lockdown in our district as this will hurt the economy more and affect the poor people,” Yadav said. “Children travel to school and back home using public mode of transport. There are chances that they may get infected and spread the virus to others. We have to ensure they are safe and hence this exercise will be carried out on priority,” he added. The district collecter also stated that the assessment of the tests would help the administration take a rationale decision on running of schools. “We do not intend to press panic button, but at the same time the spread of infection will help us and the parents to decide upon the future of the schools,” said Yadav, adding that the daily testing will also increased from 500 to 1,200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-collector-orders-random-testing-of-students/articleshow/81214647.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 26, 2021||Nashik||60% beneficiaries get vaccinated in Nashik division||Nashik: A total of 1.21 lakh or 60% beneficiaries comprising health care and front line workers have been administered vaccination against Covid-19 in Nashik, Dhule, Nandurbar, Ahmednagar and Jalgaon districts in Nashik division till Wednesday.“Of the 2.03 lakh beneficiaries, 1.21lakh have been administered either first or both the doses through various institutions,” said Dr PB Gandal, the deputy directorof health, Nashik. Dhule has shown the best performance with 66% vaccination while Ahmednagar is at the bottom of the chart with 57% .Nashik division has 1.34 lakh health workers and 99,271 have been given either single or both doses as per the progression. There are 69194 front line workers registered and so far 22,136 have been vaccinated across the five districts so far. “There were minor adverse cases, which are expected after every vaccination,” said Gandal. The officer said the pace of the vaccination programme was satisfactory given that the health officials are occupied with routine vaccination programmes to be carried out under the compulsory programmes. “We have, however, instructed the officials to increase the pace because a bigger number of people will have to be vaccinated in March,” added Gandal. The district has received 2.37 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine and 1.31 lakh doses of Covaxin for all five districts, There are 531 cold chain points that are used for the flowof vaccines to the vaccination sites. There are 3,626 health staff trained for vaccination across Nashik division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/60-beneficiaries-get-vaccinated-in-nashik-division/articleshow/81214640.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||We’re doing utmost to protect cops from Covid: DGP||Nagpur: State director general of police Hemant Nagrale, in city to review law and order in Vidarbha, said on Thursday his office in Mumbai was working with only 50% staff strength as a precautionary measure against Covid, as per the government advisory.He said district SPs and city commissioners may observe the functioning of the DGP office and may take similar steps to reduce attendance in their respective offices so as to curtail crowding in transportation and also workplaces. Nagrale also admitted there had been a rise in criminal activities in the state especially at the grassroots but said police had initiated multiple counter measures. He also handed over the joining letter to 30 kin of police personnel who died of Covid while on duty. “Police have been always doing the balancing act and once again we have to meet the tricky question of how to get the work done without anyone getting infected. During corona, Maharashtra police have lost 339 personnel,” he told the media at the Police Gymkhana.Nagrale added it was the cops and the health workers who were on the roads during the peak of the pandemic last year. “We are taking utmost care about health of the police personnel in the coming days and also trying to offer them a better working conditions to protect their health,” he said. Stating that offences have been registered against the violators at Pohradevi shrine, the state top cop refused to comment further claiming investigation would reach it’s logical conclusions. He said the same when asked about the controversial suicide case in Pune.Nagrale, who was accompanied by CP Amitesh Kumar, lauded Nagpur police for taking stringent action against goons as per his earlier instructions. “Eight proposals of MPDA against dreaded goons are ready in Nagpur,” he said.Nagrale also said more offences the Anti-Corruption Bureau registers, the better it would be for deterrence. “We cannot eradicate corruption but curtail it with efforts as it is part of the system. Corruption needs to be weeded out,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/were-doing-utmost-to-protect-cops-from-covid-dgp/articleshow/81215622.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana govt in a dilemma over holding budget session||HYDERABAD: With just little over a month for entering the new financial year, Telangana government is in a dilemma whether to hold the budget session before the MLC polls or after the polls. Polling for the MLCs polls for Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda graduates constituencies will be held on March 14 and counting will take place on March 17. Sources in the government said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has tentatively decided to hold the budget session from either March 7 or 8. But, no decision has been taken or conveyed to the assembly till now on the date of budget session and budget presentation as the ruling party machinery is busy with the MLC elections. Sources in the legislative affairs wing said the government would announce the dates in a day or two. “The CM has to convey the dates of the session to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. The governor is in Puducherry as she is holding the additional charge of lieutenant governor and is busy due to political developments in that state,” an official in CMO said.  KCR is personally monitoring the campaigning and working out strategies for the MLC elections, especially Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituency where the TRS fielded former PM PV Narasimha Rao’s daughter Surabhi Vani Devi. “Eight ministers, about 70 TRS MLAs and MLCs belonging to the ruling party have been asked to take care of campaigning and coordination in their respective districts and constituencies for the party candidates. If budget sessions are held, the ministers will have to sit in the House during the question hour and demands pertaining to their departments. MLAs have to be present during the session. In this scenario, the government is having second thoughts,” government sources said. Officials said the budget sessions are generally held for 15 to 20 days in the last week of February or first week March every year to present, approve the budget and department-wise demands for the next financial year. The budget sessions have to be completed before the end of the financial year i.e March 31, as the new financial year begins on April 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-in-a-dilemma-overholding-budget-session/articleshow/81216653.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||Sambhar Salt Ltd can file FIR against encroachers, says Parsadi Lal Meena||JAIPUR: Industries minister Parsadi Lal Meena informed the Assembly on Thursday that Sambar Salt Limited is a government of India undertaking and it has the right to file an FIR against people who encroached upon the land and illegal exploitated the water. He said the state administration had acted against encroachers from time to time at the request of the company. Speaker CP Joshi suggested that a meeting of the state and central officials be held to find a permanent solution to the problem. Meena while replying to a question said the district collectors of Jaipur and Nagaur had also acted from time to time against complaints of illegal possession and water theft. He said in 2020, encroachments were removed from a total of 23.85 hectares in Nagaur and Jaipur, 295 illegal borewells were destroyed and 32 submersible pumps were seized along with 22,800 metres of electric cables. He said repeated encroachments and illegal borewells and electrical connections are indeed a serious problem. During the discussion, Joshi intervened and asked the government to hold a joint meeting between state and central officials and appoint a nodal officer to deal with the situation. He informed that Sambhar Lake area has been determined by the department of land management in compliance with the report of the committees constituted by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sambhar-salt-ltd-can-file-fir-against-encroachers-says-govt/articleshow/81216708.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Vijayawada||Rayalaseema lift irrigation project DPR in final stages||Amaravati: Following the completion of the field-level geological survey, the irrigation department is preparing to finalise the detailed project report (DPR) for the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RILP). The state government is hopeful of getting the clearance from the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) for the project which is being talked about as a game-changer for the Rayalaseema region. The project has faced several hurdles at various levels since it was conceived around a year back. It had been proposed by AP to lift water from Srisailam project when its water level is at 800 feet as existing projects are unable to get their quota of water at the prescribed level of 854 feet. Despite the state’s government repeated submission that the project has been designed only to take Rayalaseema’s quota of water from Krishna, the Telangana government has been raising objections. Initially, the southern bench of National Green Tribunal (NGT) had given the green signal to take up works on Seema lift after an expert committee under the Union environment ministry made it clear that the project did not require any new clearances. Subsequently, the Telangana government pleaded in the case and got a stay. The issue then reached the principal bench of National Green Tribunal (NGT) in New Delhi which directed the Andhra Pradesh government not to go ahead with the works without taking clearances from KRMB. The Andhra Pradesh government filed an application with KRMB to obtain permission to go ahead with the works as they had already secured required clearances from the environmental ministry. Meanwhile, NGT’s southern bench has granted permission to AP government to prepare the DPR and submit it for scrutiny of the KRMB. “This project is very important to pump life into Rayalaseema as the region, comprising Ananthapuram, Kurnool, Kadapa and Chittoor districts, has a total cultivable area of just about 36%. The irrigated area is only 20% of the state but constitutes 41% of the geographical area in the state,” said engineer-in-chief (ENC) Narayana Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rayalaseema-lift-irrigation-project-dpr-in-final-stages/articleshow/81215422.cms||Samdani MN
February 26, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Couple attempt suicide; woman dies, man critical||VIJAYAWADA: In a tragic incident in Nellore district on Tuesday, a woman ended her life by jumping into a well while her boyfriend slit his throat and attempted suicide as their families did not agree to their relationship. According to police sources, the woman from Pullayapalli village of Udayagiri mandal got into a relationship with Imam Qasim a couple of years ago. Police said that family members on either side did not agree to their relationship after the woman told her parents. Cops said that she had planned with Qasim about taking the extreme step. On Monday night, the woman left her house in the night and family members realised that she went missing and after searching all over the place, they found her body inside the well near their agriculture field. Simultaneously, Qasim too attempted suicide by slitting his throat at his relatives place in PP Kunta in Kadapa district. Cops said his condition was critical and was taken to a hospital in Badwel. A case was registered by Udayagiri police under section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death) and the woman’s body was sent to hospital for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/couple-attempt-suicide-woman-dies-man-critical/articleshow/81196011.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Vijayawada||Govt issues order to hike min wage for jail inmates||Vijayawada: The high court on Thursday expressed its displeasure to the government for not complying with its order in issuing a GO enhancing incentives for prisoners in state’s jails. After the court reprimanded the officials and warned to summon them to the court, a government order (GO) was issued enhancing the incentives. Advocate Thandava Yogesh had filed a PIL in 2019, seeking directions to the government to enhance the incentives for prisoners in line with the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court in 1998. The government had earlier told the court that it is working on the modalities and sought one week’s time. The court granted two weeks for the GO to be issued. On Thursday, when the matter came up for hearing again, the government pleader told the bench comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice C Praveen Kumar that due to unavoidable delays in governance procedures, they could not come up with the GO. The bench took a serious view of the reply, and observed that when the court gave additional time to comply with its orders, the officials should respond to it in letter and spirit. The bench declined to grant more time and sought the GO by 4 pm on Thursday. The bench also warned of summoning the officials responsible if the order was not complied with. Following the HC reprimand, officials readied the GO and submitted it to the court in evening. As per the order, the current incentives of Rs 70, Rs 50 and Rs 30 for skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled works have been enhanced to Rs 200, Rs 180 and Rs 160 in that order, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-issues-order-to-hike-min-wage-for-jail-inmates/articleshow/81215457.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 26, 2021||Vijayawada||Two killed on the spot in Chittoor vehicle collision||Vijayawada: Collision between a car and a bus near Gudupalle area in Chittoor district on Thursday resulted in the deaths of two persons. The deceased were identified as Subanna and Kantahappa. According to Gudupalle station house officer (SHO) Umamaheswar, the incident happened between 9 and 10 am. The SHO said the car was heading towards Gudupalli Medical College and was speeding when it rammed into the oncoming bus from the opposite direction while trying to overtake another vehicle in front of it. Both Subanna and Kanthappa died on the spot due to the impact of the collision while two others sustained injuries. Cops said that while the driver managed to survive, he is severely injured. Following information from locals, police rushed to the spot and moved the injured to a local government hospital. A case was registered under IPC section 304A (causing death due to negligence). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-killed-on-the-spot-in-chittoor-vehicle-collision/articleshow/81215524.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: EMIs not paid, bank agents threaten Satellite woman||AHMEDABAD: A 36-year-old woman from Satellite accused two recovery agents of a private bank of grabbing her hands and forcefully confining her and her two kids in the house after she and her husband failed to repay five EMIs on their business loan. In her FIR, the woman said that she and her husband had taken a loan of Rs 12 lakh from Kotak Mahindra Bank. She told police that they had repaid 27 EMIs. However, due to financial crisis brought on by the coronavirus-induced lockdown, they were unable to pay five EMIs totalling Rs 5 lakh. In her FIR, she states, “I was home with my two kids around 12.30 pm on Wednesday when bank recovery agents Ashish Desai and Varva Rabari barged into my house near Shyamal crossroads. They told me to keep quiet, grabbed my hands and forced me to sit. They made me call up my husband. They told him that I was in their custody and they would not free me till he came home. Then they began abusing him loudly." She told police, “Hearing their voices, two of my neighbours rushed to my house and asked them to leave. However, they began abusing my neighbours while demanding money from me.” She alleged that they threatened to kill her. “As my kids were at home, I was very scared. So, I called the police control room.” The Satellite police reached the house and nabbed the two agents. The accused have been booked under the charges of wrongful restraint, molestation as they held her hands, uttering of abusive words, criminal intimidation and abetment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/emis-not-paid-bank-agents-threaten-satellite-woman/articleshow/81216709.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Vijayawada||Migrant worker from Maha bitten by snake, dies||VIJAYAWADA: A woman farm labourer succumbed to a snake bite in Utukuru village of Gampalagudem mandal in Krishna district late on Tuesday night. She was feeding her baby when she was bitten by the snake and the incident came to light after she had passed away on Wednesday morning. The deceased was identified as Shruti Pramod Bhoyar, a migrant worker from Maharashtra. Workers said that the child was crying because of hunger following which she took the baby to a secluded place to feed when the snake bit her. Soon, a fellow migrant worker Rupesh Prakash Chapde who heard her screams rushed to her aid but he too was bitten by the snake. The two were helped by other workers and rushed to the hospital. However, Shruti passed away while receiving treatment while Rupesh is said to be stable and responding to treatment. Officials suspect the snake that bit both was a viper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/migrant-worker-from-maha-bitten-by-snake-dies/articleshow/81215498.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Vijayawada||‘Booking activists under UAPA meant to stifle voice of dissent’||Vijayawada: Booking cases against civil rights activists under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act is an attempt to stifle the voice of dissent, advocates representing the activists, who have been booked under UAPA on allegations of having links with Maoists, told the high court on Thursday. Separate petitions were filed in the court after police booked cases against activists and members of revolutionary writers association (Virasam), Kulavivaksha Nirmulana Porata Samiti (KVPS), and Chaitanya Mahila Sangham at Pidugurall in Guntur district and Manchangiputta in Visakhapatnam district under UAPA. Cops registered the cases based on a statement given by a man allegedly having connections with Maoists. Advocates representing the petitioners argued that the cases were registered based on a statement given by an alleged Maoist sympathiser without any substantial evidence. They contended that when there is no occurrence of any crime, booking cases under UAPA is arbitrary and unconstitutional. All people booked by the cops are working for the downtrodden sections of the society, they said, adding that there are political motives behind the cases as the state wants to silence those who raise voice against its atrocities, corrupt policies and practices. Justice Ch Manavendra Roy posted the matter to next week to hear the state government’s arguments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/booking-activists-under-uapa-meant-to-stifle-voice-of-dissent/articleshow/81215486.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||400 vaccination sites in city for beneficiaries aged 50 yrs & above||Jaipur: The health department will set up 400 vaccination sites in Jaipur and at each site 200 beneficiaries of people aged 50 years and above will get the jab. The health department will establish the sites at medical institutes, schools and community halls. Officials will visit door-to-door to encourage above-50 population to get the vaccine without any fear. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, while reviewing the vaccination drive, directed officials to make people aware on vaccine and encourage them to get the jab without paying heed to myths. Rajasthan is one of the leading states of the country in vaccination. Health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said 79% registered healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) have already got vaccinated, which is quite high in comparison to 60% of the national average. Sawai Man Singh Medical College principal and controller Dr Sudhir Bhandari said the vaccines received by HCWs and FLWs in the state are effective and no serious side-effects have been reported. In Jaipur, the health department is targeting to vaccinat 75,000 above-50 beneficiaries in a single day of the third phase beginning in March. “We are imparting training to vaccinators and medical staff for successful completion of the third phase,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I).The health department conducted a mop-up round on Thursday for vaccinating left out HCWs and FLWs in the state. The state government will launch an awareness campaign in March viewing that a lot many people are not wearing masks and not following Covid protocol to ward off risks of getting infected with the virus. Rajasthan University of Health Science vice-chancellor Dr Rajababu Panwar said people were not alert as they were earlier. Any carelessness will certain give rise to number of Covid cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/400-vaccination-sites-in-city-for-beneficiaries-aged-50-yrs-above/articleshow/81216693.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||No leader greater than party: Jana||Hyderabad: Congress candidate for Nagarjuna Sagar bypolls, K Jana Reddy said party leaders should try to resolve differences within the party fora instead of accusing each other on social media platforms. “It has come to my notice that several party leaders are fighting and criticising each other openly. No leader should think that he or she is greater than the party itself,” he said. Jana Reddy said because of groupism Congress is losing grip. “TPCC will take this to the notice of AICC,” he warned. Meanwhile, differences in Congress came out in open during MLC poll preparatory meeting. Few party leaders protested before TPCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-leader-greater-than-party-jana/articleshow/81216702.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s family congregate in Vadnagar to celebrate||AHMEDABAD: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s family congregated at a two decade-old home for the elderly for a quiet and special occasion in Gujarat’s Vadnagar town on February 16. The family, including PM Modi’s mother Hiraba were there to commemorate the beginning of the centennial birth year of PM Modi’s father late Damodardas Moolchand Modi. The old-age home is run by PM’s elder brother Somabhai Modi. A bust in remembrance of their father was inaugurated by Hiraba. When TOI contacted Somabhai, he said, “It was a quiet and private function. My mother Hiraba inaugurated the bust. Along with members at our old age home and few close people from our town we had organised a small celebration.” Present on the occasion along with Somabhai were his younger brothers Prahlad, Pankaj, sister Vasanti, brother-in-law Hasmukh and PM’s cousin Amrut. PM Modi is the third of the six siblings. The old-age home is being named ‘Swargast Damordas Moolchand Modi Sewasharam’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pms-family-congregate-in-vadnagar-to-celebrate/articleshow/81216956.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||HC: Reveal ‘secret’ of revenue tribunals||Hyderabad: Seeking to know how the revenue tribunals are resolving land litigations within 20 days, the Telangana high court on Thursday wondered if the state government would be kind enough to share the secret of rendering quick justice with it. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy made this remark while hearing a PIL filed by N Srinivasa Rao from Bhadradri Kothagudem district who challenged the concept of the new revenue tribunals set up under the new Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 2020, brought in by the state. The bench, while issuing a notice to the government and seeking its reply by March 2, warned the authorities that resolving cases in an expeditious manner is one thing and hurrying things in the name of resolution is entirely different. “We are very curious to know how do you (government) propose to settle issues within 20 days. We will also follow the same”, the bench said in a critical tone. Petitioner’s counsel Kowturu Pavan Kumar told the court that the new tribunals are resolving the cases in a unilateral manner without notifying the parties and without following any judicial procedure. “Lawyers are not permitted and all the cases are resolved within 20 days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-reveal-secret-of-revenue-tribunals/articleshow/81216711.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Two German nationals booked for ruckus inside Satara sub-jail||KOLHAPUR: Two German nationals, who were arrested from Wai in Satara district a week ago for cultivating marijuana in a bungalow, were booked for unruly and violent behavior inside the Satara sub-jail. Satara police said Sargis Victor Manka (31) and Sabastien Stain Muller (25), who are in judicial custody, were booked under section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty) of the IPC. The action against the duo was taken following a complaint lodged by jail employee Suresh Patil late on Wednesday evening. As per the complaint, Manka and Muller suddenly became violent and unruly in the evening and damaged the doors of the washroom. They also damaged the CCTV camera installed in the room. Later, both of them attacked jail personnel Sandip Phalke and Ramesh Ovhal, but were overpowered by others. Manka and Muller have been arrested under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). A few days ago, police had seized marijuana, fertilizers and equipment allegedly used for plantation and distribution of the sunstance. The plants were found in clay pots in a polyhouse in the bungalow. Investigation has revealed both the Germans were arrested in Goa two years ago in a similar case. Police conducted a raid following information that two foreigners were staying in a bungalow and they rarely went out. Police found that the power bill of the bungalow was abnormally high and the bill had not been paid for a few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-german-nationals-booked-for-ruckus-inside-satara-sub-jail/articleshow/81214665.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||After 31 days, Gujarat’s daily Covid tally crosses 400-mark||Ahmedabad: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Thursday added 424 new positive cases, taking the total to 2.68 lakh. It was after 31 days that the state witnessed the daily tally of new cases shoot above 400. All five new micro-containment areas announced on Thursday by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation were in the western parts of Ahmedabad. A total of 19 societies in Jodhpur, Navrangpura, Naranpura, Thaltej and Gota have been put under micro-containment based on the cases reported. “House-to-house surveillance and screening of the population in these areas will be conducted from Friday,” said a senior official. The city recorded 12% dip in daily cases from 81 on Wednesday to 71 on Thursday. Surat and Vadodara recorded 79 new positive cases each, surpassing Ahmedabad city after over two months. Ahmedabad however recorded two deaths in two days – the only deaths recorded in Gujarat in past two days. In all, 67% or two-thirds of the new positive cases were recorded from four major cities – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. Due to the difference between more new cases and less discharges for the past five days, the number of active cases in seven days rose by 17% - from 1696 to 1991.Seven districts of Gujarat did not record any case in past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-31-days-gujarats-daily-covid-tally-crosses-400-mark/articleshow/81216737.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Corporator on visit in Delhi, booked for committing crime same time in Kalyan||An FIR has been registered against 7 people including KDMC corporator Kunal Patil in case of kidnapping, assault and threatening an auto rickshaw driver in Kalyan. Another side after case registered, corporator Kunal has claimed he is falsely fabricated in case by complainant on behalf of his political opponent as in FIR complainant have alleged that on February 19 night he was kidnapped and later threatened by him showing revolver but on date and time Kunal claimed he was in Delhi with his lawyer for a court related work. Kunal claimed he will meet senior police official with flight details and other documents to show his not involvement in the case. In this case police along with Kunal have also booked his supporters Rajan Dubey, Rohit Rathod, Sachin Mane, Pandey, Dhiraj Patil and six to seven unknown persons. The complainant Sumit Singh,24, resident of Pisavali area in Kalyan (East), who run auto rickshaw in his complaint alleged that last year in March month, he had taken private loan of Rs 30,000 for repairing of his auto from Kunal's associate Rajan on promise that he will daily pay him Rs 600 regularly. Sumit alleged that as per promised he paid him all money but 10 days ago Rajan's aide Rohit approached him claiming he is yet to pay Rs 6000 to Rajan and asked him to pay money. However when Sumit denied to pay anymore money saying he already paid all dues on which Rohit threatened Sumit to pay or else he will face to dire consequences. Complainant alleged later on February 16, Sachin Mane, Pandey and unknown assaulted him badly in which he suffered back injuries and later next day on February 17 also they tried to attack him but he managed to flee from them. Patil alleged that since Rajan is close associate of corporator Kunal he earlier not complained to police but on February 19 night 11 pm when he was alone in his house when Mane, Pandey along with three unknown forcefully opened door of his house and by covering his face with burqa taken him in to car at some unknown places where Kunal Patil and Dhiraj Patil threatened him showing revolver saying to resolve Rajan Dubey's case and do not file any case against him. Later accused drop Sunit at his house. The victim alleged that later he got video footage clicked by some passerby while assaulting him on road taking same he on Wednesday approached police filing an FIR against all accused. However talking to TOI, Kunal said, "The FIR against him totally fabricated to malign image saying on date and time claimed by complainant i was in Delhi with my lawyer and i have my flight details and pictures taken their and i will submit it with senior police official to show i am not involved in the case". Kunal alleged that in past too some of my political opponent tries to fabricate me in false cases but i have got clean chits. D K Choure, senior police officials of Manpada police said, "We are verifying claims of complainant and as per finding action would be taken against those involved in the case".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/corporator-on-visit-in-delhi-booked-for-committing-crime-same-time-in-kalyan/articleshow/81218702.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP to gather data on job status of MLC polls voters||Hyderabad: The BJP has chalked out a scheme for unemployed youth by promising them jobs. More than 40,000 polling booth in-charges in 77 assembly segments that form part of the two MLC constituencies will visit the houses of voters to gather their employment status and promise jobs if the party comes to power in 2023 assembly polls. The party cadre was given training to collect the data and also on how to approach each voter’s family. Details like voter’s profession, employment status and data related to unemployment status will be taken. The data collection exercise will be conducted till February 28 and published soon. The cadre will focus mainly on unemployment status. The BJP is taking the contest seriously to repeat the success of Dubbak and GHMC. The campaign will focus on lack of jobs and TRS government’s failure to deliver unemployment allowance to jobless youths. The BJP complained against TRS candidate Palla Rajeshwar Reddy for Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda seat for using TRS flags in violation of the model code. Meanwhile, Congress leader Malyadri Reddy from Banswada joined BJP in the presence of party chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-to-gather-data-on-job-status-of-mlc-polls-voters/articleshow/81216772.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||JMC Greater mayor corners commissioner over ‘note of dissent’ after govt order||Jaipur: Acting on the ‘note of dissent’ sent by the Jaipur Municipal Corporation Greater commissioner on the formation of working committees in the corporation, state government on Thursday rejected the proposal of 27 out of 28 working committees.In the JMC Greater board meeting held on January 28, the proposal of 27 committees and one executive committee was passed. According to the rules of the Rajasthan Municipality Act, 2009, the board can form only 21 committees and the permission for the rest has to be taken from the state government. The proposal for the permission was sent, but in an order on Thursday, the Directorate of Local Bodies rejected the proposal of all the committees except the executive committee. The order stated in its first line that the decision was taken on the note of dissent sent by commissioner Yagya Mitra Singh terming all the committees except executive one against the law. The order stated that, “Permission for the formation of seven extra committees wasn’t taken from the state government as required by the law. Hence, formation of seven extra committees is being rejected. Moreover, in other 20 committees, three people in each committee were made members who are not a part of JMC Greater. A procedure has to be followed for making people outside the corporation members of the committees, which wasn’t seen in this case. Hence, except executive committee, all the 27 other committees’ proposal is being rejected.” This suggests that commissioner JMC Greater Yagya Mitra Singh and mayor Somya Gurjar are headed for difficult relations in times to come. Mayor Somya Gurjar, who resumed office on Thursday, vehemently opposed the note of decent by commissioner and stated, “The action of commissioner is against the law stated in the Rajasthan Municipality Act, 2009. Yagya Mitra Singh didn’t advise the board nor did he state in the meeting about the violation of any law in formation of the committees. This shows the misuse of power by the commissioner of JMC Greater as he presented false facts in front of the state government. Rejecting the formation of committees by the government shows that the Congress government is not inclined towards the upliftment of the city.” Meanwhile, deputy mayor Puneet Karnawat said that the executive committee approved by the government includes the chairmen of the working committees rejected. “People are part of executive committees on the basis of their position – mayor, deputy mayor and chairmen of working committees. This decision is completely undemocratic and is against the development of Jaipur,” said Karnawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-greater-mayor-corners-commissioner-over-note-of-dissent-after-govt-order/articleshow/81216744.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||KT Rama Rao reiterates 1.3 lakh jobs filled since 2014 in open letter||HYDERABAD: TRS working president KT Rama Rao has alleged that opposition parties were resorting to false propaganda on recruitment in the state government departments. In an open letter to opposition parties and people, KTR said the opposition parties have started a new drama to confuse the people of Telangana, especially the youth, with their blatant lies. He said both Congress and BJP were concealing the truth and deliberately spreading false information about job recruitment in Telangana since the TRS government came to power in June 2014 . “I have already released the number of job vacancies filled, 1,32, 899 posts in various departments, with details from 2014 to 2020. Opposition been making statements since yesterday to confuse and mislead the youth of Telangana with complete lies,” the TRS working president said. He said it was sad that even a senior politician like Jana Reddy was spreading such lies. Jana Reddy told the media on Thursday that TRS had said it would give jobs if it came to power. “Yes, he is true. As promised, the TRS government has been providing jobs to the youth since it came to power. I reiterated the same thing in front of the people yesterday (Wednesday),” KTR said. “Jana Reddy promised to provide us with the details on how many jobs were filled during his party’s ten-year tenure. My sincere appeal to Jana Reddy ‘please let us know how many jobs were given to Telangana youth during your tenure,” he said.  I have already informed that if anyone has any doubts about our government’s commitment to job recruitment, they can approach respective departments and clarify. However, the opposition is unable to digest these facts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-reiterates-1-3-lakh-jobs-filled-since-2014-in-open-letter/articleshow/81216739.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Heritage or hospital? Why no decision on OGH, HC asks govt||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Thursday questioned the state government as to why it is making inordinate delay in respect of raising a modern hospital complex for housing Osmania General Hospital (OGH) which is currently operating from a 100-year-old heritage building. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was critical towards the government for not taking any decision on whether to raise a new building at the same place by demolishing the existing OGH building or retain it as a heritage structure and raise a new hospital complex at the vacant place within the OGH complex. The bench was hearing a 2015 public interest petition filed by advocate T Bucha Reddy of Barkatpura, who challenged the decision of the municipal administration wing to remove heritage structures like OGH from the list of protected monuments list. Senior counsel S Satyam Reddy appeared for the petitioner and said the government issued GO No. 183 (on December 7, 2015) with an agenda to hand over all such old buildings to some private persons in order to enable them to own them. “This GO goes contrary to section 59(1) of the AP Urban Areas Development Act, 1975, that accords protection to such heritage structures,” he said. Following another set of pleas that sought immediate demolition of the OGH building and raise a new hospital complex in its place on the ground that the old structure may collapse at any time and may endanger the lives of patients, staff and doctors, the high court earlier sought to know from the government particulars of vacant space within the OGH complex. The court also asked the government whether it could raise a new structure in the same compound without disturbing the ancient structure. The bench on Thursday reminded the petitioner’s counsel that the court in its Irrum Manzil judgment accorded sufficient protection to all the protected monuments and added that the state was not free to demolish them. The bench, however, expressed concern as to why it took half a decade to take a decision. The AG sought four weeks’ time to convey the decision of the government in this regard. He told the bench that the government is on the verge of taking a final decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heritage-or-hospital-why-no-decision-on-ogh-hc-asks-govt/articleshow/81216763.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Relief to property owners as MoD extends lease till yr-end||Secunderabad: In a relief to about 4,000 property owners, the ministry of defence (MoD) has extended the lease rights until December 31, 2021. Informing this decision, the directorate general defence estates (DGDE), Delhi had sent an official communication to the chief executive officer of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB). Many are eagerly waiting for these orders as the lease rights are scheduled to expire by the end of this month. “The interim policy, which was issued on March 10, 2017, has been extended up to 31 December 2021or till finalisation of the lease policy. The interim policy is pertaining to the issues of extension of the expired leases and extending the first and second term leases given on defence land under Cantonment Codes 1899 & 1922 and ‘Cantonment Land Administration Rules’(CLAR) 1925 and 1957,” the MoD said in the official communication. Secunderabad Cantonment Board CEO, B Ajith Reddy said that the ministry is working on a new policy to lease the defence lands. “The MoD is working on a new lease policy. They want to bring out a comprehensive policy to lease lands located in the Cantonments and under defence estates all over the country. Until then, this interim policy has been extended,” Ajith Reddy said. According to SCB’s official records, the lease rights pertaining to 4,000 land parcels are renewed once in 30 years at a nominal rent ranging between Rs 1 and Rs 500 per square yard. Apart from Secunderabad Cantonment Board, a few land plots also come under the defence estates office (DEO), Telangana Circle. The size of each plot varies between 50 and 300 square yards. The lease rights policy is being implemented for the last eight decades. “Almost 98% of these lands are converted into domestic or commercial use. Moreover, the existing lease rights are not in the name of the original owners as these properties were put up resale at least three to five times,” a senior Secunderabad Cantonment Board official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/relief-to-property-owners-as-mod-extends-lease-till-yr-end/articleshow/81216774.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Kolhapur||Proposal for extension of Kolhapur city limits ready||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has finalised a proposal to extend the city limits by merging 18 villages and two industrial estates, officials said on Thursday. “The proposal, prepared by the town planning department, has been sent for formal approval of municipal commissioner Kadmabari Balkawde. It will be sent after changes if needed to the state government for final approval,” said an official who is involved in the process.Two weeks ago, urban development minister Eknath Shinde had suggested that a fresh proposal be sent to the state government. The officials said that the villages that are proposed to be merged are Shiye, Wadnage, Ambewadi, Sarnobatwadi, Ujalaiwadi, Nagdeowadi, New Balinge, Wadiper, Morewadi, Panchgaon, Kalamba, Shiroli, Uchgaon, Shinganapur, Gokul Shirgaon, Nagao, Waliwade-Gandhinagar and Mudshingi, besides two industrial estates of Gokul Shirgaon and Shiroli. The city limits have not been increased since 1972, when municipal corporation came into existence. The KMC was asked to decide the limits up to 22km from the old city when it was formed. However, the state government and KMC are yet to implement the directive. Move to extend the city limits comes in the backdrop of civic elections, which are expected to be conducted before summer this year. While all political parties are pressing for the demand, residents of villages that are proposed to be merged with KMC have opposed the same. Political leaders believe that the proposal will get approval from the state government as three major stakeholders in the Maha Vikas Aaghadi (Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena) have supported it. The population of Kolhapur city will cross 7.5 lakh after the merger and the area will be 189 sq km as against the present 66.82 sq km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/proposal-for-extension-of-kolhapur-city-limits-ready/articleshow/81214718.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||Central team reviews GIB conservation programme||Jaisalmer: A central team on Wednesday visited Jaisalmer to review the Great Indian Bustard conservation breeding programme.The team had a meeting with the local authorities and stakeholders in which discussions were held on including pasture land in Rasla area and other suitable GIB habitats in GIB arc area and to identify new critical area for GIB.The team was led by ministry of environment and forest DIG Rakesh Jaganya. The meeting was attended by Jodhpur discom chief engineer, Wildlife Institute of India scientist Dr Yadavendradev V Jhala, Prof Qamar Qureshi, Dr Sutirtha Dutta, Bipin C M , Chief Conservator of Forest Hanuman Ram, deputy conservator of forest Kapil Chandrawal and other officials.A joint team of ministry of environment and forests and WII was in Jaisalmer for the last three days to inspect the possibility of placing the electricity wires underground to prevent GIB mortality. They also inspected the suitable habitat for GIB based on recent evidence obtained from satellite-tagged GIBs so as to effectively secure the last remaining population of the bird.The team also visited Desert National Park, Sudasari, Mokla, Salkha, Rasla, pasture land along with many villages in GIB arc area and discussed the possibilities to rationalize GIB habitat.Efforts are being made to reduce the area of GIB arc, whereas the opinion of WII is to include additional suitable GIB habitat.Dr Jhala said as per the central guidelines, a committee visited many areas in Jaisalmer district. The committee reviewed the implementation of bird diverters on power lines in GIB arc area within four months as per the order issued recently by the NGT.He said as per the orders of NGT, the new power projects that are being put in GIB arc areas should place the electricity wires underground. Discussions were held with power companies and officers in this regard.A report in this regard will be sent to the Union government after which a final decision will be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/central-team-reviews-gib-conservation-programme/articleshow/81216800.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||Youth jumps fence at Narendra Modi stadium to meet cricketers, booked||AHMEDABAD: A cricket fan’s desire to meet his favourite cricketers at the newly renamed Narendra Modi cricket stadium in Motera landed him in the police station after he jumped a fence and ran towards the players during the day and night match late on Wednesday. According to complainant PSI KR Patel, Ajay Thakor, a 21-year-old from Bheelvas Kailashnagar chawl in Sabarmati, jumped the railing and tried to get inside around 9 pm. He was intercepted by a bouncer belonging to a private security firm. Bouncer Sanjay Yadav handed him over to Patel who later filed a police complaint against Thakor. The FIR mentions, “Though the accused knew he could have spread the novel coronavirus to cricketers, he ran towards them on the ground. He was not even wearing a mask.” The PSI mentions in the FIR that Thakor should be booked under the charges of IPC sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (violation of notification duly promulgated by a public servant) along with the epidemic disease act and disaster management act. Later, police decided not to slap charges under IPC sections 269 and 270 but booked him under charges of violation of notification along with charges of the epidemic disease and disaster management act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/youth-jumps-fence-at-stadium-to-meet-cricketers-booked/articleshow/81216807.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Denied permission for rally in West Bengal, Asaduddin Owaisi hits out at Mamata||HYDERABAD: All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Thursday lashed out at West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee for not allowing him permission to hold public meetings in the state.  In January this year, Owaisi travelled to Hooghly and announced a tie-up with Abbas Siddique, peerzada and secretary of the Furfura Sharif to fight assembly elections together. On Thursday, Owaisi was supposed to attend a public meeting in Muslim-dominated Metiabruz, but the meeting was cancelled after the government refused to give permit citing law and order issues. “Where was Mamata when Godhra happened? BJP won 18 seats here. The larger question is what rights do you have to stop me? How can I be stopped,” questioned Owaisi in a media conference. MIM wanted to kick-start campaign on February 24. Continuing his attack on Trinamool Congress party, he said that leaders have two faces — one in New Delhi and another in Bengal. Speaking about the public meeting he said that if cops continue to deny permission in future too, the party will approach ECI. MIM wanted to kick-start campaign on February 24. Continuing his attack on Trinamool Congress party, he said that leaders have two faces — one in New Delhi and another in Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/denied-permission-for-rally-in-wb-asad-hits-out-at-mamata/articleshow/81216793.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||2 women tortured in Oman, kin seek MEA help for their return||Hyderabad: The families of two women from the city have urged Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar to rescue them from their employer in Oman, where they were employed as housemaids, as they are allegedly suffering torture. Kaneez Fatima Begum, 40, and Nazia Fatima, 34, both residents of Guddi Bowli, Chanchalguda were taken to Oman after reportedly being promised attractive salaries. After they reached Oman on January 15, 2020 they were handed over to two other agents in Al Qadra, Oman. In a letter, the families said that as Kaneez Fatima Begum and Nazia Fatima Begum were being denied proper food and accommodation, they ran away from their employer and approached the local police for help. However, they were handed over back to their employer by the police. The latest in the situation is that the women are not even being allowed to call and speak to their families, they said. The families urged the MEA to ask the Indian embassy in Muscat to speak to their employer and facilitate their return to India. The two women in Oman have children back home. Before they left Hyderabad, they were reportedly promised a job as housemaids in one house so that they could be together, but on reaching there, they were asked to work in separate houses and each of them had difficulties. The mothers of the two women, Razia Sultana and Ghousia Fatima in a letter to union external affairs minister S Jaishankar have sought help for their daughters stuck in Oman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-women-tortured-in-oman-kin-seek-mea-help-for-their-return/articleshow/81216801.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Gang of thieves held, booty worth Rs 13L seized||Warangal: Police arrested a six-member gang of thieves and recovered booty worth around Rs 13 lakh. The gang members were identified as Tandra Pradeep alias Rayudu, Shanigarapu Rajasekhar, Tandra Nikhil, Mudimadugula Chandrasekhar of Mancherial district, Gummula Venkatesh of Jagtial district and Madduri John Kennedy of Kazipet. Commissioner of police, P Pramod Kumar said that the main accused Pradeep who worked as a lorry driver started stealing diesel from parked vehicles on the highways. Pradeep who along with his friends was involved in chain snatching, bike lifting and robberies had served a term in the prison. Later, he was arrested again along with Rajasekhar for allegedly killing a person in 2020. The police invoked PD Act on him. After he was released from Warangal prison, he formed a gang and started to loot the locked houses. Police arrested them during a vehicle check at Dharmasagar crossroads. The accused were on their way to sell the jewellery. The commissioner lauded the efforts of inspectors L Ramesh Kumar (CCS) and B Ramesh (Dharmasagar) in nabbing the gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gang-of-thieves-held-booty-worth-rs-13l-seized/articleshow/81216799.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||Colourful start to four-day desert festival in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: The four-day desert festival kicked off here with an aarti at Lakshminath temple. A large number of tourists have come from different parts of the country to attend the festival, after a period of lull due to the pandemic.The festival has been organised by the tourism department and the district administration. Collector, SP, members of the erstwhile royal families and other public representatives and general public were present at the inauguration. After the aarti, the heritage walk led by folk artistes was held from Sonar Fort to Gadisar Lake passing through the city’s main thoroughfares where a large number of people extended a grand welcome to the guests. During the festival, a grand procession was also taken out from Sonar Fort, which was flagged off by public representatives and others. The procession reached Poonam stadium passing through the main roads, where flowers were showered over the participants. The spectacle during the procession included girls carrying mangal kailash, folk artistes playing folk instruments and dancing, BSF jawans and participants on decorated camels, among others. The guests at the stadium released 10,000 yellow balloons to mark the festivities. Many competitions also took place on Thursday and the winners were given certificates and prizes. Krishna Kumar Pareek was awarded Mr Desert (Marushree) and Lakshita Soni was selected as Miss Moomal. St Paul School Jaisalmer, Karni Bal Mandir Middle School and Lal Bahadur Shastri middle school were on the first three positions respectively in Moomal Mahendra tableau. Mukesh Kumar, Shivratan Vyas and Manish Kumar Meena won the first three positions respectively in the moustache competition. Sand art expert Jiy Rawat (Pushkar) carved out Sonar Fort from sand, which fascinated onlookers. Artist Vallabh also helped in creation of the art. Singer Kailash Kher performed at Poonam stadium on Wednesday night. Kher praised the desert festival and said that he would shoot his next album here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/colourful-start-to-four-day-desert-festival-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/81216781.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Lobbying on for nominated post of SCB||Secunderabad: Many aspirants are lobbying hard for the lone nominated post in the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB). After the expiry of the term of the elected body on February 10, the focus shifted to the lone nominated post. Until elections are completed, a three-member body comprising the station commander/president, chief executive officer (CEO) and one nominated member from the civilian population will look after the administration of SCB. As of now, 12 applications for this post are with SCB CEO Ajith Reddy while another six are with the ministry of defence (MoD) officials in Delhi. “We have not received any guidelines from the MoD regarding the selection process of the nominated member. All the CEOs of Cantonments are waiting for the MoD to take a decision regarding this,” Ajith Reddy said. Elections to SCB were held in January 2015 and with a one-year extension the term of body expired on February 10, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lobbying-on-for-nominated-post-of-scb/articleshow/81216789.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||UDH frames rules for land use change||Jaipur: The urban development and housing (UDH) department has changed the land-use for plots in urban areas.Now, the plot owners will have to pay an administrative fee with Rs 500 and application form. The department has fixed land use charges at Rs 10 per square metre. This charge will be a minimum of Rs 5,000 and maximum Rs 50,000 depending on the area. An official said, “After making an amendment to the Rajasthan urban areas (change of land use) rules, the notification was issued by the department. As per the new rules, the secretary of the land use committee will be a senior town planner of the urban local body.”Sources said, after the high court directed the state government that land-use norms laid out in the master plans can only be changed in larger public interest, the department is now trying to follow them strictly.In the past, the department allegedly frequently changed land-use rules to allow development of areas without adhering to the original master plans.The development authorities will have power to change the land use for an area of 4,000sqmtr. Cities which have municipal council and municipal corporation will have power to change the land use having an area 1,000sqmtr and 2,500sqmtr, respectively.For agriculture land in cities, where master plans have been implemented, the matter will be decided by the state-level committee constituted for land-use change.At present, rules framed in 2010 are followed. The new guidelines have been made for hassle-free land use change. An official said that in cases of residential land, UDH will allow activities including day-care centres, nurseries, schools, dispensaries, hostels, informal shops, restaurants, libraries, MSMEs and petrol pumps. In commercial land use, activities including hotels, marriage gardens, banks, cinema halls, multiplexes and others are allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udh-frames-rules-for-land-use-change/articleshow/81216798.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Public smash vehicles as JMC officials try to seize illegal cattle||Jaipur: JMC-Greater officials had to face people’s opposition while trying to capture cattle being used in the city’s illegal dairies. The violent crowd of around 80 people smashed the windscreens of vehicles as officials tried to implement the law. JMC-Greater enforcement wing had gone to Lal Kothi Scheme to seize cattle being used in illegal dairies. According to a decision of the Rajasthan High Court, all dairies functioning within the city limits should be shifted outside but most of the people were still operating them illegally. A senior JMC official said when the enforcement wing reached the place, they seized cattle from various houses but a house owner locked his home from inside. “We were trying to convince him that we are just following HC orders but a crowd started to gather and protested against the officials. Local councilor was involved in the incident. The public even broke vehicle glasses. We were able to seize nine cows but the crowd tried to release them. We had to hurry up and drive away with the vehicle,” said a senior JMC official. The local councilor was involved in the incident who encouraged people to become violent against the JMC officials. Officials were about to take legal action against them but finally the residents gave it in writing that they will remove all their cattle within 10 days from the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/public-smash-vehicles-as-jmc-officials-try-to-seize-illegal-cattle/articleshow/81216785.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: Surge in cases across Maharashtra continues but fatalities lower||MUMBAI: For the second day in a row, the state on Thursday reported over 8,000 cases and the city added over 1,000. Maharashtra reported 8702 cases and 56 fatalities, taking its total caseload to 21,29,821 and death toll to 51,993. Mumbai reported 1,145 cases on Thursday, a day after reporting 1,167 cases, the highest in 119 days. The city’s caseload stood at 3,22,844. Two days after the huge “show of strength” by Sena minister Sanjay Rathod at Poharadevi temple in Washim, 19 attendees came positive. The incident prompted many to question if the state would initiate any punitive action against the minister. Education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Thursday directed local administrations to take a call on shutting schools from March 1 if cases continue to surge. Meanwhile, as Mumbai’s daily growth rate increased to 0.25%, doubling time dropped to 273 days. Five deaths were reported in the city, taking the toll to 11,458. All five had comorbidities and were above the age of 60 years. Dr Avinash Supe, who heads the death audit committee, said despite the surge, the city’s death rate was less than 1%. “But we have to watch the next 10 days to see the real impact of the surge,” he said. The state on Thursday recorded 56 deaths, a decline from 80 reported on Wednesday. Of the 56 deaths, 20 occurred in the last 48 hours and 36 in the previous weeks, the state update said. Aurangabad circle saw the highest deaths (15) followed by Mumbai circle that registered 13. While Mumbai accounted for five deaths, Kalyan Dombivli saw 10 fatalities. Active cases in the state are 64,260, a jump from 43,701 on February 1. After reports of school students and teachers testing positive, education minister Gaikwad directed local administrations to decide on keeping schools shut from March 1 if necessary, and until the situation is under control. “The safety of students and teachers is our top priority," she said. Gaikwad has also instructed the local administration to carry out cleaning and disinfection of schools where a Covid-19 outbreak was reported. Schools for classes IX to XII had reopened, with the exception of MMR, since November 23, and classes V to VIII reopened on January 15. But over the last few days, Nagpur and Pune have shut schools. Washim in Vidarbha saw cluster cases. 229 cases have emerged from a single hostel in a school in Washim district. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta and Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/surge-in-cases-across-maha-continues-but-fatalities-lower/articleshow/81220072.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Waive fee for unused facilities’||Hyderabad: The Joint Action Committee (JAC) comprising various students’ bodies at Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU) have decided to pressurise the administration to waive charges of unavailable facilities from the proposed fee structure by the university. “The university administration should forgo the yearly hostel fee and maintenance fee i.e Rs 600 and Rs 1,000 respectively. Students should also be charged only for one month advance mess fee to lessen financial burden. For last several days the JAC has been running campaigns against the proposed fee structure,” said Umar Faruq Quadri, outgoing President MANUU students union. Student bodies also claim that the students are being asked to pay fees for the whole academic year despite only a few months left in this academic session. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waive-fee-for-unused-facilities/articleshow/81216820.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||Man killed by brother, kin over land row||Jaipur: A clash over construction of a wall took an ugly turn late on Wednesday evening at Munna Colony situated under Rajakhera police station area of Dholpur in which a 50-year-old man was killed allegedly by his brother and his family.In the clash, at least four women were also injured, while the family who attacked the younger brother’s family are on the run. Police have registered a case of murder and have initiated a massive hunt to nab the assailants.According to police, the elder brother Deewan Singh (56) was constructing a wall on the passage of the two houses which was resisted by his younger brother Pappu Ram (50).“This triggered a violent confrontation between the two family late on Wednesday evening in which the victim Pappu Ram was seriously injured. He was rushed to the hospital in a police vehicle where he was declared brought dead. We have registered a named FIR against eight persons including Deewan Singh who are on the run,” said Hanuman Sahai, station house officer, Rajakhera police station of Dholpur.In the clash three other woman who belonged to the family of Pappu ram were also been injured. “On Thursday we have given the body of the deceased to the family after the post mortem,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-killed-by-brother-kin-over-land-row/articleshow/81216844.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||CEOs of 20 dists to get notices for poor performance in rural schemes||Jaipur: Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), rural development and panchayati raj department, Rohit Kumar Singh on Thursday directed to issue notices to the chief executive officers (CEOs) of 13 districts for poor performance under Swachh Bharat Mission (Grameen) and non-payment of incentive amounts to the beneficiaries. The payment for over 10,000 toilets under SBM-(G) were pending.The districts include Pali, Pratapgarh, Sikar, Ajmer, Barmer, Nagaur, Alwar, Dungarpur, Jalore, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Jhalawar and Udaipur. While reviewing the performance under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin), Singh instructed to issue notices to the CEOs of Ajmer, Bharatpur, Chittorgarh, Dholpur, Jaipur, Jhunjhunu, Kota, Sirohi and Bikaner for poor performance in mason training.Singh also instructed the CEOs of Barmer, Udaipur, Dungarpur and Karauli districts to complete the target of building houses at the earliest. He also expressed dissatisfaction over poor performance of Udaipur, Tonk, Barmer, Pratapgarh, Jaisalmer, Banswara, Bikaner and Dholpur districts in MGNREGA work. He also directed the CEOs to employ 50% women mates under MGNREGA work by March 31.Uniformity in rules for supply of diesel door-to-door: SecyJaipur: Food and civil supplies department secretary Naveen Jain informed that circulars will be issued to bring uniformity in the rules regarding supply of diesel door-to-door through mobile dispensers. He said that a new arrangement for door-to-door supply of diesel has been made by the central government. He said, the state government’s home, police and food departments should know about how many mobile dispensers have been allowed to supply diesel by the oil companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ceos-of-20-dists-to-get-notices-for-poor-performance-in-rural-schemes/articleshow/81216829.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Pandemic pushes demand for IT and computer courses in engg admissions||Mumbai: Computer and IT-related courses ruled the charts during this year’s engineering admissions in the state as emerging technologies are increasingly influencing every sector, including traditional ones. Even more so, after the pandemic. Vacancies in computer and allied courses have halved to 10-15% now from 30-35% last year. Most seats in newer courses such as artificial intelligence (AI) and data science introduced this year have got filled too. On the contrary, mechanical engineering continued to see 70% vacancies, even though several colleges offering the programme had discontinued it, leading to a 5,000 drop in the intake capacity. Civil and electrical engineering also reported over 60% vacancies. Data from the state’s CET cell showed the vacancies in computer engineering dropped to 15% from 33%, despite an increase in seats. This year, the All-India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) introduced a few courses in AI and data science, AI and machine learning, and other new-age courses. Though fewer colleges offered the new programmes, 85% of their seats were filled, indicating the demand in the field. Hari Vasudevan, principal of D J Sanghvi College of Engineering, said nowadays emerging technologies aided by computer engineering are playing a bigger role even in the traditional sectors. “It was always there, and the Covid-19 pandemic has only accentuated it. More job opportunities and higher packages are being offered in these sectors. Therefore, students and parents are convinced that future opportunities will also be available mainly in these areas,” he said. He added some foreign universities, which offer a master’s programme in mechanical engineering, have introduced data analytics as a subject in their curriculum. G T Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, said the IT and software industry remained unaffected during the pandemic, when most other sectors suffered. “In fact, with the work-from-home arrangement, the industry has benefited in many ways. There is an unprecedented demand for computer and IT graduates and they are at the top of the pecking order. Building intelligence for all existing software systems is the new obsession of enterprises for building competitiveness in the market place,” said Thampi. About the newer courses, he said very few colleges have offered them in the first year and the number may eventually rise in the coming years. Several colleges have shut courses in mechanical, civil and electrical engineering due to poor demand. Despite the closure, vacancies in these courses continued to exceed 60% even this year. Suresh Ukarande, associate dean of science and technology, Mumbai University, said there was a huge demand for mechanical engineers a few years ago and colleges increased their intake capacity. This spike in seats, therefore, led to more vacancies when the demand dropped. S S Mantha, former AICTE chairman, said this would not be the best year to assess demand in courses as overall many seats are vacant across colleges. “Some universities and institutes have managed to integrate emerging technologies in the curriculum of the core subjects, and those courses are doing well. Core engineering programmes will never lose steam if given a proper treatment within institutions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pandemic-pushes-demand-for-it-and-computer-courses-in-engg-admissions/articleshow/81215735.cms||Yogita Rao
February 26, 2021||Rajkot||Covid fear, confinement takes toll on women’s health||Rajkot:Fear psychosis due to Covid-19 pandemic and depression caused due to confinement inside the house due to lockdown has resulted in a spike in polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) among urban women. The psychology department of Saurashtra University, which started a counselling helpline, has found nearly 700 women suffering from PCOS in the last 11 months when this facility was launched. These women had approached the helpline to seek guidance for various symptoms like lack of sleep, mood swings and irregular menstruation but these turned out to be cases of PCOS when they visited the gynecologists. PCOS is a fairly common condition among urban women now which causes imbalances in the hormones. Poor lifestyle including lack of exercise and unhealthy food habits is one the main reasons for this condition. Dhara Doshi, assistant professor and PhD student Nimisha Padariya compiled the profiles of these women who had approached the department. “The pandemic and lockdown aggravated stress and depression among women. Irregular diet, increased consumption of junk food and other factors cause hormone imbalance in the women,” said Doshi. “We were also surprised to find so many (700) women being diagnosed with PCOS in just 11 months. The numbers may be much more as these are the cases that directly came to us via helpline,” she added. Dr. Devjyoti Sharma, a psychologist in Bhuj, said, “There is a myth that this syndrome causes infertility among women. A woman should immediately seen gynec consultation on getting such symptoms, exercise regularly and control diet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-fear-confinement-takes-toll-on-womens-health/articleshow/81214732.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||Two arrested for duping job aspirants in Army||Jodhpur: Two days after 19 candidates were caught during Army recruitment rally in Maharana Pratap Khel Gaon in Udaipur for using forged documents, Army intelligence and special team of police arrested two persons for duping aspirants assuring selection in examination. The hunt for the third person, a coaching centre owner, is on.The arrested accused have been identified as Kamlesh Gurjar from Kotputli and Narendra Jat from Nagaur. The former is an ex-serviceman from Rajput Regiment. Both were arrested from a hotel in Udaipur during a joint operation of Army Intelligence and district special team of Udaipur police on Wednesday late night. According to information, the accused had been demanding Rs 4 lakh from the applicants for final selection in the recruitment citing direct contact with the authorities.“We had been receiving information for some time that some persons are active duping applicants with huge sum assuring them selection. Based on some inputs and investigation, we caught Gurjar and Jat from a hotel of the city on Wednesday late night,” said a source from Army Intelligence. Both of them were handed over to Sukher police of Udaipur for further investigation into the matter.Police have recovered documents of some applicants from them, which were being examined to ascertain that how many applicants have fallen prey to this racket.During preliminary interrogation, it is revealed that they had been naming one Om Singh as colonel in the Army as final authority for selection to the applicants to lure them stating that they have 'setting' with Om Singh.Om Singh, as per the investigation, runs a coaching institute in the name of Dev Defence Coaching in Kotputli.Source said that Jat kept an eye on the applicants, especially those, who failed physical test, and would introduce to Gurjar for further action.Army Intelligence, who has been alert through this recruitment, had, 2 days before this on Tuesday, informed the Army Recruitment Officer (ARO) about some applicants having submitted forged documents. ARO, after close examination of the documents, caught 19 over aged applicants, who had tempered their age certification in order to bring their age under eligibility criteria. All of them have been rejected by the ARO and certificate of rejection were handed to them. All these 19 applicants belonged to Nagaur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-arrested-for-duping-job-aspirants-in-army/articleshow/81216813.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Dehradun||45-yr-old kills self in Roorkee||Roorkee: A 45-year-old man of Nepalese origin reportedly killed self late on Wednesday night at his residence in Dhanauri near Roorkee. The victim was identifed as Gautam Singh Kathait. According to reports, victim, a parent of two children originally from the Dhangadhi town of Kailali district in Nepal. He was employed with irrigation department at Dhanauri as Chawkidar (watchman) came to his residence at government staff quarter late on Wednesday night. In morning his wife saw him hanging from ceiling of a room of his residence. Victim's father Ram Singh had also retired as Chowkidar from same department in Dhanauri. Victim’s family alleged foul play behind the death. “We have sent body of victim after inquest proceeding to civil hospital in Roorkee for autopsy. Any suspicion behind the death would be revealed after postmortem report,” said Jagmohan Ramola, in-charge of Piran Kaliyar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/45-yr-old-kills-self-in-roorkee/articleshow/81215727.cms||Tapan Susheel
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||Baran cop held for taking bribe||Kota: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Jhalawar, on Thursday arrested a sub-inspector for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 3,000 in Baran.Additional superintendent of police (ASP), ACB, Jhalawar Bhawanishankar Meena said the accused Sitaram Meena is posted at Baran Sadar police station. He had demanded a bribe of Rs 5,000 from one Jagdish Mali for not torturing his relatives who were arrested earlier this month. He had accepted a bribe of Rs 2,000 before their release on bail, he said.The ASP said that Mali on Wednesday approached Jhalawar ACB and lodged a report in this connection following which the verification of the complaint was carried out on the same day. The accused asked Mali to pay the remaining bribe amount at his office in Baran. The ACB sleuths, who were already present there, nabbed him, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/baran-cop-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/81216841.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Thane||Covid-19: Surge in cases across Maharashtra continues but fatalities lower||MUMBAI: For the second day in a row, the state on Thursday reported over 8,000 cases and the city added over 1,000. Maharashtra reported 8702 cases and 56 fatalities, taking its total caseload to 21,29,821 and death toll to 51,993. Mumbai reported 1,145 cases on Thursday, a day after reporting 1,167 cases, the highest in 119 days. The city’s caseload stood at 3,22,844. Two days after the huge “show of strength” by Sena minister Sanjay Rathod at Poharadevi temple in Washim, 19 attendees came positive. The incident prompted many to question if the state would initiate any punitive action against the minister. Education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Thursday directed local administrations to take a call on shutting schools from March 1 if cases continue to surge. Meanwhile, as Mumbai’s daily growth rate increased to 0.25%, doubling time dropped to 273 days. Five deaths were reported in the city, taking the toll to 11,458. All five had comorbidities and were above the age of 60 years. Dr Avinash Supe, who heads the death audit committee, said despite the surge, the city’s death rate was less than 1%. “But we have to watch the next 10 days to see the real impact of the surge,” he said. The state on Thursday recorded 56 deaths, a decline from 80 reported on Wednesday. Of the 56 deaths, 20 occurred in the last 48 hours and 36 in the previous weeks, the state update said. Aurangabad circle saw the highest deaths (15) followed by Mumbai circle that registered 13. While Mumbai accounted for five deaths, Kalyan Dombivli saw 10 fatalities. Active cases in the state are 64,260, a jump from 43,701 on February 1. After reports of school students and teachers testing positive, education minister Gaikwad directed local administrations to decide on keeping schools shut from March 1 if necessary, and until the situation is under control. “The safety of students and teachers is our top priority," she said. Gaikwad has also instructed the local administration to carry out cleaning and disinfection of schools where a Covid-19 outbreak was reported. Schools for classes IX to XII had reopened, with the exception of MMR, since November 23, and classes V to VIII reopened on January 15. But over the last few days, Nagpur and Pune have shut schools. Washim in Vidarbha saw cluster cases. 229 cases have emerged from a single hostel in a school in Washim district. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta and Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/surge-in-cases-across-maha-continues-but-fatalities-lower/articleshow/81220071.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Surge in cases across Maharashtra continues but fatalities lower||MUMBAI: For the second day in a row, the state on Thursday reported over 8,000 cases and the city added over 1,000. Maharashtra reported 8702 cases and 56 fatalities, taking its total caseload to 21,29,821 and death toll to 51,993. Mumbai reported 1,145 cases on Thursday, a day after reporting 1,167 cases, the highest in 119 days. The city’s caseload stood at 3,22,844. Two days after the huge “show of strength” by Sena minister Sanjay Rathod at Poharadevi temple in Washim, 19 attendees came positive. The incident prompted many to question if the state would initiate any punitive action against the minister. Education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Thursday directed local administrations to take a call on shutting schools from March 1 if cases continue to surge. Meanwhile, as Mumbai’s daily growth rate increased to 0.25%, doubling time dropped to 273 days. Five deaths were reported in the city, taking the toll to 11,458. All five had comorbidities and were above the age of 60 years. Dr Avinash Supe, who heads the death audit committee, said despite the surge, the city’s death rate was less than 1%. “But we have to watch the next 10 days to see the real impact of the surge,” he said. The state on Thursday recorded 56 deaths, a decline from 80 reported on Wednesday. Of the 56 deaths, 20 occurred in the last 48 hours and 36 in the previous weeks, the state update said. Aurangabad circle saw the highest deaths (15) followed by Mumbai circle that registered 13. While Mumbai accounted for five deaths, Kalyan Dombivli saw 10 fatalities. Active cases in the state are 64,260, a jump from 43,701 on February 1. After reports of school students and teachers testing positive, education minister Gaikwad directed local administrations to decide on keeping schools shut from March 1 if necessary, and until the situation is under control. “The safety of students and teachers is our top priority," she said. Gaikwad has also instructed the local administration to carry out cleaning and disinfection of schools where a Covid-19 outbreak was reported. Schools for classes IX to XII had reopened, with the exception of MMR, since November 23, and classes V to VIII reopened on January 15. But over the last few days, Nagpur and Pune have shut schools. Washim in Vidarbha saw cluster cases. 229 cases have emerged from a single hostel in a school in Washim district. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta and Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/surge-in-cases-across-maha-continues-but-fatalities-lower/articleshow/81216848.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||Signal-free junctions preferred over Metro expansion||Jaipur: Ignoring public transport system and building physical infrastructure such as underpasses and cloverleaf structures in the city will not only add to traffic woes in future, but will also make roads unsafe for pedestrians and cyclists. In the budget speech, the chief minister announced Rs 700 crore infrastructure projects for Jaipur, while the long-pending Jaipur Metro project expansion was not incorporated for allocation this year. Experts claimed shifting to public transport is long-term solution since it lessens the rush of vehicles. Moreover, the state government is giving priority to car and two-wheeler owners. Dr Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning, School of Planning and Architecture (New Delhi) said, “This would encourage more people to adopt private vehicle for transportation and add to worsening congestion at other junctions. Also, in other cities like Gurgram, it has been witnessed traffic flows faster near these junctions making it unsafe for pedestrians.”Supporting the view, member of National Road Safety Council Kamal Soi said, “The signal free junction is good for reducing congestion, but bad for road safety. Adequate infrastructure for pedestrians and other vulnerable road users should be developed after developing signal-free corridor.” Experts believe the project is not pragmatic and may not suitable for Jaipur roads. Underpasses and flyovers are good for freeways and not always good within the urban areas. Moreover, signal free junctions is not a practical idea as roads in our country mostly comprise of cross roads. As a result traffic is heavy and vehicles enter from all directions. Sarika Panda Bhatt, a road safety expert with Nagarro said, “It’s a myth that signal-free junction will reduce traffic congestion. Coordination of signals is an effective way and must be followed in the city to reduce bottlenecks. Two or more signals on a single route must be coordinated so that a large number of vehicles moving along one path do not get stuck at subsequent traffic signals.”The town-planners and engineers in the state government are also meekly opposing the project as the project was pitched without the consultation of urban transport planners. Sources said at a recent meeting called to resolve the conflict in construction of the proposed Jaipur Metro Phase-II (India Gate and Ambabari) on Tonk Road and signal-free junction project, city and transport planners have expressed apprehension. “It will not only ruin the skyline of the city, but also increase the cost of Metro project in future. For instance, at Rambagh a Metro station has also been proposed, where the JDA will develop an underpass and cloverleaf. Once, the signal-free project is constructed, the Metro station will be constructed at approximately at 35 feet in the middle of the city,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/signal-free-junctions-preferred-over-metro-expansion/articleshow/81216802.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||No ‘reliable proof’, man cleared of dowry death||Mumbai: Upholding acquittal of a man, his brother and father, accused of cruelty to wife and dowry death, Bombay high court said it is essential for the prosecution to produce reliable evidence of the woman being subjected to cruelty and harassment over dowry demands by her husband and in-laws. HC said section 498(A) of Indian Penal Code does not contemplate every kind of cruelty which it makes punishable. Section 498(A) involves specific contingencies, said an HC bench of Justices P B Varale and V G Bisht. For instance it said, these include, “to drive the woman to commit suicide, to cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or health, both mental and physical, and thus involving a physical torture or atrocity’’. “Similarly, it also involves coercive harassment with a view to meet any unlawful demand for any property or valuable security or is on account of failure by her or any related person to her meet any such demand,’’ it said. Since the prosecution brought none of these ingredients on record, no presumption of a dowry death could be raised, HC said in an appeal by the state against a 2001 acquittal by a sessions court in Kolhapur. HC had found “absolutely no evidence that soon before death’’ in 1999, the woman was harassed for dowry of Rs50,000, as alleged by her brother. Section 498(A) makes cruelty to wife by husband or in-laws punishable with up to three years’ imprisonment. Section 304B deals with dowry deaths. The woman died within seven years of marriage by burn injuries after a quarrel with her father-in-law. In a dying declaration, she said after the quarrel he “expelled me from the house’’. The HC judgment of December 8, 2020, said the dying declaration showed that “since she was fed up with ill-treatment and harassment by the accused, she took the extreme step of setting herself ablaze’’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-reliable-proof-man-cleared-of-dowry-death/articleshow/81216851.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Singareni gets nod for coal exploration||Hyderabad: The Telangana government has accorded stage-II approval to a proposal by Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) to drill 16 boreholes in an area of 478.68 hectares of Tadicherla Reserved Forest area in Jayashankar Bhupalpally district. While the stage-I in-principle approval for the project was given in April last year, the stage-II approval was given recently allowing SCCL to take up a detailed survey and investigation as part of exploration of coal reserves in the forest area. While the approval imposes conditions, environmental experts said project will have an impact on the eco-system and wildlife here. The stage-II approval also stated that the forest department must plant 20 tall trees for every borehole drilled. “Development is needed but at the same time we have to be able to find a balance. The question is if they will be recreating what is being destroyed. Any development project that involves open-cast mining or drilling of boreholes takes a toll on the eco-system,” said environment research scholar M Rajender Reddy. However, Pradeep Kumar Shetty, district forest official, said: “The project is still in preliminary stage.” Experts also recollected how objections were raised for a similar project in the forest region 14 to 15 years ago when they were asked to do a third party environmental impact assessment to evaluate the likely environmental impact of a proposed project in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/singareni-gets-nod-for-coal-exploration/articleshow/81216815.cms||Moulika.KV
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||RSS worker stabbed over religious comment on social media, critical||Jaisalmer: An RSS worker Daulat Singh was attacked and stabbed with a knife by a youth due to mutual enmity over comments on religion on social media at Itada village in Chauhatan of Barmer district late on Wednesday night. Police have arrested the accused in the matter. Singh has suffered around 11 injuries on his face and body and is undergoing treatment at Jodhpur. His condition is said to be critical. According to information, the worker has been collecting funds for Ramjanmabhoomi. BJP state president Satish Poonia also tweeted over the issue. Chauhatan SHO Bhutaram Vishnoi said that Singh was heading home from his medical store at Dhanau village when Baseer, a resident of Itada, attacked Singh with a knife after which he was admitted to a hospital at Jodhpur in a serious condition. The culprit ran away after the incident and police arrested him in about four hours. He said that in the inquiry, the culprit said that Singh, in 2017, had made comments on his religious leader due to which there was enmity between them and thus he attacked Singh. Police are investigating the case. The victim in his statement to police said that he was collecting funds for Ramjanmabhoomi, due to which he was attacked. SHO said that in the investigation, it has not come to light that Singh was attacked due to the collection of funds for Ram temple and that the enmity was due to the religious comments made earlier. BJP district president Adu Ram Meghwal said that there is resentment among the BJP and RSS workers over the attack over the collection of funds for Ram temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rss-worker-stabbed-over-religious-comment-on-social-media-critical/articleshow/81216868.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Surat||Surat sniffs opportunity in supply to armed forces||Surat: Weeks after Surat’s famed textile industry expressed willingness to supply materials to the armed forces. The Ministry of Defence (MoD) and Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) have shared details of technical textile requirements with industries based in the city and South Gujarat. Surat is the country's largest man-made fabric (MMF) hub with the daily production pegged at 3.5 crore metres, which is around 40% of the country's total production. The requirement includes those of trousers, coats, glacier mattresses, sleeping bags, extreme weather clothing system, special woollen two-layer gloves and socks among others. “South Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) had requested the defence ministry to provide a list of textile material required for armed forces which the textile industry here can provide. This will not only boost the local industry but also give the 'Make in India' mission a push,” Ashish Gujarat, vice-president, SGCCI, told TOI. “Some units from Surat city and Umbergaon in Valsad district supply specialized materials to the armed forces and this can be increased in coming days. We will share the specific requirements which MoD has given with local manufacturers,” Gujarati added. Textile units in Surat manufacture strong glass fabrics that are used to produce helmets, gloves and base for plane landings using carbon yarn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-sniffs-opportunity-in-supply-to-armed-forces/articleshow/81214744.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||HC stays attachment of Chittor govt assets||Udaipur: A day after an ACJM court in Chittorgarh ordered for the attachment of chair, car and residences of the tehsildar, collector and SP for non-adherence of a court order related to a property dispute, a single bench chaired by Justice Pushpendra Singh Bhati granted stay on the entire proceedings on Wednesday.The stay was granted on a civil writ petition filed by the state government through the home secretary. In the writ, the petitioner said the department was not a party to the civil suit wherein a decree was passed in favour of Asha Devi and therefore the execution proceedings initiated was not maintainable.It was also told that in 2004 the petitioner department was allotted the land measuring 9,400sqft in front of the Nagar Palika building for public use by the home dept. Accordingly, the possession was handed over and even mutation was recorded in the name of the department in the revenue records. Thereafter, the department had been the sole owner and the respondents did not challenge the allocation or mutation at any point of time.Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava said that a petition had already been moved before the high court some time ago, however, since the listing of the case got delayed, the respondent filed for the decree execution to the lower court which is not permissible by law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-stays-attachment-of-chittor-govt-assets/articleshow/81216856.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Woman’s body concealed in sack found, face burnt with acid||JAIPUR: Panic prevailed at Dhankya village under Bagru police station area in the city on Thursday after the body of a woman wrapped in a sack was found. In order to ensure that the body cannot be identified, the killers mutilated the face using acid. Police have initiated an investigation. According to police, some passersby informed the cops after discovering the body wrapped in a sack. A team of senior police officers of Jaipur (west) and also from the forensic science labouratory rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation. “A sack was found at the spot in which we found a woman aged around 30 to 35 years. It appears that the killers poured acid on her face and other parts of the body to prevent identification. We pressed the dog squad and the FSL into service,” said a senior police officer. In initial investigation, it was found that the murder must have been taken place almost 24 to 36 hours before being detected. “The slim woman was not very fair and had two star tattoos on one of her hands. The body was beyond identification. She has also got ear rings,” the officer added. Police have taken the pictures of the body and have sent it to various police stations across the city. “We are also tallying the missing reports lodged at various police stations almost 36 to 72 hours prior to the murder. We are yet to get any concrete clues. We have also got some CCTV camera footage and are trying to get some corroborating evidence,” the officer added. Asked whether the woman had also been raped, a senior officer said, “Medical examination will help us to determine that,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/womans-body-concealed-in-sack-found/articleshow/81216862.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Delhi||Green foot forward: Only e-vehicles for Delhi govt||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Thursday decided that all vehicles hired by its departments will switch to electric mode within six months. The step was taken to promote the adoption of electric vehicles by setting an example. Every vehicle hired by Delhi government’s departments, autonomies bodies and grantee institutions under it will switch from petrol, diesel or CNG-run vehicles to electric ones. The government has also decided to gradually replace all its end-of-life vehicles with EVs and made these measures mandatory. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said that it was chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s dream to make the city pollution free. “The decision that all government departments shift to EVs is a historic one,” he said, adding that Delhi will be the first capital in the world where all government departments switch to electric vehicles for road travel. “It is necessary to focus on the challenges related to a sustainable environment. Delhi government has prioritised the issue of curbing environmental distress along with its other major agenda items,” he said, adding that using Delhi as an example, cities of the world ensure that using EVs is an important agenda in the fight to curb pollution. Sisodia pinned faith on the idea that the decision of switching to electric vehicles by all departments of Delhi government will be a key step in encouraging more sustainable practices. “Delhi government’s commitment to switch all its hired cars to electric in six months is unprecedented globally. As the nodal department, transport department will leave no stone unturned to ensure a smooth transition. CM’s call for Switch Delhi marks a start of the EV revolution,” transport minister Kailash Gahlot tweeted. Transport department will be the nodal department to monitor the progress of the transition from existing diesel or petrol vehicle fleet to EVs. All departments will have to show it monthly action reports on the transition to EVs by the fifth of every month. “Delhiites have time and again made efforts towards making our environment, our city green and clean. Switching to electric vehicles will be another effort that all of us together, will take to ensure that we continue this fight towards sustainability” Sisodia said. The government also recently launched ‘Switch Delhi’ — an eight-week mass awareness campaign to sensitise Delhiites about the benefits of switching to EVs for the environment as well as the incentives and infrastructure being developed under the capital’s EV policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/green-foot-forward-only-e-vehicles-for-delhi-govt/articleshow/81218733.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Chennai||Sudden Covid-19 curbs create confusion, crowds at airport||CHENNAI: A late night order from the state government on Wednesday making tests for Covid-19 mandatory for passengers who arrive from abroad caused some confusion among travellers at Chennai airport as many were not aware about the need to give samples even when they have a negative RT-PCR test result. Only those from the UK were being tested so far. Caught unawares, a few people who landed from the Middle East did not believe that they need to pay for another test at the airport and refused to give samples as they were carrying Covid-19 negative certificates. The airlines and travel agents too had not informed the passengers about the change in rules. There was confusion among passengers, airlines and travel operators because testing and quarantine protocols for people arriving from countries other than the UK were different in Chennai when compared to other metro airports so far. While Mumbai had imposed tests and compulsory quarantine following the state government order much earlier, Chennai let people, except those from the UK, walk out after showing a Covid-19 negative certificate. And when the rules were made stringent by the government on Wednesday, the wordings of the order – copied from a Union government instruction, issued a couple of days ago, but without additional explanations – put the authorities in a fix. The order said international passengers coming/transiting from flight originating from the UK, Brazil, South Africa, Europe and Middle East will have to undergo test on arrival and cannot exit until the result is negative. However, the same order also mentions that people travelling/transiting via Europe (other than UK) and the Middle East will be allowed to exit/board connecting flights after giving their samples for the test. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan clarified it is mandatory for passengers from the UK, Brazil and South Africa – countries where the new strain is wreaking havoc – to wait for RTPCR results. “They will be allowed to board connecting flights or exit the airport only after they test negative. Passengers from the Middle East or other parts of Europe can give the samples and exit. If samples test positive, we will initiate standard procedures of treatment and containment measures,” he said. “A flow chart has been given by the authorities. That makes work easier for airlines and airport officials. The airlines have started to update the advisory for Chennai on their websites and travel agents too have started to inform the arriving passengers,” said an official. More tests mean 300 to 400 passengers will have to wait at the terminal for four to six hours. AAI has readied a huge hall as a waiting area for passengers as the airport started to test UK passengers from the first week of this month. “Three to four flights arrive in a day. There are not enough schedules because these are ‘air bubble’ or Vande Bharat flights,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sudden-covid-19-curbs-create-confusion-crowds-at-airport/articleshow/81216855.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Nashik||Barrier-free road in Nashik to get an extension||Nashik: The civic administration, which is constructing a barrier-free road from Trimbak Naka signal to Savarkar swimming pool, has decided to extend the stretch up to Sharanpur junction on the Trimbak Road. Commissioner of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Kailas Jadhav has made an additional provision of Rs 5 crore for the purpose in the budget of the civic body for the next financial year. “The first phase of the barrier free-road is already in progress and the finishing works are expected to be completed in a month or two,” said R Bagul, a civic official. “We have already constructed a footpath and a cycle track with a width of 3.5m and 3m respectively on both sides of the road. Moreover, a drainage line, storm water lines and cable ducts have been constructed below the footpath and the cycle tracks,” he said. “Earlier, the road near the swimming pool would get water logged during monsoon. This year, waterlogging did not happen due to the storm water lines,” said Bagul. Now, the stretch from Savarkar swimming pool to Sharanpur road junction will be an extension of the barrier-free road with footpaths and cycle tracks on both sides. The length of the expanded stretch is expected to be around 600m and is expected to be completed in a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/barrier-free-road-in-nashik-to-get-an-extension/articleshow/81214736.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||Cops bust mobile snatching gang; recover 19 handsets and five stolen bikes||Jaipur: Jaipur police (east) on Thursday busted a gang involved in snatching mobile phones and recovered 19 phones and five two-wheelers from their possession. The recovered phones also included the handset of former Union home secretary Rajiv Mehrishi who too had become victim of this crime while he was riding a bicycle on a road parallel to the University of Rajasthan under Gandhi Nagar police station area almost a week ago. “We busted a gang involved in mobile snatching and recovered 19 mobile phones from their possession. Five bikes recovered from them were stolen ones. I have asked my team to be vigilant,” said Abhijeet Singh, DCP (East ). Singh added that the gang confessed to their involvement in at least 30 cases of mobile snatching. “The arrested accused included Chotu Saini, Raja Saini and Sawan Kanjar. All of them had 11 cases registered against them. In the primary interrogation, they confessed to have executed at least 30 similar crimes,” said a senior officer of Gandhi Nagar police station area. There has been a spurt in the daylight crime and people of various localities in four police districts of Jaipur became victims of this crime. “I think continuous arrests and recoveries are important to curb this crime in the city,” said a senior police officer of Jaipur police commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-bust-mobile-snatching-gang-recover-19-handsets-and-five-stolen-bikes/articleshow/81216853.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Maharashtra virus scare on border, Telangana ramps up tracing||HYDERABAD: State health authorities have stepped up vigilance along Maharashtra and Karnataka borders in the wake of increased Covid-19 cases, even as sealing of borders is not being planned for now. On Wednesday, surveillance teams were rushed to Varni in Nizamabad after 200 families were traced after having come from a Covid outbreak area in Maharashtra. “The families had come a week ago. Vigilance and medical health teams were sent to Varni to check if any of the travellers had Covid symptoms. As of now there is no confirmation if any of the travellers have Covid or not. Aggressive surveillance and tracing has begun,” said a source from the state health department. In fact, special focus is being placed on Nizamabad where a large number of travellers are descending for upcoming religious festivities. With 213 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday (as per data of central health ministry) and 35,000 tests in the state, a majority of which were antigen, Telangana might be becoming complacent in surveillance, fear experts. They stress on the need for increasing RT-PCR tests so that any surge is not missed. “We should not lower our guard especially as we share borders with states where there is a surge in cases seen now. There is a possibility that it will have an impact here too. The onus for increased testing is not just on the government but also on the people as rates have reduced drastically. Anyone with symptoms should get themselves tested,” said Prof Subodh Kandamuthan, Director Centre for Healthcare Management, Administrative Staff College of India. It has also been suggested that genetic analysis of variants should be taken up. “We need to be careful about circulating variants rather than cases itself. We need to increase genome sequencing at five per 100 against one per 2,000 now as advised by the Centre,” said Dr Kiran Madala, in-charge head of department of critical care and anaesthesia, Nizamabad Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tracing-ramped-up-with-virus-fears-on-borders/articleshow/81216857.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 26, 2021||Chennai||IIT-Madras devises eco-friendly way to produce crucial cancer drug compound||CHENNAI: IIT-Madras researchers have found a new source and an alternative method to produce camptothecin, a compound crucial in making widely used anticancer drugs. The findings can possibly put an end to the commercial exploitation of a now-endangered plant in the Western Ghats from which the compound is extracted. The team has isolated a microorganism from the leaf of nothapodytes nimmoniana, the plant, and has developed a process to produce the compound in a controlled environment. Professor Smita Srivastava from the department of biotechnology and principal investigator of the study said the novel strain they have isolated and the method to produce camptothecin is high-yielding, sustainable, economical and can meet market demands. Camptothecin is the lead molecule used to make topotecan and irinotecan, two widely used anticancer drugs. “The strain, Alternaria Burnii, which we have isolated from the leaf, during its life in the plant adapts certain metabolism which includes camptothecin, a defence-related compound, possibly from the host plant that produces it,” she said. “If we can isolate and cryo-preserve this microorganism, we can repeatedly and indefinitely subculture it and use it. We don’t have to go back to the tree and isolate the strain every time,” she said. At present, camptothecin is extracted from the bark of nothapodytes nimmoniana, which takes five to seven years to grow. As the compound is present in various parts of the tree, researchers said the entire tree is uprooted for financial gains. It is also extracted from a Chinese tree, camptotheca acuminata. Nearly 1,000 tonnes of plant material is required to extract one tonne of camptothecin. Due to overharvesting, the plants are now endangered. Researchers said the Indian species has declined more than 20% in the past decade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/iit-devises-eco-friendly-way-to-produce-crucial-cancer-drug-compound/articleshow/81216872.cms||U Tejonmayam
February 26, 2021||Surat||‘Officers acting at whims, no commitment to law’||Surat: The National Green Tribunal (NGT), New Delhi, has penalized chairman and member secretary of Daman Diu and Dadra Nagar Haveli's Pollution Control Board (PCB) for not complying with its orders for over a year and despite reminders. Coming down heavily on the union territory’s PCB chairman Muthamma and member secretary K Ravichandra, the NGT order stated, “The respondents (Muthamma and Ravichandran) are held liable to pay a cost of Rs1 lakh each to be deposited with the CPCB within one month which may be used for the improvement of the environment. If cost is not paid, CPCB will be at liberty to take coercive measures for enforcement.” According to case details, Platinum AAC Blocks Pvt. Ltd, that makes fly ash blocks had approached the NGT in December 2019 as it was not allowed to operate its unit despite repeated orders from the Tribunal. Based on the petition of the company, NGT had issued orders on January 17, September 14 and December 9 last year, directing the UT’s PCB to treat fly ash utilisation activity of the company as permissible in view of the report of the joint committee comprising of CPCB and the PCB on November 27, 2019. “In spite of the categorical orders by NGT, the chairman and member secretary of the PCB are determined not to give effect to the binding orders of this Tribunal which amount to executable decree under section 25 of the NGT Act, 2010. The decree can be enforced by attachment of their salary and or detention in civil prison,” the company’s lawyer had argued in the petition. The NGT, in its order, observed that action of Muthamma and Ravichandran amounted to ‘misconduct’. “It is a matter of regret that important positions are occupied by officers having no commitment to the law, who are acting at whims in utter defiance of law and binding orders of adjudicating authorities. It is for the concerned higher authorities to take appropriate remedial action, as observed earlier,” NGT observed. The order of the principal bench further observed, “The Apex court has laid down norms for appointing chairman and member secretaries of PCBs out of persons qualified for such jobs. It appears that the present incumbents do not meet the said criteria. This aspect needs to be looked into by the concerned authority.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/officers-acting-at-whims-no-commitment-to-law/articleshow/81214754.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Udaipur||Winter is almost gone, brace for hotter days: Met||Jaipur: Winter has almost vanished from every part of the state with most places seeing a temperature rise of almost 5°C to 7°C in maximum and minimum temperatures. Bhilwara, however, remained the coldest where a minimum temperature of 10°C was recorded, a Met report said. Jaipur got the warmest morning of the season so far. Attributing the continued rise in the mercury to the active northerly winds, weathermen said the mercury would rise further in the coming days. People in Jaipur woke up to the warmest morning of the season with a minimum temperature of 20.1°C, almost five degrees above normal. Due to continued rise in mercury, many localities in the city have already started witnessing abrupt power cuts as people have started using fans and air-conditioners in the afternoon. “For the last three days, we have witnessed spurt in complaints related to the power failure as it appears people have switched on the fans and air-conditioners,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam limited. In the afternoon, Jaipur witnessed a mainly clear sky with a bright sunny day when a maximum temperature of 32.3°C was recorded. As there has been no fog and mist near or around Jaipur, road, rail and air traffic was smooth. “Usually for withdrawal of winter, the minimum temperatures should be on or above 15°C. Except for a few places like Bhilwara, most places have already started getting its minimum temperatures above 15°C,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office. Bhilwara was followed by Udaipur where a minimum temperature of 13°C was recorded followed by Dholpur 13.8°C, Churu 13.9°C, Sawai Madhopur 14.4°C, Alwar 14.6°C, Sriganganagar 14.7°C, Sikar 15.5°C, Karauli 15.7°C, Jodhpur 16.2°C, Kota 16.8°C, Jaisalmer 17.2°C, Barmer 19.2°C and Ajmer 19.8°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/winter-is-almost-gone-brace-for-hotter-days-met/articleshow/81220891.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||Winter is almost gone, brace for hotter days: Met||Jaipur: Winter has almost vanished from every part of the state with most places seeing a temperature rise of almost 5°C to 7°C in maximum and minimum temperatures. Bhilwara, however, remained the coldest where a minimum temperature of 10°C was recorded, a Met report said. Jaipur got the warmest morning of the season so far. Attributing the continued rise in the mercury to the active northerly winds, weathermen said the mercury would rise further in the coming days. People in Jaipur woke up to the warmest morning of the season with a minimum temperature of 20.1°C, almost five degrees above normal. Due to continued rise in mercury, many localities in the city have already started witnessing abrupt power cuts as people have started using fans and air-conditioners in the afternoon. “For the last three days, we have witnessed spurt in complaints related to the power failure as it appears people have switched on the fans and air-conditioners,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam limited. In the afternoon, Jaipur witnessed a mainly clear sky with a bright sunny day when a maximum temperature of 32.3°C was recorded. As there has been no fog and mist near or around Jaipur, road, rail and air traffic was smooth. “Usually for withdrawal of winter, the minimum temperatures should be on or above 15°C. Except for a few places like Bhilwara, most places have already started getting its minimum temperatures above 15°C,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office. Bhilwara was followed by Udaipur where a minimum temperature of 13°C was recorded followed by Dholpur 13.8°C, Churu 13.9°C, Sawai Madhopur 14.4°C, Alwar 14.6°C, Sriganganagar 14.7°C, Sikar 15.5°C, Karauli 15.7°C, Jodhpur 16.2°C, Kota 16.8°C, Jaisalmer 17.2°C, Barmer 19.2°C and Ajmer 19.8°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/winter-is-almost-gone-brace-for-hotter-days-met/articleshow/81216897.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Agra||Rejected by north, Rahul targeting voters by comparing them with south, says Dharmendra Pradhan||AGRA: Union petroleum and natural gas and steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan has said that instead of accepting his rejection by the people, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was targeting the north Indian population by comparing them with their counterparts in the south. “Gandhi’s four generations did politics at the Centre after contesting elections from Uttar Pradesh, but when people rejected them, he has gone against them,” he said, while speaking with the media in Vrindavan on Thursday while laying the foundation stone of a school constructed for handicapped children. “It is absolutely wrong to compare north India with south. This shows his mentality. He forgot that one of the largest states of the country — UP is in bad shape because of them,” said Pradhan while responding to a query on Rahul’s ‘north-south’ remark in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday while addressing a public meeting. On the recent hike in fuel prices, Pradhan said less fuel production by oil rich countries and seeking more profit is the main reason behind the surge in fuel prices. “Supply is not being provided as per demand as manufacturing countries are producing less fuel to gain more profit in order to make their economy better,” he said, adding that they are in talks with them as this is making the consumer countries suffer. Defending the taxes imposed on fuel, Pradhan said the Centre and state government are collecting for development projects that helps creating more job opportunities. The government has also increased its investment as compared to previous year and 32 percent more capital spending will be done. “We need tax for development projects and other things but there is a need to maintain the balance,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rejected-by-north-rahul-targeting-voters-bycomparing-them-with-south-says-minister/articleshow/81215752.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||Police arrest man for raping 13-year-old girl||Jaipur: Police arrested a 25-year-old plumber identified as Charan Singh on Thursday, barely 12 hours after he had kidnapped and raped a 13-year-old girl under Pratap Nagar police station area on Wednesday. “He is a plumber and was living in a house close to the rape survivor’s home. He had kidnapped the girl and taken her in a room and raped her,” DCP (east) Abhijeet Singh said.Special teams were constituted and based on the statements of the girl and also by people in the neighbourhood, the plumber was arrested. “We have registered a case under appropriate sections of IPC and POCSO Act. And after the statement of the girl and her medical examination, we will try to complete all the formalities on time to file an early chargesheet,” said an officer. “For such cases, there is a need to have early chargesheets and early conviction. We will pursue the case properly and are aiming at filing the chargesheet as soon as possible. There are few things pending after his arrests which will be completed on time,” said a senior officer investigating the case.According to police, before leaving the crime scene, the accused had locked the girl inside a room in which she was raped. Since she was not seen for a long time, her family raised an alarm and found her locked. The girl later narrated her plight before the parents who had lodged a case of rape in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-arrest-man-for-raping-13-year-old-girl/articleshow/81216882.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Ajmer||Winter is almost gone, brace for hotter days: Met||Jaipur: Winter has almost vanished from every part of the state with most places seeing a temperature rise of almost 5°C to 7°C in maximum and minimum temperatures. Bhilwara, however, remained the coldest where a minimum temperature of 10°C was recorded, a Met report said. Jaipur got the warmest morning of the season so far. Attributing the continued rise in the mercury to the active northerly winds, weathermen said the mercury would rise further in the coming days. People in Jaipur woke up to the warmest morning of the season with a minimum temperature of 20.1°C, almost five degrees above normal. Due to continued rise in mercury, many localities in the city have already started witnessing abrupt power cuts as people have started using fans and air-conditioners in the afternoon. “For the last three days, we have witnessed spurt in complaints related to the power failure as it appears people have switched on the fans and air-conditioners,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam limited. In the afternoon, Jaipur witnessed a mainly clear sky with a bright sunny day when a maximum temperature of 32.3°C was recorded. As there has been no fog and mist near or around Jaipur, road, rail and air traffic was smooth. “Usually for withdrawal of winter, the minimum temperatures should be on or above 15°C. Except for a few places like Bhilwara, most places have already started getting its minimum temperatures above 15°C,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office. Bhilwara was followed by Udaipur where a minimum temperature of 13°C was recorded followed by Dholpur 13.8°C, Churu 13.9°C, Sawai Madhopur 14.4°C, Alwar 14.6°C, Sriganganagar 14.7°C, Sikar 15.5°C, Karauli 15.7°C, Jodhpur 16.2°C, Kota 16.8°C, Jaisalmer 17.2°C, Barmer 19.2°C and Ajmer 19.8°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/winter-is-almost-gone-brace-for-hotter-days-met/articleshow/81220894.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Jodhpur||Winter is almost gone, brace for hotter days: Met||Jaipur: Winter has almost vanished from every part of the state with most places seeing a temperature rise of almost 5°C to 7°C in maximum and minimum temperatures. Bhilwara, however, remained the coldest where a minimum temperature of 10°C was recorded, a Met report said. Jaipur got the warmest morning of the season so far. Attributing the continued rise in the mercury to the active northerly winds, weathermen said the mercury would rise further in the coming days. People in Jaipur woke up to the warmest morning of the season with a minimum temperature of 20.1°C, almost five degrees above normal. Due to continued rise in mercury, many localities in the city have already started witnessing abrupt power cuts as people have started using fans and air-conditioners in the afternoon. “For the last three days, we have witnessed spurt in complaints related to the power failure as it appears people have switched on the fans and air-conditioners,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam limited. In the afternoon, Jaipur witnessed a mainly clear sky with a bright sunny day when a maximum temperature of 32.3°C was recorded. As there has been no fog and mist near or around Jaipur, road, rail and air traffic was smooth. “Usually for withdrawal of winter, the minimum temperatures should be on or above 15°C. Except for a few places like Bhilwara, most places have already started getting its minimum temperatures above 15°C,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office. Bhilwara was followed by Udaipur where a minimum temperature of 13°C was recorded followed by Dholpur 13.8°C, Churu 13.9°C, Sawai Madhopur 14.4°C, Alwar 14.6°C, Sriganganagar 14.7°C, Sikar 15.5°C, Karauli 15.7°C, Jodhpur 16.2°C, Kota 16.8°C, Jaisalmer 17.2°C, Barmer 19.2°C and Ajmer 19.8°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/winter-is-almost-gone-brace-for-hotter-days-met/articleshow/81220893.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Jaipur||17 phones, 18 SIM cards seized from Jodhpur jail||Jodhpur: In a search operation conducted by Jodhpur central jail authorities on Wednesday night, 17 cell phones, 18 SIM cards and 3 chargers were recovered from three barracks of undertrial prisoners. Upset with such a huge seizure and that too after four months of Operation Flush Out, police headquarters has ordered an inquiry into the matter.“Despite Operation Flush Out, this huge recovery of cell phones has put a question mark on the operation. We have ordered an inquiry and the guilty will not be spared,” DGP (prisons) Rajeev Dasot said. Police have seized all the phones and SIM cards and have registered a case at Ratanada police station against unknown prisoners as the ownership of these phones has not yet been established.ADCP (East) Bhagchand said from the SIM cards, the call details will be extracted in order to find out which phone and SIM card belong to which prisoner. “We had reached the jail late Wednesday night for a search operation and found the administration had already conducted a search operation. They had recovered 13 smart phones, 4 feature phones, 18 SIM cards from the 3 barracks of undertrials”, said Bhagchand, adding that all the phones were handed over to police for further action.The seizures took place less than 3 weeks after the visit of Jodhpur Central Jail by Dasot, who had inspected the jail as a part of Operation Flush Out being conducted across in all jails of the state with a view to control illegal activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/17-phones-18-sim-cards-seized-from-jodhpur-jail/articleshow/81216896.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||500+ taxis to be made ‘Covid ready’ in project||Mumbai: The United Way Mumbai (UWM) on Thursday began phase 2 of “Covid Ready Taxi” with Andheri RTO and Mumbai Taximen’s Union.“Based on the success of the pilot at Wadala RTO, with 200 cabbies, in the 2nd phase we will cover 500-plus kaali peelis,” said Ajay Govale, UWM. “We will sanitise the cabs, install an isolation screen. All drivers will attend 1-1.5-hour sessions on Road Safety and Covid readiness,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/500-taxis-to-be-made-covid-ready-in-project/articleshow/81216922.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Akhand Bharat possible, will be good for Pakistan, says RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||HYDERABAD: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat on Thursday said there is a need for ‘akhand Bharat’ (undivided India) and it would suit better for countries like Pakistan which got separated from India. Speaking at a Sanskrit book launch, Bhagwat said ‘Akhand Bharat’ is possible with Hindu dharma. “We consider countries like Pakistan and Afghanistan as ours. Once they are with us, it does not matter what they practise or what they eat. It is not colonialism. India believes in Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (the world is one family).” He sought to know if Pakistan and Gandhar (which became Afghanistan later) are having peace and trust ever since they were formed. “Because they are separated from the energy of life (India), we are open to treat them as our own as they were before,” he said. Saying that ‘akhand Bharat’ is possible, he said some people have expressed doubts on division of India six months before it happened. “Jawaharlal Nehru rubbished it as a dream of fools. Similarly, anything can happen,” he said. “Lord Wavell (during British rule) said in British Parliament that god has made India one and who is going to divide it,” he recalled. According to Bhagwat, talking of ‘akhand Bharat’ does not mean imposing colonialism. “When we talk about united, we don’t talk about power, it is about people. They are united through ‘sanatana dharma,’ which is called Hindu dharma,” the RSS chief asserted. The RSS chief will be in Adilabad to attend a private programme on Friday.  He sought to know if Pakistan and Gandhar (which became Afghanistan later) are having peace and trust ever since they were formed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/akhand-bharat-possible-will-be-good-for-pakistan-says-bhagwat/articleshow/81216895.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 26, 2021||Bareilly||Pilibhit to sow Assam bamboo to tone up flute industry||PILIBHIT: What the 'jhumpka' is to Bareilly, the 'bansuri' (flute) is to Pilibhit. Traditionally, Pilibhit is known to craft the best bamboo flutes in India. Two decades ago, the district accounted for nearly 90% of the total flute production in the country. Flute-makers here are struggling to keep afloat.Now, the administration has chalked out a plan to revive this dying industry. In a first, it has decided to cultivate the delicate Assam bamboo (schizostachyum), which is brought from Silchar to make the flute. Pilibhit flute has been included in the state government’s one district, one product programme. On February 16, DM Pulkit Khare dedicated the ‘Bansuri Chowk’, showcasing a colossal metallic flute to the people of the district at the main gateway to the district headquarters. Despite all this, Pilibhit’s handcrafted bamboo flute seems to be out of tune with the times. Flute-makers here are struggling to keep afloat. The annual demand of over 60 lakh flutes has now shrunk to just 5 to 5.50 lakh. The workforce had dwindled from over 7,000 to 150 to 200, said Iqrar Nabi, a local flute manufacturer. Cheaper made-in-China flutes have flooded the markets. It is against this backdrop that DM Khare announced cultivation of Assam bamboo in the district to cut down on transportation cost and loss (estimated to be at least 15%) due to damage while transporting and loading the bamboo from Silchar. Experts of the Maharashtra-based National Rural Bamboo Mission & Research Institute and Mizoram- based Advanced Research Center for Bamboo were consulted to ascertain if Pilibhit’s climate, soil and subsoil water level would be suitable for cultivating the bamboo. Welcoming the proposal, flute manufacturer Khurshid Ahmad, said one truck of flute bamboo from Assam costs over Rs 4.50 lakh, including Rs 95,000 as freight charge. Khare said, “Our efforts will be focused upon the revival of those markets which the flute manufactures have hitherto lost. We will also explore new markets in south eastern and the north eastern countries where flute is played.” For this, the Pilibhit’s flute would be exhibited in various national and international trade fairs. Assistance of the department of commerce would also be sought for promoting flute export, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-to-sow-assam-bamboo-to-tone-up-flute-industry/articleshow/81213986.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 26, 2021||Kochi||Kerala Court dismisses plea to cancel actor Dileep’s bail||KOCHI: On Thursday, the additional special sessions court, considering the actor rape case, dismissed a petition filed by the prosecution that sought to cancel the bail of actor Dileep, an accused in the case. Sources said that the petition was dismissed in open court on Thursday and a copy of the order was yet to be issued to the counsels due to Covid-related issues. The prosecution had alleged that the actor was violating his bail conditions by trying to influence witnesses. The prosecution had sought the cancellation of bail based on a complaint filed by approver Vipin Lal that a member of the personal staff of MLA KB Ganesh Kumar had approached him, asking to change his statement. Following the allegation, a case was registered by Kasaragod police. Subsequently, the prosecution alleged that the attempt was made for the benefit of Dileep. The court, which heard the prosecution and Dileep’s counsel, ruled against the prosecution and decided not to cancel his bail. Meanwhile, the in-camera examination of the witnesses in the case continued in the court. The examination would continue on Friday as well. As many as nine accused persons are facing trial, including Dileep, who is the eighth accused. Till date, two accused persons have become approvers and the court has examined nearly 200 witnesses. The trial had hit a roadblock following the events of October last year when the high court dismissed a plea seeking to change the judge in the case. The high court had then held that most of the contentions raised by the survivor and prosecution for transfer of the case were unsustainable. This was upheld by the apex court. The case had received national attention after Dileep, a prominent actor in the Malayalam Film industry, was named as the eighth accused in the case. The survivor, a film actor, was abducted and sexually assaulted in a moving vehicle by the accused in February, 2017. Dileep, who is out on bail, is accused of conspiring to commit the crime. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/court-dismisses-plea-to-cancel-dileeps-bail/articleshow/81215761.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Reopening schools will not benefit us, say teachers||HYDERABAD: Reopening physical classes for students of classes 6 to 8 is unlikely to benefit them, said private teachers who’ve been out of work for most part of the 2020-21 academic year. Citing the example of class 9 and class 10 teachers — they have been conducting physical classes since February 1— they said, even the former lot is getting only 30% to 40% of their salary with many schools choosing to fix their remuneration at an hourly basis. “Even class 6 to class 8 teachers will be paid more or less the same. Reopening schools will not benefit teachers in any which way,” said Laxmi T, who teaches English and Social Studies at a private school. Since she started taking physical lessons this month, Laxmi is being paid Rs 2,500 per period per month — as against her full salary. Worse, teachers claimed not even 50% of class 9 and class 10 teachers have been asked to report to duty even now. In upper primary sections too, several teachers are yet to be called in to work. “I am still waiting for the management’s call. When I inquired through other teachers, I was told that the management wants to see how many students are willing to come for physical classes,” said Aruna K, a private teacher. Some teachers even alleged that upper primary sections have been reopened only for the benefit of managements and the government. “Schools have been reopened keeping the ensuing MLC elections in mind. They know that private teachers have many votes and wanted to get them on their side by reopening schools. If the state really cares about teachers and students, why did they not reopen schools when Covid-19 cases started to drop? Why did they not react when we met several ministers?” asked Shabir Ali, president, Telangana Private Teachers Forum. Members of the Telangana Recognized Schools Managements Association (TRSMA), said it will take at least a week for them to decide whether to call the remaining teachers back to work. “Of 11,000 private budget schools, hardly 2,000 schools have been in touch with their teachers over six months. The remaining don’t even know how many are still willing to come back,” said Shekar Rao Y, president, TRSMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reopening-schools-will-not-benefit-us-say-teachers/articleshow/81216933.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Eflu students protest, want hostels opened||Hyderabad: The English and Foreign Languages University’s decision not to conduct any in-person classes until March 31 has not gone done well with students. They staged a protest in front of the university main gate on Thursday seeking reopening of hostels. A similar protest was held on February 12. “We never demanded resumption of in-person classes in the first place. We have only been demanding access to the hostel and other facilities only for the students who are in need. We are now left with no other option than to wage a collective struggle yet again,” said Shishir Gupta, a master’s student at Eflu. The varsity standing committee said it took the decision following resurgence of Covid-19 cases in some states. “The university is exclusively dedicated to the study of humanities and does not have science, engineering or technological subjects that requires in-person access to the laboratories for experiments. In view of this, the committee resolved that the classes will continue to be conducted in the online mode until March 31, 2021 after which the situation will be reviewed,” Eflu in-charge registrar Prof T Samson said in a circular on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eflu-students-protest-want-hostels-opened/articleshow/81216912.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Chennai||Adjusting to a new normal post transitioning||CHENNAI: Wearing abdominal bands and two shirts to cover her curvy frame was transwoman Swetha Shri’s way of staying away from bullying at work. The 27-year-old had used the lockdown to begin the transition from male to female, and was unsure how colleagues at the workplace would react. And her fears were not unfounded. “I decided to wear a salwar-kameez to work one day. My colleagues treated me like an outcast, though I had informed the management well in advance about my transitioning,” says Shri, who quit her job a few days later. Many trans people like Shwetha, who began gender transitioning during the lockdown, are now struggling to cope with the ‘new normal’ after returning to work. For instance, with no proper restroom facilities at work, Shri, who refrained from visiting the restroom, developed minor kidney stones. “It was a nightmare,” she says. Since schools opened up in Bengaluru, 30-year-old transwoman and English teacher Fathima has begun reaching the school more than an hour early and leaving after everyone leaves so that she can minimise interaction with her colleagues. “The students and staff ridicule my feminine mannerisms. The school is my battlefield,” says Fathima, who is yet to reveal her true gender identity to her colleagues. “I am craving to wear a saree in public but am still apprehensive about it and dress conservatively.” For Saesha*, who volunteers at Orinam, an LGBTQ+ support group, and works at a city-based MNC, going to work for the first time in February, after a year, was a huge step. “I am trying to fit in as a cisgender male. They still address me with my old name and wrong pronouns,” she says. The 28-year-old non-binary transgender woman has informed certain officials in the management about her gender transition so that they can accommodate her needs at work. “I now have a gender-neutral washroom, which is a good start,” she says. “It will take a long time and a lot of paperwork to reach where I want to but this is an empowering process.” Many companies are yet to come out with more inclusive policies for their staff. “We don't have these rules on paper, but even if we do, I don't think it will translate into reality,” says Chennai-based human resources professional Amrita K. Social media influencer, Vee, a straight transmale from Noida, who has been documenting his gender transitioning journey since September on Instagram says coming out to the world can be scary. “The main fear many have is about other people’s perceptions,” says the 19-year-old, who has about 4,700 followers on Instagram. “Before beginning hormone therapy I made myself mentally strong and confident.” Magdalene Jeyarathnam, founder and director of East West centre for counselling and training, Alwarpet, says that the decision to transition during the lockdown is mostly taken out of the courage to own their identity. “It is the responsibility of the society to accept these changes,” says the expressive arts therapist and psychodrama expert, who provides therapy and peer counselling for people from the queer community. “Seeking professional help to deal with challenges and stress is very important during transitioning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/adjusting-to-a-new-normal-post-transitioning/articleshow/81216962.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Terminal 1 to reopen for domestic flights from next month||MUMBAI: Terminal 1 in Vile Parle, which has not handled passengers for about a year now, will reopen for domestic flights next month. Currently, all flights, domestic as well as international, depart from Terminal 2 (Sahar) of Mumbai airport. GoAir will shift its entire domestic flight operations in Mumbai to Terminal 1 from March 10, said a GoAir spokesperson on Thursday. Its international flights will continue to operate out of T2 (Sahar, Andheri). IndiGo is also likely to move back at least a section of its domestic operations to Terminal 1 in the coming month. The airline has not made an official announcement yet. Both these airlines operated most domestic flights out of T1 before the pandemic. When domestic flights resumed post lockdown in May last year, airlines had to curtail their operations under the government restrictions put in place to tackle the pandemic. With fewer departures out of Mumbai, all domestic flights were moved to one terminal—Terminal 2 (T2). The GoAir spokesperson said the airline will continue to carry out enhanced cleaning procedures to ensure the health and safety of its passengers and employees. “We will continue to regularly disinfect the check-in kiosks, gate areas, check-in counters and ticketing counters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/t1-to-reopen-for-domestic-flights-from-next-month/articleshow/81215763.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Vaccine to cost Rs 300-Rs 500; roll out in 230 pvt hosps in T||Hyderabad: The Covid vaccine, set for a roll out in the private sector, is likely to be priced between Rs 300 and Rs 500 in the state, estimate health authorities. As announced by the central government, the roll out has been planned from the March 1 in 236 private hospitals in the state. Those above 60 years of age and people below 50 years suffering with comorbidities will be covered in this next phase of vaccination. The 236 hospitals are private, corporate and super speciality hospitals in the list of Arogyasri network hospitals in Telangana. Vaccination will also be available free of cost for these categories in government vaccination centres. “Only select hospitals have been allowed to give the vaccine and they have been told not to give more vaccine vials to any patient to prevent pilferage,” said an official from the health department. Sources in the medical health department said it is not clear so far whether the vaccines would be delivered to the hospitals by the government vaccine centre or directly by the companies. “ It is not yet clear who will regulate the vaccination programme in private corporate hospitals. Clear guidelines will be issued soon by the Center on this,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vaccine-to-cost-rs-300-rs-500-roll-out-in-230-pvt-hosps-in-t/articleshow/81216964.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||Cops raid wedding venue||Zonal DCP Neelotpal and his team conducted a raid at the wedding venue at the Kamptee Road on Wednesday following a tip-off of a turnout of around 1,500 guests. An offence was registered at New Kamptee police station for violations of the Covid norms.It’s learnt there were two wedding ceremonies underway simultaneously. Owner of the lawn, Surendra Singh, has been booked along with others. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-raid-wedding-venue/articleshow/81215771.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Caseload now same as October’s, but oxygen demand lower||PUNE: Demand for medical oxygen in Maharashtra is currently much lower than October last year, when the state was recording almost the same number of average daily Covid-19 cases, data from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) here has shown. Demand for oxygen, which is used to treat those with moderate to serious Covid-19, is now up marginally to an average 350 tonnes per day. But it is much lower than the peak period of September and even the latter half of October last year, when Maharashtra was recording between 6,000 and 8,000 cases per day, almost the same number as it is recording these days. In October, medical oxygen demand was at 430-450 tonnes daily, an official from the state health department said. Data also showed that around October 28 last year, there were 7,348 on oxygen support outside ICUs in the state. Currently, that number stands at 4,410. Officials said serious cases requiring oxygen support are currently much less than the peak pandemic phase last year. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services (Pune region), said: “Even in Pune circle, the number of daily cases being recorded currently reflect the situation that was seen around October 20 last year (in terms of number of cases being recorded per day). But the low oxygen demand indicates high SARS-CoV-2 transmissibility with low virulence. Home-isolation and asymptomatic cases are much more now. These patients do not require hospitalisation or oxygen support." Deshmukh added that there has hardly been a rise of 1-1.5% in the number of critical patients currently in Pune circle, compared to the recent months. “Use of oxygen beds in October last year was much more than what it is currently,” Deshmukh said. Citing other reasons for the low oxygen demand, another state health department official said hospitals now have good oxygen-storage capacity. The official said: “Last year, hospitals would procure oxygen on a daily basis due to lack of good storage. Today, hospitals can buy medical oxygen in bulk and store it. Also, Covid treatment protocols are now much more streamlined, reducing chances of the illness turning severe. There’s also no panic buying of oxygen among hospitals, which we saw last year."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/caseload-now-same-as-octs-but-oxygen-demand-lower/articleshow/81219857.cms||Neha Madaan
February 26, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Caseload now same as October’s, but oxygen demand lower||PUNE: Demand for medical oxygen in Maharashtra is currently much lower than October last year, when the state was recording almost the same number of average daily Covid-19 cases, data from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) here has shown. Demand for oxygen, which is used to treat those with moderate to serious Covid-19, is now up marginally to an average 350 tonnes per day. But it is much lower than the peak period of September and even the latter half of October last year, when Maharashtra was recording between 6,000 and 8,000 cases per day, almost the same number as it is recording these days. In October, medical oxygen demand was at 430-450 tonnes daily, an official from the state health department said. Data also showed that around October 28 last year, there were 7,348 on oxygen support outside ICUs in the state. Currently, that number stands at 4,410. Officials said serious cases requiring oxygen support are currently much less than the peak pandemic phase last year. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services (Pune region), said: “Even in Pune circle, the number of daily cases being recorded currently reflect the situation that was seen around October 20 last year (in terms of number of cases being recorded per day). But the low oxygen demand indicates high SARS-CoV-2 transmissibility with low virulence. Home-isolation and asymptomatic cases are much more now. These patients do not require hospitalisation or oxygen support." Deshmukh added that there has hardly been a rise of 1-1.5% in the number of critical patients currently in Pune circle, compared to the recent months. “Use of oxygen beds in October last year was much more than what it is currently,” Deshmukh said. Citing other reasons for the low oxygen demand, another state health department official said hospitals now have good oxygen-storage capacity. The official said: “Last year, hospitals would procure oxygen on a daily basis due to lack of good storage. Today, hospitals can buy medical oxygen in bulk and store it. Also, Covid treatment protocols are now much more streamlined, reducing chances of the illness turning severe. There’s also no panic buying of oxygen among hospitals, which we saw last year."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/caseload-now-same-as-octs-but-oxygen-demand-lower/articleshow/81219854.cms||Neha Madaan
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Caseload now same as October’s, but oxygen demand lower||PUNE: Demand for medical oxygen in Maharashtra is currently much lower than October last year, when the state was recording almost the same number of average daily Covid-19 cases, data from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) here has shown. Demand for oxygen, which is used to treat those with moderate to serious Covid-19, is now up marginally to an average 350 tonnes per day. But it is much lower than the peak period of September and even the latter half of October last year, when Maharashtra was recording between 6,000 and 8,000 cases per day, almost the same number as it is recording these days. In October, medical oxygen demand was at 430-450 tonnes daily, an official from the state health department said. Data also showed that around October 28 last year, there were 7,348 on oxygen support outside ICUs in the state. Currently, that number stands at 4,410. Officials said serious cases requiring oxygen support are currently much less than the peak pandemic phase last year. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services (Pune region), said: “Even in Pune circle, the number of daily cases being recorded currently reflect the situation that was seen around October 20 last year (in terms of number of cases being recorded per day). But the low oxygen demand indicates high SARS-CoV-2 transmissibility with low virulence. Home-isolation and asymptomatic cases are much more now. These patients do not require hospitalisation or oxygen support." Deshmukh added that there has hardly been a rise of 1-1.5% in the number of critical patients currently in Pune circle, compared to the recent months. “Use of oxygen beds in October last year was much more than what it is currently,” Deshmukh said. Citing other reasons for the low oxygen demand, another state health department official said hospitals now have good oxygen-storage capacity. The official said: “Last year, hospitals would procure oxygen on a daily basis due to lack of good storage. Today, hospitals can buy medical oxygen in bulk and store it. Also, Covid treatment protocols are now much more streamlined, reducing chances of the illness turning severe. There’s also no panic buying of oxygen among hospitals, which we saw last year."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/caseload-now-same-as-octs-but-oxygen-demand-lower/articleshow/81216970.cms||Neha Madaan
February 26, 2021||Surat||GJEPC, eBay India join hands to boost retail exports||Surat: The Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) on Thursday signed an MoU with ES Online Services (India) Pvt. Ltd. (an eBay Group Company) to boost the presence of Indian gem and jewellery sellers on global e-marketplace and explore potential collaborations. According to GJEPC, eBay will create a microsite for GJEPC members selling on eBay websites. They will be placed together on this proposed microsite for better accessibility. “eBay will facilitate awareness workshops, webinars, seminars to educate GJEPC members about e-commerce retail exports opportunities and train on policies and best practices in product listings, selling, shipping, and customer services,” GJEPC said during a media briefing. GJEPC on the other hand, will provide infrastructure support for conducting such awareness programmes, apex body for the gem and jewellery sector added. In future, GJEPC will be setting up an e-Commerce Promotion and Facilitation Desk (EPFD) at all its six regional offices which will have dedicated manpower promoting e-commerce amongst its members and generating leads. Colin Shah, chairman, GJEPC said, “The collaboration between eBay India and GJEPC is a step towards facilitating gem and jewellery exports through the e-commerce platform. This will enable Indian players to have easy access to international buyers.” He said that demand for gems and jewellery was picking up after the pandemic in all major export markets, hence it was important to tap into online opportunities. “The new initiative will boost the gem and jewellery exports helping us to achieve our goal of US$ 75 billion exports by 2025,” said Shah. Vidmay Naini, country manager, eBay India-CBT said, “We are convinced that Indian gem and jewellery sellers are well poised to scale their business and presence across the eBay marketplace globally.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gjepc-ebay-india-join-hands-to-boost-retail-exports/articleshow/81214773.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||T among top in meeting SDGs in pandemic year: Report||Visakhapatnam: The Covid-19 pandemic has not only created a global health crisis, but has exposed the vulnerability to the vagaries of the disease – be it malnourishment, underemployment, school dropouts, exodus of migrants. The State of India’s Environment (2021) report by the Centre for Science and Environment, released on Thursday, has substantiated the fallout of the pandemic. Amid the pandemic, India ranked a poor 117th among 192 nations in terms of sustainable development, but the saving grace is that the two Telugu states – Andhra Pradesh and Telangana – have found a place among the top five performing states in India in meeting the sustainable development goals. Andhra Pradesh and Telangana could successfully contain the disease by the third quarter of 2020 by sticking to the scientific evidence in pandemic preparedness, response and management. From the initial days of panic with no definitive treatment, inadequate health infra and no testing facilities in February-March, the two Telugu states have tweaked their strategies for the changing transmission dynamics. The states witnessed a drastic decline in cases in fourth quarter of 2020. Sunita Narain, director general, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said Covid-19 has made world’s poor poorer. “About 115 million additional people might get pushed into extreme poverty by pandemic and most of them live in South Asia. The defining event of the year that has gone by has been Covid-19 pandemic, something which the world is struggling to come to terms with. The time has now come to investigate what the pandemic is going to leave behind for us in the long term – a lost generation, scarred by ill-health, malnourishment, acute poverty and a debilitating break in educational accomplishments,” said Narain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-among-top-in-meeting-sdgs-in-pandemic-year-report/articleshow/81217008.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 26, 2021||Aurangabad||AMC plans 350 trees at Thackeray memorial site||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Thursday planted around 350 trees of different indigenous varieties at the site of proposed memorial of late Shiv Sena chief Balasaheb Thackeray. The move has come close on the heels of Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court taking up for hearing a PIL that alleges reduction in green-cover at Priayadarshini garden — the site for the memorial. AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey, who was present during the plantation drive, said that the garden would emerge as an ‘oxygen hub’ in days to come. “’The proposed memorial would come up at the designated site without causing any harm to trees and plants at the garden. The trees planted during the drive would enhance the biodiversity of the garden over a period of next six months,” he said. A group of civic officials, along with nature experts, were present during the plantation drive. NGO Jansahyog Foundation, which is overseeing the status of Priyadarshin garden as per the PIL, has already submitted before the court that many trees and plants at the site were in ‘brunt condition’ and that 50% of the plants have ‘dried out’ to lack of water. Meanwhile, state industries minister Subhash Desai is scheduled to visit the site on Friday coinciding with the hearing of the PIL concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-plans-350-trees-at-thackeray-memorial-site/articleshow/81214780.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Surat||Surat records 79 new cases in a single day||Surat: Surat reported 79 new cases, with 24 from the posh Athwa zone, on Thursday. With this the case tally in the Diamond City has reached 40,451, out of which 39,286 have recovered while 850 have succumbed to the virus since March last year.The city has seen a significant rise in Covid-19 cases over the past few days, mostly after the election campaign of the civic body ended. The case tally in Athwa zone crossed 8,000-mark with the addition of 24 fresh cases on Thursday.In order to keep a check on the spread of the virus, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has stepped up its vigilance by increasing testing and strict enforcement of Covid-19 guidelines. On Thursday, Surat civic body’s enforcement teams penalised 224 people, who were found without a face mask and collected fine of Rs 2.24 lakh.“We have increased our surveillance activity and have asked people who are entering into the city from other states to go for Covid-19 testing. This will help prevent the spread of the virus,” said an SMC official.As of Thursday, 3,496 people were under home quarantine in various civic zones, while 72 patients were under treatment at different hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-records-79-new-cases-in-a-single-day/articleshow/81214789.cms||---
February 26, 2021||India||‘Mauritius, India working for a safe Indian Ocean’||NEW DELHI: Mauritius and India are working together for a safe, secure and prosperous Indian Ocean, Mauritius PM Pravind Jugnauth said this week after his meeting with foreign minister S Jaishankar. Apart from signing a free trade agreement, the two co- untries deepened their part- nership, discussing a range of issues, including ensu- ring peace and respect for ru- le of law in the strategically- vital Indo-Pacific region. Ja- ishankar’s visit was an indi- cator to the value India atta- ches to its relations with the Jugnauth administration. Jugnauth said Mauritius and India remain committed to working together bilaterally and as regional partners to enhance capacity for sustainable management of marine resources and to address challenges in maritime domains. “We have the common ambition and responsibility of preserving and working for a safe, secure and prospe- rous Indian Ocean,” he said. “Ensuring peace and re- spect for rule of law in the Indo-Pacific region was one of the issues which I discussed with Jaishankar during our meeting today,” he added. After an oil spill from the ship MV Wakashio off the Mauritius coast in August, India had sent assistance to help manage the leak. It has implicitly recognised that the protests are being driven by personal ambition of some of the personalities involved. India also complimented Mauritius for its Covid ma- nagement — the island hosts over 1.3 million tourists an- nually — which are the ma- instay of the economy. The country had scored a perfect 100 on the Oxford University Stringency Index that tracks government policy and ac- tion with regard to Covid-19. The measures, like the lock- down in India, helped cont- rol the Covid-19 threat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mauritius-india-working-for-a-safe-indian-ocean/articleshow/81219711.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||BMC should grant Rs 406cr, not loan, says BEST panel||Mumbai: The BEST committee unanimously passed a resolution on Thursday, demanding that BMC should give a “grant” and not a “loan” of Rs 406 crore to the ailing transport body. Panel members across party lines criticised BMC decision to further burden the city’s transport body with a ‘huge loan’. Senior committee member Sunil Ganacharya pointed out that the BEST was already burdened with outstanding payments of Rs 2,483 crore. “We have a long term loan of Rs 350 crore, short term loans of around Rs 475 crore, an overdraft of Rs 210 crore, besides Rs 167 crore outstanding payments to Tata Power (for purchase of electricity for island city) among other outstandings,” he informed the panel at Thursday’s meeting. He said that the taxes being paid by BEST had crossed Rs 100 crore, and with so much due annually, a loan of Rs 406 crore would not be advisable. Other panel members supported him and informed BEST general manager Surendrakumar Bagde that he should not seek any ‘advance’ or ‘loan’ from the BMC, but seek financial assistance. Bagde was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-should-grant-rs-406cr-not-loan-says-best-panel/articleshow/81217095.cms||Somit Sen
February 26, 2021||Aurangabad||City MP defers hunger strike over waqf ‘land scam’||Aurangabad: City MP Imtiaz Jaleel has postponed the indefinite hunger strike that he was planning to hold against the alleged waqf land scam from Friday, in view of the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases and the resultant government restrictions. Jaleel, who was recently appointed member of the Maharashtra State Board of Waqf, has himself tested positive for the contagion but is firm on seeking action against what he describes as a Rs100-crore scam. According to a statement issued by Jaleel, he will launch the hunger strike once he gets discharged from hospital. “The land sharks need not rejoice about the postponing of the strike. We have pledged to send them behind bars.” Assistant commissioner of police (special branch) Ashok Bankar said, “Due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases, permission has been denied for the indefinite hunger strike called by the Aurangabad MP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/city-mp-defers-hunger-strike-over-waqf-land-scam/articleshow/81214790.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Surat||Niti Ayog CEO to deliver VNSGU convocation address||Surat: Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant will deliver the convocation address on the campus of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) on Friday.As many as 36,614 students will be conferred degrees at the first offline event in the city since the global pandemic forced nationwide lockdown. The 52nd convocation will be held in the convention hall where nearly 500 students will be allowed entry despite the capacity of 1,150 considering the social distancing norms.“Students without masks will not be allowed inside the hall. They will be provided sanitizers too ,” said a senior university official. Governor and chancellor of VNSGU, Acharya Devvrat will preside over the function. Earlier, the university was planned to hold the convocation online, but following orders from chancellor it is being held offline.  The highest number of degrees, 10,971, in commerce faculty followed by 9,643 in arts and 8,308 in science. A total of 109 students will be awarded gold medals, 85 PhD degrees and 14 MPhil degrees . “Only a few students will be handed over the degrees and medals at the event while the majority of them will be sent the degrees at their addresses,” said a university notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/niti-ayog-ceo-to-deliver-vnsgu-convocation-address/articleshow/81214829.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Pune||Corporators extend support to SWaCH||Pune: A total of 110 corporators from all political parties in the Pune Municipal Corporation on Tuesday wrote to the mayor and municipal commissioner stating their support for SWaCH, a collective of wastepickers, instead of the recently proposed introduction of private contractors for waste collection.  SWaCH stated that over 6.62 lakh households and establishments expressed their support for continuation of their services. “Some corporators have complaints about a few wastepickers. A meeting will be held to resolve the issue,” Ganesh Bidkar, leader of the house in PMC, said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corporators-extend-support-to-swach/articleshow/81217051.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Tenant can’t be denied flat owner’s parking space: Maharashtra court||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra state cooperative appellate court has said a tenant or a leave and licence holder has the right to park their car in the space allotted to a member on the society premises. It has “temporarily restrained” a cooperative housing society at Nepeansea Road from preventing a flat owner from allowing a person who had rented his flat to use his parking slot, reports Swati Deshpande. The February 9 judgment said that the only question that arose for consideration was “whether the licensee can enjoy the alloted parking space which is allotted to...the member of the society?” It added, “A car parking space allotted to the owner can be used by the tenant as he has full rights over it.” “As per Development Control Rules framed under the MRTP Act, 1966, the tenant cannot be denied parking,” stated the judgment in an appeal filed by a member of the south Mumbai society. The February 9 judgment by appellate court member S S Kakade said, “The society should not discriminate, as parking rules are governed by DC Rules and if the owner is eligible to get parking space, then the tenant should also get the benefit of that space.” Retired Army Brigadier S S Kadan (68) had appealed against a cooperative court order last year rejecting his plea for interim relief. He had challenged the society’s 2014 car parking policy as “arbitrary and unreasonable”. When he decided last year to let out his flat, he said the society showed him the 2014 policy that sets out priority for car parking and rejected his request to permit his licensee to park a car in the society premises. The society has 110 members and 101 parking slots, he said. The society, though, said there were only 70 parking slots for 110 flats. His counsel, Aditya Chitale and Prathamesh Bhosle, said Kadan purchased a flat in the building in 2006 and was allotted an open-to-sky car parking slot by the society. He sought a declaration that his licensee was entitled to use his open car parking slot in the society premises. He also sought to prevent the society from obstructing such prospective tenants from using his parking space for a temporary period. The society, through law firm AAK Legal, argued its car parking policy approved by the AGM was fair to all members and “well within the ambit of Bye Law 78 (B), which specifically states that if a society has the right to allot parking, then no other member can transfer or assign it to any other person". The society’s counsel said priority to parking space was based on three preferences--first to members not allotted any, second to members who owned a second vehicle and also have one parking, and third is for temporary parking to guests and tenants, provided space is available. The society admitted the Brigadier’s licensees were allowed car parking till 2014. From then, till 2020, the family occupied it. The court said the flat owner was only seeking relief to “not to prevent his licensee from enjoying’’ his parking space for a temporary period, “hence the question of non-availability of space as alleged by the society does not arise”. “The trial court failed to consider that the licensee has the right to enjoy the facilities and amenities attached to the flat, which he/she has taken on a license basis till the license period is over,’’ said the cooperative appeal court judgment, setting aside the trial court order. The judgment also said trial court failed to consider that since September 2020, the society allowed Kadan’s licensee to park her vehicle in the slot on payment of daily charges. It also said the flat owner has a right to seek inspection of the society records free of cost under the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act, and directed the society to allow him such inspection. It directed the trial court to decide the dispute, including levy of any penalty, expeditously, within eight months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tenant-cant-be-denied-flat-owners-parking-space-court/articleshow/81219338.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||UP minister Mohsin Raza offers Rs 25L for treatment of Shareef Chacha||Arshad Afzaal Khan Ayodhya: State minority affairs minister Mohsin Raza on Thursday offered Rs 25 lakh from his personal fund for treatment of Padma awardee and Faizabad’s ‘last rites’ Samaritan Shareef Chacha, who’s suffering from multiple diseases. Talking to TOI, he said the state government is concerned about the health of Mohammad Shareef, who gave honour in death to over 25,000 people whose bodies lay unclaimed. Raza said, “I will ensure the Padma medal is delivered at Shareef’s house as he is bedridden and terminally ill. I am talking to Ayodhya DM and officials at the Centre,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-minister-mohsin-raza-offers-rs-25l-for-treatment-of-shareef-chacha/articleshow/81218791.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Aurangabad||1 held with firearm in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad city police has arrested a man from Vijaynagar Chowk falling under the limits of Pundaliknagar police station for allegedly selling a country-made firearm. Police said that the suspect has been identified as Shaikh Sohel (26) while his accomplice has been identified as Shaikh Jawed alias Tipya. The suspect’s accomplice fled the spot before police could nab him. Besides seizing the firearm, police also recovered a bike from the suspect — totally worth over Rs 2.30 lakh. Assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne said that both the suspects are hardened criminals on police record and a manhunt has been launched for the one who managed to give slip to the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/1-held-with-firearm-in-aurangabad/articleshow/81214813.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Congress marches against Centre’s three farm laws, inflation||Karnal: Congress activists on Thursday carried out a ‘pada yatra’ in Panipat district against the three farm laws and rising fuel prices. The march, led by Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief Kumari Selja started from the Congress office at Lal Batti Chowk in Panipat. During the march, activists placed a bike and gas cylinder on a cart to protest against inflation and raised slogans against the BJP government. Selja said inflation is rising and prices of petrol, diesel and domestic gas cylinders are increasing despite crude oil prices falling in the international market. She alleged that the government has earned crores in the name of tax and should disclose how the money was used and how much was invested for public welfare. Selja claimed that during the tenure of the UPA government, prices of crude oil were double that of today in the international market but even then the government managed to give relief to people. She accused the government of bringing in the three agri laws to ruin the agricultural sector. For the last three months, farmers have been agitating on the roads and more than 215 sacrificed their lives during the agitation, despite this, government remained adamant, she alleged. Saying that the Congress is raising the voice of the people, she said, “We would like to bring to the notice of the Modi government and the Khattar government that this kind of dictatorship cannot last long. Big rulers have had to bow before the voice of the people.” On employment, Selja said Haryana has the highest unemployment rate in the country. Existing jobs were being taken away and new jobs were not being created, she said. Others present on the occasion included former CPS Ramkishan Gurjar, former ministers Bijender Kadyan, Sanjay Agarwal, Bulle Shah, Omveer Panwar, Baburam Kaushik, Rajendra Vidyan, Raman Sharma, Mohkam Chhokar, advocate Naresh Attri besides others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/congress-marches-against-centres-three-farm-laws-inflation/articleshow/81218788.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||No mask: Rs 42k fine collected on locals on Wed||Mumbai: The BMC issued challans to 208 commuters on Western Railway (WR) and Central Railway (CR) on Wednesday for not wearing masks, and collected Rs 42,400 in fines. The data was released by the Government Railway Police on Thursday. Maximum challans (130) were issued at CSMT, followed by 35 at Wadala and 10 at Andheri. After CM Uddhav Thackerays’s appeal, police were given power to issue challans and fine Rs 200. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-mask-rs-42k-fine-collected-on-locals-on-wed/articleshow/81217087.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Delhi-Asr-Katra e-way: Farmers protest public hearing||Patiala: Land owners farmers in Patiala and Sangrur districts protested against the public hearing by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) as part of the land acquisition process for the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway. They gheraoed the Sangrur district officials and NHAI team members here for the public hearing. The land owners said they were not satisfied with the compensation being awarded for their agriculture land and houses or shops. They also said the process should be stopped till the issue of three agricultural laws gets resolved. The affected farmers claimed that the Sangrur district administration had earlier deferred the public hearing but on Thursday they brought “fake farmers” for the process. The public hearing was scheduled to take place on Friday. Punjab had lobbied hard with the Centre to get the desired alignment of the greenfield expressway that is to pass through eight of its districts and also cut the time between Delhi and Amritsar to four hours. However, the projects has faced resistance in most districts now, with farm leaders linked its progress with the Centre’s three agriculture marketing laws and also seeking higher compensation. Delhi Katra Expressway Kisan Sangharsh Committee (DKEKSC) Punjab coordinator Harmanpreet Singh Jeji alleged, “The officials in Sangrur issued a notification to defer the public hearing but on Thursday they were getting conducted the public hearing secretly. We immediately marked our protest and now we are staging sit-in for an indefinite period against the state government demanding the acquisition proceedings to be halted till the farm laws issue is resolved. The central government only want to acquire the agricultural land from Punjabis with a motive to ruin them in one or other way but we will not let this happen.” However, DKEKSC Punjab president Sukhdev Singh Dhillon said, “We have no concern with the farmers agitating against the central government. Our demand is only that government should pay us Rs 3.5 crore per acre compensation amount. On Thursday, we had gheraoed the officials, including the project manager of NHAI, who had taken the memorandum from us. The public hearing could not take place.” Sangrur DC and SDM could not be contacted but Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said that he was unaware about any protest by farmers but had called a meeting of the officials concerned to look into the matter. The Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway is a 687-km-long (427 mi) controlled-access expressway that which will connect Delhi with Amritsar in Punjab and Katra in Jammu and Kashmir. The expressway goes to Nakodar in Jalandhar district where it forks into two separate spurs, one of which goes west to Amritsar and another to Katra. The road will reduce Delhi-Amritsar distance to 405 km or travel time to 4 hours from 8 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/delhi-asr-katra-e-way-farmers-protest-public-hearing/articleshow/81218777.cms||Bharat Khanna
February 26, 2021||Pune||Fake toll receipts land 6 agency staffers in net||Pune: The rural police arrested six employees of a private agency engaged by the NHAI at the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza along the Pune–Bengaluru highway on the charge of giving bogus tariff receipts to motorists crossing the facility with no FASTag late on Wednesday night. A team, headed by additional superintendent of police Milind Mohite, conducted a raid at the toll plaza after Pune rural SP Abhinav Deshmukh received a complaint from Abhijit Babar, a Mangalwar Peth resident, regarding the veracity of the receipt issued to him while he was driving through the plaza. The police recovered some receipts and are making an assessment of the total worth of the fraud. “Initial questioning of the arrested six revealed that they have been issuing these receipts for nearly a month now, mostly to motorists without the FASTag,” a rural police officer said. The National Highways Authority of India’s (NHAI) Pune project director, Suhas Chitnis, told TOI, “We are yet to receive any official communication from the police but we will talk to them, as well as the toll collection agency, to seek more information.” Amit Bhatia, regional director of the Pune Satara Toll Road Limited, the agency that operates the Khed Shivapur toll plaza, told TOI, “The arrested six are employed with our agency. We came to know about this matter last night after the police raid. We are cooperating with the police.” The police team went to the toll plaza with a vehicle which did not have the FASTag facility. An employee at the toll plaza gave a receipt of Rs190 to the driver of this vehicle. The police then took the toll fee receipt to the agency’s office and got it verified by the officials there. “Officials of the toll collection agency told us that the receipt was not genuine,” Mohite said. Police have identified the arrested toll plaza employees as Sudesh Prakash Gangawane (25), Akshay Tanaji Sanas (22), Ajay Kashinath Chavan (19) — all residents of Wai in Satara district, Shubham Sitaram Dolare (19) of Janata Vasahat, Sai Ladurao Sutar (25) of Katraj, and Sanket Jaywant Gaikwad (22) of Jawali in Satara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fake-toll-receipts-land-6-agency-staffers-in-net/articleshow/81217075.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Land allotted in Kharghar for Sikkim, Tripura guest houses||Navi Mumbai: Cidco has decided to allot lands in Kharghar to the state governments of Sikkim and Tripura for the construction of their state guest houses. The plots, measuring 2,000 sq m and 4,000 sq m respectively, has been allocated in Sector 16, Kharghar. Cidco will lease out the land for 60 years. While the Sikkim government will have to pay a lease amount of Rs 9.33 crore, Tripura will have to pay an amount of R 4.89 crore. Cidco vice-chairman and managing director Sanjay Mukherjee said, “Like other states that had got the land to construct their state guest houses in Vashi, Cidco has provided plots to Tripura and Sikkim governments as well.”  Recently, Cidco had also allotted land in Kharghar to the Haj committee for Haj House. — B B Nayak||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/land-allotted-in-kharghar-for-sikkim-tripura-guest-houses/articleshow/81218797.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Latest video on Deep’s FB page holds farm leaders guilty of provocation||Bathinda: While Deep Sidhu is in the judicial custody after being arrested for his involvement in the Republic Day violence at the Red Fort, a video has been posted on his verified Facebook page that puts the blame of January 26 incidents squarely on various farmer union leaders with clips from their various speeches and statements included as “proof”. While is not known who is operating his profile while Sidhu is being bars, the video (recorded both in Punabi and Hindi) has over 2 lakh views and garnered over 20,000 likes and is a clear effort at washing his image clean. While farmer union leaders have cleared held him responsible for the incident of raising ‘nishan sahib’ and farmers’ flags at Red Fort, the over 7-minute-long video clip has clips about the provocative speeches made by farm leaders at different points of time weaved together. It was posted on February 23. Through the video it is being projected that it was not Deep Sidhu who lead the protesters to Red Fort, but it is the protesters who made him climb the ramparts of the Red Fort. In the latest video clip the speeches of senior farm leader Rakesh Tikait, Gurnam Singh Chadauni, Sarwan Singh Pandher, Satnam Singh Pannu, Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala and former gangster Lakha Sidhana have been weaved into one. Different leaders can be heard asking farmers to ride the tractors on the chest of PM Narendra Modi, threatening Delhi Police against stopping farmers, calling it tractor parade a final match, and announcing plans to go to Red Fort. Some extract has also been added from previous videos of Deep Sidhu when he had gone online in the wee hours of January 28 while in hiding. Now, question is being asked as to who is operating his operating the social media account while he is in jail. Even Sidhana, Sidhu’s co-accused, has gone online twice in last few days despite being wanted by Delhi Police and carrying Rs 1 lakh reward for information on him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/latest-video-on-deeps-fb-page-holds-farm-leaders-guilty-of-provocation/articleshow/81218794.cms||Neel Kamal
February 26, 2021||Aurangabad||Four held for stealing pyre ashes in Maharashtra's Osmanabad||AURANGABAD: The Osmanabad police has arrested four suspects, including two women, on the charges of stealing ashes from a pyre. The alleged incident took place in Devgaon Khurd village in Paranda taluka of Osmanabad district. During interrogation, the suspects told police that they were looking for melted ornaments that were burnt along with the deceased woman. The suspects have been identified as Ramchandra Kasbe (35), his wife Swati (32), Dadasaheb Hanvate (40) and his wife Rukmini — all residents of Barloni in Madha taluka of Solapur district. Superintendent of police Raj Tilak Roushan told TOI, “The investigation revealed that the suspects had recently lost their jobs and were facing serious financial crisis. The woman died during delivery on February 22 and these men learnt that her last rites were performed along with her jewellery. On Wednesday, they were looking for the melted pieces of precious metal when it caught attention of the villagers.” Police said that the villagers assaulted the suspects before handing them over to the police. Based on the complaint lodged by a villager, the suspects have been booked under sections of IPC 297 (wounding feelings of a person or insulting the religion or beliefs of a person), 379 (theft)and 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offence punishable with life imprisonment).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-held-for-stealing-pyre-ashes-in-osmanabad/articleshow/81214843.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Temperature set to rise in Hyderabad, experts warn of ‘above normal’ heat this summer||HYDERABAD: If the rising temperature is any indication, then Hyderabad is set to bid goodbye to winter this week. After a steep drop in maximum temperature, following a few spells of rain last week, it is back to 34 degree Celsius and is only set to increase as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad, forecast. At present, many parts of the city are experiencing dry and hot weather conditions. Figures from the Telangana State Development Planning Society show areas such as Gachibowli, Quthbullapur, Mailardevpally, Hafeezpet and Nagole, among others, are experiencing maximum temperature of 34 degree Celsius. Even night temperatures have gone up to between 19 degree Celsius and 20 degree Celsius, deviating from the normal average of 15.9 degree Celsius for winter. Meteorologists said that denizens can brace for a harsh summer this year with temperatures settling above normal on most days this season. “The existing trend hints at an official end of winter season. We don’t expect the mercury levels to dip any further. Since no humid winds are penetrating Telangana, the mercury levels are only set to soar above normal,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change at Skymet, an independent weather forecasting agency. The rising temperatures are attributed to mainly low level easterlies and north-easterlies prevailing over Telangana. There has been an overall increase of 0.7 degree Celsius in mean temperature across India. Meteorologists said March first week will mark onset of summer in Telangana. “Generally, mercury levels tend to rise from March first week. We expect gradual rise in mercury levels as no deep trough or western disturbance are foreseen that may lead to drop in temperature,” said A Shravani, meteorologist, IMD, Hyderabad. While the maximum temperature is expected to be around 35 degree Celsius, the minimum temperature around 20 degree Celsius till March 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/temp-set-to-rise-in-city-experts-warn-of-above-normal-heat-this-summer/articleshow/81217092.cms||Preeti Biswas
February 26, 2021||Rajkot||54 new cases in Rajkot, highest in 3 months||Rajkot: The Covid-19 cases have witnessed a consistent rise over the past week in Rajkot. With just 16 new cases on February 21, the Saurashtra’s financial capital registered 54 fresh cases on Thursday, the highest in the last three months.The doctors at the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) had anticipated such a spike if people won’t adhere to the Covid-19 norms of wearing face masks and maintaining social distance during the civic body election campaigns. The per day cases during Covid-19 peak was around 100 cases in Rajkot, during August and September last year. The cases went down steadily and had been stable between 20 to 30 per day since January. However after the civic body elections were announced and political parties became active in campaigning, the number of cases started rising. Rajkot registering 54 new cases on Thursday was the highest in the last three months.Dr. Rajesh Teli, a physician from Rajkot said, “The political rallies were held without restrictions and people also let their guard down. Also, a number of marriages were organised over the past two weeks. This is the main reason for the spike.”“The incubation period of the Covid-19 virus is 15 days and now we are seeing the rise in the numbers. The numbers are likely to increase further,” added Teli. Rajkot has so far recorded 16,035 cases since the beginning of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/54-new-cases-in-rajkot-highest-in-3-months/articleshow/81214858.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Pune||TransUnion sets up branch in Pune||Pune: American credit assessment and reporting firm TransUnion has launched its second facility in India, off Ahmednagar Road in the city. “There are a few factors of growth that we considered, the Pune-Mumbai region being a good geo-political space. There is enormous talent in the region due to the fintech ecosystem in Pune, as well as the presence of a number of startups in the analytics space,” said Debasis Panda, vice-president of operations at TransUnion. Panda added the firm uses data analytics, AI, and other tools to prepare credit reports. Its services have also found takers in the rentals and tenancy sector and in the healthcare business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transunion-sets-up-branch-in-pune/articleshow/81217117.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
February 26, 2021||Pune||Honeywell starts mid-segment line||Pune: Honeywell announced the launch of its ‘Impact’ line of safety, productivity and cost control products aimed at the Indian mid-segment. Honeywell, which has a large production and management presence in Pune for its India operations, added that its new offerings have potential in the e-commerce, pharmaceuticals, and other startup spaces, including MSMEs, even though the latter are struggling to control costs during the pandemic. The company said a number of its new products were subscription-based to reduce initial costs. “During an economic downturn, businesses are always focused on their costs, but products like the ones announced today play a very important part.,” Akshay Bellare, president of Honeywell India, said. The ‘Impact’ line includes wireless, sensor-based air conditioning controllers, as well as AI and machine learning based solutions to track and alert users from CCTV feeds. “We have also developed solutions to track shipments of vaccines and drugs. One issue that pharmaceutical firms have often faced in the past is the rejection of shipments due to the loss of efficacy,” said Chaitanya Paspuleti of Honeywell India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/honeywell-starts-mid-segment-line/articleshow/81217122.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Police seize 3 lts of banned Hashish oil||Hyderabad: Two drug peddlers were nabbed by Special Operation Team (SOT) sleuths of LB Nagar for being in possession of banned Hashish oil. Police seized 3 litres of the hashish oil from the accused. LB Nagar police said that the accused were nabbed in Abdullapurpet police station limits. The accused said they bought the oil from their accomplice, who is now missing, by paying Rs 2.70 lakh. Later, the accused said they intended to pay Rs 4 lakhs. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-seize-3-lts-of-banned-hashish-oil/articleshow/81217115.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Now, BJP trains its guns on Shivaji Park revamp project||MUMBAI: Even before the civic body can begin work on ground for revamp of Dadar’s Shivaji Park, the project is mired in political controversy. While the MNS has offered to do the revamp free of cost by getting CSR funds, BJP has trained its guns on the project, terming it selective development. Shiv Sena hit back saying the statements were being made with an eye on the 2022 BMC elections. On Thursday, the BMC floated a Rs 4-crore tender for works, including laying of a storm water drain (SWD) network, ground levelling and rain water harvesting works among others. Assistant municipal commissioner of G north ward, Kiran Dighavkar, said the project has been well planned. “Consultants, including horticulturists and experts to study the topography of the area, were appointed before deciding on what to undertake. We plan to start work by April and complete it in a time-bound manner,” he said. BJP’s Ashish Shelar took to Twitter to express outrage. “BMC loot toolkit! Rs 30 crore fund grab by standing committee chairman, Rs40,000 per dustbin? Rs5 crore on food trucks! Steel benches (for thieves?), Rs 4crore on Shivaji Park grass!” he tweeted. “This is not inclusive development. Money is going only in those areas where the ruling party wants their candidate to be elected,” Shelar told TOI. Local corporator from Shivaji Park, Vishakha Raut, said opposition parties were criticising the project only for political gains. On Wednesday, MNS chief Raj Thackeray wrote to municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal demanding that the tender be scrapped. He has sought permission to bring in CSR funds for the revamp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-bjp-trains-its-guns-on-shivaji-park-revamp-project/articleshow/81217133.cms||Richa Pinto
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers to head to Delhi for Parkash Ustav of Bhagat Ravidas & Azad’s martyrdom||Patiala: Hundreds of farmers under the banner of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) plan to head towards Delhi borders in large numbers on Thursday. The BKU faction said they would observe the Parkash Ustav of Bhagat Ravidas and martyrdom of Chandra Shekhar Azad at the agitation sites and across 42 sites in Punjab on Saturday. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leaders claimed that this time, farmers would move in large numbers in canters and buses instead of tractor-trolleys as most of them will return after observing the events planned for Saturday. Janak Singh, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) vice-president said, “A number of meetings have been held in the last few days and a decision was taken to ferry a large number of farmers to Delhi on Friday. According to the plan, farmers will largely travel by canters and buses and village and block-level committees of the union will manage the groups. Around 20,000 farmers will move from Khanauri border of Punjab and Haryana towards Delhi on Friday while some others may join on Saturday also. Farmers from Patiala, Barnala, Sangrur, Mansa, Bathinda, Barnala and other nearby districts will move from Khanauri border.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-to-head-to-delhi-for-parkash-ustav-of-bhagat-ravidas-azads-martyrdom/articleshow/81218807.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Surat||22 clinics, hospitals sealed over fire safety norms||Surat: As many as 22 clinics and hospitals in Surat city were sealed by the fire and emergency department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Thursday for non-compliance of fire safety norms despite repeated reminders.According to SMC officials, they have taken strict action against those clinics and hospitals which have not complied with the fire safety norms despite notices given to them.The clinics and hospitals sealed included Nupur General Hospital, Ismail Clinic, Pari Hospital, Nirmal clinic, Pandav Hospital, Satadhar multi-speciality hospital and ICU, Raghav Hospital, Dhanai Hospital, Rakhi Hospital, Savani Hospital and Chevatiya Hospital among others.According to sources, the fire department had issued notices to over 985 high-rise (residential) buildings in the city for non-compliance with fire safety norms. They will start sealing these residential buildings shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/22-clinics-hospitals-sealed-over-fire-safety-norms/articleshow/81214882.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai's Arthur Road jail ready to lodge Nirav Modi in special cell||MUMBAI: With a UK court forwarding the case to extradite Nirav Modi to India to the UK government for final approval, the city’s Arthur Road jail will be dusting its “VIP” quarters to welcome the flashy diamond trader who allegedly swindled Indians banks of thousands of crores. He will be lodged in one of the three ground-floor cells of the two-storey Barrack 12 --- 26/11 terrorist Ajmal Kasab’s address till he was hanged. These cells have been furbished for the likes of Modi and Vijay Mallya, another millionaire fugitive. The third one is at present being used as a store room. Separated from the general prison — that holds over 2,500 inmates — by a wall, the high-security barrack has CCTV surveillance and armed guards. It is around 100m away from the jail dispensary. Modi will get food prepared by a group of prisoners, unless he is allowed by court to avail tiffin facility. CBI had registered a case on January 31, 2018, against Modi and others, including then officials of Punjab National Bank, for a criminal conspiracy to defraud the bank by fraudulently issuing Letters of Undertaking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/arthur-road-jail-ready-to-lodge-nirav-in-special-cell/articleshow/81217124.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Two missing Vrindavan girls found in Jhansi||AGRA: Two minor girls, who ran away from their houses in Vrindavan after their parents objected to their “proximity”, were traced by the police in Jhansi on Thursday. According to police, the girls had left their homes two days ago and had travelled to Jhansi. The girls are students of class XI. A police team has safely found them with the help of GRP police. Technical surveillance was used to track down the girls, said police. SP (City) MP Singh said that Mathura police will bring them to the city by Thursday night and their statements will be recorded under section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-missing-vrindavan-girls-found-in-jhansi/articleshow/81214885.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||SKM supports call for bandh today against fuel price hike||Bathinda: Sanyukta Kisan Morcha has supported the call for ‘Bharat Bandh’ given by transport and trade unions on February 26. The morcha has urged the farmers in the country to support the protests and make make it a success. The call for bandh has been given by Confederation of All India Traders Association (CAIT) against rising fuel prices, e-way bill and GST. The All India Transport Welfare Association (AITWA) too has supported the bandh call. In a statement issued on Thursday evening, the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha said it supported the call for peaceful protests against fuel price hike. The morcha also condemned the step of the management of DAV School in Gopalapuram, Chennai, saying it asked prejudiced question from students while asking to write an essay on the January 26 tractor parade in New Delhi putting farmers in bad light. The questions reflect the prejudice of the management against farmers and their peaceful protest, stated the morcha. The morcha also condemned the income tax department raids on the premises of Haryana’s independent MLA Balraj Kundu, saying he has been actively supporting the farmer agitation. Respecting the important role of youth in agriculture and also in the ongoing farmers’ movement, the morcha announced to observe February 26 as ‘Yuva Kisan Diwas’. The stages at all protest sites on Friday will be managed by youth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/skm-supports-call-for-bandh-today-against-fuel-price-hike/articleshow/81218815.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad’s peripheries see sharp rise in land rates in 12 months||HYDERABAD: Home to rows of sprawling bungalows, while Jubilee Hills continues to be Hyderabad’s most expensive realty pocket, it’s the city’s periphery that’s witnessing a faster escalation in land values, of late. Market estimates show that rates across areas such as Shadnagar, Kothur, Medchal that hovered in the Rs 1 crore to Rs 2 crore per acre range until last year, have more than doubled now to touch Rs 3.5 crore to Rs 4 crore per acre. Each of these areas are at least 30 to 40 km (average) away from Hyderabad’s IT corridor – the Gachibowli-Financial District stretch. Land rates in pockets within a 10-km radius of this tech hub, of course, have crossed the Rs 50 crore mark. Some land owners in Kokapet, for instance, are believed to be quoting up to Rs 60 crore for an acre. It was limited to Rs 30 crore to Rs 35 crore until recently. In comparison, Jubilee Hills has seen little change in value. It continues to remain at Rs 1.2 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh per square yard -- about Rs 65 crore to Rs 70 crore an acre – with some land deals hitting Rs 2 lakh per square yard. Since land parcels here are small in size, the calculations are usually done in square yards. “Jubilee Hills is certainly is the most sought-after address among Hyderabad’s upwardly mobile. But the deals here are far and few between. Hence, the rates remain unchanged. Also, there’s no permission for high-rises in this pocket; that limits construction activity,” said a prominent builder attributing the rise in the peripherals to Hyderabad’s growth and unlimited FSI (floor space index) -- only city in India where builders are allowed to construct as much as they want on a piece of land. According to Veera Babu, managing director of Cushman & Wakefield (Hyderabad) the robust momentum in commercial office/residential/industrial markets has resulted in a steep rise in land values over the last four-five years. “A positive outlook on rapid growth, expansion beyond ORR in all directions is driving a large part of the demand, and as always, higher investor interest leads to speculation. Besides NRIs, investors (as well as end-users) from neighbouring states and other parts of the country are also pushing the price curve steeply upwards, causing an unprecedented short-term price movement in the market,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/citys-peripheries-see-sharp-rise-in-land-rates-in-12-months/articleshow/81217120.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Ram temple trust coffers brimming with Rs 1,900 crore||AYODHYA: Chairman of the Ram temple construction committee Nripendra Mishra, who is on a four-day visit to Ayodhya, did a quick survey of the Ramjanmabhoomi premises on Thursday. “Currently, Trust coffers have a balance of Rs 1,900 crore since VHP launched the funds-raising drive on January 15,” Ram temple Trust treasurer Govind Dev Giri has told TOI. Engineers of Larsen and Toubro and Tata Consultancy also joined Mishra before they proceeded to Faizabad Circuit House to discuss the new blueprint of the foundation. All members of the temple Trust and top district administration officials were present at the meeting. Besides detailing finer points of the design hammered out at a Mumbai lab to stonewall the Saryu streaming into the foundation, the meeting also delved into the broader picture of linking the Ram temple to the grand development of Ayodhya. The construction committee also analysed strategies with the local administration to put a security apparatus in place at Ramjanmabhoomi that will be impregnable, but won’t hamper pilgrims’ progress. The new blueprint of the foundation held centrestage at the five-hour meeting where probable bottlenecks and composition of retaining wall were discussed threadbare. Talking to TOI, Dr Anil Mishra, member of Ram Mandir Trust, said, “Digging work and debris removal are being carried out swiftly at the site. At the meeting, we discussed ways to give a final shape to the design and finalize material to be used in the foundation. Also, we are linking temple construction with the New Ayodhya project so that both are in sync.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ram-temple-foundation-blueprint-security-apparatus-get-final-shape/articleshow/81218826.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||Greens flag concerns over fairs, events at Kolkata parks||KOLKATA: A non-government organization that works towards the protection of environment in Kolkata has written to Kolkata Municipal Corporation commissioner Binod Kumar, pointing to a recent NGT order in Delhi to keep parks free from encroachment. “We have come across a report about an NGT order pertaining to the granting of permission for the use of parks. We felt it was important, particularly in the context of the recent Calcutta High Court suo motu order on the Maidan,” said Bonani Kakkar, founder of PUBLIC. Earlier this month, the NGT had directed three civic bodies in Delhi to strictly enforce orders prohibiting weddings, cultural, commercial and other functions at parks. The order was issued while hearing an application that said wedding functions being held in west Delhi’s Vikas Puri Dussehra ground were flouting environment norms. Civic officials had pointed to a loss of around Rs 3.5 crore a year to the three corporations but the NGT had held firm. All three bodies later confirmed that they had stopped taking park bookings. PUBLIC has argued that KMC should also take similar steps and stop leasing out parks and squares for fairs. They also want the KMC to act against encroachment in parks, including Deshapriya Park, where construction activities are under way. Several parks in the city, including Deshapriya Park, Jatin Das Park, Vivekananda Park and Triangular Park in south Kolkata; Ramilala Maidan in central Kolkata and Bagbazar Park and Shraddhananda Park in north Kolkata are regularly used for events. “We are calling for responsible use of parks. Parks are meant for greenery and use by citizens to exercise and play. If any organization does use the park, they should have the commitment and the capacity to clean up and restore it,” she pointed out. She further argued that while KMC may be allowing the use of the park for a fair and a Puja twice a year, the park usually remains unusable for nearly three-four months a year. “This NGT is not about us. If there is an order to us, we will look into it,” said a KMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/greens-flag-concerns-over-fairs-events-at-city-parks/articleshow/81215841.cms||Subhro Niyogi
February 26, 2021||Bareilly||Bareilly: SP MP Azam Khan’s ‘Loktantra Senani’ pension discontinued by UP govt||BAREILLY: The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh has discontinued the ‘Loktantra Senani’ pension being received by Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan. According to reports, Khan had been receiving the pension of Rs 20,000 per month since 2005. He was among the 37 beneficiaries of the pension in Rampur district. Khan was jailed during the Emergency in 1975 and had been categorised as a ‘Loktantra Rakshak Senani’ (fighter for democracy) by the Mulayam Singh government that started the pension scheme. Officials said the pension of Azam Khan was withheld due to criminal cases pending against him. Rampur additional district magistrate Jagdamba Prasad Gupta said, “In the recent list of the names of beneficiaries released by the state government, Azam Khan’s name has been removed from the Loktantra Senani Pensioners (LSPs). It has been learnt that the pension was withheld considering various criminal charges that the MP has been facing.” The scheme was launched by Mulayam Singh Yadav during the Samajwadi Party regime in UP, in 2005, to give pension to people imprisoned under the Maintenance of Internal Security Act (MISA), during the Emergency period, from 1975-1977. In 2005, a sum of Rs 500 per month was being given to the beneficiaries which was increased to Rs 1,000 later. Azam Khan and his family members, including his wife Tazeen Fatma and son Abdullah Azam, have been booked in around 100 criminal cases, including that of land grabbing, encroachment, intimidation, criminal conspiracy, attempt to murder, dacoity, forgery, book theft, buffalo theft, among other cases. Khan and his family members have been lodged in Sitapur jail ever since they surrendered before the court in February 2020. His wife, Tazeen Fatma, was released last month on bail. When BSP came to power in 2007, the scheme was discontinued by the then UP chief minister Mayawati. The scheme was revived once again by Akhilesh Yadav after SP came to power in 2012 in the state and the amount was increased to Rs 3,000 per month. During the four-year tenure of the Akhilesh government, the monthly pension of political detainees — jailed under MISA during the Emergency — had risen 15 times (from Rs 1,000 per month to Rs 15,000 per month). The BJP government in UP hiked the pension amount to Rs 20,000 per month in June 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-mp-azam-khans-loktantra-senani-pension-discontinued-by-up-govt/articleshow/81214073.cms||Maria Khan
February 26, 2021||Pune||Bajaj Allianz sharpens focus on annuities||Pune: Life insurance firm Bajaj Allianz Life announced its new annuity offering primarily aimed at professionals or other individuals approaching retirement. The firm claimed “Guaranteed Pension Goal” was the only one offering a regular premium deferred annuity option. “While there are several saving instruments that will help build a retirement corpus, annuity plans are one of the most effective tools to ensure individuals receive an income in a sustained manner through their retired life,” Bajaj Allianz CEO and MD Tarun Chugh sad. Chugh added the insurance business has been recovering at a fair clip despite a rough 2020. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bajaj-allianz-sharpens-focus-on-annuities/articleshow/81217125.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata beats Delhi, Mumbai in PM2.5 count spike this winter||Kolkata: Smaller towns see higher winter pollution levels than mega cities. But Kolkata has bucked the trend this winter. In fact, Kolkata has pipped all other megacities in India when it comes to an increase in the level of pollution this winter compared to last season, shows the latest analysis of the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). While Kolkata saw a 13% increase in PM2.5 count this winter, Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru clocked a 8%, 6% and 1% rise, respectively. The PM2.5 count in Chennai, on the other hand, declined by a whopping 27%. Closer home, even Howrah saw an impressive 11% drop on the pollutant meter. The analysis is part of the air pollution tracker initiative of CSE. It is based on publicly available granular real time data (15-minute averages) from the Central Pollution Control Board’s official online portal. The data is captured from 248 official stations under the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring System spread across 115 cities in 22 states and union territories. In the eastern region, real-time data is available for 10 cities spread across Bihar, Bengal and Odisha. Asansol is the only city in the region that showed a stable trend — less than 8% change from last winter. Kolkata and Siliguri show an increasing trend — more than 8% increase from last winter. At 11%, Howrah is the most prominent city in this region to show a declining trend — more than 8% decrease from last winter. All Bihar cities have shown a decline. Most polluted city in the region was Patna, with a seasonal average of 119µg/m3.Howrah and Kolkata occupied third and fourth positions on the chart. Talcher in Odisha and Hajipur in Bihar recorded the lowest seasonal average in the season. No city had seasonal average below the annual standard of 40µg/m3. “Winter is a special challenge when inversion and cool and calm weather trap and spike daily pollution. While the northern Indo-Gangetic Plain is most affected, other regions also experience a rise, but with lesser intensity. But this year, even though the average level of PM2.5 during summer and monsoon months was considerably lower than the previous year due to the lockdown, the winter PM2.5 concentration has risen compared to the 2019 winter in many cities across regions. This bouncing back of pollution post-lockdown unmasked the high impact of local and regional pollution,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, CSE’s executive director in charge of research and advocacy. This demands, she added, quicker regional reforms to curb pollution from vehicles, industry, power plants and waste burning to curb the winter pollution and also sustain annual improvement at a regional scale with speed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-beats-delhi-mumbai-in-pm2-5-count-spike-this-winter/articleshow/81215806.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||BMC gets green nod to rebuild retaining wall at Malabar Hill||Mumbai: The BMC has got the go-ahead from the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) to rebuild the retaining wall at Malabar Hill that collapsed last monsoon. The hill had witnessed two landslides in a span of 50 days resulting in a cave-in on Pedder Road and damaging Ridge Road (B G Kher Marg). The MCZMA observed that the main damages were on N S Patkar Marg and B G Kher Marg, along the hill on Hanging Garden. Around 15m of this site falls in CRZ-II, while the rest is non-CRZ area. The MCZMA has directed the BMC to ensure that no additional trees are cut for the work and the debris generated is scientifically disposed off in a designated non-CRZ area. P Velarasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects), said the Rs 40-45 crore restoration and rejuvenation plan has been designed by IIT-Bombay. “The plan is to construct 2,000 piles that will bond the earth to the rock. Each pile will be 15-20m wide. This is to reduce the chances of landslides in the future,” he said. “The retaining wall will be built slightly inside the slope with basalt rock so that it matches the hill. Once this bonding is complete and the slope is stabilised, we shall carry out the greening of the slope and plant trees.” Velarasu added that work on laying drainage pipes has begun and concretising of N S Patkar Marg will be taken up after the slope is stabilised. “All this work will be completed by May end, but B G Kher Marg repairs will be done post-monsoon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-gets-green-nod-to-rebuild-retaining-wall-at-malabar-hill/articleshow/81218852.cms||Clara Lewis
February 26, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Two die in accident at Elamkulam curve||KOCHI: Two youths were killed in an accident near the curve at Elamkulam after their bike crashed into the median in the early hours on Wednesday. While police suspect speeding as cause of accident, the incident also called for immediate implementation of corrective measures in the accident prone area as nearly a dozen youths have reportedly lost their lives near the deadly curve. Vishal, 25, and Sumesh, 24, both residents of Kudumbi Colony in Kadavanthra were the deceased. Police registered a case under Section 304 A (causing death by negligence) as preliminary investigation and CCTV visuals suggested speeding as one of the causes of the accident. “The curve is infamous and it is obviously one of the reasons for the accident. However, what needs to be noticed is that accidents here always happen at night. During daytime, possibility of achieving speed itself is low due to heavy traffic. On the other hand, at night, the road is empty and vehicles are likely to speed. A rider would realize the extent of curvature and slope of the road very late. If the rider is speeding, this would become a deadly combination resulting in fatal accidents,” said a senior officer with Kadavanthra police. Meanwhile, Youth Congress activists staged a protest at the spot seeking immediate action to install warning signs and other preventive measures near the curve. “More than a dozen youths have died at the particular spot. The construction of the road is unscientific. When a youth died in an accident here about a month ago, authorities had conducted an inspection. However, no steps were take to make the spot safer,” said P S Sujith, a YC leader. Thursday morning’s accident took place when the youths were on their way to witness the fireworks in connection with a festival at Maradu. The KTM Duke bike involved in the accident was bought a few weeks back. Meanwhile, motor vehicle department held an inspection at the spot. Officials said as per their preliminary investigation, the bike was being rashly driven. “These accidents are happening due to speeding. We had conducted a probe at the spot recently and we found that people, out for a drive at night, are riding fast. Reflective tapes on pillars and reflective studs are in place but there was no change in speeding,” said an MVD official adding that checking at night is also becoming difficult as riders try to evade police, which also cause accidents. MVD said they would submit a report on Thursday’s accident suggesting over speeding as a cause. Meanwhile, activists said inadequate number warning signs is a major reason for accidents. “People need to be warned. It is not right to blame the victims and ignore these accidents. We will strengthen the protests, if proper action is not taken to rectify the problem,” Sujith added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/2-die-in-accident-at-elamkulam-curve/articleshow/81215826.cms||---
February 26, 2021||India||PM Modi in Tamil Nadu: Oppn netas want to grab office to fill their pockets||COIMBATORE/PUDUCHERRY: Promising to give “governance with compassion”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi kickstarted BJP’s election campaign from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu on Thursday with a strident attack on the DMK-Congress combine branding them as corrupt parties that cannot provide good governance to the state. Earlier in Puducherry, Modi came down hard on the justdissolved Congress government of V Narayanasamy, stating that its priorities were misplaced and it was busy serving the Congress high command in Delhi, disappointing the people and shattering their dreams and hopes. At the Coimbatore rally, Modi said the NDA seeks to provide good governance, whereas the opposition was known for mis-governance riddled with corruption. “For the opposition what matters is personal gains. They want to grab power to fill their pockets,” Modi said. Flanked by senior BJP leaders Pon Radhakrishnan, C P Radhakrishnan, Vanathi Srinivasan, L Ganesan and state BJP chief L Murugan, the Prime Minister took a jibe at DMK and Congress’s style of functioning. “Their leaders sit and discuss on how to loot. Their meetings are like corruption hackathons. Those who give more innovative ideas are given posts and ministry,” he said. Attacking the DMK, Modi said the party’s style of politics is based on bullying and harassment. Whenever DMK comes to power they promote strongmen culture, and in every district, they have anti-social elements who trouble innocent citizens. He alleged that DMK men would go on extortion sprees from the public. “It’s the women who suffer because of this culture. Entire TN knows how DMK treated Amma Jayalalithaa,’’ Modi said in an apparent bid to woo the women. Modi also took the opportunity to woo the farmers and small industrialists, highlighting that the Centre had taken a series of measures for the benefit of MSMEs and small farmers, who were ignored by the opposition parties. Modi also noted that the way the NDA government at the Centre and Tamil Nadu government worked is a classic example of cooperative federalism. He said people have sent a clear message in the past elections that they want development-oriented governance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-in-tamil-nadu-oppn-netas-want-to-grab-office-to-fill-their-pockets/articleshow/81219724.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana HC ultimatum to state govt on SSB for workers||Hyderabad: Deprecating the casual approach of the authorities for failing to constitute the social security board (SSB) for unorganised workers in the state, the Telangana high court on Thursday issued an ultimatum to the government. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy warned the principal secretary of labour department that he has to either inform the court as to when he would ensure a functional SSB or he has to appear before the court by the next date of hearing. The court resumed hearing in a PIL filed by former deputy chief minister C Damodar Raja Narasimha, challenging the inaction of the authorities in setting up the SSB on one hand and being insensitive towards the unorganised workers’ woes on the other. “It has been seven years and the state is yet to complete the formation of the board,” petitioner’s counsel said. The bench spoke to labour commissioner Ahmad Nadeem, who was present before the court in tune with the earlier direction of the court which ordered his presence to explain what do they mean by the constitution of the board. The bench was not happy with the government’s reply in the last hearing wherein it claimed that it had already formed the board. On a closer look, the fact that the board was formed only on paper came to the fore because the labour minister and the commissioner were shown as chairman and member of the board. The board has to comprise more than 30 members with experts and labour representatives. The bench came down heavily on the government for not filing an affidavit though it was asked to do so in the last hearing. The bench asked counsel for the labour department to file a fresh affidavit from the principal secretary, two days before March 18, the next date of hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-hc-ultimatum-to-state-govt-on-ssb-for-workers/articleshow/81217140.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||6 peddlers held, 34kg ganja seized||Hyderabad: Excise sleuths have arrested six peddlers and recovered 34.7 kilos ganja from their possession at Gudimalkapur. Four of the accused are from Odisha. Acting on specific information, excise enforcement sleuths kept a watch on the movement of suspects at Gudimalkapur and arrested six peddlers. The excise team seized 34.7 kilos ganja from the accused —Narotam Sarkar, 41, from Nalgunti, Prasenjit Biswas, 25, from Lachhi Peta, Debrata Chakrabarty, 20, all three from Malkangiri district of Odisha, Khokan Haldar, 33, of Gachibowli and from Odisha, Kanjara Shiva Shanker, 26, of Serilingampally and Syed Sayeed, 25, of Chin Anjaiah Nagar in Gachibowli. On interrogation, the accused revealed they had procured ganja from absconding accused, Golak Mandal, 48, and Jagath, 22, of Malkangiri. Along with the ganja, the excise team also seized an auto rickshaw (TS 34 T 3309) used for transportation of the ganja and five cell phones from the possession of the arrested accused. The arrested peddlers confessed to police that they had been procuring ganja from Malkangiri forest area to sell it in Hyderabad and Maharashtra. The six accused along with the seized contraband have been handed over to the Golconda prohibition and excise station officials for further investigation. The accused would be produced before court for judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-peddlers-held-34kg-ganja-seized/articleshow/81217145.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||18 more get bail in 3 FIRs registered in Delhi||Bathinda: A total of 18 farmers, who were arrested in three different FIRs registered in Delhi in the aftermath of the incidents on January 26 tractor parade, got bail on Thursday. They include Jagsir Singh of Gandua Kalan village in Mansa, Jagwinder Singh, Jagbir Singh of Sangrur, Dilshad, Navjot of Kharar, Maninder Singh of Kotla village in Fatehgarh Sahib, Sukhpreet Singh of Dharamkot in Moga, Malkit Singh and Gurmeet Singh of Hemmatpura in Tohana, Jatinder Singh of Kherasutla in Gurdaspur, Sukhraj Singh, Kuldeep Singh, Jaswinder Singh of Peron village in Mansa, Iqbal Singh of Tusse village in Ludhiana, Gurjant Singh, Gurpreet Singh of Parth village in Gurdaspur, Gursewak Singh of Kotra village in Mansa and Daljinder Singh of Tatariewala village in Moga district. Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Managing Committee (DSGMC) President Manjinder Singh Sirsa said that 16 persons got bail in FIR number 49 registered at Alipur Outer North police station and one each in FIR 46 and 47 registered at Nangloi police station. They are expected to come out on Friday after completing documentation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/18-more-get-bail-in-3-firs-registered-in-delhi/articleshow/81218850.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Kochi||Palarivattom flyover in Kerala will be ready by March 5: DMRC||KOCHI: The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is planning to hand over the Palarivattom flyover to the Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala Ltd (RBDCK), after completion of works, on March 5. According to DMRC officials, they target to complete the work within 160 days against the 270 days given by the state government. “The bridge will be ready for movement of vehicles from March 5. We have informed the state government about this. The state government has to take the decision regarding the opening of the bridge,” said a DMRC official. Officials with DMRC said that they are planning to put in place a system where seamless movement of vehicles would be possible. Under the proposed plan, vehicles will be able to move in all directions at the Pipeline Junction, Palarivattom, without being caught at the traffic signal. “The idea is being cleared by the police department. We are trying to avoid traffic blocks and the need for vehicles to queue up at the signals,” said an official. Even during the stage of reconstruction works DMRC and police have been able to manage smooth movement of vehicles through the Pipeline Junction. The seamless movement of vehicles will help police save money and human resources meant for managing traffic. Motorists can save time and fuel. The government had earlier announced that the reconstruction works of the flyover will completed on March 10. Though it was decided to complete the works, which began in September 2020, in nine months, the Uralungal Labour Contract Co-operative Society and DMRC have worked towards completing the work ahead of schedule. The opening of Vyttila and Kundannoor flyovers have helped address the issue of traffic congestion at these busy junctions through NH66. However, due to the flaws in the design of Vyttila flyover these structures could only help smoothen movement of vehicles through the highway. Vehicles continue to queue up at the traffic signals below the flyover waiting for their turn to move in various other directions. PWD minister G Sudhakaran had pointed out that the litigations regarding reconstruction of the defunct flyover delayed execution of restoration works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/palarivattom-flyover-will-be-ready-by-mar-5-dmrc/articleshow/81215847.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Not enough information available among farmers about contentious agri-marketing laws’||Amritsar: Direct dissemination of the pros and cons of the three agriculture marketing laws to the farmers and how they would impact their lives could change the direction of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, said Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID) experts. Professor Satish Verma of CRRID said none of the farmer organisations had so far taken an initiative to explain to the farmers about three agriculture laws. According to him, Verma said the majority of agitating farmers knowledge was limited to whatever they were told by their respective leaders, social media news, and heresy. Satnam Singh, a farmer from Amritsar who is at present in Singhu border, said, “My WhatsApp is full of messages which say how these farm laws are harmful to our future. Even our leaders says so.” He, however, agreed that like him hardly any farmer had read the three laws or contacted any subject expert on the issue except their leaders. Jamhuri Kisan Sabha leader Satnam Singh Ajnala claimed that farmers knew the three agriculture laws well. Besides, he said, they trust their leaders. “Why will we mislead our own brothers,” he said. Verma said instead of immediately introducing the new agri-laws, the Center should have discussed them with farmers and farmers unions. “Probably one of the strongest reasons for farmers’ protest is that the government brought the agri-laws in a stealthy way, which multiplied the apprehensions of farmers and farmers’ unions against the three laws,” he said. According to Verma, the new agri-laws allow the farmers to market their produce in other markets so they would collectively have high bargaining power than selling the produce individually outside as well as inside the agriculture market. The transaction cost of buying firms would also reduce in case of dealing with a large number of marginal and small farmers, he added. Verma said the farmers could also sell their produce through eNAM (National Agriculture Market) portal which is a pan-India electronic trading portal that networks the existing Agricultural Produce Market Committee mandis, and could sell anywhere in the country without physically moving to that place. The farmers actually need not physically take their produce to other markets but they could upload the information of their produce on e-NAM. However, he said only one issue had to take care of which was the physical verification of the produce. “For example, a particular farmer claims that his wheat or paddy is of a particular variety with this much percentage of moisture, now to verify the same there has to be some agency to sanctify it , but this can be resolved” he said. Sources alleged that a few farmers leaders who not only had political ambitions but were politically motivated were using farmers’ power to suit their needs and the recent turnout of events in Delhi had even proved the same and exposed their political dreams. Expressing differences with Prof Verma, Balwinder Singh Makowal of Jagriti Farmers Producer Organisation (FPO) said, “No matter whatever we do, we will not be able to compete in any way with the big firms and corporate houses. We don’t have enough means even if we sell our produce collectively at FPO level.” In response to a question about selling their produce, he said farmers were not so internet savvy or had the computer knowhow and even if they employ someone the ‘big fishes’’ would reach to the market much before they could even think of doing so . “Complete rollback of farm laws is the only solution,” Makowal said. Harish Sharma of Collective Efforts for Voluntary Actions which helps 8 FPOs of Chamba district of Himachal Pradesh in selling their produce said there appear to be some benefits of the new agriculture laws. “But we have to give time to the laws to be implemented and see how they change the farmers’ lives for the better,” he said. However, he said they had been successful in selling the produce of FPOs through e-NAM. “The farmers are often fleeced by the commission agents in the fruits, vegetables, and grain markets. Hopefully, these laws will get them rid of middlemen and they would be able to sell directly to the buyer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/not-enough-information-available-among-farmers-about-contentious-agri-marketing-laws/articleshow/81218831.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||CM: Covid vax in pvt sector after Mar 15||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday indicated that the Covid-19 vaccine is most likely to be made available in private hospitals after March 15. Speaking in Vidhan Parishad, the CM said: “UP has been the best performing state in the country on Covid-19 control. The supremacy has been maintained on the vaccination front too. Now, efforts are on to make the vaccine available in the private sector too. And most probably it will be available after March 15. However, guidelines and standard operating procedures in this regard are awaited.” The CM also said that two more vaccines might be made available shortly. “There is no dearth of vaccines and with two more in the pipeline, we hope that the state will not face any kind of shortage,” he said. The CM took the opposition to task for unnecessarily finding faults in the Covid-19 control strategy of the state. “Numbers speak for the success of UP. In fact as on date, less than 2,100 cases of active infection are under surveillance of the health teams. Also, global agencies, including the WHO have lauded the state for effectively controlling cases and deaths due to coronavirus pandemic. Still the opposition is busy finding faults,” he said. He compared UP’s situation with other states to prove his point and stated that those who cannot see the truth and were resorting to needless criticism were disrespecting the hard work put in by corona warriors many of whom died in the line of duty. “Such an attitude can only demoralise those on the forefront of pandemic control which is a disservice to people of the state,” the CM said. Thanking health and front line workers, security personnel, social organisations, public representatives and government machinery for putting their best foot forward, the CM said: “the combined effort on a regular basis prevented the virus from finding a footing in UP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-covid-vax-in-pvt-sector-after-mar-15/articleshow/81218841.cms||Shailvee Sharda
February 26, 2021||Nashik||Welcoming the hero: Lab to live with handler after 10-yr BDDS service||Nashik: Members of the Nashik bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS) turned emotional while bidding farewell to Spike — a male labrador that was inducted into the team at the age of one and retired from the service after 10 long years as he turned 11 on Tuesday. “It was a very emotional moment when Spike was officially relieved from the service. Be it the Kumbh Mela or the visit of VIPs, we will continue to remember all his contributions to the department,” said Vijay Shinde, a BDDS police inspector. Spike sat on the bonnet of a decorated car, which is used for official purposes by the BDDS, and was escorted out of the office. Even state home minister Anil Deshmukh put out a tweet lauding Spike for his commendable service. As per a government resolution, dogs retiring from the service are to be handed over to animal lovers. People who take in the animals have to follow all animal safety norms. Accordingly, Ganesh Hire, who has been Spike’s handler, requested that Spike be given to him. “I have been handling him since he was just three months old. We had brought him home and then sent him for training. I have been with the dog all the time, even when he was inducted into the service,” said Hire, who welcomed Spike along with his wife and two children at his residence on Wednesday. “He has served the government and now, I will serve him,” said Hire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/welcoming-the-hero-lab-to-live-with-handler-after-10-yr-bdds-service/articleshow/81214928.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||PI summoned as man seeks son’s custody||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has ordered the police inspector of Manjalpur police station in Vadodara to remain present before the court on Friday after a man alleged that his son has been illegally detained by cops for more than 20 days. Petitioner Bharatbhai Baria from Devgadh Baria in Dahod district has filed a habeas corpus petition seeking custody of his son Mukesh from Manjalpur police. He has claimed in his petition that Mukesh was picked up by the Manjalpur police on February 2 from Morbi. There was an FIR registered against Mukesh in 2013, but the cops did not give any clarification whether he was arrested in connection with the same offence. Baria’s advocate Dhruv Dave said that Mukesh had recently eloped with a girl and then got married to her. “This incident could also be a reason behind the police action against Mukesh, but in any eventuality, the police should have produced him before a competent court in accordance with law,” the lawyer said. Baria inquired with the cops with regard to his son’s arrest and the status of the case, but he did not get any response. He made a representation before the Vadodara police commissioner and sought his intervention in the alleged illegal detention of his son, who was not produced in any court for more than three weeks after his detention. When he did not hear anything from the authority, he approached the high court. On Wednesday, the bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice Sangeeta Vishen issued notice to Manjalpur police inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pi-summoned-as-man-seeks-sons-custody/articleshow/81217016.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Meerut||UP: Man rushes to raise Rs 22 crore as his daughter’s life hangs in balance||MEERUT: Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) and Zolegensma were strange words for Meerut’s Abhishek Verma, 34, when he first heard them. Now they have become part of his daily lexicon. The first one is a rare disease and the other an outrageously expensive medicine for its treatment-- which costs Rs 22crore. And the afflicted person is his only daughter, Ishani, who is just 18 months old now. Life has not been easy on Verma. He was already tiding over the challenges posed by Rs 25,000 a month salary in a Delhi firm, when “Ishani had come as a breather”. It didn’t last long though. Disturbed by unexplained fists and cries, Verma and his wife Neelam took their daughter to a doctor one day. After several referrals, tests and diagnosis, doctors in Delhi told them about the rare genetic disorder she was suffering from and its implications on the toddler’s body -- if not treated on time, it destroys motor neurons, the nerve cells in the brain stem and in spinal cord which control essential skeletal muscle activity such as speaking, walking, breathing, and swallowing. Speaking to TOI, Verma said, “I had lost all hope. Rs 22-crore… it was unthinkable. But during a discussion with office colleagues I came to know about crowdfunding platforms. And I approached them. I know it is a Herculean Task but I cannot sit helplessly and see my daughter sink. Her motor functions are slowing down with each passing day.” Verma has now taken it as a mission to raise the amount. But time is also acting against him, and also against the child. He has to get the medicine, Zolegensma, before Ishani turns two years old. Otherwise the next option is another medicine which will be administered every three months till the patient is alive. It costs Rs 17 lakh per dose. With a less than six month window and Rs 22crore to raise, Verma is approaching crowdfunding platforms to raise funds. Some of them he has approached are Milap Foundation and Impactguru.com. Verma’s pain is palpable. So is his hope. “I have faith that help will pour in. I will knock every door. I cannot see her dying in front of my eyes.” Zolegensma was approved by the US Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) in 2019 to treat SMA in newborns and toddlers up to the age of two years through a single intravenous administration. Elaborating the disease, renowned neurosurgeon Dr. Sandeep Sehgal said, “It is a genetic disorder that is found in one in 10,000 cases. It usually occurs in the newborn where symptoms like impaired movement of muscles manifest when the child is 18 months or so. Survival rate is quite low and gene therapy is the only treatment here but it is very costly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/a-common-man-rushes-to-raise-rs-22crore-as-his-daughters-life-hangs-in-balance/articleshow/81214971.cms||Sandeep Rai
February 26, 2021||Delhi||Cong says it’s sure of win in all 5 wards||New Delhi: Congress functionaries on Friday appealed to Delhiites to vote for the party’s candidates in the bypolls to five municipal wards on Sunday. The party members said that it has been getting overwhelming support from people during public meetings, corner meetings, road-shows and padayatras held during campaigning. AICC in-charge of Delhi Congress, Shakti Sinh Gohil, claimed that it has become clear that Congress will win the byelections to the five wards on Sunday. He said that Delhiites feel betrayed and let-down by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), as they had hoped that these parties will create miracles, but got only disappointment. He said that people have now realized that it was a very big mistake to re-elect the BJP to the corporations and AAP to Delhi government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cong-says-its-sure-of-win-in-all-5-wards/articleshow/81237894.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Nation’s largest incubation unit for startups in city||Lucknow: To boost startups and innovation, the Uttar Pradesh government is working to develop the country’s largest incubation centre for entrepreneurship in Lucknow. The advanced information industrial complex centre would be managed jointly by Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) and IIT-Kanpur. The centre would have extensions in 50 locations across the state. The centre is open for all. Prof Manish Gaur, director of the centre for advanced studies at AKTU and the acting nodal officer of the project, said, “The centre would aspire to push the students to create ground-breaking ideas into sustainable and feasible entrepreneurship ventures along the lines of startup success stories of China, South Korea, Japan and other countries.” The centre would promote the application of innovative business proposition, where industry experts will evaluate the viability in terms of cost and product development. “We will help the aspirant prepare a prototype, register the company, get legal aid and tie up with manufacturing units. Once the company graduates or reaches maturity level, we will ask the aspirant to go and compete in the open market. This will indirectly help the state create more jobs in the market- orientated business ecosystem,” said the alumnus of IIT Delhi. In his budget speech, state finance minister Suresh Khanna had announced that the centre would be set up on a 40-acre land in Nadarganj opposite Lucknow airport. The facilities would also be available virtually to anyone willing to set up enterprise in the state. “We are aware that out of 100, at least 70 entrepreneurship ventures will fail, but those failed aspirants will gain valuable experience of running a business. Therefore, they can return to our placement programme, where they would be absorbed for their knowledge gained from failure. A detail project report of the project will be handed over to the government soon,” said Prof Gaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nations-largest-incubation-unit-for-startups-in-city/articleshow/81218858.cms||Arvind Chauhan
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Two Customs officials held for demanding Rs 19L bribe from firm manager||Mumbai: Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday night arrested an assistant commissioner of Customs and superintendent of Customs for allegedly demanding a Rs 19-lakh bribe from the manager of a company for releasing 60kg seized silver.Superintendent Niraj Kumar Singh was caught red-handed while allegedly accepting Rs 2 lakh. CBI said assistant commissioner A P Bhandekar demanded Rs 15 lakh, while Singh demanded Rs 4 lakh. Both were with rummaging and intelligence division. The duo on Thursday was produced before a special court, which remanded them to CBI custody till February 27.This is the first arrest by CBI here since the state government in October last year withdrew ‘general consent’ granted to the agency to probe cases here following the TRP manipulation scam controversy. On October 5, Rajesh Silver Pvt Ltd (Kolhapur) had purchased 74kg silver from J K Bullions Pvt Ltd in Ahmedabad. The same day, it sent 60kg silver to Mumbai via H L Cargo. On October 6, Customs officials seized the consignment in Mumbai. The cargo company told Pravin Ratnaparkhe, manager of Rajesh Silver, to submit documents to Customs to clear the goods.Ratnaparkhe met Singh and submitted the documents on February 1. He again met Singh at his office at New Customs House, Ballard Estate, on February 9, when the latter took Ratnaparkhe to the office of assistant commissioner Customs (preventive) A P Bandekar.Bandekar asked Ratnaparkhe about booking silver, payment made, purchase rate and if his company had paid GST, and examined the documents. Bandekar allegedly threatened Ratnaparkhe to pay the bribe to avoid action. Bandekar allegedly asked him for Rs 15 lakh and Singh Rs 4 lakh.Ratnaparkhe approached CBI on February 10 with a written complaint that mentioned the bribe demand. CBI acted after examining details and taking mandatory permission from the state government. It laid a trap and arrested Singh while accepting the Rs 2 lakh bribe. CBI arrested Bandekar after making inquiries, searched the office and home of the two, and collected documents. CBI declined to comment on the reason for delay in reporting by the complainant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-customs-officials-held-for-demanding-rs-19l-bribe-from-firm-manager/articleshow/81217167.cms||Vijay V Singh
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Allocate adequate funds for Cong-led depts: Mins to CM||Mumbai: Congress cabinet members Balasaheb Thorat, Ashok Chavan and Yashomati Thakur called on chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to press their demand for adequate funds for the Congress-controlled departments in the ensuing state budget for 2021-22. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the finance portfolio and labour minister Dilip Walse Patil, were also present during the discussion on Wednesday. Chavan confirmed to TOI that Congress cabinet members had met with the CM and his deputy to discuss the current financial situation and the proposal for more funds for departments led by the party. “We are aware of the current financial situation, particularly in view of the pandemic. Our financial condition is not good, but still we felt that when Ajit Pawar presents the state budget for 2021-22, justice will be done to all the regions and departments held by the Congress,” Chavan said. Ever since the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government came to power in the state in November 2019, Congress has been insisting that it has been sidelined by both the Shiv Sena and NCP on key issues. “We have a coordination committee, but it meets very rarely and by and large, it is dominated by the NCP cabinet members,” a senior Congress minister said. The minister alleged that Congress-controlled municipal corporations and councils are ignored during allocation of funds and the budgetary allocation for departments led by the party is very low. “Congress-controlled municipal corporations in Marathwada have been sidelined; they do not get even routine grants. But, NCP-controlled civic and zilla parishads get more funds. We feel that the Congress- and NCP- controlled civic bodies should be treated at par in the larger interest of the MVA government,” he said. The minister said that Wednesday’s was the third meeting with the chief minister on this issue, and “if there’s still no improvement”, the state Congress would involve the party’s central leadership and “ensure that justice is done”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/allocate-adequate-funds-for-cong-led-depts-mins-to-cm/articleshow/81217190.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Woman claims rape by father-in-law||Hyderabad: A housewife lodged a complaint against her father-in-law in Habeebnagar police station accusing him of sexually abusing her. She said her family came to city to do business took a house on rent, where she said she was raped. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-claims-rape-by-father-in-law/articleshow/81217159.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Police nab driver who stole boss’ car||Hyderabad: A car driver, who allegedly stolen his employer’s high-end car, was arrested by Banjara Hills police on Thursday. Police said he fled with the car in the absence of his employer. He planned to sell it, they said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-nab-driver-who-stole-boss-car/articleshow/81217168.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Traders urge state, Centre to tackle fuel price surge||KOCHI: Merchants in the city ask the state and central governments to take steps to reduce fuel prices as they are forced to increase the price of goods due to increased transportation and logistics costs. The traders stated they have been struggling to revive businesses since the lifting of lockdown, and the increasing fuel prices are making the revival an almost impossible task. Kerala Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) Youth Forum convener Rajesh Nair said that the skyrocketing fuel prices has affected small-scale, medium-scale and large-scale businesses. “When e-commerce giants are able to sell goods at discounted rates or come up with sales clearance offers, those traders who operate from the markets are finding it difficult to survive. If the traders try to pass on the increased transportation and logistics cost to end customers, their customers will desert them. If they do not pass on these increased costs, then they will have to bear huge losses. In short, the merchants are in a fix,” he said, adding that the trading community is already facing issues related to NPA and repayment of bank loans and the like. Traders are of the view that increase in fuel prices have led to increased cost of living. People are trying to overcome the financial crisis created as the result of lockdown. “As cost of living increases, it is natural for people to cut down on expenses. Though many merchants did good business in December 2020, the next two months witnessed a slowdown. People were active during the festival season, and once the season got over they rolled back their spending,” said Kavitha Aravind, a merchant. The merchants feel that Kerala being a consumer state will suffer further financial crisis as almost all the goods are brought from other states. If fuel prices continue to increase unchecked, many traders would be forced to go out of business as they will be unable to meet the pressing financial requirements. “The governments should act immediately,” said Nair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/traders-urge-state-centre-to-tackle-fuel-price-surge/articleshow/81215911.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
February 26, 2021||Dehradun||My age was forged, claims whistleblower IFS officer||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Thursday issued notices to the secretary, department of personnel and training (DOPT), Uttarakhand government as well as department of post and member of the staff selection commission (SSC) after whistleblower Indian forest service (IFS) officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi claimed that his age was forged and had approached the HC alleging “criminal conspiracy” behind rejection of his application for post of SSC member. The bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma issued the notices and has given the respondents four weeks’ time to file their counter- affidavits. The SSC is the largest recruitment agency in the country which conducts recruitments for various Group C as well as Group B posts for the Government of India and subordinate offices. The commission is headed by its chairman and also has two members and a secretary-cum-controller of examinations. Chaturvedi had applied for the post of one of the members. However, his application was rejected and another candidate was selected. In his petition, Chaturvedi has alleged that he was the only eligible candidate out of 16 applicants but there was a “criminal conspiracy” to reject his application. He further alleged that not only was his date of birth changed from December 1974 to August 1962, but even the date of receipt of his application was shown after the deadline even though the post tracking report reveals that the application was received by the DOPT three days before the last date for sending the application. He also said that the committee tasked with the selection rejected his application on the basis that he did not have a postgraduate degree, but an AIGNFA (Associate of Indira Gandhi National Forest Academy) Diploma. In his petition, he claimed that a notification was issued by Forest Research Institute, Dehradun which said that AIGNFA Diploma should be considered equivalent to MSc (forestry). Based on these grounds Chaturvedi has asked the HC to set aside the appointment made and conduct the entire recruitment exercise afresh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/my-age-was-forged-claims-whistleblower-ifs-officer/articleshow/81214990.cms||Prashant Jha
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Cong top brass will decide CM face, says Pargat||Jalandhar: After Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar launched ‘Captain for 2022’ campaign, Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh has said making such announcement is prerogative of the party high command. “This has been the precedent and practice always. It’s for the high command to decide not just the name of the next CM candidate, but also the timing for making such announcement,” he said while speaking to TOI on Thursday. He also said the farm movement has also been fuelled by the dissatisfaction among people with political parties and leadership. “The dissatisfaction has been brewing among people and when farm bills were brought, farm unions took the lead and played the role which political leadership should have played to address their issues,” he argued. Pargat said though some good steps were taken by the Congress government, some important issues of the state, like ending illegal mining, examining power purchase agreements signed during SAD-BJP regime and enquiry into gap of Rs 31,000 crore between the expenditure on grain procurement and payment received from union government, which was converted into loan just before the polls despite the fragile financial health of Punjab, were still pending. “Need is to take these issues also to the logical conclusion,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-top-brass-will-decide-cm-face-says-pargat/articleshow/81217173.cms||IP Singh
February 26, 2021||Meerut||Rs 3,500cr Bike-Bot scam: Absconding news channel owner arrested by UP STF||Meerut: One of the main accused in the Rs 3,500crore Bike-Bot scam was arrested by Uttar Pradesh Police’s special task force in Lucknow on Thursday. Badri Narayan Tiwari, who owns a TV news channel, was arrested from Manoj Pandey crossing in upscale Gomti Nagar area of the capital city after a tip-off.Earlier, Meerut unit of UP Police’s economic offence wing (EOW) had attached Tiwari’s residence in Lucknow. Investigation was on to unearth details of his other properties. An award of Rs 50,000 was also announced by EOW recently on any tip off leading to his arrest.“Tiwari owns a company which used to supply electronic motorcycles to Garvit Innovators Private Limited (GIPL),” an STF sleuth said. GIPL had in 2018 come out with the multi-level marketing scheme “Bike Bot” and lured investors promising double returns in a year.They sought Rs 62,100 each in investment for a motorcycle taxi and assured monthly returns besides doubling the investment amount in just one year. But they failed to deliver on the promise. The firm duped around 2.25 lakh investors to the tune of Rs 3,500 crore across UP, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh.A team of EOW is now bringing Tiwari to Meerut for further interrogation. EOW sleuth refused to divulge any details about Tiwari's role in the scam. As of now, the EOW’s Meerut wing is probing 68 FIRs registered in the case and at least 20 accused have been arrested. In July, the Enforcement Directorate had also registered a case and attached movable assets worth over Rs 103crore of the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/rs-3500cr-bike-bot-scam-absconding-news-channel-owner-arrested-by-up-stf/articleshow/81214974.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Book ticket online to avoid rush||Hyderabad: Indian Railways has decided to restart the facility of unreserved train service on mobile app in zones where the services have been reintroduced. This is meant to avoid rush at counters and ensure social distancing. “Unreserved train services are being introduced in a phased manner. In addition to UTS ON MOBILE App facility, this may be reintroduced on non-suburban sections of zonal railways,” read an official statement. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/book-ticket-online-to-avoid-rush/articleshow/81217220.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Naresh Tikait wants Rajnath Singh as mediator in farm talks||AYODHYA: Bharatiya Kisan Union president Naresh Tikait, who spearheaded the agitation against the new farm laws at the UP-Delhi border, stopped by Ayodhya on Thursday and offered prayers at Ramjanmabhoomi. Calling himself a descendant of Lord Ram, he said, “Protests won’t cease till the Centre repeals farm laws and withdraws cases against farmers. Now, we are proceeding to poll-bound Bengal to tell voters about the anti-people policies of BJP.” Tikait, who vowed to take the agitation to eastern UP that was largely untouched by the farm unrest, addressed a farmers’ rally at Satrikh village in Barabanki, before moving to neighbouring Munderwa in Basti district, where he reached out to farmers of Purvanchal on Thursday. Terming defence minister Rajnath Singh a caged parrot, he said the farmers' issue could have been swiftly resolved if Singh was given the go-ahead to negotiate with farm leaders. At the rally in Basti, he sought Rajnath’s role in future mediation with farm leaders. “BJP sarkar ne Rajnath ji ko pinjre ka tota bana diya hai. (The government has turned Rajnath Singh into a caged parrot). I can guarantee an outcome if Singh, who is sympathetic towards farmers, is appointed mediator. And this would-be a saving grace for BJP,” he said. Addressing a rally at Munderwa village, he said, Supreme Court’s directive is clear that cane farmers must be paid within 14 days, but the rule is being flouted. He also accused the Centre of being stubborn on the farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tikait-wants-rajnath-as-mediator-in-farm-talks/articleshow/81218865.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
February 26, 2021||Bareilly||Pilibhit to sow Assam bamboo to tone up flute industry||PILIBHIT: What the 'jhumpka' is to Bareilly, the 'bansuri' (flute) is to Pilibhit. Traditionally, Pilibhit is known to craft the best bamboo flutes in India. Two decades ago, the district accounted for nearly 90% of the total flute production in the country. Now, the administration has chalked out a plan to revive this dying industry. In a first, it has decided to cultivate the delicate Assam bamboo (schizostachyum), which is brought from Silchar to make the flute. Pilibhit flute has been included in the state government’s one district, one product programme. On February 16, DM Pulkit Khare dedicated the ‘Bansuri Chowk’, showcasing a colossal metallic flute to the people of the district at the main gateway to the district headquarters. Despite all this, Pilibhit’s handcrafted bamboo flute seems to be out of tune with the times. Flute-makers here are struggling to keep afloat. The annual demand of over 60 lakh flutes has now shrunk to just 5 to 5.50 lakh. The workforce had dwindled from over 7,000 to 150 to 200, said Iqrar Nabi, a local flute manufacturer. Cheaper made-in-China flutes have flooded the markets. It is against this backdrop that DM Khare announced cultivation of Assam bamboo in the district to cut down on transportation cost and loss (estimated to be at least 15%) due to damage while transporting and loading the bamboo from Silchar. Experts of the Maharashtra-based National Rural Bamboo Mission & Research Institute and Mizoram- based Advanced Research Center for Bamboo were consulted to ascertain if Pilibhit’s climate, soil and subsoil water level would be suitable for cultivating the bamboo. Welcoming the proposal, flute manufacturer Khurshid Ahmad, said one truck of flute bamboo from Assam costs over Rs 4.50 lakh, including Rs 95,000 as freight charge. Khare said, “Our efforts will be focused upon the revival of those markets which the flute manufactures have hitherto lost. We will also explore new markets in south eastern and the north eastern countries where flute is played.” For this, the Pilibhit’s flute would be exhibited in various national and international trade fairs. Assistance of the department of commerce would also be sought for promoting flute export, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-to-sow-assam-bamboo-to-tone-up-flute-industry/articleshow/81214104.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Till March 31, no polls for coop hsg socs with 250+ members||Mumbai: Considering the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government has once again postponed elections at all cooperatives, including housing societies, with more than 250 members till March 31, 2021. The state had allowed elections in cooperative institutions such as housing societies and banks following demands from members, especially in the backdrop of the recent gram panchayat and legislative council elections. An order issued on Wednesday, in light of rising cases, though, shows the state government does not think it appropriate to allow elections at this point. In another order, the state government has allowed cooperative housing societies and banks to hold annual general body meetings online. Earlier, online meetings were only allowed for managing commitee meetings. The state had postponed elections in all cooperative institutions since May 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Officials said in cities such as Mumbai and Pune, the majority of new cases being detected are from highrises and it will not be appropriate for housing society members to come together to conduct an election; elections can wait even for other cooperative institutions, they said. Health officials have also blamed the crowds at the recently concluded gram pachayat elections as one of the reasons for the rise in Covid-19 cases in many of the smaller cities. The state had given several relaxations to these cooperatives. An extension of five months was given to all cooperative societies to complete their financial audit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/till-march-31-no-polls-for-coop-hsg-socs-with-250-members/articleshow/81215927.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Party, MLAs will pick CM: Jakhar too changes his tone||Chandigarh: Reacting to Congress MLA from Jalandhar Cantonment Pargat Singh questioning the ‘CaptainFor2022’ campaign, Punjab state unit president Sunil Jakhar on Thursday said the decision about the next chief minister, if the party manages another term, will be decided by the party’s central leadership and the elected MLAs. “There is no doubt that the party high command and the elected MLAs have to make a decision, but that stage will come only after the party does well in the elections. Who will be the next chief minister will be a decision that will be taken by Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, and other MLAs, including Pargat Singh,” Jakhar told mediapersons. It is being seen as a change in tone by Jakhar, who had earlier announced the ‘CaptainFor2022’ campaign on the day his party had clinched the civic body polls in the state. Jakhar added, “I have not seen Pargat Singh’s statement but there are certain disgruntled elements in the party who have been coming here from Delhi to give statements. They are senior people who have enjoyed power in Congress regimes... They need to introspect what is their contribution to that situation that has developed.” Before Pargat, Congress Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa had also said that the ‘CaptainFor2022’ campaign was of little consequence as the decision to choose the chief minister had to be taken by the central leadership of the party. On February 17, Jakhar had termed the results of the civic body results an endorsement of chief minister Amarinder Singh’s “development agenda”, and had announced the launch of ‘CaptainFor2022’ campaign, which he called the party’s mission for the next assembly elections. On Monday, Jakhar had issued a statement, reiterating that chief minister Amarinder Singh would lead the party in the 2022 assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/party-mlas-will-pick-cm-jakhar-too-changes-his-tone/articleshow/81217199.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||Rs 17 crore LED plan to light up Salt Lake in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has issued the work order to replace the existing sodium vapour street lights with LED ones in Salt Lake and Rajarhat. The state government has sanctioned Rs 17 crore for the project. “We have received the sanction. We started work from the lane beside Poura Bhavan,” said Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation board of administrators chairperson Krishna Chakraborty. Residents have been complaining for long that there are many stretches in the township that are inadequately lit and turn dark after sunset. There are also many defunct street lights on several stretches in Salt Lake and in areas of Baguiati and Rajarhat Gopalpur. At present, there are about 25,000 sodium vapour lights across Salt Lake and adjacent areas that will be replaced with LED lights, a civic official said. As per rough estimates, the civic authorities pay a monthly energy bill of about Rs 1.5 crore. “About 60% of the electricity bill will get reduced once all the street lights are replaced,” the official added. The plan is to fix chip-based sensors and timers that will turn on the lights automatically once natural light fades out. This will help the civic authorities to monitor every single street light from its control room and will receive a signal and identify any single street light if there is a technical glitch. “Many places in Salt Lake is poorly lit. The plan to install LED lights is good as not only it is environment-friendly and brighter, it also saves much of the electricity bill,” said Tamal Pal, a resident of HB block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rs-17cr-led-plan-to-light-up-salt-lake/articleshow/81215905.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu skips, Bajwa attends Capt’s lunch||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh hosted his granddaughter’s pre-wedding lunch for MLAs and MPs on Thursday afternoon. While his critic in the party, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa attended the do, party leader Navjot Singh Sidhu stayed away. The get-together was for Seherinder Kaur’s upcoming wedding and Capt Amarinder had invited his cabinet colleagues, MLAs and opposition party leaders for lunch at his farmhouse. Many cabinet ministers, including Manpreet Singh Badal and Brahm Mohindra, and party incharge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat were present on the occasion. Seherinder, daughter of shooter Raninder Singh, will be marrying Aditya Narang, son of Delhi-based businessman Devin Narang, on February 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sidhu-skips-bajwa-attends-capts-lunch/articleshow/81217213.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Over 100 want FYJC seat after admission close||Mumbai: Over the past week, after FYJC admissions closed, the education department’s office received requests from over 100 students to claim a seat. Officials said since there are vacant seats, they may reopen the admission process, but a decision is likely only in next week. Most of these students waited for a college of their choice and are still to be admitted after five merit lists and two rounds of first-come-first-serve admissions. “Around 20 have not even filled the admission form this year. Most cited reasons like migration and lack of access to the internet. Others have been waiting for a better college and ended up not securing a seat anywhere,” said an official. — Vinamrata Borwankar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/over-100-want-fyjc-seat-after-admission-close/articleshow/81218902.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 26, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Fresh SOP likely for schools to prevent spread of virus||KOLKATA: Two days after Kasba Chittaranjan High School suspended classes after a teacher tested positive for Covid, the school education department has decided to send another alert to the institutions along with emergency dos and don’ts in case of any spread of the disease on campuses.  The suggestions include suspending classes after informing the district inspector of schools, continuous monitoring of students and teachers who may have come in close contact with the Covid patient, preparing a list of names of those who need to be tested, updating the departments concerned — including Kolkata Municipal Corporation — and sanitizing the school premises. On Thursday, headmaster of Kasba Chittaranjan High School Anindya Chatterjee said he has been in continuous contact with the teacher who contracted Covid. “On Thursday, she informed me that there are no symptoms at present and the fever has subsided. We have provided a list of 28 students — who underwent the test — to the school education department. Another five students who had initially expressed reluctance to visit a government hospital were added to that list. The parents agreed after being persuaded by the school,” Chatterjee said. All the students have been tested at M R Bangur Hospital and are showing no symptoms yet. “The health department has also coordinated with us to ensure smooth testing for the students,” Chatterjee said, but added that in the case of the teachers, there was no specific order from the government yet. The schools have also scaled up their safety measures. “We are ensuring the SOP is followed. Students are being screened at the entry points. We are not allowing them to sit in groups and have requested them not to share food and water bottles. When we receive the circular from the school education department, we will check if additional safety measures are required,” said the headmaster of a government school. Among the directives, the school education department said that no visitor or guardian shall be allowed on the school premises. “Schools are being advised to keep a class-wise record of health check-up reports of students. The schools are also maintaining a directory of the phone numbers of the guardians. Several schools are being taken over for election duty and outsiders have access to the premises. The students are returning to the same classrooms the next day. Thus, it may be difficult to eliminate the possibility of an outbreak,” said Saugata Basu, general secretary of the West Bengal Government Teachers’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fresh-sop-likely-for-schools-to-prevent-spread-of-virus/articleshow/81215929.cms||Somdatta Basu
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Yuvraj moves HC for quashing of FIR||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday issued notice to the Haryana government on a plea filed by cricketer Yuvraj Singh seeking quashing of an FIR registered against him for allegedly making offensive remarks against scheduled castes while chatting on a social media platform. The HC has also restrained the state police from taking any coercive action against Yuvraj till the next date of hearing in the case. The matter has now been fixed for March 26 for further hearing. Confirming the proceedings of the court, advocate Arjun Sheoran, who represented the complainant in the case, stated that after arguments which lasted for around an hour, the court did not stay the further proceedings in the FIR and the investigation in the case would continue. He said the court has made it clear that no coercive action can be taken against the petitioner (Yuvraj Singh) till the next date of hearing. The copy of the court’s order, however, was not available till the filling of the report. While adjourning the matter for March 26 for further hearing, the court has asked the Haryana government to submit its reply on Yuvraj’s plea within four weeks. Yuvraj was booked by Hansi police on February 14 under various sections of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, on complaint of a local resident. Singh had expressed regret over the remarks terming his comments made “unintentionally”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/yuvraj-moves-hc-for-quashing-of-fir/articleshow/81217227.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Kochi||Marine mammal survey begins||Kochi: A joint research cruise for assessing marine mammal population of India’s exclusive economic zone (EEZ) was flagged off on Wednesday under the initiative of the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), the Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) and the Fishery Survey of India (FSI). The research initiative assumes significance in the wake of emerging seafood trade-related challenges faced by the fishermen targeting high-value resources and the export market players of India. The national oceanic and atmospheric administration (NOAA), USA, had issued import strictures of strict adherence to norms laid out in the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA) of their country, stating that seafood exporting countries should not allow intentional killing of marine mammals in commercial fisheries. For exporting fish and fish products, the US has given a five-year exemption period starting January 1, 2017 to nations for developing regulatory programmes by assessing marine mammal stocks, estimating bycatch, calculating bycatch limits, and reducing total bycatch. The cruise is aimed at closely observing and monitoring marine mammal stocks and scientific interaction, especially collecting oceanographic parameters. “This research will emerge as a game-changer in conservation of marine mammals and reduction in the interaction of ecologically threatened species by ensuring uninterrupted export of the seafood and enhancing the livelihood of fishermen,” said CMFRI director A Gopalakrishnan. Principal investigator of the project R Jeyabaskaran said: “The project focuses on assessing the status of stock health of marine mammals and all species of sea turtles in Indian waters. Marine mammals and sea turtles play key roles in maintaining marine ecosystems”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/marine-mammal-survey-begins/articleshow/81215926.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Govt plants underused, PSPCL purchases power||PATIALA: While the government-run thermal energy units are underutilised, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) buys electricity from the independent power plants (IPPs). In the year 2019-20 alone, this cost was Rs 22,350 crore. PSPCL officials said the IPPs offered Punjab far cheaper electricity than the state-owned plants, so the state had opted to buy from outside. However, the PSEB Engineers’ Association said the government-owned plants can generate cheaper electricity if run at more than 85% capacity. For the year 2019-20, the regulatory commission had approved a power purchase expenditure of Rs 21,009 crore but the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited spent Rs 1,341 crore more. The government-run 840-megawatt Guru Gobind Singh Super Thermal Power Plant at Ropar can produce 200 lakh units (LU) a day and the 920-MW Guru Hargobind Thermal Plant at Lehra Mohabbat can generate 220 LU a day. In the year 2019-20, the Ropar plant generated 1,052 million units and Lehra Mohabbat 916 million units. The gross generation was at plant load factor (PLF) of 14.29% and 11.37%, respectively, against the plant availability factor (PAF) of 91.06% and 98.49%, respectively. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited director generation Paramjeet Singh said: “We buy power on merit and demand. The outside sources and IPPs sell it cheaper than the two state-run thermal-energy plants, which we use whenever there is a surge in power demand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-plants-underused-pspcl-purchases-power/articleshow/81217226.cms||Bharat Khanna
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||CM for probe into out-of-turn jabs for Thane mayor & netas||Mumbai/Thane: CM Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday took cognisance of some netas in Thane jumping the queue to take vaccines and asked the state administration to probe and act if any irregularity was found, said Shiv Sena leader and minister Anil Parab.Parab was speaking to the media after the state business advisory committee meeting at Vidhan Bhavan. He was questioned about Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske, legislator Ravindra Fatak, his son and a few corporators having taken the shots despite there being no mandate either from the state or Centre allowing netas to get themselves vaccinated. TOI had reported on the vaccinations on Thursday.“The chief minister has asked the administration to take action wherever rules were flouted in the vaccination drive, including Thane,” Parab said.Mhaske accused BJP corporator Manohar Dumbre of politicizing the issue. Dumbre said he had informed Union minister Dr Harsh Vardhan about the out-of-turn vaccinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-for-probe-into-out-of-turn-jabs-for-thane-mayor-netas/articleshow/81217241.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 26, 2021||Hyderabad||Kids adopt 5 birds at Nehru zoo on b’day||Hyderabad: Two children adopted five small birds at the Nehru Zoological Park in the city for a period of three months. According to zoo officials, Sahasra Sri, who is celebrating her birthday, visited the zoo with her brother, Charvik, and parents, to adopt the birds and made an online payment of Rs 5,000, on Thursday. Sahasra’s father, Naresh, said both the kids were very fond of wild animals and thus, the family decided to adopt the birds for her birthday. Zoo curator, VVL Subhadra Devi, appreciated the gesture shown by the children. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kids-adopt-5-birds-at-nehru-zoo-on-bday/articleshow/81217225.cms||---
February 26, 2021||India||Congress has joined AIUDF in ‘lust for power’, can’t secure Assam: Amit Shah||GUWAHATI: Congress cannot provide security to Assam after joining hands with Badruddin Ajmal in its “lust for power”, Union home minister Amit Shah said at an election rally at Batadrava, the birthplace of Vaishnavite saint Srimanta Sankardeva, in Assam’s Nagoan district on Thursday. Shah avoided the subject of Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) again like he did during his last visit to the state in January. However, referring to new political parties formed out of the anti-CAA movement, he said these were “helping Congress, which used bullets to suppress the Assam agitation against foreigners”. Shah declared that BJP and its ally AGP, whom he described as the symbol of Assam’s identity, will retain power with more than two-thirds of the 126 assembly seats. Congress and Ajmal’s AIUDF have stitched together their first collaboration since the birth of the perfume baron’s party in 2005. In his second rally in neighbouring Karbi Anglong district — which Shah was visiting for the first time — the Union minister welcomed over 1,000 cadres of five militant outfits, who laid down arms two days back, and assured them that the promises made to rehabilitate them will be fulfilled within a year of BJP returning to power in the coming polls. On the peace agreements signed in Assam and the rest of the northeast, Shah said Karbi Anglong was a disturbed area during Congress rule for decades and there was bloodshed everywhere. “Development can happen only when there is peace. Assam is on the path of development,” he said. Shah slammed Congress governments in the past and accused it of doing nothing to make the state free from violence and infiltration. “Congress talks about providing security at a time when it has joined hands with Ajmal. It is only because of lust for power that it has joined hands with Ajmal. The party did nothing to free Assam from violence and infiltration despite having a PM who was elected from the state and now how can they protect Assam and stop infiltration when they are sitting with Ajmal,” Shah asked. Shah said PM Narendra Modi will go to any extent to make the region a growth engine of the country and more than anything else, he wants to free the state from the annual devastating floods, which cause largescale disruption and displacement every year. Meanwhile, Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora on Thursday slammed Amit Shah over his claim that the BJP has brought an end to years of conflict and violence in the state. “It was the Congress that brought peace to Assam. Amit Shah’s anti-indigenous CAA pushed the state back into conflict, curfew and violence. Without peace, there can be no progress,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-has-joined-aiudf-in-lust-for-power-cant-secure-assam-amit-shah/articleshow/81219729.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Vadodara||UP girl ends life in Vadodara hotel||Vadodara: A 22-year-old girl died by suicide at a hotel in Sayajigunj on Thursday. The police said that the deceased identified as Sonam Kumari, originally belongs to Muzaffarpur in Bihar. According to police, Kumari had checked into the hotel at 11.30 am on Thursday. Kumari’s room was locked from inside. When Kumari didn’t come out of the room and didn’t answer the calls, the hotel staff got suspicious and opened the door and later contacted the police. “She was found hanging from the ceiling with a piece of cloth in Aditi Hotel. It appeares to be suicide, but we don’t know the exact reason yet. She didn’t leave behind any note,” said R K Sakariya, police sub-inspector, Sayajigunj police station.“We learnt that she is a student of a private university in the city but we are verifying the facts. Her parents will also be contacted,” Sakariya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/up-girl-ends-life-in-vadodara-hotel/articleshow/81215031.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Back to Delhi march after three months||BATHINDA: From a hot debate in Parliament, a global headline, and a blame game, where has one of the biggest farm protests come to after three months? Euphoria gone, even the agitation leaders wonder what they achieved and where the fault lines appeared between November 26 and February 26. It started with braving water cannon and teargas shells as the farmers ran through fortifications to reach the borders of Delhi. The situation is almost similar again, despite a lot of leeway in between. The struggle went as planned for almost two months, during which the farmers met the central ministers 11 times, but the Republic Day tractor parade changed everything, including the face of the agitation. The farm unions’ attack mode turned defensive and the last 30 days went in damage control. Farmers reached the ramparts of the Red Fort on January 26 and pitched a Sikh flag. The protest’s leadership hasn’t fully recovered since, despite the second build-up. In three months, a lot came out in the open. The farmers’ unity came into crisis. The FIRs, arrests, notices, everything came in the way, while dialogue got the backseat. Now as the farmer unions hope to enter the third phase of the protest, they must remobilise those who left after January 26, so they have called them back to the campsite after harvest. The struggle was arduous amid Delhi’s winter but, in Punjab, it pushed everything else backstage. It is not that Punjab’s farmer unions alone were on the Delhi borders. A lot of support came from neighbouring Haryana, while Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra joined in, gradually. In Canada, the US, the UK, Australia, New Zealand and even the Schengen countries of Europe, people held marches and protested outside the Indian embassies and consulates. Deadlock persists Even after the 11 rounds of talks with the government that agreed to put the farm laws on hold for 18 months, filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court on this, and formed a joint committee to look into the legal aspects, the deadlock has persisted. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on January 22 that the government will not call any more meetings but listen, if the farmers are ready for talks. Then January 26 came, the farmers deviated from the route plan for tractor parade, and the dialogue process ran into rough weather. Both sides now look to each other to restart it. Unity in crisis The BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) and the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) were going their separate ways since the beginning of the protest but after the KMSC announced on the evening of January 25 to take the outer ring road for the tractor parade, while the others agreed to follow the Delhi Police route, the farm unions of Punjab and Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) branded the KMSC traitor and parted ways with it. When KMSC stage was attacked on the Singhu border, the morcha didn’t come to the rescue, even though the BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) sent some support from the Tikri border. When the visuals reached the morcha, it suspended Harpal Singh Sangha’s Azad Kisan Committee Doaba and Surjit Singh Phool’s BKU Krantikari and, later revoked those orders. In between, after the BKU waved pictures of those booked for UAPA violation and Delhi riots, it was branded a Naxalite organisation and more farmer unions distanced them it. The BKU’s continued show of strength drew Singh Rajewal to the Barnala mahapanchayat on February 21. Deep Sidhu, Lakha Sidhana The farmer unions had not much liking for actor Deep Sidhu and gangster Lakha Sidhana. When they were accused of provoking violence on Republic Day, the morcha declared them traitors from the very SKM stage they had spoken from the night before. On January 27, farmer unionist Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala had said that it was because of the KMSC, Deep Sidhu, and Lakha that the farmers had to face police onslaught, since they were “government agents”. Sidhu was arrested but Lakha remains on the run. He came to address av rally on February 23 at Bathinda’s Mehraj village and left without coming into the police radar. Emergence of Tikait When the farmers were down and out, the tears of Rakesh Tikait at the Ghazipur border on January 27 lifted their morale. This made him the new face of the movement, upstaging the Punjab unionists who had built it from scratch. He became Haryana’s new hero in the mahapanchayapats and now the protest’s Punjab leaders were uneasy. Tikait exhorted farmer to sacrifice their crop and raid the Parliament with 40 lakh tractors. A few farm unionists are uncomfortable even with politician-turned-activist Yogendra Yadav. FIRs, arrests Delhi Police registered 44 FIRs since January 26. The SKM has detailed copy of only 24. In 16 of these cases, 149 people have been arrested, so far, of which 52 have secured bail. Also, 12 remain missing in the morcha record. Their families approached the morcha’s legal panel, claim its members, Prem Singh Bhgangu and Raminder Patiala. Deaths More than 100 farmers who went to the Delhi borders died during the protests, although the SKM figure is more than 240 since November. The morcha says many of them who died across Punjab and Haryana are also “martyrs of the struggle”. The agriculture ministry has no record. Gheraoed BJP Punjab BJP leaders Surjit Kumar Jayani and Harjit Singh Grewal became villains in the eyes of the farm unions. Jayani had even spoken against his own party’s government. From a bridge between the farm unions and the central government, they ended up being targets of SKM-imposed social boycott called on January 10, which also got the farmers to gherao their houses in Punjab. Last stand SKM’s Darshan Pal said: “The farmers are not disillusioned but in high spirits after the February 27 protest at Singhu. They are coming back to seek legal guarantee of state procurement and minimum support price (MSP) for all crops.” BKU’s Joginder Singh Ugrahan said: “We are not worried for the protest. It will go full length. We will not rest until we force the government to repeal these laws. We don’t mind sitting for even three more months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/back-to-delhi-march-after-three-months/articleshow/81218872.cms||Neel Kamal
February 26, 2021||Kochi||Kerala Police: After 36 yrs, P P Thobias ‘hangs up his boots’||KOCHI: Commandant chief marshal P P Thobias will be calling it a day after 36 years’ service with the Kerala police department. But, when Thobias, who had been attached to watch and ward unit, a security wing of the state legislature, for the past five years, hangs up his boots on Sunday, there won't be any audience in the gallery. However, football lovers across the state would be giving a standing ovation to the player who helped Keralites hold their heads high at national and international sports arenas. It was after playing for Indian football team that Thobias got a placement in Kerala police in September, 1984. A midfielder, whose excellent and well-measured passes helped his colleagues to hit the net, Thobias had been in at the kill when Kerala police clinched prestigious cups, including Santhosh trophy. The captain of Indian team which played Asian Youth Championship held in Bangkok during 1982-83, Thobias had been part of Indian and Kerala teams during many championships. Thobias started his football dreams as a teenager by playing at a small ground in his native place of Ponekkara, an island at that time. “We won’t be able to pass long shots as the ball would end up in the backwaters. Later, I joined Santos Football club at Fort Kochi and got trained by the legendary Rufus D’Souza. Then, I joined the football team of FACT. I had to board the ferry to the mainland Ernakulam and then take the bus to Kalamassery before reaching there at 7am for my training every day,” Thobias said recalling the days when he started playing. “In 1982-83, I got an opportunity to hold the captaincy of Indian team which took part in Asian Youth Championship held in Bangkok. During a match with Kuwait, we were 2-1 down. Then, I translated a pass into a goal through a header,” he said. Narrating one of the golden moments in his career, he said, “When I was sitting in the restaurant of a hotel where we were staying, the then, Kuwait Sheik approached me and offered to induct me in their national team. I humbly rejected the offer as I wanted to stay back home.” After playing for the country and Kerala for close to two decades, Thobias hung up his boots in 1994. He has been attached to the watch and ward wing of Kerala legislative assembly for the past five years. “The days with the watch and ward wing had almost been calm and pleasant,” Thobias said. After superannuation, Thobias plans to focus more on training budding talents in his native place and neighbourhoods. “Thanthonnithuruth off the Kochi city is a place which still remains undeveloped. I plan to train the children from the area. A narrow island, there is not even adequate space for a football ground,” he said. “Like our Ponekkara of yesteryears, if a player gives a long shot, the ball will fall into the backwaters. So, I want to train the children from such places,” he says, reminiscing the nostalgic days of his boyhood and Ponekkara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/after-36-yrs-thobias-hangs-up-his-boots/articleshow/81215955.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Techno defeat State United, enter semis||Lucknow: Techno Club entered the semi-final of Mansarovar Football Cup by defeating State United 7-6 in a tie-breaker on Thursday. The match, held at the polo ground of La Martiniere, witnessed brilliant moves by both the teams. Strong defence by both the teams resulted in the match going to tie-breaker. Finally, the match was decided on sudden death with Techno winning the tie 7-6. Abhishek Rawat of Techno was declared goalkeeper of the match. Bhavishya Academy, Nai Roshni win titles: Nair Roshni and Bhavishya Academy won the Sarla memorial girls and boys’ cricket league titles respectively on Thursday. In all, six teams, including two boys and four girls’ teams, took part in the one-day league organised at Career Sports ground in Lucknow on Thursday. Excellent batting performance by Swati of Nai Roshni enabled her team to beat Badlav in the final tie. In the boys’ category, Abhishek took maximum wickets for Bhavishya Academy, defeating Bal Sabha in the final tie. Eleven-A-Side soccer on Feb 28: The 35th edition of Eleven-A-Side one-day soccer tournament will be organised on February 28. To be organised under the aegis of Milani Club (RDSO, Manaknagar), the matches will be played at RDSO stadium from 9am to 6 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/techno-defeat-state-united-enter-semis/articleshow/81218874.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Sitaram Kunte likely to take over as chief secretary||MUMBAI: Fifty-nine-year-old Sitaram Kunte is likely to be appointed chief secretary in place of Sanjay Kumar, who retires on February 28. An IAS officer of the 1985 batch, Kunte will retire on November 30. Kunte is currently additional chief secretary (home).  In a bureaucratic career spanning nearly 36 years, Kunte has held several key posts. He was Dhule collector between 1993 and 1995. He was deputy municipal commissioner in BMC in 2001, additional commissioner from 2001 to 2005 and commissioner from 2012 to 2015. He was also Mhada vice-chairman and managing director, principal secretary (higher and technical education, environment and forests). He took over the reins of the home department on August 27, 2020. Sanjay Kumar is probably the first CS who did not press for an extension. He is likely to be appointed chairman, Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission. The post has been lying vacant since January 4, after Anand Kulkarni’s term ended. Sanjay Kumar had initially been vying for the post of MahaRERA chairman, but former CS Ajoy Mehta was picked for the role.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sitaram-kunte-likely-to-take-over-as-chief-secretary/articleshow/81217260.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Chennai||Cognizant kicks off a 5-yr, $250m CSR initiative||Chennai: Cognizant on Thursday launched a new five-year, $250 million corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative to work toward the causes of equitable educational opportunities, economic mobility, diversity and inclusion, and health and well-being globally. With this initiative, Cognizant said it will deploy funds, employee volunteer time, and pro bono services to create tangible change in the four focus areas. The fund will equip students, learners, and workers with digital skills, will help in advancing economic mobility for all communities, improve the health and well-being of people, and drive efforts to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion, the company said. From 2021, Cognizant and its foundations will expand its CSR efforts beyond US and India to new global markets including Australia, Canada, Germany, and the UK with this new global commitment. Cognizant is also introducing new philanthropic programs in partnership with Cognizant’s Affinity Groups to support African American, Latinx, LGBTQ, Pan-Asian, women, and veteran communities. New programs will also be launched for Covid-19 relief efforts in addition to programs introduced in 2020 such as Pandemic Response Challenge with XPRIZE. In April 2020, Cognizant committed $10 million to COVID-19 global relief efforts. “As a global company, we care deeply about unlocking human potential. We are determined to live our purpose of improving everyday life and apply our technology and business expertise to help tackle global problems.This $250 million initiative aims to create conditions for people to thrive by expanding access to education, healthcare, and technology, and by advancing diversity and inclusion in communities around the world," Brian Humphries, CEO, Cognizant, said. To date, Cognizant and its foundations are said to have impacted more than four million people, working with over 300 organizations. More than 166,000 employees have volunteered their time and expertise over the last five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cognizant-kicks-off-a-5-yr-250m-csr-initiative/articleshow/81217248.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Chennai||Ashok Leyland to buy out Nissan’s stake in tech arm||Chennai: Hinduja Group flagship Ashok Leyland has announced it will buy out the remaining 38% stake in subsidiary Hinduja Tech Ltd (HTL) for Rs 70.20 crore. To that end, the company has entered into a share purchase agreement with Nissan International Holding BV to acquire 58,500,000 shares of HTL. After the acquisition, HTL will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Ashok Leyland. HTL is an IT/ITeS company with consolidated revenues of Rs 226 crore as on March 2020 with a net profit of nearly Rs 16 crore. Ashok Leyland already owned 62% stake in HTL and the remaining was held by Nissan International Holding BV. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ashok-leyland-to-buy-out-nissans-stake-in-tech-arm/articleshow/81217254.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||‘90% of Maha households surveyed showed income dip even in Sept-Oct’||Mumbai: A survey by the Right to Food campaign within Maharashtra showed that 90% of vulnerable households interviewed reported a depressed income several months after the lockdown ended and 60% said their food intake and quality had reduced. The survey was conducted in September-October and the results for the state were released on Thursday. The Hunger Watch survey interviewed 250 respondents from marginalised and vulnerable communities from nine distr-icts. “The survey shows that the unemployment and hunger situation remains grave after the lockdown even in a state which the top contributor to the nation’s GDP,” said Ulka Mahajan from Right to Food campaign. —Priyanka Kakodkar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/90-of-maha-households-surveyed-showed-income-dip-even-in-sept-oct/articleshow/81217282.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Vaccination campaign breaches target, 117% beneficiaries get jabs||Lucknow: The city recorded 117% turnout in the ongoing covid vaccination drive on Thursday, which was the highest in terms of percentage in the 14 rounds for healthcare and frontline workers held so far. Against the target of 9,488 enlisted beneficiaries, 11,086 turned upnat 117 booths in 44 centres across the city. No case of a side-effect was recorded. As every beneficiary has to be given two shots four weeks apart, the Round 14 was initially marked for those whose booster doses were due. However, as out of 1.04 lakh healthcare and frontline workers, nearly 31% missed their shots in the first 13 rounds, Later, authorities decided to open 14th round for left out beneficiaries as well As a result, the overall turnout on Thursday surged. Apart from left outs enlisted for Thursday, many came out of turn and were added in the schedule through the “add-on” feature in the CoWIN app. The scores at the end of the day were: of 6,970 beneficiaries called for booster dose, 6,414 (92%) came to take the shots and against the 2,518 beneficiaries invited for their first doses, 4672 (186%) reported to get the jabs. Many centres surpassed the vaccination target. Arrangements were made at the centres for more supply of vaccine vials at a short notice in case turnout exceeded the target. “After including Thursday’s score, now we have 74.2% workers who have received their first doses. The remaining can come in the rest of the rounds for booster doses,” said district immunization officer Dr M K Singh. “Earlier, there was a “hesitancy factor” against the vaccine, while some also kept away thinking that the Covid-19 is on the decline. However, many among them now flocking for vaccination after seeing there have been no side effects so far and cases are rising again,” he added However, at SPM Hospital, two ward boys Anil Kumar (46) and Ashok Kumar (50) complained that they were not enlisted despite submission of required papers. CMS Dr S K Nanda said “We will request the health department to include names of all those who have not been enlisted due to some reason or another”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vaccination-campaign-breaches-target-117-beneficiaries-get-jabs/articleshow/81218893.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
February 26, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: MNS leader held on charge of flouting Covid rules||PUNE: The Kothrud police on Wednesday night arrested Ashish Sabale (30), the district head of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena’s (MNS) student wing, on the charge of participating in an unlawful assembly and violating Covid-19 safety norms in front of gangster Gaja Marne’s residence following the latter’s release from the Taloja jail on the night of February 15. The police said Sabale was also part of the cavalcade of vehicles that accompanied Marne following the latter’s release from the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai to Pune earlier the same day. Senior inspector Meghshaym Dange of the Kothrud police told TOI, “Sable had gone to Marne’s residence, where a crowd had gathered to ‘welcome’ the gangster. He also participated in the vehicle rally from Taloja to Pune. We found video clips and photographs on different social media sites and found Sabale with Marne in the frames. Sabale claimed that he had accidentally met Marne. But all the video clips show that Sabale was very much with Marne from Taloja to his Pune residence.” Asked if Sabale was alone or there were others with him, Dange said, “We are checking the photographs and video clips to verify this aspect also. We are scrutinizing CCTV footage as part of our search for all those persons who were part of the unlawful assembly and who posted the footage on the social media sites.” Crime branch team raids Paud farm house in search of Marne A crime branch team on Wednesday evening raided a farm house at Paud in search of Gaja Marne. However, the police did not find either Marne or his supporters there. Marne is not traceable after obtaining bail in the case registered with the Kothrud police station. Subsequently, the police have registered cases against Marne with the Warje and other police stations in Pune city and Pimpri Chinchwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mns-leader-held-on-charge-of-flouting-covid-rules/articleshow/81217385.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||IT raids at MLA Kundu’s residences, offices||Rohtak: Income tax officials from the Centre and state conducted surprise raids at the residences and offices of independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu on Thursday. Raids were conducted in Rohtak and at many other places, including his relative’s house in Hisar district. MLA Kundu, who was at his Gurgaon flat, was also searched by income tax officials on Thursday. Sources said income tax officials reached Kundu’s Rohtak residence around 6am and sealed the entry and exit of those present inside the house. Sources said they were barred from communicating with outsiders over telephone. Kundu, who successfully contested assembly elections from Meham in 2019, is a business tycoon involved in construction and transport. He had been vocal against the Centre government over the ongoing farm agitation against the three agri laws. He even withdrew support to the coalition BJP-JJP government led by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Kundu could not be contacted for comments over the phone. IT teams remained inside his Rohtak residence till late evening. On January 3, 2020, Kundu accused former BJP minister Manish Grover of indulging in rampant corruption during his tenure as minister and instigating violence during the Jat agitation for grant of reservation in February, 2016. CBI probes bizman’s bank loan A CBI team from Delhi reached the residence of a prominent Rohtak-based industrialist in connection with a bank loan taken by him from a nationalised bank. Sources said the industrialist had taken a loan of Rs 127 crore from the bank against his property. The CBI team reached to investigate while the nationalised bank had got an FIR registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/it-raids-at-mla-kundus-residences-offices/articleshow/81217293.cms||Sat Singh
February 26, 2021||Vadodara||Manjalpur PI gets HC summons for ‘illegal detention’ of youth||Vadodara: The police inspector K M Chhasiya of Manjalpur police station has been asked to appear before a high court bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice Sangeeta Vishen in connection with a habeas corpus petition filed by a Dahod man. Bharat Bariya, who lives at Devgadh Bariya in Dahod, had filed a petition in HC after his 24-year-old son Mukesh was allegedly picked up by Manjalpur police from Morbi on February 2. He alleged that his son was not produced before a judicial magistrate nor was allowed to meet his family members. Bharat has requested the court to direct Manjalpur police to produce his son before the court from illegal confinement and detention. He has stated that Mukesh was picked up in connection with a March 2013 case wherein he has been accused of eloping with a minor girl. “The man is living a happy married life with the same girl who is now an adult. Even if he has been arrested then it has been over three weeks and he has not been produced before a competent court nor his family is allowed to meet him,” said Bharat’s lawyer Dhruv Dave. He added that Mukesh’s family members were not even informed about his detention and they learnt about it from somewhere else. The high court on Wednesday issued a notice returnable on Friday. PI K M Chhasiya has been asked to remain present before the court through video conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/manjalpur-pi-gets-hc-summons-for-illegal-detention-of-youth/articleshow/81215091.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Delhi||12 DU colleges say financial crunch biting again, Delhi govt claims all money released as per law||NEW DELHI: Financial crisis seems to have returned at the 12 Delhi University colleges that are fully funded by Delhi government with some of them complaining that they have not received funds since November 2020. A Delhi government spokesperson, however, said that “all funds had been released as per the law”. Last year, the tussle between DU and Delhi government over formation of the governing body in colleges had led to teaching and non-teaching staff being without salaries for months. The funds were eventually released after a court order. On February 22, DU Teachers’ Association had written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia requesting immediate release of the fourth instalment of grant-in-aid to the 12 colleges. “Most colleges have not been able to pay salaries for the last three months. We request that along with the fourth instalment, adequate grants be released to cover the gap that has increased for over a year now,” the letter stated. Commenting on Delhi government’s letter to the principals of the 12 colleges on February 11 seeking information about budgetary allocations 2021-22, DUTA said, “The Directorate of Higher Education requires colleges to submit a copy of the Delhi government order sanctioning new teaching and non-teaching posts. This request linking it to release of grants is a matter of great concern to us.” Abha Dev Habib, DUTA treasurer, said that no one would want to work at a place where they don’t get salaries on time. “The funds were stopped last year over a power tussle between the government and the university. We don’t know why the funds have been stopped now. To say that Delhi government will only give money for the sanctioned strength is wrong as more teachers are recruited as new courses are added. DUTA may have to go to court again,” she added. On November 4, 2020, Delhi High Court had directed Delhi government to release funds for salaries to four colleges — Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar, Bhagini Nivedita, Aditi Mahavidyalaya and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies — after a petition was filed by eight teachers stating that they had not received salaries from May to August 2020. Earlier, AK Bhagi and VS Negi of National Democratic Teachers’ Front had written to LG Anil Baijal saying that non-payment, irregular and delayed salaries and other dues had become more severe and employees were suffering because of the insufficient release of funds by Delhi government. “Students are suffering due to poor infrastructure and lack of maintenance and employees are suffering because of stopping of salaries and other dues,” they had added. Without funds, problems are aplenty at the 12 DU colleges. Sujeet Kumar, assistant professor in BR Ambedkar College, said, “Teachers sat on a dharna on February 24 as they have not received salaries, pensions and medical reimbursement for months.” “Delhi government claims it will not pay for additional teachers. They do not understand that teachers are recruited when new courses are added. All recruitment is done by the same governing body that has members selected by the government. This is just delaying tactics to avoid releasing funds,” claimed Kumar. Hem Chand Jain, the principal of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, said, “We have been unable to pay salaries, property tax and arrears and have a liability of at least Rs 25 crore. The government asks for fresh documents, but does not give us the funds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/12-du-colleges-say-financial-crunch-biting-again-delhi-govt-claims-all-money-released-as-per-law/articleshow/81217326.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Fire destroys 5 wooden houses near Rampur||Shimla: A major fire on Thursday evening destroyed five houses at Addu village of Nankhari block in the Rampur subdivision of this district and left 12 families homeless. A temple was also affected but no life was lost. Villagers had joined the administration, police, and Home Guards in the firefighting effort. The cause of the fire is unclear yet but the wooden architecture of houses intensified it, creating panic in the village. The fire brigade was at work till night amid the relief and rescue operations. The five wooden houses had 41 rooms. Preliminary loss calculations are of Rs 1.5 crore. The affected families received an immediate relief of Rs 48,000 along with tarpaulins for emergency shelter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fire-destroys-5-wooden-houses-near-rampur/articleshow/81217321.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Brace for truck owners’ strike in state today||Mumbai: Several trucks, tempos and trailers in Maharashtra will go off roads on Friday for a day in a ‘token protest’ against rising diesel prices in the country, which could affect supply of essential and non-essential goods to the city. Although there was no hike in fuel prices on Thursday, diesel in Mumbai has peaked to Rs 88.44/litre, while petrol is Rs 97.34. All-India Motor Transport Congress will meet Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur on Friday morning to discuss GST and e-way related bill issues. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/brace-for-truck-owners-strike-in-state-today/articleshow/81217362.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Artisan who stole Rs 44L gold in 2020 caught in B’luru||Mumbai: A 24-year-old artisan working in a jewellery manufacturing unit in Kurla was arrested for fleeing with gold ornaments worth Rs 44 lakh. Most of the booty was recovered. Monirul Ali Shaikh was arrested from Bangalore, where he was staying with a different identity. Complainant Nizamuddin Shaikh, who runs the unit, takes orders from jewellers in Mumbai. In October 2020, the accused stole the ornaments. He had turned his phone off, but it was his number that helped police trace him to Bangalore. — S Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/artisan-who-stole-rs-44l-gold-in-2020-caught-in-bluru/articleshow/81217345.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 26, 2021||Vadodara||Saffron camp’s candidates win in teachers’ category||Vadodara: The syndicate election at MS University (MSU) for teachers’ category on Thursday turned out to be a one-sided affair as Congress leaning Dr Nikul Patel garnered just four votes out of 70 polled. While the saffron party was aiming to create a ‘history’ by getting all syndicate members elected uncontested, its plans were watered down as Patel refused to withdraw his nomination despite several coercion until last moment. Of the 15 elected representatives in the syndicate, 11 were elected uncontested but the polls for four seats under teachers’ category were scheduled on Thursday as Patel, who also contested for VMC polls on Congress ticket, had also thrown his hat in the ring. Besides Patel, Dr Dilip Kataria, Minesh Shah, Dr Beejaysinh Rathod and Chetan Somani were in the fray. Technically the poll contest was only for one seat representing Faculty of Technology and Engineering (FTE) as both Patel and Somani are from FTE. However, voters had to vote for four candidates. For polling held at the university head office, 70 of 84 senate members had turned up. While one vote was declared invalid, Somani received 65 votes and Kataria, Shah and Rathod received 69 votes each. After the result was declared city BJP chief Dr Vijay Shah turned up at the head office to congratulate the winning members. Members of the saffron camp voiced their displeasure over Patel not willing to withdraw his nomination despite knowing that he would be defeated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/saffron-camps-candidates-win-in-teachers-category/articleshow/81215152.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||330 staff, students of a school in Lucknow test Covid negative||LUCKNOW: In a major relief, the RT-PCR test report of over 330 staff members and students of a prominent school on Kalidas Marg came out negative for Covid-19 on Thursday. However, six people — four daily wagers, an employee of the school and his seven-year-old son — were found to be carrying the virus in the RT-PCR test as well. The rapid antigen test was conducted on Tuesday in a camp set up by the health department outside the college. The camp was part of the targeted sampling being done by the health department to trace the prevalence of the infection among people of different professions in the city. Total 110 tests were conducted in the camp on Tuesday. Of these, six persons tested positive. These included four daily wagers, who were hired for construction work near the campus. Health authorities took their samples again and sent them for confirmatory RT-PCR test. A day after, a massive contact tracing drive was conducted in the school, in which samples of 332 people, including teachers, employees, principal and all the 13 students residing in the hostel were taken on Wednesday and sent for RT-PCR test. “The reports of all the 332 persons have come negative, while six persons who tested positive in antigen test were found to be having Covid-19 in RT-PCR test as well,” said additional chief medical officer Dr Yogesh Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/330-staff-students-of-school-test-ve/articleshow/81218909.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Kolhapur||Buses, transporters get green signal, car travellers face checks||CLEARED SKHER Kognoli (Kolhapur): The decision of the Karnataka government to allow only those private vehicle passengers who have Covid-19 negative reports to enter the state has caused chaos and anger at the checkpost set up along the Maharashtra-Karnataka border in Kolhapur district. On Thursday, agitated travellers questioned the decision to allow state transport buses, transport buses and those travelling on two-wheelers to proceed without any Covid-19 testing. At the checkpost, even those with Covid-19 negative reports had to undergo thermal checks, before being allowed to go. Meenakshi Mangitaya (90) was looking to go back home in Udipi, Karnataka, after spending some time with relatives in Nashik. Considering her age, her relatives were driving her home, she told TOI. They, however, were asked to return as they did not have any RT-PCR negative report. “As travelling through public transport is not safe at my age, my relatives were dropping me. Now, after travelling for so far, we can’t go back to Nashik nor can we proceed to Udipi. I have a medical certificate with me. Since the last two hours, we are waiting here,” she said. The health department workers from Karnataka and police have set up a check post just a few metres ahead of the Kognoli toll plaza, about 25 km from Kolhapur city. Vishwas Patil, (48), who was travelling from Kolhapur to Nipani, Karnataka, with his family was asked to return in the absence of the Covid negative report. “We were headed to a house warming ceremony at my sister’s new home. These authorities could have done our thermal screening and let us proceed. It’s strange that buses, public transport vehicles are allowed to ply but private vehicles are not being allowed,” he said. The border check post was started from February 22 based on the Karnataka government decision. While, even buses were banned for past three days, the public transport from both sides resumed on Thursday. On Wednesday, Solapur district guardian minister announced that vehicles will not be allowed into the district if the passengers did not have Covid-19 negative reports. Ashwini Ingawle, a health worker at the check post, said, she was aware of the hassle the new measures were causing but the government had taken the decision to curb the spread of the contagion. “We have been asked to check for the negative RT-PCR reports of the commuters entering into the state. From today morning the local buses plying from Kolhapur to Belagavi or between Kagal and Nipani cities are being allowed to ply to and fro after thermal screening. Transport vehicles and two wheelers are not checked or asked for screening,” she said. Kolhapur guardian minister Satej Patil told TOI that unlike Solapur, which had imposed travel curbs on anyone coming from Karnataka not having a Covid-19 negative report, Kolhapur cannot do the same. “Kolhapur shares very close border with Karnataka. Many people living in the Kolhapur border areas have got their land in Karnataka and vice versa. An MLA in Kolhapur has his house in Karnataka. So one can imagine that each day hundreds of people are moving between Kolhapur and Karnataka. The travel curbs issued by Karnataka are causing many hassles. This problem can only be solved if both the state governments get involved and find a solution,” he told TOI on Thursday morning. (Inputs from Joy Sengupta in Pune)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/buses-transporters-get-green-signal-car-travellers-face-checks/articleshow/81215162.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
February 26, 2021||Goa||Tourist centres yet to commence||Calangute: The Tourist Information Centres (TICs) which have been built by the Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) close to the beaches at Candolim, Calangute and Baga are yet to be made operational, more than three years after they were completed. The TICs in Candolim, Calangute and Baga were inaugurated by Union minister of state for tourism Prahlad Singh Patel last year. Built on the lines of TICs on beaches in international tourist destinations like Bali and Sri Lanka, these were supposed to provide information to tourists on places to visit for sightseeing, shopping and other assistance. They were to also have a medical centre and police outpost to help tourists requiring help. The TICs were built through the central government's ‘Swadesh Darshan’ scheme. Union minister of state for tourism Prahlad Singh Patel had also visited the TIC at Candolim beach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourist-centres-yet-to-commence/articleshow/81217389.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Covid doubling rate slips by 141 days||CHANDIGARH: Punjab’s Covid-19 doubling rate, a key parameter indicating pandemic progress, has declined by 141 days in the span of eight days, a period coinciding with a sharp rise in the daily count of Covid-19 cases. The doubling rate refers to the number of days it takes for the cases to double. A lower doubling rate means faster infection. After the January drop, the caseload is on a rise since the second week of February. The opening week, February 1 to 7, recorded 1,176 cases while the caseload jumped to 1,458 in the second week, February 8 to 14 and further climbed to 1,939 during the seven-day period from February 15 to 21. As on February 24, a total of 6,349 cases were reported of which 2,718 (43%) surfaced in the span of just eight days from February 17 to 24. The daily growth rate of the positive case in Punjab in the eight-day period varied between 0.8% to 1.1%, against the national growth rate of 0.6 % to 0.8%. The steep spike of cases brought down the doubling rate from 460.6 days on February 17 to 319.4 on February 24 against the national doubling rate of 553.5 days. The doubling rate has come down in 16 districts while it has gone up in six districts that reported a lesser number of cases. The doubling rate dropped from 1,707 days to 374 in Moga, 2,689 to 862 in Muktsar, 807 to 303 in Amritsar, 583 to 289 in Tarn Taran, 692 to 324 in Jalandhar, 305 to 147 in Kapurthala, and 430 to 165 in Hoshiarpur. The positivity rate also crept up from 1.6% to 3%. Tracing increases with cases As the number of cases is going up, the health authorities have ramped up the efforts to trace contacts of the infected patients. Punjab’s overall contact tracing ratio has touched 16 per positive case, surpassing the target of 15 set by chief minister Amarinder Singh. The exercise of contact tracing is one of the key containment measures which helps in controlling the spread of the virus. The process emphasises on identifying people who came in contact with infected people. As per the data of the state health department till February 24, seven out of 22 districts have a tracing ratio of more than 15 contacts per case while in the other six districts, 12 or more contacts have been traced per case. Nawanshahr tops the list by tracing 22.3 contacts per case followed by Faridkot (18.4), Mohali (16.2), Patiala (15.6), Amritsar (15.3) and Moga (15.1). Punjab Covid nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said a lot of focus was being laid on tracing maximum contacts of each case so that the spread of the virus could be contained. “In the majority of districts, contact tracing is higher than the minimum advised limit,” said Dr Bhaskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabs-covid-doubling-rate-slips-by-141-days/articleshow/81217328.cms||Vinod Kumar
February 26, 2021||Chandigarh||Ambala cemetery under British high commission: Punjab and Haryana high court||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that the British high commission has the right to control and manage the Ambala-based historical cemetery spread over 20 acre. The historically significant cemetery located in Ambala cantonment area reportedly contains around 2,00,000 graves of Indian and British citizens, including 66 soldiers that lost their lives during World War-I. The HC has also upheld the decision of Haryana government through which it had handed over the responsibility and maintenance of the cemetery to the committee as per the recommendations of British deputy high commission to the persons authorised by the commission. “It is not disputed that as of now it is the High Commission of the United Kingdom which is reflected to be holding occupancy rights of Ambala cemetery. Charge of the cemetery is admittedly with respondents No.5 and 6 (Patras Mundu and Francis of Holy Redeemer Church, Ambala Cantonment) as of now. There is no ground to interfere at the instance of the petitioner in this writ petition, which also raises disputed questions of fact,” the HC has observed. Justice Lisa Gill has passed these orders while refusing to set aside the British high commission recommendations, and the decision taken by Haryana government in January this year on the basis of these recommendations. Justice Gill has passed these orders while dismissing the petition filed by Bishop Shaukat Bhatti of Ambala cantonment. A communication dated December 16, 2020, was addressed by the deputy head of the British high commission to the Haryana government mentioning that the Ambala Cemetery Committee comprising six member churches of Ambala cantonment under the guidance of Patras Mundu and Francis of Holy Redeemer Church, Ambala Cantonment are responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of the cemetery. The Ambala district administration then wrote to the petitioner to hand over the office keys and necessary relevant documents to the committee on January 11, 2021. Case set up by the petitioner is that he had joined St Paul Church as Catechist in the year 1998 and that he was ultimately appointed as Bishop. The persons assigned by the high commission belong to the Catholic Church of India, therefore they have no legal right to the land or management of cemetery, the petition said. It was also argued by the petitioner that British high commission has no right whatsoever to make recommendations regarding the maintenance of the cemetery. Responding to the petition, the Haryana government said an inquiry was conducted by the Ambala city sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) regarding the matter involving the cemetery. It was explained that on February 5, 1977 Cantonment Board had transferred 1,065 acres of land to the government of Haryana/Notified Area Committee, Ambala Sadar along with General Land Record (GLR). As per survey No.159 of GLR, occupancy rights of land measuring 20.54 acres were given to the High Commission of the United Kingdom in India for European cemetery and the ownership of land vests with the Government of India. During the hearing of the case, the counsel appearing for the members of the Ambala Cemetery Committee of Ambala Cantonment of Six Mainline Churches, informed that the petitioner, who claims to be connected with the Anglican Church of India, has no concern with the St Paul’s Church Ambala Cantonment, which comes under Church of North India, Delhi Diocese. A historical siteAs per notification dated October 5, 1993, issued by the Government of Haryana, the cemetery land at Ambala Cantonment is stated to be declared an ancient and historical monument, besides an archaeological site. The management and occupancy rights remained with the High Commission of U.K. The Commonwealth War Graves Commission, Delhi entered into an agreement for maintenance on December 15, 2009, with the Ambala Cemetery Committee. There are allegations that the petitioner in the case, Shaukat Bhatti, a “self-declared” Anglican bishop, had taken over the custody of the cemetery area and denied access to others. There were also some reports that the land mafia is eyeing this land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ambala-cemetery-under-british-high-commission-decides-hc/articleshow/81217364.cms||Ajay Sura
February 26, 2021||Delhi||Coal ban: Delhi pays for neighbours’ laxity||NEW DELHI: Delhi may have cleaned up its act by banning coal, but it is allowed in the rest of National Capital Region (NCR). Coal-based industries are still considered a major source of pollution in the region, highlights State of India’s Environment 2021, a report released by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) on Thursday. The report states the share of industries using coal especially in Ghaziabad and Panipat, was found to be 86% and 56.2%, respectively, which could be a lead factor behind the high PM2.5 and PM10 levels in the region. The assessment, carried out in the seven major industrial centres in NCR —Ghaziabad, Panipat, Sonipat, Faridabad, Gurgaon, Alwar and Bhiwadi — was carried out in 2020 to identify industrial pollution hotspots and the major air polluting industrial sectors. The study found that coal was the most consumed fuel in all seven districts, with around 1.4 million tonnes of coal being used annually in the industries. The second most consumed fuel was agro-waste. “We are still way behind in bringing in fuel switch in the whole of Delhi-NCR and coal is still the king of fuels for industries,” the report states. It also calculated the chimney-based industrial pollution load of different districts to find the industrial hotspots and their share in industrial air pollution in a district. “The findings clearly highlight the industrial areas and sectors that the authorities need to focus on to bring down pollution levels in these major industrial districts,” it says. A 2018 source apportionment study conducted by Automotive Research Association of India, a research and development organisation set up by the automotive industry with the central government and TERI, a Delhi-based non-profit organisation, had shown that the share of industrial pollution in NCR was much higher compared to Delhi. The share of industrial sector in terms of PM10 was 2% in Delhi, while it was 28% in the rest of the NCR. The PM2.5 count for the same category was 3% and 24%, respectively. Citing CPCB data, the current report states that out of 88 major industrial clusters in the country, 35 showed an overall “environmental degradation”, 33 worsening air quality, 45 an increase in water pollution, and at 17, land pollution has become worse. “Better usage of Continuous Emission Monitoring System, data for deterrence, engagement of concessionaires for the management of industrial waste, identification of illegal industries, introducing concept of common boilers (wherever possible) and developing strategy to curb fugitive emissions from industries are some of the steps that the government can take,” it points out. “But the game-changing move would be bringing in fuel change in all air polluting industries in Delhi-NCR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/coal-ban-delhi-pays-for-neighbours-laxity/articleshow/81217375.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Delhi||Jamia allows scholars to use labs||New Delhi: After weeks of deliberation and protests by students, Jamia Millia Islamia has decided to allow research scholars of the Faculty of Engineering and Technology, and the Faculty of Natural Sciences and its associated centres, to use the laboratory facilities from March 1.The scholars from these faculties are also allowed to visit the Jamia university library for the issuing of books and journals.The Jamia Executive Council’s standing committee, on February 5, had stated that due to Covid-19 protocols, students visiting the university would have to make their own arrangements for stay. Jamia students had earlier staged a protest outside the campus, demanding reopening of the university and resumption of physical classes for students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jamia-allows-scholars-to-use-labs/articleshow/81217410.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Two trained vaccinators give vaccine shot to each other in UP||LUCKNOW: The joy of two trained vaccinators—Bindu Devi and Sushma Pathak—knew no bounds on Thursday. The duo has been vaccinating people since January 16 when the drive for healthcare workers had begun. However, they could not get time to get the shots due to busy schedules. Finally, they got the opportunity and gave the jab to each other before posing with a victory sign for the TOI lensman. “We have vaccinated hundreds of beneficiaries, but could not find time for ourselves because of hectic schedule. Today, as attendance of beneficiaries dropped, we decided to make our registration cards and inoculate each other,” said Sushma, a nursing officer at BRD Hospital. “One has to first wait for 15-30 minutes to get the registration card, then 30 minutes in the observation room. Taking an hour off work during vaccine drive was difficult. But today, we got the opportunity,” said Bindu, a nurse posted at Aliganj CHC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/they-gave-vaccine-shot-to-each-other/articleshow/81218920.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
February 26, 2021||Vadodara||Saffron camp’s candidates win in teachers’ category||Vadodara: The syndicate election at MS University (MSU) for teachers’ category on Thursday turned out to be a one-sided affair as Congress leaning Dr Nikul Patel garnered just four votes out of 70 polled. While the saffron party was aiming to create a ‘history’ by getting all syndicate members elected uncontested, its plans were watered down as Patel refused to withdraw his nomination despite several coercion until last moment. Of the 15 elected representatives in the syndicate, 11 were elected uncontested but the polls for four seats under teachers’ category were scheduled on Thursday as Patel, who also contested for VMC polls on Congress ticket, had also thrown his hat in the ring. Besides Patel, Dr Dilip Kataria, Minesh Shah, Dr Beejaysinh Rathod and Chetan Somani were in the fray. Technically the poll contest was only for one seat representing Faculty of Technology and Engineering (FTE) as both Patel and Somani are from FTE. However, voters had to vote for four candidates. For polling held at the university head office, 70 of 84 senate members had turned up. While one vote was declared invalid, Somani received 65 votes and Kataria, Shah and Rathod received 69 votes each. After the result was declared city BJP chief Dr Vijay Shah turned up at the head office to congratulate the winning members. Members of the saffron camp voiced their displeasure over Patel not willing to withdraw his nomination despite knowing that he would be defeated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/saffron-camps-candidates-win-in-teachers-category/articleshow/81215221.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Man slits cleric’s throat inside Rampur mosque over rivalry||BAREILLY: A 62-year-old imam of a local mosque was allegedly killed by a man in Azeem Nagar area of Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur on Thursday. The 55-year-old accused had slit the cleric's throat inside the mosque and attacked another cleric who came to the rescue. The accused had rivalry with the mosque imam over call to the morning prayer (azan) for a long time, sources said. Police said that initial investigation has revealed that the accused wanted to replace the cleric and recite the 'azan'. An FIR has been registered and the accused has been arrested and sent to jail. The deceased, identified as one Sagheer, a resident of Punjab, was living in Rampur. He was serving as the imam of a mosque located in Nagaliya Aaqil village under Azeem Nagar police station in Rampur. Rampur ASP Sansar Singh said, “The accused, identified as one Jalees, is a resident of Nagaliya Aaqil. He had enmity with the deceased over reciting the 'azan'. On Thursday, the accused arrived at the mosque and attacked the cleric with a sharp object and slit his throat. The cleric died at the spot.” The accused then fled from the mosque, police said. The ASP added, “An FIR has been registered against the accused under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder)."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-slits-clerics-throat-inside-rampur-mosque-over-rivalry/articleshow/81214183.cms||Maria Khan
February 26, 2021||Goa||First four-lane of new Zuari bridge to be ready by May||Panaji: The four-lane section of the eight-lane new Zuari bridge was originally expected to open for public use by December 2020. Last year, the Covid-19 pandemic came as a setback to the project work. Now, the opening of this four-lane section has been delayed further by two months, due to some corrections that are required in the erection sequence. The first section of the bridge will now be ready by end of May 2021. “The bridge design specialists from France were to arrive early last year to oversee laying of the superstructure of the bridge. But due to the pandemic as international travel was not possible, their arrival was delayed. Now, the designers are working on corrections in the erection sequence,” said an official. French bridge specialist Erwan Vicat of Ingerop, Paris, in association with Infinite Civil Solutions, India, have created the technical design of the bridge. While Dewei Chan of Tongji University, Shanghai, China, is acting as the proof-reader for the design, the final design is being checked by an IIT-Bombay team. The international travel restrictions delayed the arrival of the experts from abroad to oversee the construction of the superstructure of the bridge. The new eight-lane Zuari bridge with six-lane approach roads is a complex structure like few other existing presently in the country. At 640m, once completed, the new Zuari bridge will be the second largest cable bridge lengthwise in the country after Vidyasagar Setu in Kolkata. “Two Derek cranes can already be seen in place for the bridge work. The Derek cranes will be used to lift the steel segments over the river and place them on the stay cable bridge. Each Derek crane weighs 126 T. On the elevated sections of the approach roads, more segments of the six-lane approaches will soon be seen erected,” said an official. The new bridge along with its approach roads is a Rs 1,403 crore ambitious project. It will act as an expressway which will cut down the distance from North to South Goa significantly. When work on the project first began in late 2016, the entire eight-lane bridge was expected to be completed within three years, while the approach roads were to be ready within 30 months. Bhopal-based Dilip Buildcon, along with a Ukrainian company Mostobudivelnyi Zahin Ltd, was awarded the construction contract in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/first-four-lane-of-new-zuari-bridge-to-be-ready-by-may/articleshow/81217436.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
February 26, 2021||Ludhiana||SAD comes out in support of CAIT bandh call||Ludhiana: A day ahead of the strike called by traders and shopkeepers associated with the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), the movement has got a boost as Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has announced full support to the bandh. Youth wing of the party has even declared that it will ensure everything to make it successful by asking market associations to observe the bandh. Giving more information, Gurdeep Singh Gosha, district president of Youth Akali Dal (YAD) said, “It’s only SAD which understands the problems of the business community and stands shoulder to shoulder with them. The BJP and Congress governments only make false promises and are only filling their coffers by harassing business community , but SAD is the only party which has taken revolutionary decisions. During our tenure power rates were brought down and it was our leadership which brought one time settlement schemes for settling assessment cases. Besides this, several other revolutionary steps were taken by SAD to make doing business easier in the state. But the Congress government in the state and BJP at the Centre have destroyed trade and industry of Punjab.” Gosha added that, “First demonetisation and now with GST, PM Narendra Modi-led BJP has broken the backbone of trade and industry and even after three years of its introduction, whether it’s businessmen or tax professionals no one has been able to understand GST. To increase their woes further, the central government has been making changes in the laws of GST very frequently because of which it has become impossible for businessmen to comply to this complex taxation regime. We are fully supportive of the bandh call given by CAIT and we have already asked our workers to visit market associations and meet their office-bearers and urge them to contribute in making this bandh successful. At the same time, we will also join CAIT representatives when they go to the central GST commissionerate to submit the memorandum of their demands.” Lakhs of members of CAIT have decided to hold nationwide bandh on February 26. Thousands of traders and shopkeepers in Punjab, most of which are located in Ludhiana, will also keep their businesses shut on this day as mark of protest against the existing format of GST.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-comes-out-in-support-of-cait-bandh-call/articleshow/81216064.cms||Mohit Behl
February 26, 2021||Pune||Pune: Day temperature peaks to season’s highest at 35.8°C||PUNE: The city on Thursday witnessed its warmest day this winter despite the partly cloudy skies in the afternoon, with the day temperature touching the season’s highest at 35.8°C in Lohegaon and 35.1°C in Shivajinagar. On Wednesday, Pashan, Shivajinagar and Lohegaon had recorded day temperatures at 33.8°C, 33.6°C and 33.2°C, respectively. These were the second highest day temperatures so far in Pune this winter. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune told TOI, “Thursday’s clouding was a result of a cyclonic circulation over Madhya Maharashtra. This system, along with the wind regime in Maharashtra, caused clouding during the afternoon and evening hours. This situation is expected to continue till Friday.” Some locations in the city recorded trace rainfall on Thursday. The IMD, however, ruled out any rain spells during the next few days. Kashyapi said all two wind types — southeasterly and northerly — are being witnessed in parts of the state, including Pune. “The northerly winds are not coming from the extreme north of India. The winds are coming from Gujarat and Rajasthan and are thus not that cold. The southeasterly winds are coming from the Bay of Bengal and are warmer. All these conditions are affecting the weather in the city, including the rise in the maximum and minimum temperatures,” he said. “The moisture coming into the state from the Bay of Bengal is also marginal. There is no possibility of rain during the next few days,” he said. Another official said, “The normal day temperature for Pune is 32.6°C for February. But Thursday’s maximum temperatures were 1.3-1.8C higher than normal.” In most locations in Maharashtra, the day temperatures have been running above normal by 1-4°C with March approaching. However, the IMD forecast revealed that by March 2, the day and night temperatures in Pune would be much lower than current levels, at 31°C and 11°C, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/day-temperature-peaks-to-seasons-highest-at-35-8c/articleshow/81217469.cms||Neha Madaan
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||UP’s first female dastango scripts history with Rani Jhansi’s valour||LUCKNOW: When she draws her imaginary 19th century sword out of the scabbard, sitting against the setting sun, 29-year-old Pragya Sharma fills the wintry air with passion and valour embodying Jhansi’s mighty queen Laxmibai. In doing so, Pragya has recreated the determined young queen, who fought the first war of Indian independence against the British with gusto. Two centuries later, this young ‘rani’ is in a crisp white chikankari ensemble, narrating the tale of her unprecedented bravado. Gracefully poised on stage in erstwhile ‘Company Bagh’, Pragya held her audience in rapt attention to tell the story as the first female modern dastango of Uttar Pradesh. With a doctorate in economics, Pragya works with the UP oversight committee of National Green Tribunal and had not realised that she could achieve this feat. “I never knew I could perform, let alone in front of a live audience and in the art form of dastangoi,” said Pragya, who has now completed five shows on Rani Laxmibai under Mission Shakti, organised by UP Police. “I had a penchant towards this art form since 2014. When I came to know of Lucknow’s first modern dastango Himanshu Bajpai, I wished I could perform one day but I did not know how. My life was centred around education and work,” she added. It was only recently that Pragya hopped on to the scripting team for Himanshu’s dastangoi on Rani of Jhansi. “That in itself was a dream come true. I was helping out with the script when one day, Himanshu asked if I would want to perform along with him as the script was about women and the warrior queen,” she said, elated. Himanshu added, “I was brought into the world of dastangoi by my friend and superior artist Ankit Chaddha, who is no longer in this world. For long, I had been looking for a partner after Ankit. Pragya showed interest, was sincere to learn and with tremendous amount of rehearsal, solo practice and character sketching, she made it to being the state’s first female dastango.” The mentoring by Himanshu was key as Pragya’s path was unknown and time was limited. Amid work from home, Pragya sat through online meetings and work in the first part of the day and worked with Himanshu later. They practised twice together everyday. “I would then do two more solo rehearsals with my family’s support and motivation,” said Pragya. On nights leading up to the final performance, Pragya had dreams of Rani Jhansi galloping on her horse with her son tied to her back. “When artists say they eat, sleep, drink and dream their art form, they are not exaggerating. It did happen. All I could think of was the times when Rani Laxmibai lived and how she would have done what she did,” she said. With five shows under her belt, these first steps by the state’s first female dastango have left a deep impression on a city slowly trying to bring back lost art forms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-first-female-dastango-scripts-history-with-rani-jhansis-valour/articleshow/81218934.cms||Yusra Husain
February 26, 2021||Coimbatore||AMMK projects Dhinakaran as CM candidate||The AMMK general council projected the party’s general secretary T T V Dhinakaran as the chief ministerial candidate and resolved to retrieve AIADMK from the clutches of ‘wrong persons with selfish intentions’.The general council meeting chaired by Dhinakaran in Chennai on Thursday also resolved to prevent ‘evil force’, a reference to DMK, from capturing power. Addressing the cadres at the meeting, Dhinakaran said that he was ready to make any sacrifice for the party. “These sacrifices are not driven by the intention to capture power, but to uphold the legacy of Amma (late chief minister J Jayalalithaa) and form Amma’s government again,” he said.Dhinakaran said he had never dreamt that he would be launching a political party. “But we were forced to launch the party because of the circumstances, to retrieve AIADMK,” he said, adding the party would win the objective that it had set out to achieve. “They cannot do anything to stop us from achieving our goal,’’ he said.Hitting out at DMK, Dhinakaran said the primary goal of the AMMK was to defeat the opposition party and that AMMK will be the only force that can defeat DMK. “All strategies chalked out by the evil force to capture power should be defeated,” a resolution said.Dhinakaran said the AMMK has started talks with several parties. “Certainly, a good alliance would be formed. We will win a massive victory. I am taking all efforts for that,” he said. He called upon functionaries to submit applications seeking candidature in the assembly election from March 3 and appealed the cadres to create history by ensuring the defeat of DMK. “If DMK loses this election, it will never ever capture power in TN,’’ he said.The general council adopted 14 resolutions including the ‘retrieval of AIADMK.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ammk-projects-dhinakaran-as-cm-candidate/articleshow/81217437.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Coimbatore||50% of govt buses stay off roads in dist||Coimbatore: The indefinite strike called by transport unions began on Thursday, with 70% of bus drivers and conductors in the district keeping away from work.However, the state transport corporation ensured that 50% of buses operated by bringing temporary workers and those belonging to AIADMK-led labour unions.Almost 70% of the 5,400 staff struck work from Thursday morning, announcing that they would continue the strike until their 14-point agenda is addressed. The main point of the agenda was implementation of the 14th pay commission, which increases every worker’s pay by Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 per month.“Our pay should be revised immediately and the government should pay us the difference in pay from September 2019,” said M Velankaniraj, general secretary of the Coimbatore Transport Corporation Labourers Union. “Clear dearness allowance which we haven’t got for five years and issue new uniforms.”Commuters were not affected by the strike. “I had to wait seven to 10 minutes longer, but got a bus,” said S Suganthi, who had to take a bus from Kurumbapalayam to R S Puram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/50-of-govt-buses-stay-off-roads-in-dist/articleshow/81217428.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Coimbatore||Rs 19L, goldornaments gutted in fire||Coimbatore: Fifteen sovereigns of gold ornaments, Rs 19 lakh in cash and several property documents were gutted in a fire that broke out in a house at Kunnathurampalayam near Annur on Tuesday.House owner R Mohankrishna, who runs a hardware shop, had locked the house before leaving for his shop adjacent to the house. He noticed smoke around 2.45pm and rushed to the house. But he was not able to enter the house, which was engulfed in flames.A team from the Annur fire station put out the fire after an hour of struggle. Mohankrishna said that he had kept Rs 19 lakh under his bed. “The currency notes were charred. Documents of three motorcycles, two cars, a pick-up van and a truck were destroyed, so were seven property documents. I was planning to open another shop opposite to the house on Wednesday,” he said.The fire could have been caused by a short circuit, firemen said.The Annur police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rs-19l-goldornaments-gutted-in-fire/articleshow/81217459.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Delhi||VIP areas in Delhi stare at month-long water crisis||NEW DELHI: With the canal carrying water from Beas river to Delhi scheduled to be under repair for a month, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) anticipates disruption of over 25% of the city’s water supply during the peak demand period. The affected period will be from March 25 to April 24. DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha on Thursday said that supply to Rashtrapati Bhavan, Prime Minister’s residence and other institutions of national and international importance may also be affected. The water utility had received a letter from Haryana government on February 12 stating that the Nangal hydel channel would be closed for repairs and maintenance. It demanded that maintenance plans be put on hold and the central government urgently convene a meeting of all stakeholders to find a solution to this potential crisis. Out of Delhi’s installed water treatment capacity of 935 million gallons per day (MGD), it receives 232 MGD raw water from Beas river via the Nangal hydel channel. “Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB), an agency under Union Jal Shakti ministry, is going to stop 232 MGD of water coming from Beas river to Delhi for a month, which will create havoc. This might also lead to a law and order situation in the capital,” alleged Chadha. “We sent a letter to BBMB, the Centre and Haryana government on February 19 informing them that the citizens of Delhi are fully dependent on this 232 MGD water. We have requested them to put the maintenance work on hold during this important period and not reduce water supply to Delhi. They should carry out the maintenance work when water supply is enough,” added Chadha. Delhi Jal Board gathers water from four key sources to supply it to the citizens of Delhi. These include the Yamuna, Ganga, Ravi-Beas rivers and groundwater. Already a water deficient city, Delhi’s peak water demand is over 1,260 MGD against which only 935 MGD is supplied. Chadha said that Delhi’s access to this 232 MGD water is protected under law according to the memorandum of understanding signed in 1981. The Supreme Court had also issued an order on May 10, 2020 in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vip-areas-in-delhi-stare-at-month-long-water-crisis/articleshow/81217463.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Ludhiana||Take parents’ consent for offline, online exams for Classes IX, XII, recommends child rights panel||Ludhiana: The Punjab State Commission For Protection of Child Rights has written a letter to secretary, Punjab School Education Board; secretary, CBSE; all the district education officers of the districts and deputy commissioners, recommending conducting examinations via offline and online mode for Classes IX and XI after taking consent of parents. Ludhiana figures among leading districts from where a significant number of students have tested positive for Covid-19 soon after the schools reopened. The letter said, “The academic year 2020-2021 was very badly affected by Covid-19. All schools and institutions were trying to provide education through online mode. In the month of February, the government decided to reopen the schools with the option of imparting education online and offline mode with the consent of parents. Now, as the examination of all the classes are approaching, it has come to the notice of the commission that the examination of classes IX to XII be conducted via offline mode. It was also reported that phase 3 of Covid-19 has begun in Punjab and number of cases are increasing by the day.” It said, “The commission has been receiving number of e-mails and phone calls from students and parents regarding conduct of examination in offline mode. Considering the above facts, the commission recommends that the final examinations of Classes XI and XI may be taken via offline and online mode with the written consent of the parents. It will overcome the fear of children and parents. The pre-board and board examinations of Classes X and XII may be taken offline with the strict compliance of SOPs issued by the ministry of health and family welfare, directorate general of health services.” Rajwinder Singh Gill, deputy director, Child Right Commission, Punjab, said, “More than 200 students and 50 teachers in Punjab have tested Covid-19 positive in the last few days. Five schools in Amritsar have been ordered to close down for 48 hours.” Dr Harpreet Singh, parent of a child studying in a school at BRS Nagar, said, “The positive cases among students and teachers have added to the worries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/take-parents-consent-for-offline-online-exams-for-classes-ix-xii-recommends-child-rights-panel/articleshow/81216069.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Coimbatore||Anganwadi workers stage novel protest||Coimbatore: Hundreds of anganwadi workers conducted a ‘begging protest’ in front of the collectorate here on Thursday, demanding permanent posts.The workers have been conducting protests across the state for the last few days, raising various demands. They want the government to provide pension after retirement and a bonus of Rs 10 lakh for anganwadi workers and Rs 5 lakh for assistants upon retiring from service.“We have been protesting for many years, but the state government did not take any step to meet our demands,” said Shanthi, district president of the Tamil Nadu Anganwadi Workers and Assistants Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/anganwadi-workers-stage-novel-protest/articleshow/81217419.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu transport employees' strike: Half of MTC buses stay off roads, autos make a killing||CHENNAI: Talks over the wage agreement have been inconclusive and the Tamil Nadu transport employees' strike is likely to continue on Friday. Half the government buses could stay off the roads for the second day in a row. On Thursday, more than half the 3,300 Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) buses remained idle at depots in the city. This allowed autorickshaw and share auto drivers to make a killing. Even for short-distance trips, they charged almost double or triple the usual fare. With no authority on road to keep tabs, passengers were fleeced left, right and centre. Being a Muhurtham day for weddings, demand for public transport was higher than usual on Thursday. Waiting time for cabs increased from 7-10 minutes to at least 20 minutes in Chennai and suburbs. "Almost all the buses plying along Grand Southern Trunk (GST) Road were packed forcing office-goers and other commuters to reach out to railway stations. But at Pallavaram station, hardly any trains were operated in the morning peak hours," said S Vimal, a banker from Kovilambakkam. The train delay was attributed to technical snag in the overhead power cables between 5.30 am and 7.30 am. The situation turned better in the evening, railway authorities claimed. However, MTC services was affected throughout the day with workers' unions all set to continue their protests overnight. "To tackle the situation, we might be roping in trained drivers in case there was staff shortage on Friday," said a senior MTC official. These are drivers who were trained at Institute of Road Transport, Gummidpoondi.. On Thursday, a temporary staff from Cuddalore caused an accident in which the bus body got damaged. No injuries or deaths were reported. Protesting workers' unions, affiliated to opposition DMK and leftist unions, said they will not call off the strike until the 14th wage agreement was signed for a pay rise They also demanded immediate release of pending retirement benefits and increased funding for state transport corporations. Transport Minister MR Vijayabaskar said buses will be operated with employees belonging to AIADMK's Anna Thozhir Sangam and Rs.1,000 has been sanctioned as interim relief for employees. All other demands will be considered and decision will be taken after consulting chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, he said. The situation was no different in Coimbatore, Erode, Trichy and Cuddalore, where hundreds of buses remained parked at depots and bus stops were overcrowded throughout the day. In Madurai, private mini buses and moffusil buses came to the rescue of people who wanted to travel urgently. Passengers had to wait for more than an hour at Aarapalayam and Matuthavani bus terminuses to get city buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/half-of-mtc-buses-stay-off-roads-autos-make-a-killing/articleshow/81217439.cms||Ram Sundaram
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||GRP team braves it out in West Bengal villages to recover nine stolen phones||Mumbai: Finding a phone stolen on railways is no cakewalk. A female officer with GRP’s crime branch and her small team of constables braved it out for 10 days in remote villages of West Bengal, facing opposition from villagers and language hurdles, to recover nine phones stolen from Mumbai trains. In each case, the phone had been sold at dirt cheap rates to an impoverished individual.Over 24,000 phones were stolen on Mumbai railways in pre-Covid times in 2019. A stolen phone is immediately switched off. Expensive phones can be sold in the black market and their IMEI number changed before resale in other states. Sometimes, spare parts are dismantled for use in other phones. If this is not done, police can track the phone once it’s switched on, even if another SIM card is inserted.“We could track the location of nine phones, stolen between 2018-20 to Murshidabad, Nadia and Birbhum districts. Four constables and I reached West Bengal by train but the villages we had to visit were in the interiors, so we had to hire a car,” said assistant inspector Rupali Pol.Language was a major hurdle so halfway through, police roped in a translator. Landing up at a new place would turn into a spectacle as locals would surround the GRP team, wanting to know why they had travelled from Mumbai. Sometimes, West Bengal police had to sort things out.The team did not have exact addresses of individuals using stolen phones and had to use technical surveillance. Whenever the team touched base with an individual, he would give excuses. “Some said they were not using the phone at all, or it was lost. Others would try to hide the phone or clam up. One claimed he was not at home each time we called,” Pol said. The hurdles slowed down the team and they would take a day to recover one handset.The threat of being “hauled to Mumbai” worked with some individuals. Most said they had bought phones for Rs2,000-3,000 a piece.The team returned with the phones but only after serving notices to the nine for buying phones knowing they were stolen. “They will have to appear in court in Mumbai. Five have turned up so far,” said Shailendra Dhiwar, senior inspector with GRP’s crime branch. The court will decide their fate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/grp-team-braves-it-out-in-west-bengal-villages-to-recover-nine-stolen-phones/articleshow/81217496.cms||Nitasha Natu
February 26, 2021||Goa||Another bovine falls into trench along Old Goa stretch||Panaji: Barely a week after fire and emergency personnel rescued an ox that had fallen into a four-foot trench by the Panaji-Old Goa highway at Sao Pedro, another bovine was found trapped in the same trench further up towards Old Goa, near Ayush minister Shripad Naik’s residence. This time, the cow sustained injuries to its limbs. Fire services personnel received a call alerting them of the situation. The trench had been left open for the laying of underground electricity cables by Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Ltd (IPSCDL). With a help of a rope and other equipment, rescue personnel widened the narrow trench that was around half-a-metre wide where the cow was wedged, and rescued it. The operation took lesser time than the one involving the ox last week as the cow was reportedly smaller in size. Its limbs, however, were found to be injured. Old Goa fire station duty crew who rescued the cow comprised firefighters Vinayak Ugvekar and Rajesh Malik and driver operator Sushant Palyekar under the leadership of duty officer Amit Rivonkar. A Ribandar resident had knocked on the doors of the Goa State Human Rights Commission in 2019 over the condition of dug-up roads that were not properly restored, stating that these posed a risk to pedestrians and motorists. The commission had subsequently inspected the roads and had issued notices to the North Goa collector, chief secretary and IPSCDL. The Rs 60-crore project of conversion of overhead to underground electrical networks is yet to be completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/another-bovine-falls-into-trench-along-old-goa-stretch/articleshow/81217531.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Dalit students suffering due to non-disbursal of scholarship money’||Ludhiana: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has criticised the Amarinder Singh government on the ‘matter pertaining to the release’ of scholarship money to Dalit students, due to which they were ‘facing problems’. Senior leader of party and deputy leader of opposition in the Punjab Assembly, Sarvjeet Kaur Manuke on Thursday said that the issue of post-matric scholarship had been haunting the students of Punjab for over a year now. She said that more than 50,000 Dalit students were suffering as they had not been given their degrees because of non-disbursal of funds. “Moreover, the survival of over 1,600 colleges is at stake because these funds have still not been released. They are on their verge of closure,” she added. Manuke said that instead of helping the students, the government was ‘scamming’ their money. She alleged that Punjab saw a ‘mega scam’ being done by a cabinet minister, who had allegedly embezzled the money meant for the scholarships for Dalit students, due to which a large number of Dalit students in Punjab were being affected. Manuke further said that to counter the flak that Amarinder had been getting from the opposition and the media, he formulated a committee to resolve the issue of disbursal of the post-matric scholarship fund. She said more than a month had passed since the committee was formed, but no concrete measures were taken to address the crisis of the Dalit students. “When the committee was formed to look into the matter of fund disbursal, it was announced that the committee would resolve the issue in three days. But it has been more than a month and the committee has done nothing productive,” added Manuke. She further said that the new post-matric scholarship launched by Amarinder also did not provide any benefits to the Dalit students. The AAP leader said that all this has yet again proven the fact that Amarinder does not ‘care’ for the poor Dalit students of the state. “He lied to the students and has now put their future at stake. Amarinder has failed on all fronts. It is utterly shameful for a CM of a state for taking no interest in the well-being of the students of his state,” added Manuke. She said that in the upcoming Budget session, the party would take up the issue of post-matric scholarship aggressively and would force Amarinder to take swift action against the injustice meted out by him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dalit-students-suffering-due-to-non-disbursal-of-scholarship-money/articleshow/81216089.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||Tree plantations for clean air, curbing toxicity ineffective in most cities||Nagpur: Though the aim of National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) was to curb toxicity in the country, tree plantations done under it in most cities have been ineffective. This was revealed in a recent study done by Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment (LIFE), which analysed the work done under plantation initiative of NCAP. Fifteen out of 122 non-attainment cities were identified for the analysis out of which seven — Korba, Hyderabad, Delhi, Agra, Chandigarh, Varanasi and Guwahati — responded to Right to Information (RTI) queries. The plantation locations shared by authorities were plotted using Google Earth and superimposed on pollution hotspots of the city, using maps from APnA city programme of Urban Emissions. Analysis showed that in most cases, the plantation drive had either excluded key pollution hotspots or used wrong species that do not absorb pollution. Out of the 43 plantation areas in Hyderabad, only one is in pollution hotspot, while rest are in moderately or less polluted areas. Delhi too has neglected hotspots in Dwarka, Mundka, Narela and Bawana. “In Varanasi, 60% of the total 25 plantation locations were in residential areas, in contrast to the 8% around traffic hubs and junctions. No plantation work was done in Guwahati. Even the plantation plan, which details actions to be taken and their timelines, was not prepared,” the analysis stated, adding this is in clear contradiction with NCAP. Despite vehicular pollution being major pollution source, Chandigarh continued to plantation in gardens and parks, instead of junctions and roads. Apart from this, selection of species has also been very poor. “In Varanasi, Kanak Champa, Peltophorum and Semul have been used in green belt development, even though they have not been recommended by the Central Pollution Control Board. Cities must move towards selection of native species that are good for pollutant absorption,” the analysis stated. According to experts, merely planting trees cannot reduce pollution levels. “Greening cities with trees in wrong places and with wrong species will not reduce pollution. The first priority of every city must be on protection of existing trees, especially in pollution hotspots. Transplantation is not the answer since trees will be transplanted from pollution hotspot areas to greener areas. NCAP’s target will not be met if we simply go on planting trees without any detailed plan of what to plant and where to plant,” said Ritwick Dutta, managing trustee of LIFE. Key FindingsTree plantations done under NCAP in most Indian cities have been ineffective Most cities have planted alien or ornamental species, which will not be beneficial in reducing air pollution Over 50% plantations in Korba are around thermal power plant, while city pollution hotspots such as traffic junctions have none Of 43 plantation areas in Hyderabad, only one is in a pollution hotspot, while the rest are in moderately polluted or less polluted areas Delhi has also neglected hotspots in Dwarka, Mundka, Narela and Bawana In Varanasi, 60% of total 25 plantation locations were in residential areas in contrast to 8% around traffic hubs and junctions||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tree-plantations-for-clean-air-curbing-toxicity-ineffective-in-most-cities/articleshow/81217585.cms||Manka Behl
February 26, 2021||Coimbatore||Man gets 20 years in jail for raping minor girl||Salem: A Pocso court here on Thursday sentenced a 27-year-old man to 20 years rigorous imprisonment for raping a minor girl and impregnating her.The accused was identified as S Rajasekar of Karukkalvadi village near Omalur, who was working as a coolie. “He is married and has a child. He raped a 13-year-old girl. The issue came to light after the girl became pregnant,” a court official said.The parents lodged a complaint at the all women police station in Omalur. Inspector Revathi registered a case against Rajasekar on May 21, 2017 and arrested him under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. Special judge S Muruganantham also slapped a fine of Rs 1lakh on Rajasekar. “The fine amount will be given to the survivor. The accused would serve another one year of simple imprisonment if he fails to pay the fine,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-gets-20-years-in-jail-for-raping-minor-girl/articleshow/81217504.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Coimbatore||Power loom worker found murdered at Somanur||Coimbatore: A 40-year-old power loom worker was found murdered near a Tasmac outlet on the Somanur – Ramachipalayam road on Friday morning.Five stab wounds were found on the throat and neck of R Senthilkumar of Aruganthottam at Sukkampalayam near Palladam. Kannan, owner of the Tasmac bar, found the body.Karumathampatti police sources said that Senthilkumar began to work at a power loom unit at Somanur three days ago.Rural fingerprint bureau sub-inspector Ajithkumar inspected the crime scene and tried to lift prints in vain. Scientific officer Rajmohan also visited the crime scene. Sniffer dog Kani ran towards the north direction and stopped at Ramachipalayam Road.Police registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and sent the body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem.A special team led by Karumathampatti police inspector S P Shanmugam has been formed to nab the murderers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/power-loom-worker-found-murdered-at-somanur/articleshow/81217475.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Mercury beats previous day’s record, creates another 15-year February high||NEW DELHI: The maximum temperature on Thursday rose to 33.2 degrees Celsius — the highest day temperature to be reported in February in the last 15 years, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). At eight notches above the normal, Thursday’s maximum temperature beat Wednesday’s record of 32.5 degrees Celsius. Before this, the highest day-time temperature was recorded on February 25, 2006, at 32.1 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Thursday, too, increased from 12 degrees Celsius on Wednesday to 13.4 on Thursday. Safdarjung — the capital’s base station — crossed the 33-mark for maximum temperature on Thursday while the sports complex weather station in east Delhi had a high of 34.1 degrees Celsius. Only one western disturbance has affected the plains this month and its absence has led to warm day conditions. “There are no clouds and due to clear sky, the days are warm. Nearly four-five western disturbances affected the western Himalayan region this month, but only light rain and snowfall was recorded in the hills,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. “If there was moderate rain or snowfall in hilly areas, the temperature here could have decreased,” Srivastava added. Met officials said another reason for the rise in temperatures was that westerly winds had been blowing from the Rajasthan side to Delhi. According to India Meteorological Department’s forecast, the maximum temperature could touch 34 degrees Celsius on Friday, while the minimum is likely to remain around 13 degrees Celsius. There are chances of mist/shallow fog during morning hours. However, the mercury is predicted to drop slightly from Saturday due to strong winds. The Met department said the maximum temperature might dip to 33 degrees Celsius on Saturday and likely to decrease further to 29 degrees Celsius on March 2. “As the wind speed is likely to pick up to 25-30 kmph from February 27, the temperature may not rise. Strong winds will also help in cleaning Delhi’s air,” said Srivastava. The overall air quality index (AQI) of the national capital on Thursday was 298 in “poor” category. Delhi’s air quality improved after wind speed picked up during the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mercury-beats-previous-days-record-creates-another-15-year-february-high/articleshow/81217501.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Random tests: 300 out of 3 lakh found Covid positive in UP||LUCKNOW: A miniscule 0.1% of the total samples collected during the focused testing drive between February 10 and 20 were found Covid positive, stated additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad here on Thursday. “More than three lakh samples were collected in this focused exercise. Both RTPCR and antigen tests were conducted in a specific ratio and it was found that just 300 samples were found positive. In fact, the persons found positive in schools of Lucknow and Prayagraj were screened in the same exercise,” he claimed. Prasad added that the number of active infections had also gone below 2,100 as on date. Despite the decline, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to maintain an effective system of tracking and treatment. “Carelessness at this stage can give an edge to the virus especially at a time when cases are on the rise in certain states. Therefore, the vigilance drill must be followed in totality and at every level,” the CM told officials while reviewing the Covid-19 situation. Stating that the momentum of Covid-19 testing, contact tracing and prevention protocol have helped the state beat the novel coronavirus so far, the CM told officials that people should be constantly made aware regarding prevention from Covid-19. The CM instructed officials to run the Integrated Command and Control Centre established in the districts besides telling officials in the districts to review the situation twice daily. Reviewing the vaccination campaign, the CM said that this work should be conducted according to guidelines and as per an order of the Union government. He also instructed officials to conduct regular monitoring of the vaccination work. Later, Prasad informed reporters that 131 new cases took the state’s tally to 6,03,232. Of the total cases, 5,92,327 have recovered which speaks for a recovery rate of 98.12%. However, two persons succumbed to complications caused by Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total deaths due to the virus to 8,723.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/random-tests-300-out-of-3l-found-covid-ve/articleshow/81218949.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: PM Narendra Modi promises to give govt with compassion||Promising governance with compassion, Prime Minister Narendra Modi kicked off the BJP’s election campaign in Tamil Nadu on Thursday with a strident attack on the DMK and Congress, branding them corrupt parties that cannot provide good governance to the state. Addressing the cadres in his first poll meeting in the state at Codissia grounds in Coimbatore, Modi said the NDA seeks to provide good governance whereas the opposition was known for misgovernance riddled with corruption. “What matters for the opposition is personal gains. They want to grab power to fill their pockets,” Modi said. Flanked by senior BJP leaders Pon Radhakrishnan, C P Radhakrishnan, Vanathi Srinivasan, L Ganesan and state BJP chief L Murugan, Modi took a jibe at DMK and Congress’s style of functioning. “Their leaders sit and discuss on how to loot. Their meetings are like corruption hackathons. Those who give more innovative ideas are given posts and ministry,” he said. Attacking the DMK, Modi said the opposition party’s style of politics is based on bullying and harassment. Whenever the DMK comes to power they promote strongmen culture, and in every district, they have anti-social elements who trouble innocent citizens. He alleged that DMK men would go on extortion sprees from the public. “It’s the women who suffer because of this culture. Entire TN knows how the DMK treated Amma Jayalalithaa,’’ Modi said in an apparent bid to woo the women. Modi also took the opportunity to woo the farmers and small industrialists, noting that the Centre had taken a series of measures for the benefit of MSMEs and small farmers, who were ignored by the opposition parties. Training his guns on the DMK, he said the opposition party has lost the right to be called a pan-TN party. “The last time they won with full majority was 25 years back,” he said. Modi alleged that the DMK and Congress are suffering from internal contradictions. “Both parties have tried to launch and relaunch their respective first families but have failed. They are so busy with internal matters that they cannot offer good governance to TN,’’ he said. On the other hand, the ‘NDA family’ is united and the only aim of NDA was “welfare of TN,’’ he said. Modi also noted that the way the NDA government at the Centre and Tamil Nadu government worked is a classic example of cooperative federalism. Modi, who commenced and ended his speech by greeting cadres in Tamil, also took the opportunity to laud the richness of Tamil language.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/oppn-wants-to-grab-power-to-fill-their-pockets/articleshow/81217490.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Two more held in Rs 12cr hawala case||Two more people were arrested in the Rs 12 crore hawala case that was detected by the Vile Parle police with the arrest of nine accused on February 20. The nine accused stole the money from an Angadia’s office and later from a hotel near the Vile Parle police station. The police are looking for for two accused in the case. The police have managed to recover Rs 3 crore so far. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-more-held-in-rs-12cr-hawala-case/articleshow/81217536.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Coimbatore||Man stabs police constable, held||Krishnagiri: A rowdy stabbed a police constable when he tried to nab him at Kelamangalam here on Thursday.The accused has been identified as M Madesh, 24, of Pattalamman Koil Street. There are more than 10 cases pending against him at several police stations including Denkanikottai, Kelamangalam and Uthanapalli, sources said.“He had recently stolen iron rods from a temple at Denkanikottai. Sub-inspector Gnanakkan Ragunathan came to know that Madesh was hiding at Anchetty and a police team rushed to the spot. SIs including Gnanakkan Ragunathan, Kathiravan and constables Sivakumar, Chandrakumar surrounded the accused at the bus stand. He suddenly stabbed Sivakumar, who received a wound on his hand. However, they managed to arrest the accused,” a police officer said.Sivakumar was admitted to the government hospital at Kelamangalam.The Denkanikottai police registered a case against Madesh.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-stabs-police-constable-held/articleshow/81217522.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||Vidarbha’s first urban forest park coming up on Koradi Road||Nagpur: The Nagpur forest division has started work on the first ‘Nagar Van’ (Urban Forest) of Vidarbha on its land at Nara on Koradi Road. The Rs6 crore project has been sanctioned by the ministry of environment, forest, and climate change (MoEFCC). Urban forestry is an integrated concept of forest resource management to provide improved environment, pleasing and relaxing surroundings in an urban system. The Nagar Van or Urban Forest scheme will be funded by the CAMPA (Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority). The Nagar Van scheme was launched by Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on June 5, 2020, on World Environment Day by opening the state’s first Nagar Van at Warje in Pune where a 25 hectare forest land, falling within the city, was developed as a park with public participation. The Nagar Van concept is basically to provide an opportunity to the states to manage urban ecosystems. Such Nagar Vans have been planned under 200 municipal corporations across the country in five years. Deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) Prabhu Nath Shukla told TOI that the Nara forest depot is a reserve forest spread in 21.75 hectares. “It was transferred by the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) to the territorial department in 1990. The sprawling forest area has around 200 deer. Another Nagar Van is proposed at Shankarpur off Wardha Road,” said Shukla. Shukla said, “Works in Phase-I will include those that did not require any clearances. The Nagar Van will be one of the best places for the public to visit. It will have grassland, wetland, water body, nature trail, yoga and meditation platforms, wild flower tree zone, rare and endangered plant species area, children’s play area, amphitheatre, live bamboo tunnel among other attractions.” “The MoEFCC will fund some part of the project while the remaining funding will be done through convergence from other government schemes, municipal corporation, corporate bodies etc.” said Shukla. On the deer population in the area, Shukla said, “There will be grassland and wetland for deer. It is possible that many herbivores may migrate after the park is fenced. These animals will be taken care of. Fencing of the Nagar Van will also solve the man-animal conflict. At times these deer enter human settlements and are also attacked by stray dogs.” The forest is surrounded by dense human settlements and over the years many flat schemes and residential areas have come up. The deer have been there for long and the animals shuffle between nearby bushy Koradi thermal power station premises and Nara depot. Urban forestry concept is not new to Maharashtra. During 1990-91, massive greening drive was taken up in Amravati, Nagpur, Pune, Aurangabad and Nashik. Under this, huge plantations were taken up at Ambazari and Gorewada. Nagpur CCF P Kalyan Kumar said, “Nagpur is bestowed with urban forests like Ambazari (756ha), Seminary Hills (76ha) and Gorewada (1914ha). All these forest areas are the lungs of the city and have different floral and faunal biodiversity.” “In 2016, the Maharashtra government had launched a parallel scheme by opening urban gardens on forest areas under ‘Uttamrao Patil Van Udyan’ scheme with a basic idea to create awareness about nature education,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbhas-first-urban-forest-park-coming-up-on-koradi-road/articleshow/81216097.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 26, 2021||Coimbatore||PM Modi powers state with more infra||Coimbatore: Prime minister Narendra Modi lauded the state’s contribution to the country’s industrial growth while inaugurating a slew of infrastructure projects in the city on Thursday evening.Pointing out that power supply was inevitable for any industry to thrive, he dedicated the Rs7,800-crore 1,000 megawatt (MW) thermal power project to the nation and laid foundation stone for the Rs3,000-crore 709MW solar power project, which is being implemented by Neyveli Lignite Corporation in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar.Modi said 65% of the power generated by the new thermal power project would be offered to Tamil Nadu.Coal minister Pralhad Joshi had earlier itself made it clear that the state would get 65% of the power from the new thermal power plants, while the remaining 35% would be shared by Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Telengana.Referring to the 5MW ground-based solar power plant that VOC Port in Tuticorin had set up at a cost of Rs20 crore, Modi said the project would help meet 60% of the port’s energy requirement. “Development and care for the environment are closely linked. VOC Port had already installed a 500KW rooftop solar plant and installation of another 140KW rooftop solar project is in progress. This is a true example of Urja Aatmanirbharta.”The prime minister also laid the foundation stone for the Rs934-crore modernization of Bhavanisagar Dam, which he said would irrigate more than two lakh acres land spread across Erode, Tirupur and Karur. Taking the opportunity to make a statement on farmers, who have been vehemently opposing the Centre’s farm laws, he quoted a Thirukkural couplet, the meaning of which could be interpreted as “farmers are the ones who truly live and all others live because of them, worshipping them”.Describing Tamil Nadu as a heavily urbanized state, Modi also laid the foundation stone for an integrated command and control centre for smart cities across the state. “This will provide intelligent and integrated IT solutions to manage various services across the cities.”The prime minister also inaugurated 4,144 tenements that were built across Tirupur, Madurai and Trichy at a cost of Rs332 crore for the people below poverty line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pm-modi-powers-state-with-more-infra/articleshow/81217540.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Delhi||LG reviews Yamuna rejuvenation work||New Delhi: Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Friday chaired a meeting with Delhi Development Authority’s (DDA) vice-chairman Anurag Jain and experts to review progress of restoration and rejuvenation of the Yamuna riverfront. “Appreciated the rejuvenation work undertaken so far and emphasised upon time-bound completion of landscaping, greening and plantation in the area to restore wetlands and riverine ecosystem with clean waterbodies,” Baijal tweeted. The LG also advised the officials to provide eco-friendly public conveniences in these areas, including zero-waste toilets, drinking water, sit outs and solar lights, to attract greater footfall. He tweeted that these would help fostering strong ownership of the community of the newly rejuvenated biodiversity. Baijal also held a meeting with chief secretary, Jain and senior officials of Delhi government and urban local bodies. He reviewed the implementation of some flagship schemes, like Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lg-reviews-yamuna-rejuvenation-work/articleshow/81236113.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||Cow dung gas plants to boost cooking in rural UP, says Yogi||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday told the Vidhan Parishad that the government was in the process of setting up gobar gas plants across the state to supplement the domestic cooking gas supply in rural areas. The CM said that more than 5 lakh stray cattle had been placed in government cow shelters. “There are plans to develop cow shelters in all panchayats for which local participation and cooperation of voluntary organisations will be sought. This will generate direct and indirect employment opportunities while also helping shelter cows,” the CM said. He added that a Gokul village is to be built in Varanasi for protect cows from illegal slaughtering and smuggling. These proposals had found place in the state budget which has set aside Rs 80 crore for the destitute animal shelter scheme and for construction of Kanha Gaushalas. Meanwhile, to link farmers with cow protection, the government had started a scheme under which Rs 900 per animal was given every month to a person who was willing totake care of stray cattle. So far, 78,008 cows have been given out under the scheme. Yogi said that his government had set a goal to free animals in the state from the foot-and-mouth disease by 2030 under the National Animal Disease Control Programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cow-dung-gas-plants-to-boost-cooking-in-rural-up-says-yogi/articleshow/81218962.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Coimbatore||Concretization of canal dam: Farmers warn of poll boycott||Farmers in Erode district have decided to stage a series of protests and demonstrations condemning the Union government’s project to concretize the base of Bhavanisagar dam canals. They said the move would have a negative impact on the groundwater level.The farmers said they were planning to boycott the upcoming state assembly election if both the central and state governments didn’t shelve the project.The decision was announced by the members of Keel Bhavani Pasana Pathukappu Iyakkam, which convened a meeting at Thalavumalai village near Gobichettipalayam on Thursday. Shanmuga Sundaram, one of its members, told TOI prime minister Narendra Modi had on the day inaugurated the project to concretize the base of Bhavanisagar dam canals at a function in Coimbatore. “Farmers who are dependent on the canals are completely against the project.”Farmers in Erode, Karur and Tirupur districts benefit from Bhavanisagar dam water. The Lower Bhavani Canal alone irrigates about 2.07 lakh acres spread across three districts. “The canal water is also used for drinking purposes,” said V Ravi, another farmer.The cost to concretize the base Lower Bhavani Canal is estimated at Rs178 crore.The farmers said the move would affect early one lakh acres land, which was getting water from the canal through seepage. “The land will become barren when they concretize the canal base,” said Appu Kutty, a farmer. “Crops like turmeric and coconut trees will also get damaged, as the groundwater would deplete.”The farmers warned of a series of protests if the governments didn’t roll back the project. “We will not allow officials to start civil works,” the farmers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/concretization-of-canal-dam-farmers-warn-of-poll-boycott/articleshow/81217533.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Goa||Man granted bailfor assaultingGoaMiles driver||Panaji: A sessions court has granted anticipatory bail to one Yogesh Govekar from Anjuna who had allegedly assaulted a GoaMiles taxi driver at Calangute earlier this month. GoaMiles driver Suresh Naik, a resident of Curchorem, had complained that he was assaulted with fist blows and kicks by Govekar along with four others and also damaged his car. The scene of the offence was Jio-Do-Mar Khobrawaddo, Calangute. The accused also allegedly threatened Naik with dire consequences if seen again in Calangute plying his taxi using GoaMiles App. The accused along with others were absconding after the commission of the offence. Govekar’s counsel Dhaval Javeri submitted that Govekar is being falsely implicated. The court was told that if Govekar is released, then there is a possibility that he may get involved in similar types of cases and threaten witnesses. The court found that the FIR registered against Govekar had a section of IPC which comes under the non-bailable category. The court stated that there was nothing on record to show that the complainant had sustained serious injuries requiring the presence of the applicant in custody and that he has any antecedents. “The applicant is a permanent resident of Deul Wada, Chapora. As such, there are no chances of the applicant absconding. The complainant is admittedly a resident of Curchorem, Goa. Therefore, there are no chances of the applicant interfering with the complainant or threatening the complainant. The scene of offence panchanama is already conducted,” additional sessions judge, Mapusa, Justice Durga V Madkaikar stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-granted-bailfor-assaultinggoamiles-driver/articleshow/81217574.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Coimbatore||EPS bats for airport expansion, flights to Dubai||Coimbatore: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, while sharing the dais with the prime minister, pushed the Centre for more funds for irrigation and infrastructure projects, including the metro rail project in Coimbatore. He also requested Modi to allow weekly direct flights to Dubai from the district and expand the city airport soon.While deliberating on how the Bhavanisagar dam would be modernized at a cost of Rs934, benefitting two lakh acres land across three districts, Palaniswami requested Modi to extend necessary funding for Lower Bhavani and other irrigation projects in the state. “The Cauvery and its tributaries have to be rejuvenated on the lines of ‘Namami Gange’. We request the Centre to accord sanction and extend financial assistance to the state at the earliest.” He also called on the prime minister to declare the Godavari-Cauvery linking project as a national project. “The project will benefit lakh of people in Telengana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.”While battling for the district’s infrastructure growth, the chief minister appealed Modi to bring the Coimbatore metro rail project under 50:50 joint venture partnership between the Centre and the state government. “This was done for the Chennai metro rail project.” He said the thermal and solar power projects would further improve the state’s power capacity and boost industrialization efforts.He also sought permission for direct weekly flights to Dubai from Coimbatore. “The district is a commercial hub and export centre. Hence, direct flights to Dubai will do a lot of good.” Palaniswami also requested for night flight services from Salem and Tuticorin airports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/eps-bats-for-airport-expansion-flights-to-dubai/articleshow/81217573.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Mumbai||Mobile substation for power failures||Adani Electricity on Thursday announced that it developed a 1000 kVA trolley-mounted mobile substation, which can be taken to any part of the suburbs facing substation equipment failures and used for emergency power supply. It can also be used to release temporary load. It can be placed at any site for up to two to three months. Sources said it cost the company Rs 28 lakh to build. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mobile-substation-for-power-failures/articleshow/81217613.cms||Somit Sen
February 26, 2021||Dehradun||After no from SC to road through Corbett, U’khand forest minister meets Rajnath Singh, tells def min that road is important from a ‘defence point of view’ as it connects Garhwal Rifles HQ to Kumaon Regiment HQ||Dehradun: Despite the Supreme Court putting a stay on the construction of the Kandi Road, a project that has been aggressively pushed by the forest minister of the state, Harak Singh Rawat, the minister on Wednesday met Rajnath Singh in Delhi to persuade him to go ahead with the road in view of its significance “from the defence point of view.” In the meeting with the defence minister, Rawat highlighted the importance of the 88-kilometre-long road — which cuts through Corbett Tiger Reserve and will reduce travel time between Garhwal and Kumaon divisions by 2 hours — in connecting the headquarters of Garhwal Rifles in Lansdowne with the Kumaon Regiment HQ in Ranikhet. Earlier in December last year, the minister had written to national security advisor Ajit Doval reiterating the strategic importance of the road in case swift movement of Army troops was needed in border areas of Garhwal and Kumaon. Speaking to TOI, the minister said that he has requested the defence minister to ask the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) to take up the construction of an around 20 km elevated road in the stretch that passes through Corbett. “I have suggested that MoRTH makes the elevated road and implement toll tax measures here and within 10 years, they will be able to get back their money invested in the project,” added Rawat. Meanwhile, the persistence of the minister to push the road project — even though the Supreme Court, NGT, Union environment ministry and NTCA have shot it down — has raised the heckles of environmentalists Doon-based environmental activist Ashish Garg, who had raised the issue in NGT in 2018, in a letter to the defence minister, wrote, “We want the defence minister to know that our forest minister is trying to pitch for a road which has been rejected by SC, NGT, MoEF as well as NTCA on the grounds that about 50 km of the road passes through core tiger breeding zone of Corbett, home to 19 tiger families.” The letter further adds, “It is indeed disturbing that a project which can kill Corbett is being reopened for construction and forest minister of Uttarakhand who is supposed to protect the wildlife and forests, has become a facilitator for construction of such adverse projects. With an NGT order in place, the shortcut attempts to peruse construction of Kandi Road also falls in category of contempt of the court and defiance of the directives of central government and NTCA .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-no-from-sc-to-road-through-corbett-ukhand-forest-minister-meets-rajnath-singh-tells-def-min-that-road-is-important-from-a-defence-point-of-view-as-it-connects-garhwal-rifles-hq-to-kumaon-regiment-hq/articleshow/81215263.cms||Shivani Azad
February 26, 2021||Madurai||Plea in HC to constitute panel to probe Sattur fire accident||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday sought a response from the state government on a plea which sought the government to constitute a commission to inquire into the recent fire accident reported in a cracker unit at Sattur in Virudhunagar district which had claimed the lives of 23 people.A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice R Hemalatha sought the response with regard to the measures suggested to regulate the functioning of the fireworks industry and the compensation provided to the victims’ families.The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by M Rajasekaran from Madurai district, general secretary of the Loktantrik Janata Dal.He stated that there were several violations including the unit leased out to several people. Though several such accidents have been reported at cracker units in Virudhunagar district for the past 10 years, no steps were taken by the government to prevent them.Since officials are not periodically inspecting the cracker units, they continue to function by violating the rules and regulations due to which lives of innocent people are lost. He stated that stringent action should be taken against the violators and their licences cancelled. Unless stringent laws are enacted, it would be difficult to prevent such incidents in the future, he said.Hence, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-in-hc-to-constitute-panel-to-probe-sattur-fire-accident/articleshow/81217575.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Pune||Most micro containment zones in Shirur, Haveli||Pune: Proximity to urban areas and recently held gram panchayat elections have led to a spike in Covid-19 cases in Pune rural, resulting in marking of over 200 micro containment zones each in Shirur and Haveli talukas. The District Health Office (DHO) of the Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) has declared over 600 micro containment zones across various parts of Pune rural. Shirur, Haveli, Indapur and Baramati have the maximum number of micro containment zones. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), Pune ZP, told TOI, “Haveli taluka is close to Pune city. Wagholi, Nanded City are some examples of how this proximity has resulted in spike in Covid-19 cases in the past few days. The 12 larger gram panchayats in Shirur taluka, where gram panchayat elections were held, have contributed to the spike. After marking the micro containment zones, we are hoping for a considerable drop in number of cases in the coming days.” According to Prasad, Baramati and Indapur talukas are other most affected areas “Over 600 such zones have been declared across Pune rural, which will be revised depending on number of patients. The number is likely to reduce in one or two days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/most-micro-containment-zones-in-shirur-haveli/articleshow/81217603.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||Disinvestment target realistic, achievable: Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman||AHMEDABAD: Stating that the disinvestment target announced in the Union budget for 2021-22 is ‘realistic’, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday expressed confidence of achieving it. The government has set a disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore for 2021-22. Accepting that the government could not achieve the disinvestment targets in last two years, Sitharaman, said, “Last year, it was Covid-19, so obviously we could not achieve the target. The economy (a year before) was slowing down and there was no appetite for any of your disinvestments. So, there is no hesitation is saying I could not achieve the target.”  Speaking at an interactive session on ‘The Economic Rebound and the Indian Economy in 2021’ at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A), she said, “Now, the appetite is probably better. Even during the pandemic, the stock markets were doing well, and they are now doing even better after the budget. I have come up with a realistic number. I have not given an overestimated number. So, I am sure to achieve it (disinvestment target).” Talking more about the privatization, she clarified that the government was not on a ‘spree’ to get out of every public sector undertaking and it would maintain ‘bare minimum presence’ in public sector through professionally managed, big and scaled up public sector undertakings (PSUs). “PSUs cannot be laggard in its operations. It is after-all run on taxpayers’ money. In our vision for new India, we trust the private sector to run this efficiently,” said the finance minister, responding to a question on disinvestment citing examples of efficiently functioning public entities in Singapore and China. The finance minister also clarified that the government doesn’t intend to shut PSUs but instead wants them to run more efficiently. During an interaction with corporate professionals, business leaders, chambers of commerce and tax practitioners at the Ahmedabad Management Association (AMA), Sitharaman said, Sitharaman said, “Over the decades, several governments have tried to run public sector units efficiently. We are reaching a stage where some units are not able to run despite a huge demand for products they’re producing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/disinvestment-target-realistic-achievable-fm/articleshow/81217744.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Vadodara||Man flees from Fatehgunj police station||Vadodara: In a major embarrassment to the police, a 22-year-old man escaped from the Fatehgunj police station on Wednesday. Ikrar Pathan was brought to the police station on Tuesday after a complaint of harassment was registered against him some days ago. Pathan, a resident of Navayard, was brought out of the lock-up for taking his statement. Pathan told the police that he wanted to visit the toilet about 10.15 am. When the cops were busy with their work, Pathan took advantage of the situation and ran towards the police station’s main door. Two cops rushed at him but Pathan headed towards Chhani and disappeared into the residential colonies.  Police made several efforts to track down Pathan but couldn’t find him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-flees-from-fatehgunj-police-station/articleshow/81215261.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Lucknow||UP schools to push gender equality to mark Women’s Day||Lucknow: The UP government has decided to hold awareness events on ‘gender equality’ in schools across the state from February 27 under the Mission Shakti campaign, to mark the International Women’s Day celebrated on March 8. The basic education department has issued directives to all district basic education officers. The BSAs have been told to hold abhibhavak chaupals (parents’ meet) on the day at schools and also at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBVs), a residential setup for girls from weaker sections of the society. During the chaupal, the parents will be asked to take a pledge to send their girl child to school regularly, provide them proper environment to study at home and encourage their daughters to pursue the career of their choice. Schools will also make an appeal to the parents of keeping their children informed about the helpline numbers of the government. They will also be given a pledge to follow gender equality in letter and spirit. The department has also planned several events ahead of March 8. Beginning from February 27, these events like poster competition on the theme of gender discrimination and child marriage, quiz competition, presentation of nukkad nataks will ensure maximum participation of students. On March 4, the school staff and students from classes 6 to 8 will take out a rally to on menstrual hygiene. The students will bring out a newspaper ‘baal akhbar’ on March 5 and on March 6 successful women from different fields will be invited to share their experiences with students. On March 7, there will be exhibitions at schools to display the posters, slogans and newspapers created by students. On March 8, meritorious students and their mothers will be felicitated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-schools-to-push-gender-equality-to-mark-womens-day/articleshow/81218965.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Nagpur||NMC skips Tarangan Apt while paying land compensation for Wardha Road widening||Nagpur: Strange are the ways of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). It had served notices for acquiring land of an apartment scheme on Wardha Road in Vivekanand Nagar in June 2019 but is yet to give the owners compensation. The land is being acquired as the national highway division of public works department (PWD) will concretize the road from Rahate Colony Square to Khapri railway overbridge (ROB). The road besides the ramp of MahaMetro’s double decker flyover’s ramp would be widened under this project. MahaMetro had submitted a plan to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for widening the road. NHAI forwarded it to NMC. However, later union transport minister Nitin Gadkari asked PWD to do the job. Manish Kadbe, a resident of Tarangan Apartment, said that all other land owners had been provided compensation by NMC in mid-2020. "However, the 12 residents of our apartment are yet to get it. NMC is acquiring 250 square feet open space in front of our building. We have met several NMC officials and written several letters but to no avail,” he told TOI. Kadbe said he had met NMC’s former assistant director of town planning (ADTP) Pramod Gawande several times. Land acquisition for NMC is done by the town planning department. "Gawande told us last year that NMC did not have money to pay compensation and hence the proposal had been sent to district collector Ravindra Thakare. However, in mid-January this year he told us NMC had received the required funds and we would get compensation soon. Over a month has passed but we are yet to get the money. Now, Gawande is transferred and the new officer is unaware of our case," said Kadbe. The project affected person (PAP) further said that most residents of his apartment were senior citizens and were tired of running from pillar to post. "We had written to the municipal commissioner pointing out it was not possible for the affected flat owners to go to NMC repeatedly," he added. According to him, former commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had almost sanctioned the compensation but then number of Covid cases increased and he became busy in controlling them. NMC Laxmi Nagar zone assistant commissioner Ganesh Rathod said he had no idea about the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-skips-tarangan-apt-while-paying-land-compensation-for-wardha-road-widening/articleshow/81216121.cms||Ashish Roy
February 26, 2021||Bareilly||Pilibhit: 22-year-old-youth booked for molesting 16-year-old girl, police on hunt to nab him||PILIBHIT: A 22-year-old man, resident of a village under Madhotanda police station limits in Pilibhit, was booked on Wednesday evening for allegedly molesting a 16-year-old class XI student According to a complaint filed by the girl’s brother, the accused, Sachin Verma, had constantly been stalking his sister on her way to the college for months. When the victim’s brother confronted the accused, he was badly abused and beaten. On February 18, Verma again tried to molest the girl when she was out to buy groceries. Even though the girl’s parents decided not lodge a police complaint fearing that it would “ruin their reputation”, her brother went ahead and filed a case against the accused. SHO Ram Sevak said the accused has been booked under section 354 (applying force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the IPC and section 7, 8 of the POCSO Act. “Presently, he is on the run. We are taking all possible efforts to catch him,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/22-year-old-youth-booked-for-molesting-16-year-old-girl-police-on-hunt-to-nab-him/articleshow/81213664.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 26, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Row erupts over dance video of Mahuva civic poll ‘candidate’||RAJKOT: An ugly controversy erupted in Mahuva town of Bhavnagar ahead of the February 28 municipality elections after a video, claimed to be that of a local candidate, dancing with some women in a room started doing the rounds of social media. While Mahuva city BJP president Rajni Thaker admitted to have posted the video in a Whatsapp group of ‘politicians and businessman,’ saying that he did it as a revenge against a group of people led by local candidate Ashok Vadher who circulated pictures of empty chairs in union minister Mansukh Mandaviya’s public meeting. Vadher was with BJP till the municipality term ended, but has floated his own party and joined hands with the Congress for February 28 election. His outfit Mahuva Vikas Samiti is contesting the polls and entered into a seat sharing agreement with the Congress. In the video, a couple of men are seeing dancing with few women, some of whom are scantily dressed. Speaking to reporters, Thaker said, “Somebody sent me this video and I found it to be authentic. So, I forwarded it to one group of businessmen and politicians. They (Vadher and his associates) tried to show empty chairs in a program of the union minister in Mahuva, so I forwarded this video to teach them a lesson.” Vadher submitted an application for complaint with the local police, categorically denying that the person seen in the video was him and alleged that it was a malicious attempt to show him in poor light ahead of polls. Vadher was put an embarrassing situation on Wednesday after a note with the video with his name was widely circulated on social media. Vadher also circulated a video message and challenged that he will renounce politics if proved that the person seen in video is him. Watch Gujarat: Video of Mahuva civic poll ‘candidate’ dancing with women erupts row||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/row-erupts-over-dance-video-of-mahuva-civic-poll-candidate/articleshow/81215271.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Ranchi||Gumla massacre was a witch-hunt: Cops||Gumla: A day after five members of a family were found hacked to death at a village in Gumla district, police on Thursday said they believe the murders were the outcome of a witch-hunt and all accused in the crime have been arrested. The cops, however, did not divulge any further details. “We have cracked the case and will make an announcement as soon as a few formalities are complete,” a police officer said. On Wednesday, Kamdara police found five bodies at a house at Buruhatu Pahar Amtoli village in the district. Those found dead were identified as Nikudin Toppo (60), wife Josphina Toppo (55), their son Vincent (35), daughter-in-law Shivani (30) and the elderly couple’s grandson Balwina. Preliminary investigation suggested that they were killed using a traditional tribal weapon on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Later, 10 persons were detained for questioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gumla-massacre-was-a-witch-hunt-cops/articleshow/81215791.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 26, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchi: Congress cycle rally against fuel and LPG price hike||RANCHI: Congress workers on Thursday took out a rally here during which they loaded motorcycles on rickshaws and ride bicycles to protest against the rising fuel and LPG prices. Over 100 party members took part in the rally taken out from the Morhabadi ground to the state Congress office opposite the Ranchi University, covering a distance of over 2km. Addressing the gathering, the party’s national spokesperson, Gaurav Vallabh, claimed that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi government has given a new definition of the GDP. “For the Union government, GDP means increasing the prices of essential commodities like ‘Gas, Diesel and Petrol’ used by the common man to fill its coffers. We all know that GDP stands for gross domestic product, a barometer to assess a country’s growth but the Centre has damaged it in the last six years due to its faulty policies,” he said. He also said, “Crores of people have lost their jobs amid the pandemic while those with jobs had their salaries cut and now on top of that, they have to deal with the price hike. The government is saying that price hikes, mainly of fuel, isn’t in their control. If the government can’t give jobs, control price rise, provide relief to farmers, then why is it in power?” Vallabh, who was the party’s candidate from the Jamshedpur (East) constituency during the 2019 assembly polls, further said in April 2014, the crude oil price was $108 per barrel and petrol price per litre was Rs 71.51. “Now when the crude oil price is $64 per barrel, the petrol price has touched Rs 90 per litre. When crude oil price has reduced by 41%, how has the per-litre price for the end consumer gone up by 27%? The government is looting the common man by increasing excise duties. The Centre should rename the petrol pumps as Modi tax collection centres,” he said. He claimed that there has been an 800% and 250% hike in excise duty on diesel and petrol, respectively, ever since the BJP government came to power in 2014. “In April 2014, during the UPA-II government, the excise duty for petrol was Rs 9.48, which today is Rs 32.98. For diesel, it was Rs 3.56 and now, it is Rs 31.83. We demand that the excise duty be brought down to 2014 levels and only then the prices of petrol and diesel can immediately come down by Rs 23 and Rs 28, respectively,” he said. He added that the Modi government has not done anything to boost domestic production. “He has only destroyed India’s PSUs, like ONGC for instance, by reducing their budgets for oil explorations,” Vallabh claimed. Meanwhile, the Congress workers said their campaign against price hike will be intensified within the next few days across Jharkhand. The party has announced a two-day protest campaign across the state on Friday and Saturday. The two ruling grand alliance partners – JMM and RJD – are also reportedly working out plans to intensify their protests against the Centre by adopting other innovative modes of agitation both inside and outside the Jharkhand assembly, which will host a nearly month-long Budget session starting from Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-cycle-rally-against-fuel-and-lpg-price-hike/articleshow/81215801.cms||ASRP Mukesh
February 26, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Married Muslim man held for ‘trying to lure’ Hindu woman||DUMKA: Police have arrested a married Muslim man here for allegedly trying to marry a 19-year-old Hindu girl. Following the incident, the local wing of RSS said it was a case of "love jihad" and demanded that the government frames a law against it. The accused is identified as Tipu Sultan (30) of Dhawan Rampur villager under Palajori police station of Deoghar district. He was married and has two children. Sultan, however, faked his identity as one Satish Rai from Dhanbad and began wooing the girl from Patsimla village under Masanjor police station of Dumka district six months ago after meeting her at a local mall. Masanjor police station officer-in-charge Vijay Kumar Singh said, “The accused was arrested on Wednesday night. He not only faked his identity but also claimed that he owns a petrol pump and the dealership of a popular milk brand to woo the girl, who is from a poor background. They exchanged mobile numbers on the first day of their meeting and developed a relationship.” Singh further said Sultan had a physical relationship with the girl three months ago and came to her village on Wednesday to marry her. He added, “A few alert villagers doubted his credentials and demanded to see his Aadhaar card, which he cannot produce. The villagers then alerted us leading to Sultan’s arrest. We have lodged a case under Section 417 (cheating) and Section 376 (rape) of the IPC.” Meanwhile, Vikram Pandey, a senior functionary of the RSS said, “The arrest of Tipu Sultan is testimony to the urgency to implement a stringent law against the practice of attempts to convert Hindu girls to Islam through love jihad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/married-muslim-man-held-for-trying-to-lure-hindu-woman/articleshow/81215019.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
February 26, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Cabinet okays cess on power companies, set to ban hookah bars||RANCHI: The state cabinet on Thursday approved the Jharkhand Green Energy Cess Bill 2021, which aims to levy a cess of Rs 0.15 per unit from companies that produce power from conventional sources, organisations which use high voltage transmission lines of 33KV and industrial units that have their own captive power production units. The cess will not be applicable to power companies whose 51% ownership is held by the state government. A bill in this regard would be tabled during the Budget session. The ministerial council, headed by chief minister Hemant Soren, also approved a bill which aims to amend the provisions of the COTPA Act of 2003. As per the provisions of the new bill, there will be a blanket ban on the establishment and operations of hookah bars in the state. Those found guilty of flouting the law will face a jail term of up to one year and a fine worth Rs 1 lakh. Briefing reporters after the meeting, cabinet secretary Ajoy Kumar Singh said the bill entails that those who are apprehended while smoking in public will be fined Rs 1,000. As per COTPA’s provisions, the fine was fixed at Rs 200 earlier. Further, the minimum age for buying tobacco products in the state will be raised to 21 years from 18. “No tobacco sellers will be allowed to operate within a 100-meter radius of hospitals, courts, government offices, schools and educational institutions. The sellers cannot sell loose cigarettes and beedis either,” Singh said. Both the bills will be tabled in the upcoming Budget session of the Jharkhand assembly. Ahead of the session, the Soren cabinet also approved a proposal to raise the wages of MGNREGS workers in the state by Rs 31. At present, MGNREGS workers in Jharkhand are paid Rs 194 per man day. “The increase in wages will be borne by the state government. For it, the cabinet approved an additional allocation of Rs 341 crore,” Singh said. In another decision, the state cabinet also approved a proposal to hike the monthly pensions of those who were a part of separate statehood movement and served jail term in between three months and over 6 years. Under the new slabs, those who served jail terms up to three months will receive a monthly pension of Rs 3,500, while those who served jail terms up to five years will get Rs 5,000. Those who served more than six years in jail will get Rs 7,000 each month. “That apart, the kin of those who were in jail or suffered physical handicap of 40% or more during their jail term, will be eligible for direct recruitment in Grade III and IV jobs of the state government as per their educational qualifications or through 5% reservation,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cabinet-okays-cess-on-power-cos-set-to-ban-hookah-bars/articleshow/81214955.cms||Dhritiman Ray
February 26, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: ED attaches properties worth over Rs 2 crore of TPC member||RANCHI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday attached movable properties worth Rs 2.03 crore of a Tritya Prastuti Committee (TPC) extremist identified as Bindeshwar Ganjhu alias Bindu Ganjhu under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The case pertains to collecting funds through extortion from contractors, coal traders and transporters in the Magadh Amrapali coal block area of Jharkhand. The attached assets included vehicles registered in the name of Ganjhu and his firm M/s Maa Gange Coal Trading Private Limited. A press statement issued by the agency said it initiated investigations under the PMLA based on the FIR (02/2016) and the chargesheet (17/16) dated March 10, 2016, filed by Tandwa police under sections 414, 384, 386, 387 and 120-B of IPC, 25(1-B)A, 26 and 35 of Arms Act and 17(1)(2) of CLA Act against one Binod Kumar Ganjhu and others including Bindu. The case has been taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Ranchi which has filed two chargesheets against the accused. Meanwhile, ED’s investigation revealed that Bindu used to extort from transporters and delivery order holders in the Magadh Amrapali coal block area of Chatra district in connivance with other TPC extremists. Since Bindu is a member of the rebel group, he was closely associated with the top leaders and acquired proceeds of the crime in his and his firm’s names, the statement said. Earlier, immovable and movable assets worth Rs 2.89 crore belonging to the TPC extremists, namely Binod Ganjhu, Pradeep Ram and their two firms, were already attached in the same case through a provisional attachment order in September 2019. The ED said further investigation in the matter is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ed-attaches-properties-worth-over-rs-2-crore-of-tpc-member/articleshow/81214892.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vacancies in fire dept tough to fill: Govt to HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat government has submitted before the high court that it is finding it difficult to fill vacant posts in the fire departments due to lack of suitable candidates. The government said it is thinking of lowering eligibility criteria to find suitable candidates for senior positions in the fire departments. The fire brigades across the state are on a recruitment drive after HC's scrutiny of the implementation of the Fire Safety Act following Shrey Hospital fire which claimed the lives of eight Covid-19 patients. Petitioner-advocate Amit Panchal filed a PIL and sought action against those responsible for the fire incident and demanded proper implementation of the fire safety laws, which includes filling up vacant posts at the earliest. The state government and Fire and Emergency Services in different cities undertook recruitment drives. Four months later, the fire departments across the state still have nearly 37% posts vacant. Deputy secretary (urban development and urban housing) R H Vasava stated in his affidavit, “It is pertinent to note that as far as the recruitment on vacant posts in the Fire and Emergency Services is concerned, the experience of recruiting authorities suggests that either they are not getting any candidates or suitable candidates in sufficient numbers. The selection and recruitment of a candidate in one fire and emergency service is resulting in vacant posts in other fire and emergency services.” The government told the HC that it did not get a single eligible candidate for two vacant posts of deputy chief fire officers for Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services. It also did not have any choice for four divisional officers. “Due to the said practical difficulties being faced by the respective department, the vacant posts could not be filled up,” the affidavit reads. The government is also mulling to lower the eligibility criteria to fill the posts. “The state is under process to take appropriate measures to fill up the said vacant posts at the earliest, which may also require revision of the minimum qualification requirements,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vacancies-in-fire-dept-tough-to-fill-govt-to-hc/articleshow/81216983.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Ranchi||J’khand Oppn unlikely to disrupt Budget session||Ranchi: The month-long Budget session will begin on Friday with the customary address by Governor Droupadi Murmu and it is likely to proceed smoothly without much disruptions from the opposition, BJP and Ajsu-P. The session, which will have 16 working days, will see the tabling of the Budget for the financial year 2021-22 by finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on March 3 and the second supplementary demand of grants for the ongoing financial year on March 1. During the business days, the ministers will deal with the questions raised by members. Both treasury and opposition benches have been waiting for the session to discuss issues of public interest as earlier sessions were curtailed by the Covid-19 pandemic. While the previous Budget session was called off midway on March 23, 2020, in the wake of the nationwide lockdown, the five-day monsoon session had only three business days. The opposition has decided to raise issues like deteriorating law and order situation, proposed changes in the state policy for appointments, demands of contract employees and rise in incidents of Left-wing extremism. Though a final decision about the stance of members inside the House would be taken after a meeting of the legislative party members scheduled for Sunday, BJP’s chief whip Biranchi Narayan said there is no dearth of issues it would raise as the government “has not been functioning at all”. “Everyone is agitating in the state — be it the para teachers or the anganwadi sevika but the government is not paying any heed. We have to give voice to these people who have been neglected,” he said. Vinod Singh of CPI-ML said non-performance of the government in the name of the pandemic is a major concern. “We are meeting to discuss issues after almost one year to approve budget proposals, but the government has not been able to spend whatever it proposed last year,” he said. Singh also expressed concern about the appointments being frozen in the state. “If the employment policy of the previous government was struck down by the court, the incumbent government should have exhibited concern and introduced its policy soon instead of stopping all appointments,” he added. Meanwhile, the government is likely to face the wrath of its alliance members because of the widespread unemployment and pending matters related to several cases of land acquisition. Some Congress and JMM legislators said they ready with some hard questions for the ministers. “The government is accountable to the House and its members and they must answer questions even if they are raised by members of the ruling party,” a JMM MLA said preferring anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-oppn-unlikely-to-disrupt-budget-session/articleshow/81215932.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
February 26, 2021||Ranchi||Shift ex-Jharia MLA back to Dhanbad prison, jail admin told||SINDRI: The court of additional district judge (ADJ) in Dhanbad on Thursday quashed the order of the Jail IG to shift former Jharia MLA Sanjiv Singh to Dumka jail and directed the jail authorities to shift him back to Dhanbad immediately. Hearing a petition filed by Sanjiv Singh through his lawyers, ADJ Ravi Ranjan observed that the decision of the jail authorities to shift him without prior permission of the jurisdictional court was arbitrary in nature and in contravention of the settled principle of law and also a deliberate attempt to bypass the Jharkhand high court order dated February 14, 2018 to shift him back from Hotwar jail in Ranchi to Dhanbad jail. Rejecting the reply submitted by jail superintendent Ajay Kumar, the judge said that no one was above the law and warned the jail authorities not to commit such a mistake in future. Earlier, the jail superintendent apologised before the court and submitted that he shifted Sanjiv Singh based on the order from higher authorities and that he had no intention to disrespect the court. While pleading the case on behalf of Sanjiv Singh, lawyers B M Tripathi, M M Dariyappa, Md Javed and Nutan Sharma had charged the jail administration of undermining the judicial authority under political pressure from the opponents of their client who were conspiring to kill him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/shift-ex-jharia-mla-back-to-dhanbad-prison-jail-admin-told/articleshow/81215881.cms||---
February 26, 2021||Ranchi||Dry weather to prevail in Jharkhand for next 2 weeks: IMD||Ranchi: Dry weather will prevail in the state for the next fortnight, the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Ranchi office, said on Thursday. In its forecast for the next two weeks, officials at the weather office said the maximum temperature would be above normal in the range of 33°C and 37°C starting from Friday. During the same week, the minimum temperature would also be in the range of 16°C and 20°C. In the subsequent week beginning March 5, the maximum is likely to rise further and would be in the range of 34°C and 38°C while the minimum would plummet below normal and would remain in the range of 14°C to 17°C, the IMD said. Abhishek Anand, a scientist at the IMD Ranchi office said no significant synoptic system prevailed over the state on Thursday. He further said rainfall will be deficient to scanty throughout the 24 districts. “In the past two weeks, only Simdega received deficient rain while 14 districts had extremely deficient rain while the remaining nine districts received no rain. The cumulative seasonal rainfall was deficient by over 91% in the state during the period,” Anand added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dry-weather-to-prevail-in-jharkhand-for-next-2-weeks-imd/articleshow/81215845.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
