February 27, 2021||India||Khelo India fest in Gulmarg reflects J&K touching new heights in peace, devpt: PM||GULMARG: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said holding of Khelo India International Games Festival at the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district reflects that J&K is touching new heights in peace and development. He was virtually addressing over 600 participants, including international athletes, of the grand event. Stressing that every Indian is keenly looking at the event, the PM said: “This festival sends a message across the country — One India, strong India.” The fact that national and international players are participating in this event will raise the moral and self-confidence of every other participant, the PM said. “This festival will also add to the challenges and competition before the J&K teams and help them further excel in the winter games,” he added. During his address, the PM announced that Jammu and Srinagar will have Khelo India Centres followed by such centres in all districts of India. He said challenges left by the Covid pandemic are dying down slowly and sports activities are picking up. “Sport is not just a hobby, but you learn team spirit and how to build self-confidence from it,” Modi said, adding: “There are many small countries in the world that are earning fame by excelling in various fields of sport.” The PM said there will be a sports policy that will be followed in each state and UT, where sports professionals and talented youths will be identified. “Seniors will have to teach juniors,” he said, while wishing “all the best” to the participants. Junior minister in the youth affairs and sports ministry Kiren Rijiju, who was present on the field at Gulmarg, later reiterated what the PM said: “Srinagar and Jammu will soon get state-of-the-art Khelo India Centers of Excellence, where national and international experts will come and identify sports talents.” Besides, water sports will begin in the famous Dal Lake in the coming summer, he added. The junior minister further said: “We will ensure Kashmiri youths’ participation in Olympic Games, so that they too get Olympic medals and make the country proud.” The Khelo India International Games Festival will continue for three days. Nearly all the 900 rooms of various hotels, including star hotels, have been booked for the entire duration in this tourist destination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/khelo-india-fest-in-gulmarg-reflects-jk-touching-new-heights-in-peace-devpt-pm/articleshow/81235435.cms||M Saleem Pandit
February 27, 2021||India||Two terrorist hideouts busted in J&K||JAMMU: Two terrorist hideouts were busted in joint anti-terror operations in J&K’s Reasi and Poonch districts in the past 24 hours. A huge cache of arms and ammunition, including a rocket launcher with grenades, was recovered from the two sites. In Reasi district, a joint team of the Army, police, and CRPF’s 126 Bn recovered arms and ammunition, including explosives and automatic rifles, from the hideout. “Based on intelligence inputs, the team launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Upper Sildhar forest area, Ranjati Top, Rousowali Top and Dagantop Hills on Friday morning. An underground hideout was discovered and an AK-47 with two magazines and 150 cartridges, one rocket launcher, 16-UBGL grenades, four hand grenades, and two VHF radio sets with antennas were recovered,” a Reasi Police spokesperson said. In a similar operation in Poonch, another joint team during a search operation in the general area of Dhargloon and Basooni, busted a terrorist hideout late Thursday. “The recovery included four Chinese grenades, 10-AK rounds, and 15 pistol rounds,” a Poonch Police spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-terrorist-hideouts-busted-in-jk/articleshow/81235733.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 27, 2021||World||Traditional justice still rules lives in Pak’s tribal dists||ISLAMABAD: Residents of Pakistan’s restive Khyber tribal district recently paraded two drug dealers on donkeys after shaving their heads and blackening their faces for selling crystal meth, a drug popularly known as “ice”, to youngsters in the area. The punishment was meted out in Tirah valley, a far-flung mountainous region famous for the production and business of hashish (cannabis). Witnesses said a local “Aman (peace) Committee” had asked the peddlers, identified as Qudrat and Wadan Khan, to appear before it and explain their act of selling “ice” to local youths. “The duo failed to appear before the committee and was arrested after repeated warnings,” Farhad Afridi, a resident, said. Following this, on the committee’s orders, the peddlers’ heads were shaved, faces blackened and they were mounted on donkeys and paraded around in the presence of hundreds, even as police were rendered silent spectators, Afridi added. A video of the episode soon went viral on social media. Khyber and six other tribal regions along the Durand Line, a disputed border between Pakistan and Afghanistan, were merged into the northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province last year. Local traditions, however, still rule the lives of the people and tribal elders address social, civil and criminal problems through the traditional “Jirga” (council of elders) system without involving government authorities. The tribal belt, beleaguered for years by terrorism and lawlessness, has seen a decline in militant activities in recent years but banned terror outfits such as Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan, Jamat-ul-Ahrar, Islamic State of Khorasan and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi have still been able to carry out attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/traditional-justice-still-rules-lives-in-paks-tribal-dists/articleshow/81235841.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Rs11.6cr loss in BRTC fire at Chichpalli; min orders probe||Chandrapur: Public works department (PWD) has ruled out sabotage in the fire incident that gutted two sprawling buildings of Bamboo Research and Training Centre (BRTC) at Chichpalli on Thursday. In an FIR, lodged with Ramnagar police station, executive engineer, PWD-II, Anant Bhaskarwar, claimed that eyewitnesses told officials to have seen sparks flying from an adjacent forest fire, resulting in the major fire. Two sprawling blocks of administrative and workshop buildings, both made entirely with bamboo and claimed to be fireproof, were gutted in the massive fire that broke out on Thursday afternoon. “There was a fire in the adjacent forest in the afternoon. Soon massive swath of shrubs and trees in the jungle close the boundary wall of BRTC started burning. Some of the workers at BRTC saw sparks flying high up in the air and it was these sparks that led to fire over the rooftop of the administrative building,” Bhaskarwar told TOI. He claimed that PWD has pegged the damage to the buildings to tune of Rs11.6 crore. Meanwhile, guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar visited the BRTC complex on Friday and announced inquiry by a high-level committee, headed by IAS officer and comprising experts in bamboo technology. RTI activists Rajesh Bele, who had earlier filed complaint regarding poor quality work and connivance of contractor and officers, suspected sabotage behind the fire incident to hide the alleged corruption. Bhaskarwar claimed of having no CCTV footage of the incident. He claimed that entire BRTC complex has been fitted with CCTV cameras, but they were not active due to lack of power supply. He also informed that the two buildings destroyed in the fire also had smoke detectors and auto water sprinklers, but they were not connected to water supply. The water tank in the BRTC complex is yet to built and it was the last structure under construction, before handing over of the campus to BRTC officially, planned in March this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs11-6cr-loss-in-brtc-fire-min-orders-probe/articleshow/81235283.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 27, 2021||India||Last 2 in Munawar Faruqui case get bail after 8 weeks in jail||INDORE: After nearly two months in prison, two co-accused in the Munawar Faruqui case got temporary bail from the Madhya Pradesh high court on Friday. Nalin Yadav and Sadaqat Khan are the last of the six accused to be given bail. Justice Rohit Arya of the Indore bench of the HC allowed the duo’s bail application in light of the Supreme Court granting ad interim bail to Munawar on February 5. The high court in its order noted, "The applicant is held entitled to temporary bail, maintaining parity in the light of the order of February 5 passed by Supreme Court in petitions in connection with the case." The accused have been cautioned not to indulge in "any activity subversive to public order". On February 12, two other co-accused — an MBA student from Indore and Mumbaikar Edwin Anthony — were granted bail and they walked out of Indore Central Jail a day later. The MBA student’s younger brother, a minor, had been granted bail after a week in juvenile custody. Except for Sadaqat, the others were arrested on the evening of January 1 after Hind Rakshak activists filed a complaint that derogatory remarks on Hindu deities were being made at a stand-up comedy show at a café. Sadaqat was arrested the next day. They were booked for hurting religious feelings and organising an event without permission from the district administration. After Munawar’s bail plea was rejected thrice, he moved the Supreme Court which granted him bail on February 5. Sadaqat and Nalin filed separate bail applications. Advocate Ashhar Ali Warsi appeared for Sadaqat while advocate Anshuman Srivastava argued for Nalin. They submitted in court that the HC had granted temporary bail to the other co-accused in the case based on the SC bail to Munawar. Government advocate A Sisodiya and objector’s lawyer Rajesh Joshi argued that CrPC provisions were compiled with at the time of arrest and their production before a magistrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/last-2-in-munawar-faruqui-case-get-bail-after-8-weeks-in-jail/articleshow/81236425.cms||---
February 27, 2021||India||India, UN human rights chief clash over farmers protests||NEW DELHI: India and UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet clashed on Friday as the latter rapped the government over farmers' protests and its recent action against journalists and activists. In its response, the government said Bachelet's observations lacked both “objectivity and impartiality”. Charges of sedition against journalists and activists for reporting or commenting on the protests by farmers, and attempts to curb freedom of expression on social media, were disturbing departures from essential human rights principles, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights said in her global update speech on Friday. Bachelet also expressed concern over restrictions on communications in J&K. India responded with a statement by permanent representative Indra Mani Pandey in which he said Bachelet appeared oblivious of the "enormous efforts" made by the government to address the challenges, as indeed of many of the factors driving these challenges. "The unprovoked violence on our Republic Day in the name of farmers’ rights, apparently, left her unmoved. Her indifference to terrorism is, of course, not new. Objectivity and impartiality have to be the hallmarks of any human rights assessment. We are sorry to see that the high commissioner’s oral update is lacking in both," Pandey said. The UN official also said in her speech that continued protests by hundreds of thousands of farmers highlighted the importance of ensuring laws and policies were based on "meaningful consultations with those concerned". "I trust that ongoing dialogue efforts by both sides will lead to an equitable solution to this crisis that respects the rights of all," said Bachelet, whose office had earlier this month said the rights to peaceful assembly and expression should be protected both offline and online. In his response, Pandey said India had set a goal of doubling the income of farmers by 2024 and the purpose of enacting the three farm laws was to enable farmers to realise better price for their produce and enhance their income. On J&K, he said the decision to revoke the special status of the erstwhile state had provided an impetus to socio-economic development and to efforts to combat cross-border terrorism, which had been the "key hindrance" in full enjoyment of human rights by the people. Bachelet, who has been involved in repeated run-ins with India in the past, also said despite recent restoration of 4G access for mobile phones, the communication blockade had seriously hampered civic participation, as well as business, livelihoods, education, and access to healthcare and medical information. She said restrictions on communications, and clampdown on civil society activists, remained of concern. "Raids against human rights defenders in October and November exemplify the continued restrictions on civil society, and resulting impact on the rights of the people of Kashmir to impart and receive information, and to engage in free, open debate on government policies affecting them," Bachelet said. With regard to inclusion and participation, the official said she was encouraged by the recent experience of her office in a pilot programme in Kerala, where officials, civil society organisations and community leaders had used innovative technology to ensure that the voices of marginalised and poor people were heard, and their needs addressed, in the pandemic response. Watch Michelle Bachelet's remark on farmer's stir partial: India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-un-human-rights-chief-clash-over-farmers-protests/articleshow/81237179.cms||Sachin Parashar
February 27, 2021||India||Covid-19: You’ll now have option to walk in, register & get vaccinated||NEW DELHI: As the vaccination drive against Covid-19 is set for a big ramp up from March 1, expanding coverage beyond healthcare and frontline workers, the Centre said the vaccine could be accessed through three routes — advance self-registration, on-site registration and facilitated cohorts. Details of the next phase of vaccination were discussed at a high-level meeting where the Centre advised states on several processes, including features of Co-Win version 2.0, beneficiary registration options, identity verification and facilities needed at public and private hospitals. Vaccination will be free of charge at government vaccination centres. Those taking the vaccine at any designated or empanelled private health facility will have to "pay a pre-fixed charge", the health ministry said. India will start vaccinating people above 60 years and those over 45 years with co-morbidities from March 1. These are part of an estimated 27 crore people covered in this phase and include those aged 50 plus who will be given the shots a little after the seniors. Coronavirus in India: Live updatesRecipients will be able to self-register in advance by downloading the Co-Win 2.0 app and through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu, which will list government and private hospitals serving as Covid-19 vaccination centres with the date and time of the available schedules. However, recipients will also have the option of on-site registrations and the Centre is working to ensure some three lakh community service centres are also utilised to help people not familiar with online means or with limited access to register for the shots. Read AlsoHow to register for Covid vaccine? Who is eligible?NEW DELHI: People above the age of 60 or those over 45 with comorbidities will be eligible for a Covid-19 vaccine shot from March 1 at various government as well as private centres across the country. Here's all you need to know: Am I eligible for vaccine? Besides healthcare and frontlineStates and UTs were told about the basic features of version 2.0 of Co-Win, which is a population-scale software with capacity of processing several thousands of entries, the ministry said. "The new phase of vaccination of age-appropriate groups will expand Covid-19 vaccination in the country manifold. With a citizen-centric approach, the fundamental shift in this phase is that citizens in the identified age groups, as also those healthcare and frontline workers who have been missed out or left out of the present phase of vaccination, can select vaccination centres of their choice," it said. States were also asked to ensure that private sector hospitals are involved as vaccination centres to harness their potential to expand the vaccination capacities. Read AlsoIndia on brink of second Covid wave? At least 4 states witness fresh surgeNEW DELHI: The number of coronavirus cases in India is once again surging, particularly in four states of Punjab, Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh. The rise in the number of cases was reported amidst the discovery of several new variants of the novel coronavirus in Maharashtra that arePrivate hospitals empanelled under the Central Government Health Scheme, Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana and similar state health insurance schemes will be initially part of the drive. States and UTs were asked to ensure that private health facilities have adequate space for the vaccination process, as detailed in the comprehensive SOPs issued by the ministry, basic cold-chain equipment, their own team of vaccinators and staff, and adequate facility for management of any adverse events. The meeting was chaired by health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and chairperson of the empowered group on vaccine administration R S Sharma. Watch Covid-19 vaccination, phase 2: Here are the crucial details on how to register||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/youll-now-have-option-to-walk-in-register-get-vaccinated/articleshow/81237243.cms||---
February 27, 2021||India||Activist Nodeep’s med report reveals injuries on her body||CHANDIGARH: The medical examination of labour activist Nodeep Kaur has highlighted injuries on her body. In her petition before Punjab and Haryana HC, Nodeep had alleged that Sonipat police personnel had beaten her up in police custody. As per the report of Nodeep’s medical examination in Sonipat civil hospital, a copy of which was placed on record before HC on Friday, there are injuries on her thigh and buttocks. “Purplish bruises of around 10x7 cm present over the left thigh. Lateral aspect, bruises of around 5x6 cm over the right buttock,” revealed the report, prepared by Dr Ibka Farooq, lady medical officer, civil hospital, Sonipat, on January 25 following directions of Sonipat duty magistrate. Nodeep was examined on January 25. She had then told doctor about the physical assault on her on January 12 at Singhu border. The HC had directed Sonipat police to produce her medical report after taking suo motu cognizance of the issue related to her alleged harassment in custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/activist-nodeeps-med-report-reveals-injuries-on-her-body/articleshow/81237441.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Business||Economy out of recession, 0.4% growth in October-December||NEW DELHI: Growth returned to the economy in the October-December quarter of 2020-21 helping it to move out of the recession that had gripped following one of the strictest lockdowns imposed last year to ward off the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Data released by the National Statistical office (NSO) on Friday showed the economy grew 0.4% in the three months ended December powered by manufacturing, farm, electricity, construction, financial, real estate and professional services. The numbers showed the contraction in the June quarter was sharper at 24.4% than the previous estimate of 23.9%, while the decline in the September quarter was revised to 7.3% from the earlier 7.5%. An economy is said to be in recession after posting two consecutive quarters of contraction. The second advance estimate for the full year showed the economy is forecast to contract by 8%, higher than the 7.7% projected earlier and more or less in line with other estimates. The December quarter data also showed that India had joined China, Vietnam and Taiwan, a select group of economies, which have posted growth during the three-month period against the backdrop of sharp declines in major economies of the world hit hard by the pandemic. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had earlier estimated that growth would return in the third and fourth quarters of the current fiscal year that ends in March. Recent estimates by multilateral agencies and economists have pointed to a rebound in the Indian economy. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has also forecast India to be one of the fastest growing major economies in the world in 2021-22 as growth momentum gathers pace. The rollout of the vaccination programme has added to the optimism, but the resurgence of the virus in some parts of the country has emerged as a risk factor. The finance ministry said the October-December quarter data was also a reflection of a further strengthening of the V-shaped recovery that began in the second quarter of 2020-21 after a large GDP contraction in the April-June quarter, which followed one of the strictest lockdowns imposed by the government relative to other economies. It said the sharp V- shaped recovery has been driven by rebounds in both private final consumption expenditure (PFCE) and gross fixed capital formation (GFCF) as a combination of astute handling of the lockdown and a calibrated fiscal stimulus that has allowed strong economic fundamentals to trigger quick resumption of high activity levels in the economy. The farm sector, which has been one of the bright spots, grew by 3.9% in the December quarter compared to a 3% growth in the year earlier period. The manufacturing sector posted growth after four quarters while the construction sector also returned to positive territory rising an annual 6.2% in the December quarter. The unlocking of the economy has helped both these crucial sectors. But the contact-intensive services sector continued to be under pressure. The sector contracted 1% in the December quarter, lower than the 11.3% decline in the second quarter and below the 7% expansion in the year ago quarter. Private consumption, a key driver of the economy grew 1% during the three month period, a sharp improvement from the 25% decline in the June quarter. Government consumption too witnessed an improvement, growing by nearly 7% in the third quarter from the year earlier period. Gross fixed capital, a gauge of investment increased by 6% compared to a growth of 1.4% in the third quarter of 2019-20, rising after three quarters. Economists expect the growth momentum to sustain in the quarters ahead although they cautioned that the surge of infections in some states could have an impact on the recovery. “The pace of commercial and business activity in the domestic activity is expected to gather pace on the back of vaccination- driven optimism and policy support. Although there is the vaccination driven optimism regarding the revival of commercial and business activity, domestic economic growth continues to be underscored by uncertainty given the resurgence in Covid infections across states that has raised the spectre of fresh pandemic restriction just as the economy is in the throes of recovery,” Madan Sabnavis and Kavita Chacko, economists at Care Ratings said in a note. The finance ministry also sounded a note of caution. “India is not yet out of the danger of the pandemic. Social distancing continues to be the most effective tool to combat the pandemic as activity levels continue to rise in the economy boosted by the rapidly escalating inoculation drive in the country,” said the statement. Watch India's economy out of technical recession, Q3 GDP shows growth at 0.4%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/economy-out-of-recession-0-4-growth-in-oct-dec/articleshow/81237485.cms||---
February 27, 2021||India||ED, CBI carry out searches at 15 locations in coal case||KOLKATA: Central investigating agencies — ED and CBI — on Friday conducted searches in at least 15 locations across West Bengal, following the money trail related to illegal coal mining and cross-border cattle smuggling. The agencies have also sought the foreign ministry’s approval to look into the overseas bank accounts of the accused. On Friday, assisted by central forces, ED officials set out for several locations in Kolkata. They went to two premises on Ganesh Chandra Avenue and Mahatma Gandhi Road in central Kolkata and spoke to several businessmen. The officials also visited a mill in Howrah and questioned some of its office-bearers. A CBI team, on the other hand, went to the residence of a businessman at Bansdroni, who the investigators think, is involved with a host of shell companies which have been used to stash illegal money. The businessman had helped some of the people linked to the case to reroute the money they had allegedly received from Anup Maji, popularly known ‘Lala’, said sources. The officials also visited the businessman’s office. In November last year, CBI had registered a case against the alleged kingpin of illegal coal mining, Anup Majhi and officials of a nationalised coal company. TMC functionary Firhad Hakim said, “BJP is trying to intimidate people. They think they can intimidate some political workers through ED and CBI and use them for their own gain. But such things will stop after May.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-cbi-carry-out-searches-at-15-locations-in-coal-case/articleshow/81237666.cms||Rohit Khanna
February 27, 2021||India||Ambani threat: SUV owner traced, police don’t rule out terror angle||MUMBAI: The crime branch, which is probing the case of an explosives-laden vehicle found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, has not ruled out a terror angle. Mumbai joint CP (crime) Milind Bharambe said police are probing all aspects, including the possibility of a terror plot. The National Investigation Agency has joined the probe and recorded the statement of a businessman Hiren Mansukh, who owned the stolen vehicle which was found with gelatin sticks and a threatening note. Bharambe said they are scanning CCTV footage of the past one or two weeks in case the suspects had done a recce. Another senior official said, “When there is a terror attack or terror organisations are involved, they often claim responsibility. Twenty-four hours have passed, nobody has claimed, but that does not rule out the terror angle.” Police said the 20 gelatin sticks weighing 2.5kg had the explosive potential for an impact that could have been felt over an area of 3,000sqft. Police said another vehicle, an Innova, was tailing the SUV from Thane to Carmichael Road, where Ambani’s bungalow Antilia is located. The Innova also had a fake registration number and is yet to be traced. The Scorpio owned by the Thane businessman was stolen on February 17 from the Mulund-Airoli route where it was parked due to a technical snag. Police said the gelatin sticks found in the vehicle were manufactured by a Nagpur company named Solar Industries, but the firm has no system of tracking individual explosive cartridges. A sports bag bearing the Mumbai Indians logo was also found in the vehicle. The Scorpio and Innova crossed the Mulund check naka at 1.20am, passed Priyadarshini Circle at Chunabhatti, Dadar, Byculla, before reaching Carmichael Road at 2.18am. On its way back, the Innova crossed the Mulund check naka at 3.20am, police said, adding it had the driver of the Scorpio in it. Teams are working to find out what happened between February 17, when the Scorpio was reported stolen, and February 24, when it was found near Ambani’s residence. Police said attempts were made to erase the chassis and engine number. No information is available on the Innova, police said. An officer said they have recorded the statement of a security personnel who noticed it parked near the Ambani residence and enhanced the family’s security. “We have not decided yet about recording the statement of someone from the Ambani family,” a police officer said. What has baffled investigators is that four numberplates found in the Scorpio were the same as those of vehicles in the Ambani security convoy and one used by Nita Ambani. A Reliance Industries spokesperson said, “We are thankful to Mumbai Police for their quick and immediate action. We are confident that Mumbai Police will complete their thorough investigation quickly.” Gamdevi police late on Thursday registered an FIR against unidentified persons under Sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 465 (punishment for forgery), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc, with intent to commit forgery punishable otherwise), 506 II (punishment for criminal intimidation), 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and under Section 4 (punishment for attempt to cause explosion, or for making or keeping explosive with intent to endanger life or property) of Explosive Substances Act 1908. (With inputs by Shishir Arya) Watch Bomb scare: Threat letter found in the car abandoned near Ambani residence in Mumbai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ambani-threat-suv-owner-traced-police-dont-rule-out-terror-angle/articleshow/81237694.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 27, 2021||India||Upping the ante, Congress rebels to hold public meetings||NEW DELHI: Congress rebels have decided to go public with their issues and up the ante on grievances that have roiled the party for months since the G-23 leaders put forward their set of demands. A group of prominent G-23 leaders will attend public meetings in Jammu on Saturday and Sunday. While the programmes are being dubbed as felicitation functions for Ghulam Nabi Azad, who just retired from Rajya Sabha, sources said they would sound the battle cry against “majoritarianism of BJP” — a shorthand for the message that Congress is failing in its duty to mobilise progressive forces. Read AlsoKapil Sibal counters Rahul Gandhi’s ‘north-south’ remarks, says wisdom of voters must be respectedNEW DELHI: Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Wednesday countered Rahul Gandhi’s "north-south" remarks and said the wisdom of the voters must be respected. “It is laughable for BJP to say that we're trying to divide the country. It is a government that has divided people since it came to power.The grouping claimed it would hold such “non-political platforms” across the country to rally “progressive parties like Congress’s breakaway outfits” and are starting from the “head of India and will go up to the tail of India”. Sources said a rally was being planned in Kurukshetra, stronghold of former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Read AlsoPM Modi praises Ghulam Nabi Azad, takes a jibe at CongressNEW DELHI: PM Modi during his reply to the motion of thanks to the President's address, took a light-hearted jibe at the internal tussle in Congress over the party leadership, referring to the dissenters group led by Ghulam Nabi Azad. While addressing the Parliament on Monday, PM spoke about GhulamAmong those likely to attend the function in Jammu are Anand Sharma, Hooda, Kapil Sibal, Vivek Tankha and Manish Tewari, and possibly Shashi Tharoor and Akhilesh Singh. The development came as a surprise to many since it was believed that the CWC decision to hold internal elections in June had settled the controversy triggered by the G-23’s demand for organisational reforms. A member of the group said the defeat in Gujarat urban polls and the fall of the Puducherry government proved that the present Congress set-up was falling short of its duty to take on BJP. He said there were serious reservations about the choice of managers put in charge of key party functions. Azad, who used to be the pointsman for negotiations with DMK, was ignored this week. “There is exasperation and we are only conveying our message to the party that politics ought to be taken seriously,” an MP said. If post-Jammu, the rebels do go national with public functions, it will mark a serious jolt for Congress which is faced with tough times ahead, starting with the task of wresting back power from BJP in Assam and win in Kerala against the Left front. Many believe the rebels are positioning for the assembly results in May. A negative outcome may put further pressure on the Congress brass led by Rahul Gandhi and the rebels may gain more traction. “Our numbers are growing, the party should remember,” a leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/upping-the-ante-congress-rebels-to-hold-public-meetings/articleshow/81237740.cms||---
February 27, 2021||India||Sexual harassment plaints can’t be brushed aside: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday refused to shield a district judge from disciplinary proceedings for allegedly exchanging “inappropriate” intimate WhatsApp messages with a junior woman judge, who had complained of sexual harassment but later refused to give evidence. The proceedings before the gender sensitisation committee of the Madhya Pradesh high court, inquiring into the alleged sexual harassment complaint by the woman judge, could not proceed as she reportedly reached a compromise with the aggressor and refused to give evidence before the committee. However, the committee in its report annexed the intimate messages exchanged between the two and the HC decided to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the district judge, who has since retired. The district judge, through senior advocate R Balasubramanian, said he lost the chance of being considered for appointment as an HC judge as the sexual harassment charge was made at a time when he was in the zone of consideration. He also said that once the gender sensitisation committee closed the case because the woman judge refused to give evidence, the allegations in the complaint in the nature of WhatsApp messages could not be considered for disciplinary proceedings. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “We cannot allow sexual harassment complaints to be brushed under the carpet.” When the bench said it would pass a short order, Balasubramanian requested for withdrawal of the petition, which was accepted by the bench. The high court, through senior advocate Ravindra Srivastava, said by initiating disciplinary proceedings, it wanted to send a message against such inappropriate conduct of judicial officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sexual-harassment-plaints-cant-be-brushed-aside-sc/articleshow/81237807.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
February 27, 2021||India||Parents sell girl (12) for 10k to fund treatment of another daughter||A daily wager couple in Andhra Pradesh’s Nellore sold their 12-year-old daughter to a 46-year-old man reportedly to fund the treatment of their eldest daughter (16) suffering from a respiratory illness, reports Ujwal Bommakanti. The man, Chinna Subbaiah, married the girl on Wednesday. A day later, she was rescued by women and child welfare department officials and shifted to a district childcare centre where she is being counselled. The Kottur-based couple were approached by Subbaiah, their neighbour, who is said to have bargained and struck the ‘deal’ for Rs 10,000 instead of Rs 25,000 initially demanded by them. Police said Subbaiah’s wife had left him following marital discord. He is said to have made offers to the family in the past too, seeking to marry their second daughter. After ‘buying’ her, he married the girl and brought her to his relatives’ house in Dampur on Wednesday night. Neighbours heard the child screaming and crying. “They (neighbours) went to the house of Subbaiah’s relatives to inquire what was happening. They then approached the local sarpanch, who contacted us,” said an intergrated child development services official. Police have registered a case against Subbaiah and are interrogating him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/parents-sell-girl-12-for-10k-to-fund-treatment-of-another-daughter/articleshow/81237878.cms||---
February 27, 2021||India||Bengal to vote in 8 phases, Assam 3, one-dayers in Tamil Nadu, Kerala||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission on Friday announced polls in Tamil Nadu, Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Puducherry between March 27 and April 29, setting up several high-stake electoral contests with unprecedented eight-phase voting in Bengal. The state, which has seen rising bitterness and violence between Trinamool Congress and BJP supporters, will see the country’s most staggered assembly poll to date. The election in Assam will be in three phases, up from two in 2016 while Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry will have a single-day poll on April 6. Counting for all the assemblies will be held on May 2. The elections are a trial of strength for BJP in the wake of the long-drawn agitation by farmers’ unions opposed to the new agri laws. Though the states going to polls are largely unaffected by matters such as procurement and MSP, the resonance of the issues raised by Punjab, Haryana and west UP agri unions will be watched closely as BJP defends the reforms as pro-farmer. The polls will also test Congress, as it has opted for an alliance in Assam with the pro-minority AIUDF of Badruddin Ajmal and has pacts with Left and DMK in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu respectively. It is the main challenger to the Left in Kerala where it did well in the Lok Sabha polls. Jolted by the loss of its government in Puducherry just before polls, Congress will hope to retrieve some standing in alliance with DMK. As of now, the Left's prospects seem to have brightened in Kerala following tactical missteps by Congress that saw it lose ground in the local body elections last year. Yet, the contest is typically close. Tamil Nadu will be without stalwarts J Jayalalitha and M Karunanidhi in an assembly poll for the first time and M K Stalin will look to seal his leadership of DMK with a win that makes him the chief minister. In Assam, BJP looks to ensure that its clean win in 2016 was not a fluke though it now faces the combined challenge of Congress-AIUDF which is intended to consolidate anti-BJP votes. BJP, on the other hand, sees factionalism in Congress as a factor that helps its cause while it is seen to have the upper hand in Bodo areas and Barak Valley. Its challenge lies in negotiating the Citizenship Amendment Act potholes in a state where "illegal migrants" are not a straightforward ethno-religious faultline. With the Congress-DMK government losing office in Puducherry, BJP is hoping its alliance with former CM N Rangaswamy, seen to be a popular leader, will see it through along with AIADMK. Chief election commissioner Sunil Arora, while announcing the dates at a press conference, said the decision to stagger polling in West Bengal over eight phases — unlike six during the 2016 assembly polls (which effectively was seven phases as the sixth phase then was split over two different dates) and seven phases in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls — was based on several factors. These factors, he said, included availability and need for movement of central paramilitary forces as well as “current kind of charges and counter-charges”, an apparent reference to allegations of political violence levelled by BJP against Trinamool Congress and counter-charges by the latter. “We have to find a kind of mean… way out,” he said, adding that an increase from seven to eight phases was no big deal. To a particular question on why poll in Tamil Nadu, where concerns over excess use of money power had led to rescinding of polls in some constituencies in the past, was to be held in one phase and West Bengal in eight, the CEC reminded that Tamil Nadu had had a single-phase poll in 2016 assembly election as well as 2019 Lok Sabha polls. An EC official, while speaking to TOI, also pointed out that even in BJP-ruled Assam, the number of phases was raised to three this time from two in 2016 assembly poll. Watch West Bengal assembly election: Polling in 8 phases between March 27-April 29||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-to-vote-in-8-phases-assam-3-one-dayers-in-tamil-nadu-kerala/articleshow/81237892.cms||Bharti Jain
February 27, 2021||India||At 95%, JEE(M) sees record attendance||NEW DELHI: The first cycle of JEE (Main) 2021, conducted for the first time in 13 languages, for admission to engineering courses recorded an all-time high of 95.1% attendance. The exams concluded on Friday and the results are expected in the first week of March. The exams were conducted across 331 cities, which include 10 cities outside India. In 2020 in the midst of the pandemic, Paper 1 (for engineering) and Paper 2 (architecture) had seen low attendance of 81.6% and 54.7% respectively. This year, 6.52 lakh engineering aspirants turned up for the exams which was conducted over three days, each day having two sessions. In paper 2, 81.2% of a little over 63,000 registered candidates took the test. Overall attendance for the JEE (Main) 2021 February cycle stood at 94%. In 2019, the overall attendance recorded was 90.4%, while in 2018 it was 87.5%. A senior NTA official said, “This is a record attendance for paper one which is for BTech and BE programmes ... It is also all-time high for overall attendance as generally it has been hovering around 90% to 92%.” He said one of the reasons for high attendance is “probably because most of the Board exams including those of CBSE had been scheduled for May instead of mid-February, which allowed candidates to prepare for the exam and take it in a more relaxed manner”. Apart from English and Hindi, the multiple choice computer-based exams were also conducted in Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu. The second cycle of the test would be conducted from March 15 to March 18 for which new registration and correction window would open from March 1 for candidates to apply or opt out of the March and subsequent cycles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-95-jeem-sees-record-attendance/articleshow/81237916.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
February 27, 2021||India||India slams UN panel for seeking release of Agusta scam accused||NEW DELHI: India on Friday slammed a UN panel which had claimed that AgustaWestland scam accused Christian Michel was being held arbitrarily by Indian authorities, and said conclusions drawn by the panel were based on limited information, biased allegations from an unidentified source and on an inaccurate understanding of India’s criminal justice system. The UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (WGAD) had sought immediate release of the British middleman who was extradited from the UAE in 2018. At the outset, the MEA said, the working group was not a judicial body, and therefore, its opinions were not legally binding on member states. “The extradition was done accordance with the provisions of the extradition treaty signed between two sovereign states. The arrest and subsequent custody were done as per the due process of law and cannot be considered arbitrary on any grounds,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. The government said the accused was not denied his rights to legal counsel. According to an AFP report, the WGAD said that Michel’s extradition “was a de facto swap” for India’s capture and return of a high-profile detainee to Dubai, without providing more details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-slams-un-panel-for-seeking-release-of-agusta-scam-accused/articleshow/81238035.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Patna||SC upholds HC order of quashing FIR against former AIIMS-Patna chief||PATNA: The Supreme Court has upheld the Patna high court’s order of quashing the FIR registered against former AIIMS-Patna director Dr Girish Kumar Singh lodged with SC/ST police station in Patna on October 22, 2016. Dr Ajay Choudhary had accused Singh, as the institute director, and then pharmacology department head Dr Prem Prakash Gupta, of using caste remark against him in their respective chambers when he went to meet them for knowing reasons for removing him from the post of senior resident doctor. On August 1, 2016, Choudhary was served a letter of his removal on grounds of not found fit for grant of extension. Earlier, he had applied for an experience certificate which was denied following which the FIR was lodged by him. Singh was arrested on November 14, 2016 from AIIMS-Patna premises where he had come to attend his farewell function. A lower court in Patna had already ordered no-coercive action against him. Singh had retired on October 31, 2016. On November 15, 2017, Justice Birendra Kumar had allowed two separate criminal writ petitions of Singh and Gupta in the Patna high court for quashing of the FIR against them. The court had observed that the FIR was a result of not granting experience certificate to Choudhary. The then IG (weaker section) Anil Kishore Yadav, SC/ST police station SHO Ram Shobhit Mochi and investigating officer Kamlesh Prasad are still facing contempt charges in the high court for Singh’s illegal arrest. While Yadav has become ADG after promotion, Prasad has already retired from service. The division bench of Justices UU Lalit and KM Joseph of the Supreme Court on Thursday observed that they see no reason to interfere in the matter and accordingly also dismissed the special leave petition filed by Choudhary challenging that the Patna high court judgement. Appearing for Singh before the Supreme Court, advocates Binay Kumar Pandey and Sudhir Nagar submitted that another bench of the apex court had already refused to interfere with the high court’s decision of quashing the FIR against Gupta, who faced similar charges in the FIR. Gupta had retired from the post of AIIMS-Patna dean a month before getting relief from the SC on September 18, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sc-upholds-hc-order-of-quashing-fir-against-former-aiims-p-chief/articleshow/81234042.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 27, 2021||Patna||Bihar: LPG price up by Rs 25, adds to people’s fuel cost woes||PATNA: The state-run oil companies have increased the LPG cylinder price by Rs 25 per cylinder, making it the third hike in a month. The price of a non-subsidised 14.2 kg LPG cylinder in Patna is Rs 893.50 now, as against Rs 867.50 earlier. Prices have been on the rise since December and rates have cumulatively gone up by Rs 200 per cylinder. While citizens under financial stress are blaming the government for the surge, oil companies explained that the price rise is largely dependent on international crude oil prices. “LPG prices in the country are based on the international product – propane and butane, these prices are revised every month by the government based on recent fluctuations in international pricing. It is automated and nothing can be done about it,” an Indian Oil executive told this newspaper. The constant surge in LPG prices is impacting the budget of many households. Kapil Kumar, executive of a gas agency at Hanuman Nagar said, “Common people, who don’t know how the pricing works, blame us for the fluctuations. People are visually disappointed and are constantly expecting some relief.” Anjali Chauhan, a resident of Boring Road said the government should be more considerate towards middle-class people. “The pandemic has already drained us financially, so even a small price hike in basic commodities is making it difficult for us to adjust our budgets,” she said. “It seems that the price of cooking gas cylinder will soon reach the four-figure mark, such unjustified brutal hikes are not fair on us, the middle-class people,” said Kanti Singh, a homemaker. The rise in LPG prices, along with hike in diesel and petrol prices are pushing up the cost of various daily-use products such as vegetables, groceries and milk. Priyanka, a 43-year-old homemaker said, "The skyrocketing prices of essential commodities like fruits, vegetables, milk and other things have forced me to be very calculative about my expenditure due to which I am constantly under stress." Alok Rajan, resident of Khagaul said, “I hope that the government can reduce excise duties and enable rates to become cheaper in the coming days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lpg-price-up-by-rs-25-adds-to-peoples-fuel-cost-woes/articleshow/81234079.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Patna||Bandh in Sitamarhi town against trader’s murder||PATNA/SITAMARHI: The shops and other business establishments in Sitamarhi remained closed on Friday against the murder of noted cement trader Govind Kumar alias Guddu Bhagwani. Autorickshaws and buses also remained off the roads in solidarity with the local residents and members of the trade community. Bhagwani (45) was shot dead by bike-borne assailants when he dealing with some customers in his shop at Bariyarpur Mohanpur under Town police station area on Thursday. Half a dozen associations, including North Bihar Chamber of Commerce, Vyapari Sangh, Khudra Vyavsayi Sangh and Chemists and Druggist Association took out a protest march in the town demanding immediate transfer of SP Anil Kumar for his failure to contain crime in the district. The protesters alleged that three people, including sub-inspector Dinesh Ram, were killed during the last 36 hours. Expressing concern over the fast deteriorating law and order situation in the district, an electronic goods dealer, preferring anonymity, said people have stopped stepping out after sunset as a fear psychosis has gripped the residents of the town. Amid reports of bandh, an alleged extortionist, Vivek Yadav, owned the responsibility of killing the cement trader and circulated handwritten pamphlets threatening others to meet the same fate. The police seized the pamphlets from Mohanpur locality. Vivek, in the pamphlets, claimed that the trader was killed for his failure to pay Rs5 lakh extortion money demanded about two weeks ago. A section of local businessmen said the SP had promised to issue arms licenses to the traders after the murder of Prabhash Hisaria, the owner of Prabhash Cycle Store. But nothing happened on this front. The SP, however, said the criminals involved in the cement dealer’s murder would be arrested soon. He instructed Town police station SHO Vikas Kumar Rai to intensify raids to nab the culprits. On Thursday, IG (Tirhut range) Ganesh Kumar reviewed the law and order situation in the district and issued necessary instructions to instill a sense of security among the people in general and business community in particular. The SP visited Sitamarhi in the wake of sub-inspector Dinesh Ram’s killing during a raid at Kuaari Madan village under Majorganj police station area in the district on Wednesday. Two of the named accused in the SI murder case — Mukul Singh and Abhishek Singh — were arrested on Thursday. The service revolver of the slain cop was also recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bandh-in-sitamarhi-town-against-traders-murder/articleshow/81233357.cms||Ramashankar
February 27, 2021||Allahabad||Demand for Munger pistols shoots up ahead of panchayat polls||Prayagraj: With panchayat elections round the corner and demand for ‘Munger’ pistols shooting up, law enforcement agencies have oiled up their network to tighten the noose around delivery men sneaking in Bihar-made weapons into UP towns. The arrest of a key delivery man — identified as Guddu Kumar from Sitakund (Munger) — in Prayagraj three days back has proved to be a shot in the arm for the special task force (STF) sleuths, who have been probing the network and modus operandi of Bihar gunrunners. Officials claimed that jailed racketeer Prem Kumar Singh, who was arrested by UP STF in March 2017 along with 11 fine-shaped pistols, has a wide network among criminals in east and west UP towns for supplying illegal weapons from Munger — known for manufacture and supply of illegal firearms for years. Additional SP ( STF) Neeraj Kumar Pandey said: “The demand for Munger pistols has increased manifold in the current scenario. Despite being costlier, criminal gangs in UP are seeking Munger weapons instead of Khandwa-made illegal weapons.” The ASP said, “The demand for Munger pistols is higher because of its fine shape and quality (these pistols don’t misfire).” “Criminals find Khandwa pistols difficult to operate as they often misfire and don’t have a better shape.” A 0.32 bore Munger pistol is sold between Rs 20,000 and Rs 25,000 in UP towns, whereas a Khandwa pistol is available between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000. The Munger-based dealers have deputed their delivery men in each UP district and transactions are being done online. A delivery man is being paid Rs 1,000 for per pistol, along with transportation allowance and daily allowance . The inter-state racketeers also fix the route and mode of transportation for delivery men and the modus operandis is changed time to time to dodge law enforcement agencies. Munger has a 200-year association with gun making. It started with single-shot pistols, but graduated to assembling more complex western-style pistols and high-in-demand rifles. Despite continuous efforts from the police and security agencies, this industry has flourished. Arrested racketeers and delivery men revealed that there are over 30 villages in Munger, where people make a livelihood from this trade. Cutting across the social boundaries of caste and religion, people from every powerful segment are involved. Elections in both UP and Bihar have made the business quite lucrative for these katta makers. Currently, STF of Bihar is too conducting a series of raids at hotspots for manufacturing units after coordinating with their UP counterparts. Single-shot pistols, commonly known as kattas, are most in demand as they are cheapest. It sells at Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 each in Munger and later sold at higher prices in UP towns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/demand-for-munger-pistols-shoots-up-ahead-of-panchayat-polls/articleshow/81232681.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Surat||MP’s suicide: Delkar’s son writes to PM seeking removal of UT administrator||Surat: Two days after the Maharashtra home minister assured a thorough probe into the suicide of seven-term MP Mohan Delkar from union territory Dadra & Nagar Haveli (DNH), his son Abhinav had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding removal of the UT’s administrator Praful Patel. “You are aware of the suicide of my father (Mohan Delkar) due to the (alleged) humiliation meted out to him by the UT administration. I remember my father’s interaction with you and therefore I am writing to you seeking justice,” Abhinav stated in his letter. “Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s statement clearly suggested the involvement of Patel in my father’s suicide. UT’s administrator is going to be an accused in the suicide case of the seven-time MP and therefore residents of DNH don’t want Patel removed. It is a suicide of democracy when an MP ends life due to the harassment by the administration,” he added. Abhinav also expressed faith in Mumbai police’s investigation into his father's suicide, but urged the PM to remove Patel to ensure a fair probe. Mohan Delkar (58) was found hanging by the ceiling fan of his room at a hotel in Mumbai on February 22. A note written in Gujarati was also found from the room, which has been sent for forensic examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mps-suicide-delkars-son-writes-to-pm-seeking-removal-of-ut-administrator/articleshow/81234420.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Patna||Patna gets waste-to-wonder park, open garden library||PATNA: Patna mayor Sita Sahu on Friday inaugurated a waste-to-wonder park for children and an open garden library on the premises of Maurya Lok Complex here. A Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) official said the ‘Narendra Children’s Park’ and ‘Vivekananda Library’ have been established to promote the concept of reduce, reuse and recycle waste materials. The park contains decorative items, swings, sitting benches and other items made from waste materials, such as used utensils, old tyres, plastic bottles and discarded metal pieces. The access and entrance to the park and the library is free for common people. The park has been developed with assistance from HDFC Bank. In her inaugural speech, Sahu appealed to the citizens to donate books to the library. “People should donate old books to the library. In this way, a book purchased by a single person can be read by many others,” she said. The park and the library were inaugurated at a time when a central team is in the city to verify and evaluate the cleanliness works undertaken by the PMC under Swachh Sarvekshan, 2021 initiative. PMC commissioner Anand Sharma said citizens’ cooperation was must to keep the city clean. “We have done a lot of work to make Patna clean and hygienic. It’s also the responsibility of people to join the mission,” he added. Patna had secured 47th rank in the last Swachh Survekshan. PMC’s public relations officer Harshita said in addition to getting ODF plus (open-defecation-free) certificate, various other initiatives were taken by the civic body to improve the city’s ranking this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-gets-waste-to-wonder-park-open-garden-library/articleshow/81233692.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Patna||BERC urged not to hike power tariff||GAYA: Representatives of Central Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Vidyut Upbhokta Sangharsh Samitee (VUSS) on Friday urged the Bihar Electricity Regulatory Commission (BERC) not to hike power tariff. South Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited and North Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited have submitted the tariff plan to BERC for the tariff fixation for financial year 2021-22, which would be effective from April 1. To invite suggestions and objections from common power consumers, stakeholders and other organisations, a public hearing was organised at Gaya on Friday, in which BERC chairman Shishir Sinha said the demand and complains of power consumers would be looked into. “The condition of power supply in Gaya is good. As there is a possibility that Gaya would be developed into an industrial hub in the coming days, there is need for improvement in the agriculture feeder,” Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh said. SBPDCL presented statement of accounts of income and expenditure for financial years 2019-20, 2020-21 and 2021-22 through power-point presentation. It said smart meters are being installed in Gaya town and Bodh Gaya. VUSS secretary Brij Nandan Pathak said, “There has been an increase in number of power consumers and the transmission loss has reduced. Keeping in view the problems being faced by businessmen due to the pandemic, the proposed enhancement in fixed charge and energy charge should be withdrawn.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/berc-urged-not-to-hike-power-tariff/articleshow/81233427.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Rajkot||PM lookalike draws crowds in Aravalli||Palanpur: A lookalike of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi is grabbing attention amongst locals during the last days of campaigning in Vavdi village of Aravalli’s Malpur taluka. Sadanand Nayak or Sadanna as he is known, bears a striking resemblance to the PM. His presence in the local body elections has enthralled BJP workers. Sadanna has landed in Malpur to campaign for BJP candidate Mahesh Patel. He garners support for Patel while riding a bike or simply walking on the foot while mingling with the locals. The doppelganger, a native of Karnataka, has been picked up on election trails by candidates and party units multiple times. Residents of Vavdi are busied taking selfies with Sadanna as if PM is visiting their village. “It is impossible to say this man is not Narendra Modi. It seems as if PM has flown down from Delhi ,” said Hasmukh Patel, a young farmer. Many villages agree to his statement. “BJP is set to win,” said a cheerful Nayak while impressing upon the crowd which he successfully draws while spending the day in campaigning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pm-lookalike-draws-crowds-in-aravalli/articleshow/81234501.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Trichy||Interchange bridges at Palpannai proposed||Trichy: A Trichy-based infrastructure consultant has mooted a proposal to install interchange bridges at Palpannai junction to prevent traffic snarls and fatal accidents. The proposed infrastructure is touted to link Trichy-Chennai national highways with Trichy-Thanjavur national highways. A Lalgudi-based infrastructure consultant, Henry Lazar, 67 claimed that the two interchange bridges positioned on Thanjavur road near Aavin hi-tech milk parlour and on Trichy-Thanjavur NH near Lakshmi Nagar will decongest the Palpannai junction. Since the junction is situated on the intersection of two national highways, vehicles commuting between the two highways were often caught in traffic congestion, especially in the absence of traffic police personnel. Hazar said instead of making the vehicles use the Palpannai roundabout beneath the flyover, an interchange bridge can be installed to streamline the vehicles approaching from Chennai NH to use Thanjavur NH. “Most of the traffic congestion in Palpannai roundabout is caused due to the overlapping of vehicles leaving Gandhi market on Thanjavur road and vehicles approaching Thanjavur NH from Chennai NH using the same lane. By facilitating an interchange bridge, vehicles approaching from Chennai NH will get a separate lane to reach Thanjavur NH,” Henry said. A similar bridge was proposed on Thanjavur NH near Lakshmi Nagar, to facilitate smooth transit of vehicles approaching from Chennai NH to reach Gandhi Market and core city area via Thanjavur road without using the roundabout. The infrastructure consultant also fabricated a miniature model of interchange bridge and displayed it at Trichy press club on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/interchange-bridges-at-palpannai-proposed/articleshow/81237528.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Allahabad||15 lakh devotees to take holy dip on Maghi Purnima||Prayagraj: Elaborate security arrangements have been made for pilgrims, devotees and kalpwasis ahead of Maghi Purnima snan on Saturday. The Magh Mela campus has been into a fortress with ATS and STF commandos, and personnel of paramilitary forces being deployed. Around nine companies of PAC and two companies of RAF were also roped in for crowd and traffic management. IG ( Prayagraj zone) K P Singh told TOI, “Around 15 lakh devotees, pilgrims, sadhus and kalpwasis are likely to take the holy dip on the occasion of Maghi Purnima snan scheduled on Saturday”. "We have focused on both traffic and crowd management as the kalpwasis would also start returning to their native towns after taking a holy dip in Ganga on Maghi Purnima and performing all rituals”. The Maghi Purnima snan is considered pious. Devotees and pilgrims have already started flocking to the tent city. As the snan falls on the weekend, Saturday, the influx of devotees would be much more compared to other bathing days” said IG. Apart from ATS and STF commandos and personnel of paramilitary forces, around 150 swimmers have also been deployed on ghats to keep a strict vigil and tackle any incident. The diversion plan has been implemented from Friday morning given Maghi Purnima snan and will continue till Sunday night. This time, mela traffic police have made one-way routes for the entry and exit of vehicles. Mela police have started crowd and traffic management for the fifth main snan of the ongoing Magh Mela, and teams of Jal police, NDRF and PAC flood relief personnel have been deployed at the ghats, IG added. Parking arrangements have been made at five prominent spots, including plot number 17, pontoon bridge workshop, Galla Mandi(Daraganj), Helipad parking, and Kali Sadak so that devotees don’t have to walk much to reach Sangam. Stress is also being laid on following the Covid-19 protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/15-lakh-devotees-to-take-holy-dip-on-maghi-purnima/articleshow/81232660.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nashik||Education authorities to check for rising Covid cases among students||Nashik: In view of six junior college students testing positive for Covid-19 in Nashik district and the swabs of another 51 students taken to test for the viral infection, district collector Suraj Mandhare said on Friday education authorities would monitor the situation and closely check for rising Covid cases among students. “I have sent a message to the members of the District Disaster Management Authorities (DDMA) asking them to keep a watch on the Covid-19 cases emerging from schools and take appropriate decision regarding running of the educational institutions,” said Mandhare. Speaking to media persons, Mandhare said the government had permitted the administration to hold classes for students in schools without compromising on Covid safety protocols. “So far, things were going on smoothly. In the past, the number of children below 12 years and even teenagers down with the infection was negligent. However, off late, the number of infected teenagers is slightly higher and is a cause of concern,” he said. Though he did not hint at the education institutions closing down, Mandhare said the education authorities would closely observe the situation and consult with the respective heads of the institutions before taking a call on the conduct of the schools. The collector added the number of symptomatic cases were on the rise. “Both the symptomatic and asymptomatic cases were almost evenly split though asymptomatic cases earlier accounted for up to 75% of the total active cases. However, there is no reason to panic. We have a robust health infrastructure to deal with the cases,” said Mandhare .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/education-authorities-to-check-for-rising-covid-cases-among-students/articleshow/81234699.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 27, 2021||Business||Sensex tanks 1,939 pts as high yields take global toll||Mumbai: Through most of 2020, as a liquidity surge supported by central banks helped stock markets globally to scale new highs, investors celebrated the V-shaped recovery from the Covid-induced sharp selloff in February and March. However, in the ensuing euphoria since April last year, investors forgot about the lurking risks from rising yields in the bond market. Finally, when yields around the world started rising — also in a V-shaped pattern, fuelling concerns about rising inflation — global stock markets started tanking as investors pulled money out of risky equities, including in India. Rising crude oil prices, the largest import item for India in terms of value, is also weighing on investor sentiment, market players said. On Friday, in the aftermath of a global market selloff, Dalal Street too witnessed a sharp slide that led to a 1,939-point, or 3.8%, crash in the sensex, which closed at 49,100 points. This was the sixth biggest single-session sensex crash in terms of points. On the NSE, too, the Nifty crashed 568 points, also 3.8%, to close at 14,529 points. As a result, investors are now poorer by Rs 5.4 lakh crore in just one day with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 202.7 lakh crore, official data showed. The day’s sharp slide came on the back of a Rs 8,295-crore net selling by foreign funds, while domestic funds were net buyers at Rs 1,500 crore. And as it happens on days of strong foreign fund selling, the rupee too weakened by a sharp 105 paise against the dollar to close at 73.47 from 72.42 on Thursday — a slide of nearly 1.5%. Traders said that the main reason for the sharp slide in the domestic market has its origin in the US. “Growing inflationary expectations and the rising yields have a potential to adversely affect the equity sentiment and the equity markets,” Emkay Wealth Management head (research) Joseph Thomas wrote in a post-market note. In India, too, weighed by huge government borrowings, yields have been rising. From around the 5.85% level, the 10-year benchmark bond yield has surged in the last three months and is now at 6.23%. The 10-year benchmark yield is one of the determinants of the rate of interest in the economy. If yields are elevated, that may stop the RBI from cutting rates further (which is required to help a struggling economy). Higher yields may also lead to higher inflation, analysts and economists said. According to Acuite Ratings & Research chief analytical officer Suman Chowdhury, the 10-year treasury yields in the US have almost doubled over the last six months to 1.47% now, a move that has prompted global markets to expect tighter monetary policies earlier than was indicated by the US Federal Reserve chairman. If growth rebounds faster and inflation also picks up along with it, the US Fed may be forced to end its easy monetary policy soon. “Investors see a similar risk in India where sharply increased government borrowings for FY21 and FY22 along with potential inflationary pressures due to increasing commodity prices can induce a normalisation in the monetary policy earlier than expected,” Chowdhury said. “We expect the 10-year (gilt) yields to stay elevated over 6% in the near term and is likely to exceed 6.4% by end of FY22.” In Friday’s session, all the 30 sensex constituents closed in the red with HDFC Bank, HDFC, ICICI Bank, RIL and Kotak Bank together contributing more than half the sensex’s total slide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-tanks-1939-pts-as-high-yields-take-global-toll/articleshow/81236147.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Patna||Patna: GPO arm of R-Block flyover to open soon||PATNA: Residents of the state capital can expect respite from snarls on the stretch of Hardinge Road as Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL) has targeted to complete the works on the GPO arm of the R-Block flyover by March 15. Once ready, it will allow the vehicles coming from the airport via Hardinge Road to go directly to Gandhi Maidan or Kankarbagh through a network of flyovers and railway overbridges (RoBs) around Patna Junction. This is the third arm of the R-Block flyover. The ramp of its first arm falls on Beer Chand Patel Marg and the second arm connects it to Bhikhari Thakur RoB, which goes to Mithapur. The first two arms of the flyover were inaugurated by CM Nitish Kumar in August last year. Deliberating on the progress in the construction of the third arm, senior project manager at BRPNNL Khurshid Karim told TOI: “It connects Mithapur RoB at GPO golambar. The length of this arm is 630 metres and we have targeted to complete the construction works by March 15. In any eventuality, this arm of the flyover will be open for vehicular movement by Holi.” Officials said once ready, motorists will be able to reach Gandhi Maidan from Bihar Vidhan Sabha in seven minutes. It will take the same duration to reach Karbigahiya from Vidhan Sabha. The BRPNNL is constructing another flyover with three arms at Karbigahiya. “Works on the Mithapur bus stand arm of the flyover is already underway. It will connect Mithapur RoB. Similarly, the work is expected to commence on the arm of the flyover to connect Chiraiyatand RoB,” Khurshid said. The flyover at Karbigahiya is likely to provide respite to frequent snarls in the area behind Patna Junction caused by vehicles going toward Mithapur bus stand as well as Kankarbagh. At present, vehicles come down from Mithapur RoB at Karbigahiya Mor and crawl for around 500 metres thereafter on the rear side of Patna Junction to reach the western tip of Chiraiyatand RoB. This stretch remains chock-a-block almost throughout the day, and at times it takes as much as half an hour to cover this distance. Officials said once the Karbigahiya flyover is ready, vehicles would move on elevated pathways right from R-Block flyover to the eastern end of Chiraiyatand RoB, covering a total length of around 5km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gpo-arm-of-r-block-flyover-to-open-soon/articleshow/81233773.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 27, 2021||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar dividing Dalits for political gains: LJP chief Chirag Paswan||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan on Friday accused CM Nitish Kumar of dividing Dalits for political gains. Talking to the media after reaching Patna from Delhi, the Jamui MP also blamed the state government’s scheme to pay ex gratia to the next of kin of the deceased following the killing of the members of the Dalit community for a spurt in attacks on them. “I had raised concern ever since the provision of ex gratia payment to the next kin of the deceased belonging to the Dalit community was announced by the Nitish government,” Chirag said. He further alleged that Nitish adopted the same policy for the minority community. “The people belonging to the minority community were sidelined soon after Nitish realized that they didn’t support him in the election,” Chirag alleged. To buttress his point, Chirag referred to the state’s budget for 2021-22 fiscal presented in the state legislative assembly earlier this week. “The budgetary allocation for the minority community is an open secret,” he said. Reacting to induction of a large number of LJP leaders in the JD(U) recently, the LJP chief said why Nitish was so apprehensive of the LJP? Did he finish Chirag Paswan? he asked. In reply to a query, he said Nitish should be careful about RCP Singh whom he made his party’s national president. He said many among those inducted in JD(U) had earlier contested elections on its symbol. Many of them were also the supporters of former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha. Reiterating LJP’s resolve to take the state to a new height of development, Chirag said he was more concerned about the future of the youths. “People send their children outside the state for studies. But they don’t want to return home. This is a dangerous trend,” he added. Chirag urged the CM to look into this aspect seriously so that skilled people serve the state after obtaining degrees from outside. “I fear the state may turn into a place of aged ones if the problems concerning youths were not given due attention at this stage,” he cautioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirag-nitish-dividing-dalits-for-political-gains/articleshow/81233994.cms||Ramashankar
February 27, 2021||Kolkata||Congress-Left combine fights for pan-Bengal relevance||KOLKATA: For Left and Congress, key players in Bengal politics a decade ago, the assembly polls are a battle for survival. Both parties are desperate to arrest the continuous decline in their vote share since 2011. This could be the reason why the Left-Congress wants to break the Modi-Mamata binary and emerge strong enough to play the key role in government formation. Congress is mainly eyeing the 22 Murshidabad seats, six seats in south Malda, the Matigara-Naxalbari seat near Siliguri and some in Uttar Dinajpur while the Left is banking on the Siliguri seat, the Durgapur-Asansol belt, some Nadia seats, and some city seats, like Jadavpur and Tollygunge. But the combine, along with Abbas Siddiqui’s party, can pose a threat to Trinamool’s monopoly in South and North 24 Parganas, Hooghly and East Midnapore. The Left are gaining supporters among college and university students taking part in demonstrations and rallies. Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury has been able to turn the tables on Trinamool after he won from the Behrampore Lok Sabha constituency in 2019. The win helped Congress win back some of the party organizers who joined Trinamool. Congress is set to give Trinamool a tough fight in Chowdhury’s turf. But this can produce the best results if the Left-Congress alliance works at the grassroots. It didn’t work in many seats in the 2016 assembly polls and the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, creating “misgivings” among the ranks. Left and Congress leaders are taking special care not to lose the battle in squabbles this time. Left-Congress seniors have called a mega rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds on February 28 to send out the message of unity. The Left-Congress has been consistently trying to change the narratives on religious and linguistic lines and put the debate back on issues concerning people’s lives — rising prices, unemployment, farmers’ protests at Singhu border and growing resentment among small and marginal farmers in Bengal over the denial of MSP prices. The Opposition didn’t get the opportunity to take up such issues during the 2018 panchayat polls because many couldn’t file nominations. Jote leaders also blamed Trinamool for not holding the civic polls in time. Jote leaders are also making use of the rising disgust over the ‘dal badlus’, which was not the trend in Bengal politics when Congress and communists were in office. A large section of voters tends to agree, but these voters do not believe that the jote will be coming to power. The Left’s dismal performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls has fuelled the perception.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cong-left-combine-fights-for-pan-bengal-relevance/articleshow/81236562.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Business||Need same inflation target for 5 more years: RBI||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India has said that the current inflation target of 2-6% should continue for the next five years as consumers still have expectations of an elevated inflation. The central bank’s statement comes at a time when some commentators have said that it should be more tolerant of inflation in the wake of the economic crisis brought about by the pandemic. “The international experience suggests that inflation-targeting emerging market economies have either lowered their inflation targets or kept their targets unchanged over time. In India, however, the repetitive incidence of supply shocks, still elevated inflation expectations and projection errors necessitate persevering with the current numerical framework for the target and tolerance band for inflation for the next five years,” the RBI said in its report on currency and finance. The central bank has also called for flexibility in the target to deal with any sudden changes. “It is important to recognise that while setting a single target/tolerance band for the next five years, structural changes that may materialise or the type of shocks that may hit the economy are difficult to anticipate fully. Hence, flexibility must be built into the framework, without undermining the discipline of the inflation target,” the RBI said in the report. The central bank adopted a flexible inflation targeting framework in 2016 under Urjit Patel, when it also shifted to the monetary policy committee (MPC) framework for deciding on interest rates. In terms of the legislation, the inflation target must be reviewed every five years. Despite the volatility in prices, inflation-targeting is seen to be a success as trend inflation has eased to 4.3% in 2020. Lower inflation enables the RBI to keep interest rates low too and thus encourage investments. It also preserves the value of the domestic currency and therefore supports the domestic currency. According to the RBI, the inflation target needs to be close to the trend rate. “There is an influential view that setting the target above the trend could increase inflation and its volatility, undermining the confidence of firms and households to undertake and execute long-term plans, squandering the credibility of the central bank, destabilising inflation expectations and raising risk premiums in asset markets,” the central bank said. On the other hand, a target fixed much below the trend could produce a deflationary bias in the economy and hurt growth. Some experts have argued that the RBI should differentiate between inflation caused by demand and supply side constraints. However, the central bank has always held that irrespective of the cause, inflation would have implications for financial markets and the RBI could respond only through its monetary policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/need-same-inflation-target-for-5-more-years-rbi/articleshow/81235860.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Patna||RJD eyes Assam, Bengal & Kerala polls; JD(U) to go solo in 2 eastern states||PATNA: As the Election Commission announced the schedule for assembly polls in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and West Bengal, both leading regional parties from Bihar, RJD and JD(U), set the ball rolling to contest in some of these state polls. As of now, RJD has decided to contest the polls in Assam, West Bengal and Kerala, either alone or in alliance with other parties; while Bihar’s ruling JD(U) has decided to go solo in Assam and West Bengal. Assembly polls will be held for 140 seats in Kerala, 126 seats in Assam and 294 seats in West Bengal. Hours after the EC announced the poll schedule, RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s heir apparent Tejashwi Prasad Yadav flew to Guwahati to explore a possible alliance with some regional parties of the northeast state. Soon after landing at Guwahati airport, Tejashwi drove to a local hotel and held a series of meeting with leaders of some regional parties. “Tejashwi Ji has arrived in Guwahati and will hold talks with the leaders of some political parties on Saturday as well before deciding on contesting in Assam,” RJD’s national general secretary Shyam Rajak told TOI over the phone. He is camping in Guwahati for the past two days. “As of now, I can’t say whether RJD will contest the Assam polls solo or in alliance with regional parties or Congress. Right now, nothing is final,” Rajak said. He also declined to divulge the number of seats RJD is willing to contest in Assam. Besides Rajak, senior RJD leader and former Bihar minister Abdul Bari Siddiqui, too, is camping in Guwahati for the last two days to explore possible alliances. “After Guwahati, we will go to Kolkata to discuss poll-related issues with political parties in West Bengal,” Rajak told TOI. “Our party has decided to contest assembly polls in Assam, Kerala and West Bengal to take on BJP. In West Bengal, RJD wants an alliance with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC). The RJD leadership has sought a few assembly seats from TMC. If TMC fails to keep us in the alliance, the party will take its own decision. But we will not do anything which benefits BJP,” RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari told TOI. JD(U), meanwhile, has decided to contest the assembly polls in Assam and West Bengal. “As of now, the party leadership has decided to go solo in both the states,” said a JD(U) leader. “In West Bengal, the state unit of JD(U) has been asked to identify assembly seats to contest. JD(U) national secretary Sanjay Verma has been sent to Assam to assess the situation. Final decision about the number of seats in both states will be taken by the party’s top leadership,” JD(U) national secretary Rabindra Prasad Singh told TOI on Friday. Contacted over the phone, JD(U)’s West Bengal unit president Ashoke Das said he is in Patna for the past three days. “I held a series of talks with JD(U) chief RCP Singh and other senior leaders over the assembly polls. We have decided to contest the assembly polls solo in all 23 districts of West Bengal,” Das told TOI. JD(U) Assam unit convener Samsul Alam said the party would contest the assembly polls solo, but the number of seats was yet to be finalized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-eyes-assam-bengal-kerala-polls-jdu-to-go-solo-in-2-eastern-states/articleshow/81233477.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Business||RBI extends due date for NPCI-rival NUE||MUMBAI: The RBI has extended the deadline for submitting applications to set up a new umbrella entity (NUE) in the payments system that will rival the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). Earlier, interested parties were to submit their application by February 26, which has now been extended to March 31. According to the RBI, it had received requests from various stakeholders to extend the timeline. “Keeping in view the Covid-related disruptions and inconveniences. It has been accordingly decided to extend the timeline for making the application,” RBI said in a statement. According to payments industry sources, there are four consortia of potential applicants. Tata Sons has recently promoted Ferbine to apply to the RBI for a pan-India NUE. On Thursday, HDFC Bank and Kotak Mahindra Bank said that they are subscribing to just below 10% equity stake in Ferbine. Besides the two banks, another payments player is rumoured to be joining the consortium. Earlier, Amazon, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, Pine Labs and Billdesk were reported to have decided to promote a company. The third such group comprises Paytm, Ola Financial, IndusInd Bank and Electronic Payment Services (EPS) — an ATM network manager. There is also speculation that a Reliance Jio group company will join the fourth combine of Infibeam Avenues and So Hum Bharat Digital Payments founded by payment industry veteran Navin Surya. Infibeam Avenues owns the platform CCAvenues. Earlier, the company had partnered with Jio Platforms and its affiliates to license, customise, maintain and access Infibeam’s enterprise e-commerce software and payments platform. This month, Infibeam’s board approved an investment in So Hum Bharat Digital Payments (“So Hum”) and an application for the NUE license for retail payments systems. According to industry sources, interest in the NUE has picked up closer to the deadline. Interestingly, none of the state-owned banks has made public any plans to get into the payment infrastructure business. Entities that will be able to channel a large number of transactions into the network early on will have the lead. Bankers say that although the NUEs will operate in the same space as NPCI, it is likely that they will complement the MPCI rather than actively compete by building a new set of payment platforms to rival IMPS or UPI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-extends-due-date-for-npci-rival-nue/articleshow/81235888.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Business||Rupee sinks 105p, worst fall since March||Mumbai: The domestic currency crashed by over a rupee against the dollar on Friday to close at 73.47 — the biggest single-day fall since the post-pandemic crash on March 23, 2020. Bankers said that the rupee and government bonds fell in tandem with the selloff in equities and a surge in the dollar as global markets turned risk-averse. The rupee currency opened weak at 73.47 against the dollar and soon slid to the day’s low of 73.5. It finally closed 105 paise lower at 73.47 as against Thursday’s close of 72.42. The weakening of the rupee has the potential to increase India’s crude bill and stoke inflation if crude prices remain where they are. According to bankers, the financial markets had turned volatile much ahead of India’s GDP numbers being published, reacting to a surge in US bond yields. In the US, the yield on the benchmark treasury security rose to 1.6%, beating the dividend yield of the S&P 200. If returns on bonds stay high, there is a likelihood that global funds that were chasing yields could return from emerging markets to the US. “The volatility in spot is picking up and there are doubts how long is the Fed going to keep interest rates low. Dollar is holding on to gains as rising inflation expectations in the US are keeping the yields higher and pressuring the rupee. The overall picture can be dire for rupee, as fresh concerns about a potential escalation in US-China trade tensions may come roaring back. But the dollar-rupee spot will continue to be under the bear grip until prices recover and trade above 73.25 levels, with 72.50 being the crucial support,” said Emkay Global Financial Services head (research - currency) Rahul Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rupee-sinks-105p-worst-fall-since-march/articleshow/81236023.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara sanitation workers averse to jab||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has started a string of meetings to engage sanitation and other workers of the civic body to ensure that they take the Covid-19 vaccine. This was necessitated after it came to light that there were several workers who had not been vaccinated yet. The death of a sanitation worker in the early stages of the vaccination drive has made many sceptical about the jab. The workers have avoided getting vaccinated despite efforts to convince them through senior officials. On Thursday, VMC officials called leaders of various worker and employee unions of the civic body and sought their help. VMC has also asked health officials to start going to ward offices and assembly points of sanitation workers to meet them there. The officials will be looking to rely on one-on-one meetings to convince the workers. VMC’s initial data had pegged the number of frontline workers at around 10,610. While the vaccination stands at 9,864, the number of vaccinated persons include several who had not registered themselves and were vaccinated on January 30 and January 31. Also, there were many who had not been registered. It is believed that the actual number of frontline workers whose vaccination is pending may be around 5,000. “As per the new guidelines, the vaccination of frontline workers and healthcare workers will continue along with the vaccination of the beneficiaries of the third phase,” said VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel. VMC was earlier looking to register frontline workers for vaccination only till Sunday. The decision about whoever remained pending was to be taken later, but the new guidelines suggest that the vaccination of the persons covered in the first two stages should also continue. Health officials are also sorting the data collected for the third phase by including persons as per the new guidelines. Earlier persons above50 years of age and those below this with co-morbidities were to be vaccinated,but the new guidelines suggest that persons above 60 and those between 45 and60 years of age having co-morbidities should be vaccinated. VMC executive engineer Shailesh Naik who is responsible for sanitation said that while several workers were not vaccinated, attempts were underway to convince them. “We tell them how lakhs have taken the vaccine in the country without any major hiccup and how the vaccine can save their life,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-sanitation-workers-averse-to-jab/articleshow/81233454.cms||Sachin Sharma
February 27, 2021||Patna||Trackers trail ‘killer’ jumbo as it enters Gaya||PATNA: Several teams of the state environment, forests and climate change department, along with a specialised group of elephant chasers from Bankura in West Bengal, were on their toes on Friday as the elephant that killed four people on Thursday in Nawada district, entered Gaya. A senior official in the forests department claimed that the sub-adult elephant had entered Gaya from Nawada on Thursday evening, possibly after getting separated from its herd. “Its last location was in Hemja Pahadi forests at Wazirganj block in Gaya district as of 6 pm. Our teams are trailing the elephant by tracking its footprints,” he said. On being asked about the teams trailing the elephant, the official said, “Altogether three teams have been sent to trail the elephant. First is a quick response team, another team is for tranquillising the elephant if needed, and the third team has come from Bankura in West Bengal which specialises in chasing away elephants.” The official said the elephant was first sighted at Nawada's Bhitiya forest near the Jharkhand border. “The elephant had strayed from Jharkhand and based on its movement over the last 24 hours we are expecting that it will return to Jharkhand via Gaya,” he said. After entering Nawada, the jumbo killed four people on Thursday. The first three persons were senior citizens (60 years or above). The fourth casualty was a 10-year-old boy. Forest department officials claimed that the elephant remained inside the forest area in Gaya almost throughout Thursday night. “We have charted an expected exit route of the elephant based on its movement from Thursday. Villages and other residential settlements along the route have been alerted and our teams are also continuously trailing the elephant,” another senior official of the forests department said at Patna. Forest officials further said there are no wild elephants in Bihar and such incidents happen occasionally when elephants stray from neighbouring Jharkhand or in north Bihar from adjoining Nepal. In January 2016, a herd of 14 elephants had strayed into the forests of Gaya and Aurangabad from Chhatisgarh via Jharkhand. Earlier in the same month, an elephant was shot down in Purnia in north Bihar by a shooter hired by the forests department after it killed three persons in two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trackers-trail-killer-jumbo-as-it-enters-gaya/articleshow/81233381.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 27, 2021||Patna||‘Bharat Vyapar Bandh’ evokes tepid response||PATNA: The ‘Bharat Vyapar Bandh’ called by different trade unions and Confederation of All India Transport Welfare Association (CAITWA) in protest against rise in fuel prices, e-way bills and goods and services tax evoked a mixed response in the state on Friday. While major ‘mandis’ wore a deserted look with majority of shops remaining shut, other business establishments carried out their operations as usual. The government offices also remained opened. Buses and autorickshaws also plied as usual. Trucks, however, remained stranded along different national highways in the state. The processions were taken out in over a dozen districts, including Patna, Kaimur, Purnia, Rohtas, Bhojpur, Aurangabad, Saran and Muzaffarpur. CAITWA state chairman Komal Nopali said the trade organisations lent their support to the bandh. “Nearly 30% of shopkeepers downed their shutters spontaneously,” he claimed. At some places, the traders closed their business establishments on the requests of the functionaries of the affiliated trade unions. They, however, opened after 2pm. Vehicles engaged in essential services were exempted from the purview of the bandh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bharat-vyapar-bandh-evokes-tepid-response/articleshow/81233848.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Patna||Urbanisation is Bihar govt’s priority: Deputy CM||PATNA: Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad said in the assembly on Friday that the state’s urban population has increased to 15.28% of the total population from 11.3% as per the 2011 Census. Prasad said this happened as the state government recently increased the number of urban local bodies – nagar panchayats, nagar parishads and municipal corporations. Besides, the area falling under the jurisdiction of a few municipal corporations had also been expanded, he added. “Increasing the size of the urban population will help the state government in taking up urbanisation measures in the areas falling under the jurisdictions of nagar panchayat, nagar parishad and municipal corporation, besides vesting them with powers to raise their own revenue resources for investment over and above what will come to them by way of the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission,” the deputy CM said. Carrying out reforms in the urban sector was one of the riders that the Centre had put when it removed the 3% cap under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act, and allowed the state government to raise money through market borrowings up to 5% of the GSDP pertaining to the 2020-21 fiscal to meet the revenue shortfall arising from the coronavirus pandemic. The Centre had also fixed the cap for the market borrowing at 4.5% of the GSDP for the 2021-22 financial year. In tune with the same, the government had fixed the urban and housing department for the House debate on Friday, so as to pass the second supplementary budget worth Rs 19,370 crore for the 2020-21 fiscal, ending March 31 this year. It included Rs 9,530 crore to be spent under the scheme (plan) head, Rs 9,399 crore as establishment and committed expenditure and Rs 439 crore on establishment of farm equipment bank as part of the central scheme. Meanwhile, the House passed the second supplementary budget for 2020-21 by voice vote amid walkout by the CPI (ML) members. Replying to a large number of questions from the members cutting across parties during Question Hour in assembly, health minister Mangal Pandey said the department has sent a requisition to the Technical Services Commission for the selection of 6,380 doctors, so that they could be appointed in various hospitals. He said as many as 11,500 nurses and over 4,000 doctors had been appointed in the state last year. Energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said all the DMs have been asked to appoint the dependents of dead chowkidars on compassionate ground and also the dependents of those chowkidars who had relinquished the job voluntarily. Meanwhile, giving his reply to the call attention question of Congress member Prem Chandra Mishra, health minister Mangal Pandey said in the legislative council that detailed preparations have been made as per the guidelines of the Centre for immunisation drive against Covid-19 pandemic. “Over 6 lakh people have already been immunized in the state. None of them reported any side effect or complication,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/urbanisation-is-bihar-govts-priority-deputy-cm/articleshow/81233910.cms||Abhay Singh
February 27, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Registration for 3rd phase of Covid vaccination in next 2 days||PATNA: People above 60 years and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities in Bihar will be vaccinated against Covid-19 from March 1. People with comorbidities will have to furnish a certificate from registered doctor for availing the vaccine. People with comorbidities as well as those above 60 years of age or turning 60 by January 1, 2022 will be given the vaccines free at the government healthcare facilities. Those opting to get vaccinated at empanelled private hospitals (under Ayushman Bharat and Central Government Health Scheme) will also have to pay a fixed amount. A health department official said registration in the third phase hasn’t commenced yet in Bihar, but the corresponding vaccination process will start from March 1. “Registration of beneficiaries for the third phase may start in the next two days or spot registration and vaccination option may also be available from March 1,” he said. The health department has also scheduled a dry run for third phase of vaccination across the state on February 27 and 28 to assess the requirement of session sites as well as vaccinators. The department stated on Friday that the beneficiaries for the third phase can either do online self-registration or on-site registration at the selected healthcare facility. The beneficiary will be required to have a mobile number and government approved identify proof. A one-time password (OTP) will be sent on their cellphone numbers, which on submission will enable successful registration on CoWin 2.0 portal. Following successful registration, the beneficiaries will be able to choose the nearest centre and a date for inoculation from slots available. All beneficiaries will be required to show Aadhaar card at the time of vaccination. Altogether 3,99,813 healthcare workers have taken the first dose since January 16. Also, 79,142 healthcare workers have taken the second dose of the vaccine. Among them, 76,666 opted for Covishield. Altogether 1,59,559 frontline workers have taken the vaccine since February 6. Meanwhile, 46 new Covid cases were registered in Bihar on Friday, taking the corresponding tally up to 2,62,463. As per the health department bulletin, 92 people recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate reached 99.25%. Only one death was reported in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/registration-for-3rd-phase-of-covid-vaccination-in-next-2-days/articleshow/81233806.cms||Piyush Tripathi
February 27, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav proves himself to be more than a fast learner||PATNA: If the salient features of a seasoned lawmaker on the floor of the House include the capacity to play wit and humour and take the House members along and keep them gripped to the articulate presentation of facts on any issue without being distracted by muffled remarks and catcalls, the leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has shown that he is no greenhorn. Tejashwi, in fact, has proved that he is “more than a fast learner”. He also showed himself as one who was capable of playing a subtle game of politics, as he tried to reach out to a mentor like CM Nitish Kumar, who had made him deputy CM in the grand alliance government (2015-17). All this came out on full display in the state assembly on at least two occasions in the last six days of the budget session, when Tejashwi was pitched against Nitish and deputy CM cum finance minister Tarkishore Prasad. The impression cast on the observers, including on those in the treasury benches, has been that of an engaging legislator. It has also led to the change of his image. Otherwise, elected to the state assembly in 2015 and 2020, Tejashwi was largely deemed as a shirker and non-performer on the floor of the House, largely as a legislator who had frequently absented from the House proceedings in the last term and was also considered a leader by virtue of being the son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad. That, however, had changed during the electioneering for the assembly elections last year, when he was pitched against not only PM Narendra Modi, but the entire national BJP brass, besides the NDA’s state leaders, including Nitish. His party RJD won 75 seats against BJP’s 74, while Nitish’s JD(U) came third with 43 seats. Seemingly, he carried the momentum to the budget session. While there was nothing eye-catching about him on the opening day of the session, Tejashwi reached the assembly gate on a tractor on February 22 to highlight the farmer issues and register his party’s support to the agitation against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. On Friday, he reached the assembly riding a bicycle to underscore the popular anger at the petrol, diesel and LPG cylinder price rise. However, what left the observers discussing about Tejashwi was his performance on the motion of thanks to the governor’s address on February 23, when he had to present his point of view on the Nitish’s 15-year rule. Citing figures, Tejashwi brought home the point that the cognisable offences had increased 101.2% since 2005, when the NDA government led by Nitish came to power. Tejashwi insisted that the ‘jungle raj’ epithet used by the BJP and JD(U) against the 15-year Lalu-Rabri rule was more a propaganda and misinformation than anything else. Indeed, Nitish skipped this aspect, saying it would be visited during the government’s reply to the budgetary demand for the home-police department. On February 25, it was Tejashwi who impressed the observers with his speech on the budget for 2021-22. Citing a spectrum of comparative statistics reflecting the size of the economy, state’s own tax collections, per capita income and expenditures under the plan head both under the Lalu-Rabri and Nitish rules, he largely succeeded in articulating that the performance of his parents’ rule on the economic front, faced with obvious constraints and stepmotherly treatment of the Centre, was not so bad as had been made out for the last two decades. Indeed, observers were heard saying: “Can you recall any RJD leader citing statistics in the House so cogently?” That apart, Tejashwi succeeded in playing subtle politics as he tried to build bridges with Nitish, who only last year had shown unprecedented volcanic rage against him for making personal remarks. On the other hand, Tejashwi rubbed the wounded self and pride of Nitish when he said JD(U) had become the third largest party in the House for splitting from the grand alliance in 2017. Further, Tejashwi also suggested that Nitish was uncomfortable with BJP, as he was not being given free hand to perform. He, in fact, said Nitish’s plight was that of “kathputli” (puppet) and “stepini”. As to marshalling wit and humour, Tejashwi was at his sarcastic best when he instantly called VIP leader and state minister Mukesh Sahani a “recharge coupon” for being made an MLC by the BJP for a limited period and not a six-year term. Sahani had made a sarcastic remark at Tejashwi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-proves-himself-to-be-more-than-a-fast-learner/articleshow/81233965.cms||Abhay Singh
February 27, 2021||Patna||AIIMS-Patna ties up with startup firm to treat cardiac patients||PATNA: Doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) will now be able to hear the heartbeats of a person sitting in any far off village in the state. If the person is fit and fine, the doctor will get lub dub sound. If the heartbeat indicates murmur, it may be a sign of cardiac problem and the doctor will advise the person to undergo treatment without delay. This new way of treatment will be possible for doctors following a collaboration of the AIIMS-P with a telemedicine startup firm under the Atal Incubation Centre at a function held on Friday. Initially, the AIIMS-P will set up four specialised centres at Madhepura, Chhapra, Bihia near Ara and on the hospital premises under its community outreach programme through telemedicine. The function, chaired by AIIMS-P director Dr P K Singh, was inaugurated by the national president of the Private Schools and Children Welfare Association Syed Shamayel Ahmad. Dr Anil Kumar, head of AIIMS-P telemedicine department, said the startup firm has donated innovated medical equipment for setting up four centres. “We have named the new way of treatment as HEET as it would mainly cover heart, ear, eye and throat. Innovated equipment like telestethoscope, teleautoschope, teleopthalmoscope and teleendoscope would be used,” said Dr Anil. While teleautoscope will detect ulcer, wax deposition, rupture or other problems in the tympanic membrane of the ear, teleopthlmoscope will easily diagnose diabetic retinopathy which, if remained neglected, may lead to vision loss. Other equipment are similarly useful for teletreatment. Appreciating the initiative, the AIIMS-P director said such centres would be opened in all other districts in near future. Shamael Ahmad described this innovation as very useful for health check-up of schoolchildren. He also announced to hold a seminar with the AIIMS-P faculty on hygiene and balanced diet for schoolchildren.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-patna-ties-up-with-startup-firm-to-treat-cardiac-patients/articleshow/81233720.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 13 persons held guilty in Khajurbanni hooch case||PATNA: A special excise court in Gopalganj on Friday held 13 persons guilty in Khajurbanni hooch tragedy. Sixteen persons had died at Khajurbanni under Town police station area of Gopalganj on August 16, 2016. Prohibition was enforced in Bihar on April 5, 2016. Gopalganj public prosecutor Deo Vansh Giri said the special court of ADJ-II Law Kush Sharma will pronounce the quantum of punishment on March 5. “They are accused of manufacturing, smuggling and selling liquor,” he said. Giri said special PP Ravi Bhushan Srivastava argued for the state government. “All police personnel of Town police station were attached to the police lines after the incident. More than 20 of them, including the then SHO BP Alok, were later dismissed from service,” he said. He said the Patna high court recently ordered reinstating several of the dismissed police personnel. On January 6, a bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh had set aside the DGP’s dismissal common order issued on June 15 last year citing it as illegal while granting relief to five police personnel. The high court had ordered their forthwith reinstatement in service with full salary and other emoluments for the period they had remained out of service. The high court had also quashed the lower court orders and communications issued in consequence of the dismissal order. On grounds of this order, a bench of Justice Ashutosh Kumar also granted relief to ten dismissed police personnel on February 4. The court ordered that they also be reinstated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/13-persons-held-guilty-in-khajurbanni-hooch-case/articleshow/81233415.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 27, 2021||Business||Covid claims cross Rs 9,000 crore mark: Irdai||MUMBAI: Insurance companies have settled claims worth Rs 9,078 crore arising out of the coronavirus pandemic, regulator Irdai’s chairman S C Khuntia said on Friday. The bulk of these claims — Rs 7,136 crore — have been paid by non-life insurers, largely under health insurance policies. The life insurance industry has paid Rs 1,242 crore in death claims due to Covid, which has taken a toll on 1.5 lakh lives in the country. For Covid-specific products, the claim amount settled is about Rs 700 crore. The industry has recovered, and insurers are showing positive growth, Khuntia said. Speaking at a the NIA-Swiss Re seminar on the theme of “Navigating Uncertainty: Insight-Driven Innovation”, Khuntia said the insurance industry should help mankind to become resilient to face any such adversity like a pandemic in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-claims-cross-rs-9000cr-mark-irdai/articleshow/81235940.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Kolkata||Jangalmahal health, job schemes may help TMC||KOLKATA: BJP’s Bengal inroads in 2019 Lok Sabha polls were partly scripted from Jangalmahal’s 40 assembly segments. But unlike elsewhere in Bengal where BJP grew by consolidating the anti-Trinamool votes, in Jangalmahal, BJP had also gained at the expense of Trinamool. The party in office, which had won 31 seats from these zones against BJP’s one in 2016, saw it dip to 10 against BJP’s 30 in three years in the 2019 polls. Several factors played out in Jangalmahal, which had embraced Mamata Banerjee with open arms in the 2011 Assembly polls but chose to desert her party leaders after eight years. The voting, to many, did not fall into a pattern. After all, violence wasn’t a worry in Jangalmahal anymore. The most-feared Maoist cadres had surrendered arms, the Bengal government’s recruitment drives for junior constables, civic and village volunteers ensured employment to several thousand local youths and the fear of police raids reduced with the constant outreach programmes, including the police-organized Jangalmahal football cup. Yet, there were reverses in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Several leaders argue it was Trinamool’s failure that it couldn’t hold on to its local support here. “There was a trust deficit. It was more like a vote against Trinamool, which came as a surprise because Mamata Banerjee had a huge support base here. The local leaders created the wedge with their behaviour and lifestyle. BJP successfully amplified these hyper-local issues to reverse the votes. BJP’s campaign was also built around corruption by local Trinamool leaders,” a leader said. This anger is lower now, local leaders claim. In the lockdown, several thousand labourers had to return home after losing jobs. There was financial hardship. The 100-day-work scheme was introduced in Bengal during the lockdown, providing financial stability to several such people. In addition, the Swasthya Sathi scheme has evoked enormous response, with some people even going to Vellore for treatment with the smart card. However, Suvendu Adhikari’s defection to BJP may have a bearing in these parts. Dilip Ghosh is from Nayagram in Jhargram. On the other hand, Chatradhar Mahato’s release from prison and joining Trinamool may help the party get a formal endorsement of the tribal elders. The CM had also met tribal elders, who play a key role in these parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jangalmahal-health-job-schemes-may-help-tmc/articleshow/81236614.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Business||Rising fuel cost pushes India Inc to hike prices||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI/CHENNAI/BENGALURU: Rising fuel expenses are having a cascading effect on manufacturing costs across sectors, which is resulting in higher prices for the end consumer. On Thursday, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das also pointed out that rising fuel prices have a cost-push factor. According to auto companies and transporters, truck rentals have gone up 10-12% in the last two months and most companies are currently negotiating freight rates. Some like MG Motor said they plan to take a price hike too.  “Typically, freight comprises 2-2.5% of the cost of a car. But, due to the jump in sea freight and the 10-12% increase in truck rentals, we will have to go in for another round of price hikes of around 2-3%,” said MG Motor India president and MD Rajeev Chaba. He is currently negotiating these rates with the transporters. Read AlsoWhy India's economy needs cheaper petrol, dieselFuel prices went up again on Tuesday after a two-day pause. Petrol and diesel prices have been raised by over Rs 7 a litre this year.This has pushed petrol price to the highest level in Southeast Asia and past the Rs 100-mark in some places in India. About 60% of the petrol price and 54% of dieselFor trucking, almost 45% of the cost is due to fuel. And with fuel prices having gone up 65 times since the onset of Covid, the total increase has been upwards of 30%. Logistics startup Rivigo’s founder and CEO Deepak Garg said freight prices are unsustainable today and unless there’s an immediate correction of 15-20%, the trucking industry could face difficulties. T A Krishnan, founder and CEO of Ecom Express, which works with e-tailers like Amazon India and Flipkart, said conversations are already under way with e-commerce firms to reflect the increased cost of deliveries in contracts. Online food delivery firm Swiggy is finalising a new payment structure for its delivery partners in light of the increased fuel prices, a person aware of the matter said. Zomato on Thursday said it will hike payments to its delivery partners so they can absorb the increased cost of fuel. Whether these costs would eventually be passed on to the consumers remains to be seen. Read AlsoRBI governor urges Centre, states to cut fuel taxesRBI governor Shaktikanta Das has again called upon the central and state governments to take coordinated action and cut down taxes on petrol and diesel as these are cost-push factors.Godrej Appliances business head and executive VP Kamal Nandi said most transporters predominantly use diesel in their vehicles. Since July 2020, there has been a steady increase in diesel prices, amounting to an 11.3% surge, and this has been impacting freight charges. “This is expected to impact prices and consumer demand,” said Nandi.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Most companies are staring at a combination of higher expenses such as those for key raw materials which, along with rising fuel prices, add to the overall cost burden. Parle Products category head Mayank Shah said, with raw material and packaging expenses going up, there is an overall impact on costs. “Packaging materials are derivatives of petroleum products and that is also up, which is causing significant pressure on the bottom line. Currently, we are watching the situation. But if the prices do not go back, we will have to pass on the cost to consumers,” said Shah. A price increase could be in the range 5-7%. “No one would want to take a price hike right now as all are more interested in the revival of demand. But if input costs do not soften anytime soon, companies would be forced to take a price hike in two months,” said Shah. Read AlsoCentre in bind but 4 states offer relief as fuel’s on fireThe Centre may be facing “dharm sankat (dilemma)” over record fuel prices. But four states have taken the lead with tax cuts to offer consumers relief and show the Centre that spiralling pump prices have less to do with rising crude but is more because of high levies. Following tax cuts inWayCool Foods, a farm-to-fork supply chain enterprise, said with the fuel price increase, its total logistics cost has gone up by nearly a rupee per kg of fruits/vegetables.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); “Our inbound logistics cost — to move produce from farm to urban centres — are seeing an increase of roughly 55 paise per kg. In case of movements from warehouses to retail locations, we are seeing a price rise of around 25 paise per kg,” WayCool co-founder and CEO Karthik Jayaraman said. In the last six months, fuel prices have increased by approximately 23%. “Initially, our logistics partners were able to absorb the costs. But once the increase crossed 10-15%, we had to revisit our arrangements with them,” he added. “A typical lower middle-class family, whose grocery baskets are vegetables-heavy, may see roughly a 1-2% hike in bills. At this point, the pinch may not be too high. But if this continues, the impact may show up in consumers’ budgets,” he said. Air travel too has become more expensive. A kilolitre (KL) of aviation turbine fuel (ATF) — which accounts for 40% of an Indian carrier’s total operating cost — for domestic flights cost Rs 26,860 at Delhi’s T3 and Rs 26,456 at Mumbai airport on June 1, 2020. By January 1 this year, jet fuel prices had shot up to Rs 40,783 at Delhi’s T3 and Rs 39,267 at Mumbai, and there have been multiple price hikes thereafter as well. Airfare range for flying between Delhi and Mumbai, for instance, now is Rs 3,900-13,000, instead of Rs 3,500-10,000 earlier. These are economy one-way fares that do not include user fee of airports, passenger security fees (Rs 150 for domestic) and GST. (Contributions by Nandini Goswami, Rajesh Chandramouli, Avik Das, Saurabh Sinha, Digbijay Mishra, Surojit Gupta & Namrata Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rising-fuel-cost-pushes-india-inc-to-hike-prices/articleshow/81236215.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Pune||Inoculate 60-plus, comorbid people above 45 in Maharashtra by June: Experts||PUNE: Covid-19 task force members and health experts want the Maharashtra government to aim at inoculating citizens above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities within three to four months to reap the maximum benefit of the vaccine-induced herd immunity, beyond which the exercise may not be that beneficial. Dr Subhash Salunke, adviser to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 control on Friday said the state health authorities must aim at covering this group of beneficiaries within the next three to four months. “Prolonging completion of vaccine coverage to six to 12 months for the group may not be of great help. Vaccination has two major purposes: individual benefits and public health benefits. In terms of public health benefit, vaccine-induced herd immunity will be achieved only if the process is completed in the next three to four months, beginning March. Hence, massive preparations will be needed. This will include help from private hospitals in a big way to deliver the vaccine to the beneficiaries,” he told TOI. Intensivist Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state Covid task force, told TOI, “Three to four months will be an ideal time period to cover the third priority group of people in Maharashtra for the benefit of the community at large. This is achievable for the state, as per a rough calculation. Around 10,000 government facilities and 20,000 private centres in India are expected to be roped in for the second phase of Covid vaccination. These sites are likely to be distributed evenly among states.” He said, “Even if each centre achieves a modest target of 100 vaccinations a day, it will account for 30 lakh people getting inoculated per day in India. This will mean up to 1.5 crore vaccinations per week, which in turn will translate to a 30 crore vulnerable population getting covered in a 20-week period in the country. This means that the country can cover the vulnerable group in around four to five months.” Shashank Joshi, also a member of the state Covid task force, said, “After the frontline workers, the third priority group should be vaccinated as early as possible. But the schedule of vaccinating this group and those remaining in the first two priority groups will depend on the availability of the vaccines and also the state’s ability to upscale the process. We cannot stop vaccination after these three groups. We have to go beyond that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/inoculate-60-plus-comorbid-people-above-45-in-state-by-june-experts/articleshow/81236241.cms||Neha Madaan
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||60 plus, above 45 to get vaccine at PMJAY, CGHS empanelled hosps||Nagpur: All government, trust-run and private hospitals empanelled under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) in the 11 districts of Vidarbha are likely to host Covid-19 vaccination centres for inoculation of the 60-plus age group and above 45 years with comorbidities. The government is likely to continue the first dose for healthcare workers (HCW) and frontline workers (FLW) simultaneously with the second dose and a section of people identified for the third phase of the vaccination programme.“The government has cleared vaccination for the 60 plus age group and those above 45 years with comorbidities. They will be facilitated at hospitals empanelled under the CGHS and PMJAY. We prepared a list of 28 such hospitals. Vaccination is already going on in five of the 28 hospitals. Therefore, 23 such hospitals are likely to have vaccination centres. Guidelines from the government on other vaccination centres for these beneficiaries are expected in a day or two,” municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI.Officials from a few districts of Vidarbha said, “The decision to inoculate the 60 plus age group in empanelled hospitals of CGHS and PMJAY will be very beneficial. Already, people, especially retired persons, are aware of these empanelled hospitals. Also, these hospitals are situated across cities and towns and so, will be easily accessible,” they said.Vaccination of HCWs and FLWs is under way at nearly 144 centres in the region of which 100 are situated in six districts of Nagpur division and 44 in five districts of Amravati division.The government is yet to clear whether vaccination of those above 60 years and those over 45 years with comorbidities will also be facilitated at existing centres.The government had announced that February 25 will be the last date for the first dose for HCWs.As per the data from all districts of the region, the first dose for HCWs continued on February 26. “There are no instructions related to the first dose for HCWs. It means it will be continued,” the officials said.Around 35% of HCWs are yet to take the first dose in the region despite the rollout of the vaccine on January 16. The second dose for HCWs commenced on February 15 and continued.The government had set February 27 as the deadline for completion of the first dose for FLWs. Vaccination of FLWs started on February 5.Officials said the first dose of FLW will continue as many are yet to take the jab. As per the government’s guidelines, the second dose is to be administered 28 days from the first dose.Officials of all districts said vaccination will not be conducted on Saturday and Sunday. “Vaccination is being done on the basis of Co-WIN application launched by the government. On Saturday and Sunday, Co-WIN will not work as government is either uprgrading it or adding Co-WIN 2.0 into the earlier one,” they said.Officials added that chances of vaccination of the 60 plus age group and above 45 years with comorbidities are likely in Co-WIN 2.0 and continuation of inoculation of HCWs and FLWs in Co-WIN 1.0. “Government is likely to give four types of options for registration and inoculation of these people. On-spot registration and vaccination is likely to be one of the four options. Another option is registration on Co-WIN 2.0 by clicking on the link to be delivered by the government or visiting the site,” they said.All districts are yet to get vaccine doses for phase-III. But all districts are having sufficient doses to start it.On Friday, 10,122 HCWs and FLWs took the jab in the region. 1,597 HCWs took the first dose. Highest turnout of 5,611 was among HCWs for the second dose. Nearly 2,914 FLWs took the first dose.The number of HCW who took first dose has increased to 1,25,866 in the region. As far as the second dose is concerned, 34,835 HCWs availed the benefit on Friday. Almost 73,763 FLWs took the first dose. Total vaccination of the region was 2,34,464 on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/60-plus-above-45-to-get-vaccine-at-pmjay-cghs-empanelled-hosps/articleshow/81234729.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Former Congress presidents on state board||MUMBAI: Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday appointed former Mumbai Congress presidents Sanjay Nirupam, Eknath Gaikwad and Janardan Chandurkar on the state parliamentary board. In addition, Nana Gawande, Sachin Naik, Sanjay Rathod and Charulata Tokas have been appointed as state Congress vice presidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/former-cong-presidents-on-state-board/articleshow/81236275.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Delhi||SpiceJet eyes seaplane route to Uttarakhand||NEW DELHI: Soon, you may be able to take off from Delhi’s Yamuna riverfront and land in Uttarakhand’s famed waterbodies — Nainital’s Naini Lake and Tehri Dam. SpiceJet, which currently operates India’s only seaplane route between Ahmedabad’s Sabarmati riverfront and Statue of Unity in Kevadia, says it is getting two more seaplanes this year and is looking at new routes to and from Delhi. “It is technically feasible to do these routes using seaplanes. We are getting two more this year and are looking at deploying them in the Andamans and Uttaranchal,” SpiceJet CMD Ajay Singh said. Srinagar’s Dal Lake for flights to nearby places may also be considered if security agencies give the go-ahead. Singh added that attempts were being made to ensure that the seaplanes are leased from an Indian company based in Ahmedabad’s Gift City. India is promoting seaplane operations in the country. It recently simplified the process of getting new types of aircraft not seen here commonly earlier like seaplanes and four-seater planes. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation removed the requirement of giving type acceptance of aircraft for short-term wet leasing (hiring with operating crew) of aircraft. The routes awarded for seaplane operations so far include Sabarmati riverfront to Statue of Unity and Shatrunjay Dam; Guwahati riverfront to Umrango reservoir, Jorhat and Shillong; and Nagarjuna Sagar to Vijayawada and Hyderabad. Last August, the aviation ministry had approved 78 new routes under the fourth round of UDAN, which could see Kavaratti water aerodrome in Lakshadweep also getting flights. Agatti, Kavaratti and Minicoy islands of Lakshadweep have also been connected by the new routes of UDAN- 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/spicejet-eyes-seaplane-route-to-ukhand/articleshow/81236327.cms||Saurabh Sinha
February 27, 2021||Ahmedabad||Vax drive: 55L in Gujarat to be covered in phase III||Ahmedabad: Gujarat will cover population of about 55 lakh in the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination which will begin from March 1. State officials said that unlike earlier two phases, the upgraded CoWIN software will allow a person to choose the vaccination centre, and decide if s/he wants to get the shot at a government-run or private-run vaccination centre. Meanwhile, in a move to curb rising Covid cases, the state government announced extension of night curfew in four major cities by a fortnight. Now the curfew from 12 midnight to 6 am will be applicable till March 15. The decision was taken by a core committee chaired by CM Vijay Rupani on Friday. “The decision is taken in the light of upwards trend in Covid-19 positive cases in the major cities,” said a senior official. Jayanti Ravi, state principal health secretary, on Friday said, “The vaccination drive will start from 500 centres and will be expanded in the upcoming days. Those who come under co-morbidities category need a medical certificate for the same.” Sources close to the development said that earlier the number of beneficiaries targeted was 1 crore with population above 50 years of age. But with two categories – persons above 60 years – which consist of about 50 lakh population – and those with comorbidities in 45-60 years age bracket –which amounts to about 5 lakh population – merged, the number came down by nearly half. The state will would also initiate facilitated cohort registration for the beneficiaries along with walk-in registration and online registration for the third phase. Health department officials said that they would mobilize grassroots workers to encourage the population covered. Gujarat has so far inoculated 84% of registered healthcare workers (4.07 lakh) and 76% of frontline workers (4.14 lakh) till Friday. “Gujarat ranks first in the vaccination per million population among Indian states. We have got 15.7 lakh doses of Covishield and 4.86 lakh doses of Covaxin so far,” Ravi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vax-drive-55l-in-gujarat-to-be-covered-in-phase-iii/articleshow/81236324.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Dehradun||HNBGU students demand opening of varsity’s Doon office||Dehradun: With the Dehradun office of the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University remaining shut for months now, the students are facing a hard time in getting their grievances addressed. They say that they are forced to travel to Srinagar, where HNBGU’s head office is located, even for small tasks like submission of their assignments. The Dehradun administrative office of HNBGU was established a few years back. The aim was to facilitate the students of the Doon-based HNBGU affiliated degree colleges in their university-related works. The Dehradun office was a more convenient option for the students of colleges like DAV, SGRR, MKP, and others. The students told TOI that there is hardly any official who can guide them regarding their university-related works. In absence of any authority in Dehradun, they are forced to travel to the head office of the university in Srinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hnbgu-students-demand-opening-of-varsitys-doon-office/articleshow/81233503.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Teen at wheel of speeding Mercedes runs over 55-year-old in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 55-year-old man was mowed down by a speeding Mercedes car in south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar late on Thursday. The errant driver, Aryan Jain (19), left the car and fled the spot. He was arrested on Friday afternoon and later released on bail. His medical examination revealed no presence of alcohol in his body. Aryan’s father, Sushil Jain, is a diamond exporter and has a shop in a mall in Saket. The deceased, Antony Joseph, was on his way home after dropping his son at his relative’s house. His wife works as a cook in the residence of an American embassy official. He had lost his job during the pandemic and was currently unemployed. Joseph was on his way home on his scooter when he was hit by the MercedesJoseph’s son, Simon, who was at a hospital to receive his father’s body, said they had lost the main pillar of their family. “I have no words to express our loss. The condition of the scooter made me feel the amount of pain that my father would have gone through before his death. The accused should get the maximum permissible punishment. My father had dropped me to my uncle’s house and was returning home when the accident occurred,” he added. Police got a call around 11.45pm about a scooter rider being run over by a speeding Mercedes in Vasant Vihar. DCP (Southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said, “Joseph was from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. The family lived in the servant’s quarters of the American embassy official’s house where his wife worked as a cook. Aryan is pursuing his education from UK. He was driving the vehicle with a learner’s licence. We conducted his medical examination and no alcohol was found in his blood.” However, as per the learner’s licence norms, the car did not have ‘L’ written on it. A probe has revealed that Aryan and two of his friends had stepped out for a drive 15 minutes prior to the accident, which occurred near the A-Block market while they were returning to their residence in the same area. Joseph was crushed under the wheels of the car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teen-at-wheel-of-speeding-merc-runs-over-55-year-old/articleshow/81237569.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||With Punjab and Haryana HC bail, Nodeep Kaur walks out of prison||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday granted regular bail to labour activist Nodeep Kaur in the attempt to murder case lodged against her by Haryana police for allegedly attacking the cops. Nodeep, who belongs to Gordpur village of Muktsar in Punjab, has been in custody since January 12, 2021. The HC observed that the slapping of attempt to murder, assault and other charges against Nodeep is a “debatable issue” and would be decided by the trial court. In the detailed order, Justice Avneesh Jhingan of the HC observed that the right to peaceful protest is circumscribed by a thin line. “The crossing of the line may change the colour of protest. It would be subject matter of trial as to whether the line for peaceful protest was crossed in the alleged incident or not,” the judge observed. Granting bail to the petitioner, the court in its order said, “...It will suffice that the petitioner shall maintain a restraint while being on bail to ensure that no law and order issue arises due to her actions.” On the contention of Sonipat police claiming possession of Nodeep’s video in which she is allegedly inciting the crowd, the HC observed that at this stage, no comment is being made on it before the court. Nodeep, who had been lodged in Karnal jail, was later in the day released from the facility as she had already been granted bail by local court in Sonipat in another FIR registered against her. In her bail petition, her counsel had submitted that she along with some workers was on a peaceful protest outside the factory premises regarding non-payment of wages to some of the labourers when she was arrested. Nodeep’s lawyer, senior advocate R S Cheema argued that the petitioner is a woman and under the proviso to Section 437 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) even the magistrate could have granted bail. He further argued that two FIRs had been registered for one incident. Cheema also submitted that there is no specific injury attributed to the petitioner for invoking Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC. Deepak Sabharwal, while representing Haryana, argued that protest turned violent, police officials were attacked and injuries were inflicted to police personnel and an attempt was made to snatch the weapons from the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/with-hc-bail-nodeep-walks-out-of-prison/articleshow/81236332.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Pune||Two-day vax session break from today for CoWIN version upgrade||Pune: Government officials on Friday said there would be no Covid-19 vaccination session this Saturday and Sunday to facilitate an upgrade in the CoWIN app ahead of the launch of the next phase of inoculation for people aged above 60 and also those over 45 years and with comorbidites from March 1.“The digital platform is transitioning from CoWIN 1.0 to CoWIN 2.0. As a result, vaccination sessions will not be scheduled during these two days,’’ an official said.Benefeciaries in the latest categories can walk in the vaccination sites with identity proof such as electoral or Aadhaar cards and get registered for the jabs, besides having the option of self-registration on CoWIN app, an official said.Staffers at the vaccination sites would help these beneficiaries to get themselves registered on the CoWIN app on the spot, officials associated with the inoculation planning process said. Ram Sewak Sharma, chairman of the Empowered Group on Technology and Data management to combat Covid-19, said the CoWIN app would be made public on March 1.“Besides getting assistance for the registration on the CoWIN app, the citizens can also use the common service centres to get registered on the portal. Those having trouble to register on their own can walk in to sites with their documents and seek assistance from the private hospital staffers,” he said.An official said though CoWIN would be made public on March 1, the registration process would start from the week after in a phased process. Keeping the concerns over the glitches in the CoWIN app raised by health officials, citizens and experts, an official said the state government has decided to allow the walk-in registration for the beneficiaries in the third phase of vaccination starting March 1. People aged between 45 and 60 having co-morbidities will just need a certificate from a registered medical practitioner—from public or private sector—verifying that they have a disease that can increase the risk of infection and hence they’re eligible to get the Covid-19 vaccine on priority, according to officials.The government is yet to release a protocol for doctors, but people in the specified age group and suffering from one or more co-morbidities like uncontrolled diabetes, heart disorders, chronic pulmonary, kidney diseases, cancer, transplant patients, those on immune medication and those with morbid obesity conditions are eligible for the shots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-day-vax-session-break-from-today-for-cowin-version-upgrade/articleshow/81236341.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 27, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cannot do business at cost of people’s lives: Gujarat HC to hospitals||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has made it very clear that it will not permit hospitals to function and do business at the cost of people’s lives, if they do not have adequate fire safety systems in place. During the hearing of the PIL and other litigations seeking action against those responsible for Shrey hospital fire and demanding proper implementation of fire safety laws, the bench of Justices J B Pardiwala and I J Vora rejected the request by Shrey Hospital to allow it to re-start its functioning. The judges said, “You cannot run a hospital in this apartment that is for sure. Originally, it was a residential plan and you got it changed from residential to commercial purpose…We cannot permit you to run this hospital anymore.” The judges further said, “We cannot allow you to carry out the business at the cost of people’s lives. There are other businesses, you can do it.” The judges were very critical of the hospital owner’s approach and repeatedly commented that they are “powerful” people. The court expressed its displeasure when the kin of fire victims complained that mild charges were invoked against those responsible for the fire in which eight Covid-19 patients lost their lives in August 2020. The court also took notice of the complaint that the hospital owner tried to influence the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation officials. Justice Pardiwala told hospital’s lawyer, “Better tell your client that he should not try to exert pressure on any of the corporation officials. You need to lie low.” Meanwhile, Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association also appeared before the court, but judges refused to hear it. “Why are you unnecessarily poking into this PIL. You remain in dialogue with the corporation. Either comply or pull down shutters. We don’t know how you run the show. If you don’t have (fire) NOC, shut down. Just comply and report. Things are going to be very serious.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cannot-do-business-at-cost-of-peoples-lives-hc-to-hospitals/articleshow/81236360.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Positive change is visible in all sectors: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala has taken a huge leap in terms of development in the last five years and there is a visible change in all sectors, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “The reputation of the state has grown. Though ours is a small state, our achievements were noticed and discussed internationally,” he said while inaugurating the valedictory rally of the southern leg of LDF’s ‘Vikasana Munnetta Yatra’ led by CPI leader Binoy Viswam MP. Addressing a large gathering of LDF workers an hour after the announcement of assembly poll date, Vijayan listed out the achievements of the government led by him and attributed those as the success of the people of Kerala. “There was a mindset that nothing will work here. That has changed and the people of the state have catalysed that change,” he said. Referring to the development of several stretches of national highway, Vijayan said the government had wanted a solution to the situation of people spending long hours on road. “Naturally, there was the need for acquiring land. We took people into confidence and ensured decent compensation. They cooperated and the road development became a reality,” he said. “Also, there was a feeling that Gail pipeline project couldn’t be completed here. That too was proved wrong with the cooperation of people,” he said. When referring to the development projects initiated with the help of KIIFB, Vijayan recalled the initial criticism against the institution levelled by the opposition. “They said it will remain a dream. But, now we have started work of Rs 63,000 crore worth projects under KIIFB,” he said. “The government has tried to initiate several good projects in the last five years. Did the opposition support at least one among those? Why did they oppose projects that are beneficial for the people? Their approach was so in all situations. When the people of Kerala joined together to fight Covid-19, what was our opposition doing? Did the opposition send you a word of appreciation for the good work you have done?” Vijayan asked the audience, warning the opposition not to humiliate people. The southern leg of the yatra was flagged off by CPI general secretary D Raja in Kochi. The valedictory rally was also addressed by Binoy Viswam and M V Govindan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/positive-change-is-visible-in-all-sectors-pinarayi-vijayan/articleshow/81234749.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nashik||Halls, lawns in CBD will be fined Rs 50k for violation||Nashik: The Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) will impose a fine of Rs 50,000 each on the owners/managers of wedding halls or lawns if they are found violating the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government. The public notice, issued by CBD CEO Ajay Kumar, states that while organising any function at a public place, like lawns and marriage halls, the organisers will not allow attendance of more than 100 people. A fine of Rs 50,000 will be imposed on the organiser of the function or the proprietor of the place if the said condition is violated. On the second offence, the place, where these norms are found to be violated, will be sealed without any further notice, said Kumar. Citizens too have to take permission to organise any function, and those found violating Covid- related norms are liable for action. Traders have also been instructed to set up barricades in front of their shops and mark spaces to maintain social distancing. They are also required to keep sanitiser for customers and ensure they wear masks. The CEO said large gatherings continue to remain prohibited and spitting in public places is punishable with a fine of Rs 500. Consumption of liquor, paan or tobacco in public places is also prohibited. The CBD has started taking action against people not wearing masks and not observing social distancing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/halls-lawns-in-cbd-will-be-fined-rs-50k-for-violation/articleshow/81234742.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 27, 2021||Pune||Over 18L people set to get jab in third round in PMR||Pune: Over 18 lakh people would be inoculated in the Pune Metropolitan Region in the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination, starting from March 1.The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations have planned vaccination of around 18 lakh beneficiaries, comprising those aged above 60 years and the 45-plus people with comorbidities. The Pune Zilla Parishad’s (ZP) chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad, said on Friday the ZP administration had plans to vaccinate 5.94 lakh senior citizens across 13 tehsils in the district during the drive.Ashish Bharati, the head of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s health department, said, “The planning for vaccination has started. Our focus is to increase the centres. We shall join hands with private hospitals for covering more beneficiaries.”Bharati said their primary estimates suggested that around 20-25% of the total population in the civic areas were in the category of beneficiaries of the new phase. “It works out to around 10 lakh and we shall be planning accordingly,” the official said.“We shall wait for the specific guidelines from the higher authorities. After that, the exact number of beneficiaries and the process for their vaccination can be fine-tuned,” said Bharati.The PMC officials said they had planned to double the number of vaccination centres. Currently, a total of 30 centres having 39 sites, have been made functional. The number would be increased to 60 for the next stage of vaccination.The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC)’s additional commissioner, Ajit Pawar, on Friday said they were finalising the number of beneficiaries, but clarity from the Union government was awaited. “We shall be getting the detailed information by Friday night, following which our preparations regarding increasing the vaccination sites or deploying more manpower would be worked out,” he said.Another civic body official from the health department said the training of the vaccinators was under way for the upcoming vaccination drive for senior citizens and comorbid people.According to the experts, more than 3 lakh beneficiaries were likely to be included in the vaccination drive from March 1 onwards in the PCMC limits. At present, eight civic hospitals are engaged in the vaccination drive of the healthcare workers and frontline workers in the PCMC limits.The Pune ZP’s chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad, said, “A survey of senior citizens and co-morbid patients, conducted in the past, would be used for vaccinating people in this phase. Confidence-building among the senior citizens to go for the inoculation remains a challenge,” Prasad said, adding that the administration might have to increase the number of vaccination centres to meet the target.“We have about 100 private hospitals that do various kinds of vaccination in the district and could start vaccinating new beneficiaries in the rural areas. We have the necessary infrastructure, trained manpower and, most importantly, our staffers are acquainted with the standard operating procedures for vaccination. So, even if the number of beneficiaries is high, we shall be able to do it effectively,” he said.The ZP was yet to receive the guidelines pertaining to the new vaccination drive, said Prasad.“However, our officials have chalked out an elaborate vaccination plan. Once we get the instructions, we shall include them in our plan and commence the work. Our focus would be to vaccinate maximum citizens in this category. To achieve the objective, we would conduct awareness drives at the village-level in the days to come,” Prasad said.Dr Sachin Ekde, the district immunisation officer, said, “The training sessions of the new drive would be conducted in the next two days. Various aspects of the drive would be covered in the sessions.”The ZP has already launched the third round of “Majhe Kutumb, Majhi Jababdari (My family, My Responsibility)” drive in villages where five or more cases of Covid-19 had been reported, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-18l-people-set-to-get-jab-in-third-round-in-pmr/articleshow/81236278.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Registration dept bounces back, but may miss target||Hyderabad: Though Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown badly hit revenue of the state, the registration and stamps (R&S) department is bouncing back. The state government has earned nearly Rs 2,000 crore in just two and half months through property registrations. In January alone, the registration department had earned Rs 950 crore. However, the major revenue-earning department may not achieve its target of Rs 8,000 crore this fiscal. The state government gets major revenue (state own tax revenue) from registration and stamps department, commercial taxes and excise departments. However, due to the lockdown, the registration offices were shut and later also there was no property transactions. Since September, 2020 onwards, the state government had declared registration holiday for nearly two and half months to ensure registration of both agriculture and non-agriculture properties through Dharani portal. As there were legal hitches, the state government could go ahead with agriculture property registrations through Dharani by revenue department, while the old system is being followed for non-agriculture property registrations from December 14, 2020. “Since December 14, about 3.10 lakh non-agriculture property documents were registered, which fetched Rs 1,950 crore to the department. While the revenue was Rs 950 crore in January, it was about Rs 640 crore in February 2021,” a top official of the registration and stamps department told TOI. Of the Rs 2,000 crore revenue generated since December, 2020, nearly Rs 1,200 crore came from real estate hubs Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri and Sangareddy districts, official sources said. After reopening sub-registrar offices with full capacity, the department’s revenue was less than 50% of its normal daily revenue. “Our department revenue target is about Rs 8,000 crore for the 2020-2021 fiscal. But the department may end up getting about Rs 5,500 crore by the end of this financial year. We expected about Rs 10,000 crore initially for 2020-2021 with an intention to increase land values. But the idea was dropped due to the the impact of lockdown,” a senior official in CMO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/registration-dept-bounces-back-but-may-miss-target/articleshow/81236322.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 27, 2021||Delhi||N corpn bets on solar power to cut bill||New Delhi: To cut down on electricity bills and run its offices and buildings through solar energy, North Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to install solar panels at various places. The mayor, Jai Prakash, along with electricity department officials visited the Civic Centre on Friday to check the space availability and feasibility for installation of solar panels on its terrace. Officials claimed that “1.3 lakh units of energy can be produced per year through the panels and the electricity bill slashed down by 70% (around Rs 15 lakh) if the project gets implemented.” “We are preparing a feasibility report, which will be submitted to the deliberative wing. After the proposal gets approved and finalised, it will be sent to the ministry concerned for allocation of funds and supporting the cause. We will need to consider the height of the building before finalising the proposal,” said a north corporation official. The 112m-high corporation headquarters, Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Civic Centre, is one of the tallest buildings in Delhi. Jai Prakash said that officials have been directed to explore the possibility of installing solar panels in other big buildings also, like zonal offices and six hospitals of the corporation. “We have installed solar power plants in 164 schools with the help of the funds provided by the Centre. A proposal to install solar power plants in 90 more schools is being worked out. After a feasibility study, the proposal will be sent to the Centre,” said the mayor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-bets-on-solar-power-to-cut-bill/articleshow/81237602.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 27, 2021||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar vows to increase police strength to over 2L personnel||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday said his government plans to increase the sanctioned strength of the police force to bring it above two lakh to improve policing in the state. “I have sought a proposal for the required number of posts in the state police, and the government will sanction it so that more personnel are recruited,” Nitish said. He was speaking at the closing ceremony of the Bihar Police Week held at the Mithilesh stadium inside the BMP-5 battalion campus in the state capital. “I had suggested in the review meeting held soon after the election that more police personnel and posts are required as they are being given more responsibilities,” the CM said. He suggested that the low ratio of the number of police personnel per lakh population should be improved and brought in line with the national average. After the CM’s speech, ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said the required police strength should be above two lakh personnel. “The current sanctioned strength is around 1.3 lakh against which 90,000 personnel are available,” Kumar said, adding, there are 80 cops available per lakh population in Bihar. “The attempt is to bring the ratio as per the national average, which is 150 personnel per lakh population. To achieve this a large number of posts of all ranks in the proportional ratio needs to be sanctioned,” the ADG said. Kumar said the process started soon after the CM’s review meeting held on December 9 last year. In his speech, Nitish informed that more than 50,000 recruitments have already been made in the past 15 years. “Recruitment process is ongoing for more than 10,000 posts as per information provided to me,” he said. Nitish further said that there would be mobile forensic laboratories in every district soon. “These units would be known as district mobile forensic units. They would be aimed for quick examination of the crime scene so that investigation is done quickly and effectively,” he added. “For the first time, a women’s battalion has been formed. The Swabhiman battalion has been formed for tribal women when the population of STs in the state is less than 1%. Besides, a women’s police station is there in each district,” he said. “There is hardly any state with such a large share of women (23%) in the police force. I am confident that in the next four to five years, the 35% quota given to women would get fulfilled,” he said. The CM said instruction has been issued to complete the construction of separate facilities such as bathrooms, sitting areas, among others for women police personnel. “We are committed to enforcing the rule of law, brotherhood, communal harmony, unity and peace amid all and state police has played a major role in it. An earlier large count of communal riots used to take place but state police have done a great job in the betterment of all the situation besides crime control,” he said while praising the state police. The CM said serious action against those involved in liquor smuggling is being taken. “3.39 lakh accused have been arrested, 417 convicted during the same period. 5,401 liquor smugglers from bordering states and Nepal were arrested, 37,484 vehicles got seized and 3482 were auctioned in prohibition related cases,” he said. Nitish said action has also been taken by police and excise personnel for their inaction in prohibition. “Departmental proceedings against 619 personnel were conducted, FIR was registered against 348, 186 personnel were dismissed and 60 SHOs were removed from the post of station house officers,” he said. The CM also felicitated seven civilians Rani Kumari, Arpita Raj, Mohammad Hafizur Rahman, Apurva Amitesh, Santosh Kumar Mahto, Sudhir Kumar, Gaurav Singh Rathore with a commendation letter and Rs 10000 for their exemplary bravery against criminals, Maoists or in restoring peace during communal tension across the state. He also felicitated ADG (CID) Vinay Kumar, ADG (special branch) JS Gangwar and seven other officers. All these officers had been awarded President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service in the last few years. Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani, CM’s principal secretary Chanchal Kumar, DGP SK Singhal and other officers were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-vows-to-increase-police-strength-to-over-2l-personnel/articleshow/81234757.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 27, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Date set for duel, it’s a short race to finish for Edappadi K Palaniswami, M K Stalin||CHENNAI: Bringing the curtains down on the four-year AIADMK government led by Edappadi K Palaniswami, the Election Commission of India on Friday announced elections to the 234-member Tamil Nadu assembly. It was life on tenterhooks for Palaniswami for the first two years as AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran unleashed sustained attacks on the government by pulling MLAs from the AIADMK and the rug from under Palaniswami’s feet. DMK chief M K Stalin’s decision to wait till the EPS government crumbled under its own weight aided Palaniswami for good measure. Finally, it took a mini general election to the assembly in 2019 for Palaniswami to stabilise his government. Palaniswami, since then, has graduated in the art of political brinkmanship. From what looked like a virtual sweep for the DMK against a highly unpopular AIADMK government until about a year ago, the ground situation has changed. With a slew of populist schemes such as doling out cash to people during the pandemic, Rs 1,715 crore compensation for farmers affected by natural calamities, farm loan waiver of Rs 12,110 crore and launching a series of irrigation infrastructure projects, EPS has earned some pan-Tamil Nadu acceptance of late. He has sought to appease government employees and teachers, numbering more than 12 lakh, by extending their retirement age to 60. And finally, to appease the PMK, he announced an internal reservation of 10.5% for vanniyars. The AIADMK front is all set to put up a tough fight with the DMK front. The DMK front, on the other hand, is a formidable force and has proven its strength by winning 38 of the 39 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general elections. None of the allies, whether it be the Congress, CPI, CPM, MDMK, VCK, IUML or the Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi, is posing threats to the Dravidian major, at least outwardly. Many of them have even resigned to the fact that their candidates would have to contest on the DMK’s rising sun symbol. With a series of outreach programmes, Stalin has been interacting with the electorate across the state for several months. Going by the crowd he attracts, the opposition seems to have more than an edge. Peaking too early into the campaign could make the alliance complacent though as it happened in 2016. As things stand today, the northern districts, dominated by vanniyars and dalits, may throw up a mixed result as the dalit-dominated VCK is with the DMK and vanniyar-dominated PMK is with the AIADMK. The western gounder belt, which routed the DMK in the 2016 assembly elections, continues to pose major challenges to the DMK front as the AIADMK has transformed into a gounder-dominated party after Jayalalithaa’s demise. Of the 72 constituencies in the western belt, gounders are the deciding factor in 54 seats. The central districts, dominated by the farming community, has been a traditional bastion of the DMK. The AIADMK, however, has sought to make inroads into this fort with a series of farmer-centric welfare schemes. The southern districts, with considerable presence of minorities, both Christians and Muslims, pose a challenge for the AIADMK front. The presence of the BJP in the front could impact the AIADMK's prospects there. To add to its worries, V K Sasikala and her thevar community could split pro-AIADMK votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/date-set-for-duel-its-a-short-race-to-finish-for-eps-stalin/articleshow/81236335.cms||Jayaraj Sivan
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Earthmover runs amok in Jubilee Hills, 2 injured||HYDERABAD: Four vehicles, including two high-end cars were damaged and two persons sustained minor injuries in a road accident when an earthmover ran amok at road number 36 in Jubilee Hills on Friday. After the preliminary probe, police said that brake failure was the reason for the accident. At around 3.50 pm, an earthmover travelling from Jubilee Hills Check Post to Madhapur went out of control near Chutney’s restaurant U-turn on road number 36 of Jubilee Hills and rammed into three cars and an autorickshaw. “The driver of the earthmover was not able to control the vehicle when he came near the U-turn due to brake failure. The heavy vehicle first hit an SUV taking a U-turn and then rammed into two cars and an auto waiting to take the U-turn,” Jubilee Hills SI G Sekhar said. Police said that the SUV belongs to businessman Rohit Reddy of Jubilee Hills. The driver and a friend of Reddy, who was in the vehicle at the time of the accident, suffered minor injuries. A high-end sedan, a car and an auto were also damaged but the drivers and passengers of those vehicles escaped unhurt, the SI said. A case was registered under section 337 of the IPC against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/earthmover-runs-amok-in-jubilee-hills-2-injured/articleshow/81236373.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi University: Law faculty on notice for EWS quota violation||NEW DELHI: Following a complaint, University Grants Commission (UGC) has written to Delhi University over alleged violation of the 10% reservation norm for the economically weaker section (EWS) category at Faculty of Law. The registrar and the acting vice-chancellor of the university have been asked to reply to the letter over the admissions in the academic session 2020-21 for the LLB course at Faculty of Law. The UGC letter is signed by undersecretary Meena Kumari Nirmal. According to the complaint letter, sent to UGC by a candidate, “There has been a grave violation of fundamental rights of the students/applicants belonging to the EWS category by University of Delhi. In the admission process for the LLB course at Faculty of Law, University of Delhi (2020-21), EWS reservation is not implemented as per Article 15(6), Constitution of India. As a result, DU deducted 172 seats for the EWS category without any reasonable justification.” The complainant claimed that the university’s Faculty of Law was the only department that did not implement the 10% EWS reservation. In 2019, the university had implemented 15% reservation and, in 2020, the 10% reservation was implemented. On September 11, the seat matrix for the admission session was published on the official website with 2,888 seats for LLB, out of which 289 were marked for EWS candidates, the letter stated. On November 24, the admission branch of DU issued the admission guidelines, in which total seats, including all categories for LLB course, were mentioned as 2,922 while the EWS category had 117 seats, it pointed out. The information was based on the data submitted by Faculty of Law to the admission branch of the university, the complainant claimed. TOI had highlighted the issue during the admission. University officials did not respond to calls and messages on the matter. Earlier, the dean of the faculty had said, “Due to a 2018 high court case, the law faculty is required to maintain the status quo. The court case was not in the notice of the university. So when they increased the seats for all other courses, same happened for LLB as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/law-fac-on-notice-for-ews-quota-violation/articleshow/81236438.cms||Shradha Chettri
February 27, 2021||Pune||Vaccination rate drops before before start of next phase||Pune: A marginal decline of 11% was registered in terms of vaccination rate in PMR on Friday. Officials stated that areas under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits also witnessed a dip in the number of people getting the jabs. An official said 116% of the targeted beneficiaries in the PMC areas were vaccinated. The percentage was 137 on Thursday. The trend was similar in areas under the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and also in the rural belt of the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). Data provided by the civic and district administrations revealed that 5,742 beneficiaries took their first jab on Friday, while 2,500 people took the second dose in the district. Among the beneficiaries were both healthcare and frontline workers. In the PMC areas, the beneficiaries included 439 healthcare and 3,051 frontline workers. As many as 1,044 beneficiaries got the second jab.Among the beneficiaries in the PCMC limits, 115 were healthcare and 563 frontline workers. As many as 678 beneficiaries opted for the second dose. In the rural areas, 301 healthcare and 1,273 frontline workers took the first jab. As many as 972 beneficiaries took the second jab.The vaccination rate (66%) on Tuesday had gone from Monday’s 41%. The rate came down to 57 % on Wednesday and reached to 76% Thursday. It again went down to 65% on Friday.“The emphasis is on creating awareness about the importance of vaccination. It is encouraging that the beneficiaries are come forward to get the shots. The PMC is also urging the registered staffers to take the jab,” said Ashish Bharati, head of the PMC’s health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaccination-rate-drops-before-before-start-of-next-phase/articleshow/81236385.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Will continue fight against injustice’||Karnal: Released from Karnal jail, activist Nodeep Kaur thanked all the people who had supported her. She was given a warm welcome outside the Karnal jail. Nodeep said she would continue her fight against injustice and exploitation, adding that she would again go to Delhi borders to support protesting farmers. Interacting with media, Nodeep said, “I did not do any wrong, and cannot think of doing anything wrong in future. I am a daughter of farmer and will always stand with the labourer and farming community. I always will be raising the voice against exploitation.” “I was brutally beaten in the police station by the Sonipat police. I was framed in false cases and will prove it in the court as we have all the proofs,” she claimed. She alleged that fellow activist Shiv Kumar was also thrashed brutally by the police. However, she did not speak about her case in detail. She also said that she was not tortured in jail. She said two of her family members were allowed to meet her in the jail. She said PM Narendra Modi should accept farmers’ demands without any further delay so that they could return their homes. Nodeep was accompanied by DSGMC president Manjinder Sirsa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-continue-fight-against-injustice/articleshow/81236380.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman held with drugs worth Rs 50 lakh||The Anti Narcotic cell of Mumbai on Thursday arrested a48 year old woman with half a kg of Mephedrone or MD worth Rs 50 lakhs from Malad area. The Azad maidan unit of ANC laid a trap near Inorbit mall in Malad and arrested Saira Shaikh, a resident of Malad link road||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-held-with-drugs-worth-rs-50l/articleshow/81237604.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nashik||One-window system now open at CP office||Nashik: The one-window system for granting permission for wedding ceremonies and other such programmes is now open at the office of the police commissionerate in the city. The one window system comprises an officer of the rank of an assistant police inspector (API) and four clerical staff who would check all the documents before granting permission. The permission has to be sought by the owners and managers of wedding halls, lawns, banquet halls and hotels and not by those who are organising the programme. Apart from the basic information like the name and location, registration number, etc of the establishment, the applicant will also have to produce a ‘no objection’ certificate from the local self-government body, traffic police, the police station, the nature of the programme and the name of the organizer. Action will be taken against those who organize programmes without taking police permission. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/one-window-system-now-open-at-cp-office/articleshow/81234765.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Charges against me are political: Vadra||Jaipur: Businessman and husband of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, Robert Vadra offered prayers at the Moti Doongri Ganesh Temple, while on a religious visit, here on Friday.Talking to reporters, Vadra repeated his willingness to join politics in future to counter the ‘routine’ allegations against him levelled by the opposition parties. “All charges against me are political. I have already submitted all relevant business documents against the baseless charges. Whenever they (opposition) are in a tight position or cornered over an issue, they toss my name to divert public attention," Vadra told media.He defended Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over the ‘North-South’ remark. "Rahul Gandhi hasn't said anything to hurt anyone. He is neutral and sees India as one. Rahul loves people of Uttar Pradesh, Amethi, Gujarat," news agency ANI quoted him as saying.During a public rally in Thiruvananthapuram earlier this week, Rahul said, "For the first 15 years, I was an MP in the North. I got used to a different type of politics. For me, coming to Kerala was refreshing as suddenly I found that people are interested in issues and not just superficially but going into detail in issues."(With agency inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/charges-against-me-are-political-vadra/articleshow/81236355.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid score: Ahmedabad 99*||AHMEDABAD: In cricket season, two major cities in Gujarat are poised to record century of a different sort. Ahmedabad and Surat added 99 new Covid-19 positive cases each in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Friday. In fact, the four major cities – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot – accounted for 70% of daily cases on Friday. Analysis of the positive cases in Ahmedabad and Surat revealed that Ahmedabad doubled cases from 45 to 99, whereas Surat tripled cases from 36 to 99 in a matter of seven days. Experts also pointed out that after 17 days, the number of active cases in Gujarat climbed to 2,000, whereas the daily cases of 460 were at a 35-day high. “The surge is likely to continue next week with the local body elections, major public events and virtually no restrictions on gatherings with reduction in night curfew hours,” said a city-based infectious diseases specialist. “As the viral infection works in multiplication factor, the rise in case will not go down suddenly. It’s still a city-centric phenomenon, but the districts are also recording rise in cases –which is apparent from the decline in number of districts recording zero cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-score-ahmedabad-99/articleshow/81236412.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Man lays on tracks, rescued by RPF||Depressed about his mother’s death, a 32-year-old man laid on the tracks at Virar to end his life. He would have been run over had an RPF inspector not saved him. An oncoming train was 50m away from Kishore Nayak, inspector Pravin Kumar pulled him to safety. The incident was caught on cameras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-lays-on-tracks-rescued-by-rpf/articleshow/81237619.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ahmedabad||Community service for party workers if Covid cases rise: Chief Justice of Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: Taking a dig at the state government’s lack of will to enforce social-distancing norms during elections, the Chief Justice of Gujarat high court on Friday suggested that if victory celebrations result in further rise of Covid-19 cases, political party workers may be engaged in community service as a punishment. During the hearing of the suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and lockdown, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala conveyed to the advocate general that it is beyond the control of the government to ensure Covid-19 norms during elections and the state machinery is geared up to control the spread of the disease as soon as elections are over. The CJ commented, “One thing is sure, if election celebrations by parties result in further increase of Covid-19 cases, all party workers registered may be put to community service.” Justice Pardiwala welcomed the suggestion, “That is a very good suggestion by My Lord the chief justice.” Advocate general Kamal Trivedi also concurred, “I also endorse this. I will convey to the government that they remain on guard.” The CJ further said, “Whether party workers wear mask or not. We have seen videos of celebration.” The AG said that mask would make a difference. Justice Pardiwala commented, “No one is wearing a mask. Maintaining social distancing is out of question. But at least mask gives some protection.” The court questioned government preparedness as cases are on the rise again. The AG told court that the government would try to “tighten the screw” by making people wear masks and making room in the hospital, if cases increase. Justice Pardiwala said the compulsory mask rule needs to be implemented strictly. To the advocate general’s suggestion that the state may think of restricting people’s entry in Gujarat, the judge laughed and said, “That is not going to solve your problem. The day your election celebrations are over, only thereafter you are able to take things in control.” The court further said that the election will still take a week and the celebrations will last long. “Your election celebrations should not spoil our prospects of physical functioning. Controlling celebration is beyond your control. It’s not possible,” the judge said and added, “It is (Covid) still there.” The court has posted further hearing six weeks later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/community-service-for-party-workers-if-covid-cases-rise-cj/articleshow/81236467.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Pune||1,451 fresh cases reported; seven people succumb||Pune: There was a marginal decrease in the daily cases in Pune Metropolitan Region on Friday — down to 1,451 from 1,542 on Thursday. This took the region’s overall caseload to 52 short of 4.05 lakh. Pune Municipal Corporation accounted for 727 new cases. Pimpri Chinchwad (408) and rural areas (316) accounted for the rest. As many as 813 patients were discharged on Friday, pushing the total number of recoveries in the region to just over 3.86 lakh. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had the highest recoveries and Pimpri Chinchwad had 233, while the rural areas had 182. Seven people died in PMR on Friday, as per a report issued by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar. This took the region’s death toll to 9,221. Six people succumbed in PMC limits, while one person died in the rural parts. Also on Friday, 12,671 samples were tested in PMR — a record for this month. PMC tested 7,100 samples, while Pimpri Chinchwad and the rural areas tested over 2,200 and 3,200, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1451-fresh-cases-reported-seven-people-succumb/articleshow/81236426.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 27, 2021||Varanasi||Australian High Commissioner to India meets SMF members||Times News Network Varanasi: The Australian High Commission in India has been helping the Sankat Mochan Foundation, an NGO working for the cause of Ganga for over three decades, to carry out its mission of clean Ganga. During his recent visit to Varanasi on February 23, the Australian High Commissioner to India, Barry O’Farrell met the members of SMF and also visited its Swachh Ganga Laboratory at Tulsighat. “The Australian High Commission has a cordial relation with the SMF. They had given a fund of Rs 10 lakh two years back for the modernization and new equipment of our laboratory,” said the SMF president Prof Vishwambhar Nath Mishra, who is also a professor of electronics at IIT-BHU and mahanth of famous Sankat Mochan Temple. “During this visit to Varanasi, the Australian High Commissioner approved a fund of Rs 9.5 lakh to SMF’s sister organisation - Mother of Mothers, for capacity building of rural women,” Prof Mishra told TOI on Friday. The organisation headed by his wife Abha Mishra works for the upliftment of women. The SMF established by his father late Prof Veer Bhadra Mishra has been monitoring Ganga water quality along its religious bathing area with the support of its water quality monitoring laboratory established on the bank of the Ganga at Tulsighat since the commissioning of the first phase of Ganga Action Plan (GAP) for Varanasi in 1993. Currently, the SMF is engaged in regular monitoring of the Ganga water quality in the religious bathing area of Varanasi to monitor the efficacy of government’s plan to clean the Ganga, awareness building among masses, specifically young citizens by organising culturally consistent environmental education programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/australian-high-commissioner-to-india-meets-smf-members/articleshow/81235020.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Amritsar||Punjab: Back from Delhi agitation, carpenter dies by suicide in Barnala||BATHINDA: A carpenter, who had gone to farm protests on Delhi border to renovate tractor-trolleys for approaching summer, committed suicide at his home in Barnala on Thursday night. According to his family, Jaimal Singh Wala village resident Satwant Singh took the extreme step as he had been feeling dejected over the plight of farmers who have been protesting against three agro-market laws introduced by the Centre. Satwant (28) had spent many days at protests while refurbishing trolleys. He had accompanied activists of farm organisation BKU (Ekta Sidhupur). The farm organisation has demanded a financial compensation of Rs 5 lakh for Jaswant’s family. Satwant’s father Gurcharan Singh said after returning from farm protest, Satwant had been talking about the plight of farmers and how they were continuing with the protest. “He ended life only after being influenced by the farm struggle,” he said, adding that their family had been planning to soon solemnise his marriage and the engagement had been held in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/back-from-delhi-agitation-carpenter-commits-suicide/articleshow/81236443.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Allahabad||Beli hospital in Prayagraj to have OPD of private doctors||PRAYAGRAJ: For private doctors treating and running OPD for patients in a government hospital, this may sound bizarre but is nonetheless true. The state government has approved the opening of super-speciality clinics at government hospitals too. To start with, the facility is being provided at Tej Bahadur Sapru (Beli) hospital of Sangam city and Balrampur Hospital of Lucknow. “Following the instructions of the government, we would be starting these clinics from March 2 (coming Tuesday) for which we are requesting the private doctors of the city, who are specialist of their own field, to kindly spare some valuable time from their schedule and provide their consultancy to the patients who cannot afford them because of poor financial condition”, said Chief Medical Superintendent (CMS) of Tej Bahadur Sapru hospital, Dr Kiran Malik. Since our hospital has been selected for this unique scheme of providing super speciality clinic for the common man, private doctors would be treating the patients for free. In the initial phase the clinic will have treatment for plastic surgery, gastro and neurosurgery which would be further extended to other fields too, she added. To start with, the hospital has got the acknowledgement from the eminent plastic surgeon of the city, Dr Sanjay Tiwari who would be providing his services from March 2. The CMS also informed that the system of gastro-neurosurgery will start soon. Dr Tiwari would provide consultation to the patients from 9am to 11am on every Tuesday. Besides, he would also conduct operations every Thursday. The private doctors, who would be providing their services at the hospital would also be provided with a suitable honorarium by the government. “It is more of an opportunity for the medicos to contribute towards the society as not many people can afford the fees of private doctors”, said Dr Malik. Only two hospitals in the state have been approved for super-speciality clinics and it’s an honour that Beli hospital has also been included. CMS, the superintendent and the staff members of this 112 years old hospital are very excited about this scheme. “Our efforts to provide best of the treatment will continue at the hospital but indeed the additional help, that would come to us in form of consultation of the private doctors would be an added advantage for the patients”, said superintendent of the hospital Dr Manoj Akhori.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/beli-hospital-in-city-to-have-opd-of-pvt-doctors/articleshow/81232704.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Chennai||Ally PMK has its way, AIADMK govt okays 10.5% vanniyar quota||Chennai: Yielding to pressure from its ally, the PMK, the AIADMK government on Friday rushed through a bill to provide internal reservation of 10.5% to vanniyakula kshatriya community within the 20% quota for the Most Backward Classes. The bill was passed unanimously by the assembly just 30 minutes before the EC announced the TN assembly poll date. The move would help the AIADMK firm up its alliance with the PMK and strengthen its poll prospects in vanniyar dominated constituencies in the state. In a statement, PMK founder Ramadoss said his four-decade-old struggle to render social justice to vanniyars had achieved its “first-level victory.” The 10.5% quota would ensure adequate representation for the community in education and job opportunities, he said. “But the struggle will not end till a reservation proportionate to the vanniyar population was made after a caste census,” he added. Vanniyakula kshatriyas, a dominant community in the northern belt, includes vanniyar, vanniya, vannia gounder, gounder, padayachi, palli and agnikula kshatriya. The bill also provides an internal quota of 7% to Denotified Communities and the Most Backward Classes communities having similarity with Denotified Communities. Other Most Backward Classes not included in the above category are provided with 2.5% quota. The assembly was adjourned twice in the afternoon and the business advisory committee convened to decide on introducing the bill on Friday itself. “This is only an interim arrangement. A commission has been set up to collect quantifiable data of castes in six months. Changes will be made (on quota) when data on representation of each caste is arrived at,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said, while introducing the bill. He went on to add that the government considered the protests held by the caste groups for quota and the demand of PMK leader S Ramadoss. The grouping of MBCs and internal reservation is based on the recommendation of the TN Backward Classes commission. Palaniswami said the chairman of the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes commission (retired judge justice R Thanikachalam) examined the demand made by various categories and recommended to the government that internal reservation shall be given to three categories -- MBC (vanniyakula kshatriya) - 10.5%, MBC and DC (Denotified Communities) - 7% and MBC - 2.5% within the MBC and DCs to promote equitable development and to provide appropriate representation in education and employment,” the CM said. The PMK held a series of protests since December last year, exerting pressure on the AIADMK government to extend separate quota, resulting in Palaniswami government setting up a commission led by retired judge Justice A Kulasekaran to collect quantifiable data on castes, communities and tribes of Tamil Nadu, pertaining to various social, education, economic and political parameters of the population. The commission was given six months’ time to submit its report. As per the bill, the Denotified Communities and Most Backward Classes group consists of 68 and 25 communities respectively. The remaining Most Backward Classes group has 22 communities. The PMK’s protests under the aegis of vanniyar sangam in the 1980s and the police firing that claimed 21 lives, resulted in Karunanidhi-led DMK regime forming MBC and extending 20% quota, carving a group of 108 castes, including vanniyars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ally-pmk-has-its-way-aiadmk-govt-okays-10-5-vanniyar-quota/articleshow/81236398.cms||Julie Mariappan
February 27, 2021||Nashik||Resolve water woespermanently: MP||Nashik: Dindori MP Bharti Pawar on Friday urged the water supply officials of Zilla Parishad to focus on permanent source for piped water under the Jal Jeevan Mission and also on water conservation methods. Pawar made the statement during a meeting attended by district collector Mandhare, MLAs Nitin Pawar (Kalwan), Manik Kokate (Sinnar), Dilip Bankar (Niphad) and ZP officials. Nashik district has over 7.5 lakh homes that do not have piped drinking water supply and only 1.5 lakh homes have got tap water through Jal Jeevan Mission . “We drew the attention of the collector towards the fact that there were many issues related to completion of the water supply scheme. The major problem is to identify permanent water drinking source for the scheme,” said Pawar. The MP pointed out that the tapped water supply scheme in the past was a major failure given that the permanent source water was not located and a large number of the works have been left half done. “Jal Jeevan Mission is not only about laying of pipelines but also about water conservation such as recycling, reuse and harvesting. I have asked the authorities to carry out water harvesting at schools, primary health centres and government establishments,” she said. Pawar also urged the officials to consider all the factors, including the over exploitation of groundwater, and prepare a detailed project report, which will ensure permanent source of water for every village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/resolve-water-woespermanently-mp/articleshow/81234796.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||‘3 months on, stir has spread across country’||Bathinda: Three months into the farm protests on Delhi borders, Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders claimed that instead of weakening, the movement is gaining ground and spreading across the country. Activists of Sangharsh Vahini, set up by Jai Prakash Narayan, participated in the protests on Friday. Besides, senior leadership of farmers from Muzaffarpur in Bihar were among the participants. A delegation of protestors from South India reached Singhu border on Friday. They camped at Shahjahanpur and Ghazipur for two days. Protesters from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Telangana emphasised the importance of guaranteed MSP. A crowd gathered at Sunehra Jurhera border in Mewat as leaders and youth associated with Mewati Kisan Morcha marked their presence. Meanwhile,mahapanchayats were held at Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh, Nizamabad in Telangana, Karauli and Toda Bhim in Rajasthan on Thursday. On Friday, mahapanchayats were held at Sampurnanagar in Lakhimpur Kheri district of UP and Padampur and Gharsana in Ganganagar district of Rajasthan.  The morcha has decided to organise three to four large mahapanchayats in Haryana and Rajasthan in the days to come to mobilise support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-months-on-stir-has-spread-across-country/articleshow/81236434.cms||Neel Kamal
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Cops arrest four inter-state peddlers, 80kg ganja seized||HYDERABAD: Task force police arrested four inter-state ganja peddlers and seized 80 kilos ganja from their possession. Acting on specific information, police arrested, Shaik Mehraj, 24, a flower vendor, Abdul Raoof, 29, an auto driver, Shafik Khan Sarfaraj Khan, 40, a air cooler mechanic and Irfan Ali, 31, a cooler mechanic from Kanchanbagh. Police seized a four wheeler and 80 kilos of ganja from their possession. Among the accused, Mehraj has a criminal history and he was previously arrested in a robbery case in Karnataka. After coming out of the prison a few months ago, Mehraj formed a gang with the accused to procure ganja from Vizag agency area and sell it in Hyderabad and Maharashtra. As per the plan, the accused recently went to Vizag and procured ganja from suppliers. When they reached Hyderabad, police team received a tip-off and arrested them. The accused and the seized property were handed over to Kanchanbagh police for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-arrest-four-inter-state-peddlers-80kg-ganja-seized/articleshow/81236418.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||UPCC chief hands over money to boatmen families||Prayagraj: UPCC (Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee) chief Ajay Kumar Lallu on Friday handed over a collective sum of Rs 10 lakh to the 19 families at Baswar village in Ghurpoor area of trans-Yamuna. He assured the boatmen families that the party would always be 'fighting' for their rights. The Nishad community members had alleged that the police beat a few boatmen and their family members and that their boats were destroyed in the action by district administration and police gainst illegal sand mining, early this month. The UPCC chief added that if the Congress comes to power in the state, boatmen would be getting rights on Jal (water), Jameen(land) and Balu(sand) on riversides. He also alleged that atrocities were being committed on innocent people at the behest of the state government and that BJP led state government was not concerned "with the problems of the common man." Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) member Mukund Tiwari told TOI that the UPCC chief has also interacted with affected families and assured the issue about "atrocities committed on Nishad community families" will be raised in Vidhan Sabha. He added that he visited Baswar village after the instruction to do so by AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, and distributed money to the victim families. Tiwari, meanwhile, said that the OBC cell of the party has made all preparations for the Nadi Adhikar pad yatra starting from March 1 at Baswar village and the party will also be holding chaupals to interact with people of the community at villages located on the river who were deprived of their rights since long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upcc-chief-hands-over-money-to-boatmen-families/articleshow/81232686.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||21% ready to pay for jab at private hospitals: Survey||Nagpur: With the government deciding to rope in private healthcare sector to administer the Covid-19 vaccine in the next phase starting March 1, 21% of Indians say they will take the jab by paying for it at a private hospital. However, 63% do not want to pay more than Rs600 for the two doses of the vaccine.Results of a nationwide survey conducted by LocalCircles, the country’s leading community social media platform, reveals that over 50% people are willing to take the vaccine. An earlier survey showed there was hesitancy to take the vaccine. The survey received more than 16,000 responses from people across 266 districts of India.Of all the reposndents, 35% said they will be taking the vaccine at a government centre, while 27% were not sure. The survey found that 5% respondents have already taken the vaccine.“Over 75% of outpatient care in India and 55% of inpatient care is provided by the private healthcare sector. Though the vaccine at a government centre will be free, there is a general preference for private hospitals,” says Sachin Taparia, founder & chairman of LocalCircles.In the upcoming round, citizens above 60 years of age and people above 45 years with comorbidities will be eligible for the vaccination. “The survey also stated that 63% people plan to take the vaccine in the next phase at a private hospital and are not willing to pay more than Rs 600 for two vaccine doses. At least 17% said they will pay Rs 200 and 22% said they will pay Rs 300. Only 6% said they can pay above Rs 1,000. This indicates that the government must make all attempts to ensure that the private hospitals get the vaccine at the lowest cost possible so thaht they can deliver within this budget specified by the majority of citizens,” says Taparia.“How such an MRP will be defined without a market use authorization in place is something the government will have to sort out. In addition to pricing, many citizens are concerned about steps that are being undertaken to minimize vaccine black marketing, wastage and hospital management and doctor discretion on who gets the vaccine first,” said Taparia.WAITING FOR THE DRIVE* 21% Indians currently plan to take Covid-19 vaccine at a private hospital* 63% of them do not want to pay more than Rs 600 for two doses* Govt allows 24,000 private hospitals to start vaccination from March 1* Govt hospitals will continue the vaccination at no costs to citizens||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/21-ready-to-pay-for-jab-at-private-hospitals-survey/articleshow/81234818.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Godowns of corporates will be pulled down by public: Tikait||Jaipur: Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait while addressing a Kisan Mahapanchayat at Gharsana Mandi in Ganganagar said, “Godowns set up by the big corporates will be pulled down by public if these are not acquired by the Central government”. He also said, “This is an ideological movement and change will happen through ideas and not with the help of guns.” “The corporates are setting up big godowns. If the Central government doesn’t acquire these godowns, people will pull them down. That day is not far away. 2021 will be a year of ‘andolan’. There won’t be ‘ghar wapasi’, if there’s no ‘kanoon wapsi’. When a crowd gathers, it can topple the government. They lied about farmers reaching the Red Fort. If farmers had to go, they would have marched towards the Parliament, where laws are being enacted,” said Tikait, who started his speech with the slogan “Waheguruji Ka Khalsa Waheguruji Ki Fateh”. “The government will spread a lot of wrong information. You will have to be cautious. First, they said it is an agitation of Punjab and the Sikhs, and then they said it is an agitation of Haryana and a particular community. They will only try to divide us and weaken the movement. This is a movement to protect our foodgrains. This agitation is not run by party funding,” he said. “The government is not ready to concede to our demands, which means the agitation will continue for a longer period. Earlier, there was a demand for loan waiver, now a campaign will run to drive out the ‘looteras’ of the country,” added Tikait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/godowns-of-corporates-will-be-pulled-down-by-public-tikait/articleshow/81236431.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Congress may surprise with early list of candidates||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Congress could break new ground as it prepares for the assembly election with leaders working on winding up seat-sharing talks by Monday and issuing the first list of candidates by the first week of March. The party is known for dragging the candidate list to the 11th hour as regional leaders lobby supporters. But it is expected to be different this time with the high command holding sway over the state leadership. Evidently, it is a do-or-die battle for UDF, and especially Congress, as pre-poll surveys point to LDF retaining power. And the high command has made it clear that group affiliations will not be a criterion for selecting candidates. “We have to win this election at any cost. We cannot think of anything else but a victory. It will reflect in the candidate selection and Rahul Gandhi has already conveyed this message to state leaders,” said AICC general secretary K C Venugopal. A team of AICC leaders is camping in the state doing the groundwork and keeping high command posted with regular reports. AICC has also carried out a survey of the most popular and acceptable candidates for each constituency. Unlike in the past, Congress has decided to field fresh, young faces this time round. It is also hoping to spring a few surprises with professionals and technocrats added to the mix. Dr S S Lal, who has returned from an assignment with World Health Organization (WHO), and Venu Rajamony, former ambassador to Netherlands, are just some of the names doing the rounds. “UDF seat-sharing talks can be completed in a day or two. The final seats of each constituent will be decided by Monday. A meeting of front leaders has been scheduled for Wednesday,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. Even though KPCC is of the opinion that all sitting members should make the list, it is awaiting a decision from the high command. The AICC observers, it is believed, have relayed to the high command the strong anti-incumbency hobbling some MLAs. “Winnability and acceptability are the two criteria the party is looking at while finalizing candidates. No other factors will play a role, like in the past. The high command wants to be certain of a sweep in the polls,” said KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cong-may-surprise-with-early-list-of-candidates/articleshow/81234816.cms||Rajiv G
February 27, 2021||Pune||Pune: Hospitals want civic body to clear Rs 50cr care dues||PUNE: The association of private hospitals in the city has urged the municipal corporation to clear Rs50 crore of dues pending for the treatment of Covid-19 patients referred by the civic administration. The association has written a letter to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner highlighting details of the dues — Rs 50 crore for nine leading private health hubs — and seeking his intervention into the issue. The association has stated it would be difficult for the member hospitals to continue rendering Covid care if the dues were not paid. “We have been making repeated requests to your office with regard to the huge outstanding from the PMC to the hospitals in Pune towards hospitalization of its beneficiaries. It is unfortunate that none of our requests have been addressed and most of the hospitals, as you know, are charitable trust hospitals,” association president Bomi Bhote said in the letter to the civic chief. The letter stated the dues of each hospital ranged from Rs1 crore to Rs 11 crore. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “We had an interaction with representatives of the hospitals after the association raised its demand. The administration will soon start the process to clear the dues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hospitals-want-civic-body-to-clear-rs-50cr-care-dues/articleshow/81236442.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
February 27, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami waives off jewel loans of farmers, says not aping Stalin||CHENNAI: Days after DMK chief M K Stalin made a poll promise, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday announced in the state assembly that jewel loans up to six sovereigns availed by farmers in cooperative banks and all loans availed by self-help groups (SHGs) through cooperative banks would be waived. The promise came just hours before the election commission announced the poll schedule for Tamil Nadu. Making a statement under Rule 110, the CM said, “I am happy to announce that the jewel loans availed by pledging up to six sovereigns will be waived.” The decision, he said, had been taken keeping in mind the extraordinary situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic and the fallout of cyclones faced by the farming community and their pleas for relief. Loans availed by women self-help groups (SHGs) would also be waived, the CM said. “It will benefit one lakh SHGs with 15 lakh members,” he said. Asserting that his government was implementing programmes after careful consideration of the demands of the people, Palaniswami lashed out at DMK chief M K Stalin for accusing him of aping him. In a hurriedly convened press meet at the state secretariat in Chennai, minutes before the election commission issued the election notification in Delhi, the CM accused the DMK chief of lying. “He is not in power, so he can say anything. But those in power will have to think, assess and then announce. Knowing that our government is working on (the schemes), he has been spreading false propaganda that I was announcing schemes after he did,” Palaniswami said. The CM justified the announcements of Rs 12,110 crop loan waiver, jewel loan waiver and that of the loans availed by the self-help group members by his government. Palaniswami said he was not only the chief minister, but also born and raised in a farming family, aware of the people’s needs, problems, pains and sufferings and knew when to extend assistance. Asked about the waiver of loans when the government faced an outstanding debt burden of Rs 5.7 lakh crore, the chief minister said the state governments in the country were resorting to borrowings and none of them were announcing schemes with money in hand. Even the Union government had announced schemes during general elections despite debt burden. The state GDP had seen a growth because of the programmes implemented under loan assistance. “Even Stalin himself admitted the DMK regime had left 1.5 lakh crore outstanding debt burden in 2011,” he said, while pointing to the rising cost in the last ten years. The CM denied rolling out of schemes had anything to do with elections. “Stalin says Edappadi Palaniswami makes only announcements and will not implement them. But our government implements whichever scheme is announced,” the CM said, adding that the state would take action to reduce the debt burden in future. He said the allocation of Rs 5,000 crore towards crop loan waiver was based on NABARD loan and it will be paid in instalments in five years. Asked about the DMK’s allegation that the government had floated tenders for Rs 40,000 crore just ahead of the elections, the CM said the government was only floating e-tenders where anyone could participate unlike the ‘box tenders’ of the DMK. “The government does not spend Rs 40,000 crore at one go. Even for the Cauvery-Gundar link, only Rs 350 crore has been allotted. Every scheme is implemented in phases for more than a year. Several of them are World Bank-funded projects and only upon consent from the bank, tenders could be floated. There is no corruption at all,” the CM said. Asked if the move to increase the age of retirement for government staff would not deprive the youngsters their due, the CM said the government had held global investors meet in 2019 to provide employment opportunities for youngsters. The meet attracted investment commitment of Rs 3 lakh crore to provide jobs to 10 lakh direct and indirect job opportunities. “Educated youngsters will get jobs when new industries arrive,” the CM said. On the sexual harassment complaint filed by a women IPS officer against special DGP Rajesh Das, Palaniswami said the complaint was under investigation by a committee set up by the government. Only after the report is received can tell whether it is true or not. Investigation is going on appropriately,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-waives-off-jewel-loans-of-farmers-says-not-aping-stalin/articleshow/81236504.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Mettupalayam train to resume service from March 15||COIMBATORE: A week after TOI reported the plight of commuters struggling without the Coimbatore-Mettupalayam train, the railway board on Friday announced that the train will be operated from March 15. The board has permitted operations of some mainline electric multiple unit (Memu) and diesel electric multiple unit (Demu) special trains with unreserved booking. The Mettupalayam-Coimbatore Memu will run all days of the week, except Sundays, from March 15. The train will leave Mettupalayam at 8.20am to reach Coimbatore at 9.05pm. It would depart from Coimbatore at 5.55pm and reach Mettupalayam at 6.40pm. However, it is not clear if the train will stop at Karamadai, Periyanaickenpalayam, Thudiyalur and Coimbatore North, before reaching Coimbatore Junction. “The stoppages are not clear yet. We will get more clarification over the next 48 hours,” said an operations officer in Salem division. Regular commuters cheered the reintroduction of the train, which they believe is much faster, comfortable and cheaper. The stoppages are what makes the train useful, said K Ramakrishnan, a regular commuter. “Unless we have a morning train from Coimbatore that stops in Periyanaickenpalayam, hundreds of people from the city working at Lakshmi Machine Works and other industries in that belt and students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya will not be able to take it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mettupalayam-train-to-resume-service-from-march-15/articleshow/81236473.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Varanasi||Prices of petro products to come down as winter recedes: Pradhan||Varanasi: Union petroleum and natural gas and steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Friday said the demand of petroleum products increases during the winter season causing price rise. He added that the prices may go down gradually as the winter comes to an end. Pradhan was speaking to reporters here on Friday. He will inaugurate some new facilities of the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and also take part in Sant Ravidas Jayanti celebrations at Seer Goverdhanpur on Saturday. Pradhan said the increase in petroleum prices in the international market has impacted the consumers. “Jaise jaise winter ghatega to price bhi dhire dhire ghatega (As the winter goes off, the price (of petroleum products) will also decrease gradually),” said Pradhan adding that such a situation arises during winter due to increase in demand. Pradhan also offered prayer at Kashi Vishwanath temple and saw the ongoing project of Kashi Vishwanath Dham.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/prices-of-petro-products-to-come-down-as-winter-recedes-pradhan/articleshow/81234971.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Kozhikode||Dissent against Kunhalikutty, Jamaat factor to be key||Kozhikode: The dissident activities in the IUML against its tallest leader P K Kunhalikutty and the campaign unleashed by Jamaat-e-Islami against the CPM will be the two decisive factors that will determine the outcome of the elections to the assembly in Malabar. There is a groundswell of opposition in the IUML against Kunhalikutty who has resigned from Lok Sabha to contest for the assembly seat and he will be straining to justify the decision. Panakkad Syed Mueen Ali Shihab Thangal, who is the national vice-president of Muslim Youth League and the son of Hyder Ali Thangal, had openly expressed opposition to the decision. Addressing E Ahmed commemoration meeting recently, party senior leader P V Abdul Wahab also indirectly spoke against Kunhalikutty. He said Ahmed did not return before completing the mission entrusted on him. Kunhalikutty is accused of leaving Delhi half-way through with an eye on the cabinet berth in Kerala. He contested the Lok Sabha elections after resigning from the assembly, saying a strong presence is needed in Delhi to fight fascism. There is a group within the IUML which is working overtime to ensure Kunhalikutty’s defeat even though they know that it is an uphill task. The unfolding of the developments in this front will decide the fortunes of the IUML to a large extent. Meanwhile, Jamaat-e-Islami has stepped up the campaign against the CPM to evolve a Muslim consolidation against the party. The first signs of the nature of the campaign are seen in the latest issue of Prabodhanam magazine, which has a series of articles against communism in general and the CPM in particular. Jamaat secretary Sheikh Muhammad Karakkunnu has released a series of Facebook posts against the CPM with the primary intention of branding the CPM as anti-Muslim. Though the Jamaat has a negligible force at the hustings, it can set the tone of the campaign for the elections. The Jamaat will try to convince other Muslim organisations that the CPM’s tirade against the organisation is actually directed against Islam itself. Some Muslim organisations that are antagonistic to the Jamaat too are increasingly becoming irritated by the perceived ‘anti-Muslim’ utterances of the CPM leaders, especially state secretary A Vijayaraghavan. The CPM will have to sweat it out to prove that it is not playing second fiddle to the Sangh Parivar if the Jamaat game plan succeeds. The Popular Front of India (PFI) has already stated that the CPM is trying to appease the Sangh Parivar by withdrawing the cases against the Sabarimala agitators. IUML will be beneficiary if such a Muslim consolidation takes place in Malabar ahead of the assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/dissent-against-kunhalikutty-jamaat-factor-to-be-key/articleshow/81234835.cms||Prashanth M P
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||Farm activists stop wheat train leaving pvt company’s silo||Bathinda: Members of a farm outfit stopped a wheat-laden train leaving a silo belonging to a private group at the railway station of Dagru village in Moga district of Punjab – barely a kilometre from the silo -- at 9am on Friday. The activists sat on the railway tracks and did not allow the train to go further. Farm organisation BKU Krantikari state president Surjit Singh Phool told TOI, "There is no specific call to stop trains in Punjab, but it is standing call to disrupt business activities of corporates, especially the Ambani and Adani groups. Like freeing toll plazas of toll, disrupting activities at shopping malls, petrol pumps of Reliance, any movement at Adani group silo too comes under the call. Going by it the train was stopped." A BKU Krantikari activist said that they had informed the senior leadership of Sanyukta Kisan Morcha about their action and any further step will be taken on the direction of morcha’s senior leadership . Moga district officials reached railway station to get the rail blockade lifted but were unsuccessful. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November 2020 at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh over the Centre’s new farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-activists-stop-wheat-train-leaving-pvt-companys-silo/articleshow/81236479.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Chennai||Both oppn, Cong have work cut out in Pondy||Puducherry: Stung by the loss of power in Puducherry just before elections were announced, the Congress has little time to recoup before the April 6 vote. In 2016, the Congress emerged the single largest party winning 15 seats and formed the government with the support of the DMK (2) and an independent candidate. However, it failed to keep its MLAs together, though it accused the BJP of using the Raj Nivas and nominated MLAs to topple an elected government. The Congress accused the BJP of luring away its MLAs with money and threats of raids by enforcement agencies. Now it’s up against an opposition that has been energized by the disarray in Congress ranks and the recent visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Several political observers said the opposition parties – AINRC, AIADMK and BJP – look strong on paper but they will have to work hard to overthrow the Congress. “The major issue with the Congress in Puducherry is it never focused on widening its base. The local unit is complacent and unorganized with infighting being the order of the day. It continued to thrive all these years as there was no strong opposition. But with the emergence of its splinter group AINRC in 2011 and the BJP gaining grounds in the past two years, the grand old party will have to reinvent itself,” said a political analyst. Congress’s ties with the DMK are also likely to be recast with the latter no longer content to play second fiddle. However, AINRC founder and former chief minister N Rangasamy has problems of his own. His nature of going into political hibernation whenever his party is not in power has not gone down well with the people. He will also have to negotiate with aggressive allies AIADMK and BJP, which is looking to open its account in the Union territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/both-oppn-cong-have-work-cut-out-in-pondy/articleshow/81236484.cms||Bosco Dominique
February 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Corporation tables budget; no new projects this year||Coimbatore: City corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian on Friday presented the budget without announcing any new projects. However, for the fifth consecutive year, it projected a budget surplus.As per the budget, the civic body is estimated to generate Rs 2,630.19 crore revenue in the 2021-22 financial year and spend Rs 2,629.14 crores, paving way for a budget surplus of Rs 1.04 crore. From property tax, water supply and drainage tax and educational tax alone it is expected to generate Rs 180.31 crore. The city corporation has projected Rs 111.52 crore revenue from property tax, Rs 50.75 crore from water supply and drainage tax and Rs 18.04 crore from educational tax.For the ongoing financial year, the corporation had proposed a surplus budget of Rs 1.14 crore, but as per the revised estimate there would be a budget deficit of Rs 60.87 crore, as the projected expenditure of Rs 1,513.22 crore overshoots the estimated revenue of Rs 1,452.35 crore.The civic body had earlier projected a tax revenue of Rs 283.83 crore - Rs 170.78 crore from property tax, Rs 84.75 crore from water supply and drainage tax and Rs 28.30 crore from educational tax. But, according to the revised estimates, the corporation has pegged tax revenues at only Rs 160.88 crore - Rs 98.25 crore from property tax, Rs 46.56 crore from water supply and drainage tax and Rs 16.07 crore from educational tax.The corporation has shown Rs 32.92 crore as Covid-19 expenditure in 2020-21 and set aside another Rs 9.80 crore for the same.The civic body has also proposed to borrow about Rs 300 crore from the state government to implement drinking water projects and underground drainage projects in the added areas and Pillur III drinking water scheme. It also has plans to borrow another Rs 67.17 crore from the Housing and Urban Development Corporation and Rs 8.62 crore as Tamil Nadu urban road infrastructure fund from the World Bank.The civic body would also spend Rs 134.33 crore on integrated bus stand at Vellalore, Rs 79.30 crore on restoring the Sanganoor canal, Rs 25 crore on model road project and Rs 197.13 crore on lake rejuvenation and beautification projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corporation-tables-budget-no-new-projects-this-year/articleshow/81236457.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||BJP will win 200 seats in WB polls: Maurya||Kanpur:Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya expressed confidence that BJP is going to win nearly 200 seats in upcoming West Bengal polls. “Mamata Banerjee is getting jittery as people of West Bengal have made up their mind to dethrone her in the upcoming assembly elections,” said Maurya. Maurya, who was addressing a gathering at Paritosh Inter college in the city on Friday, laid 101 projects worth several crores. Maurya further said that as far as development is concerned, Kanpur always remains on the priority of the government. “As, the city provides jobs to lakh of people from nearby states, it has always been on the priority list of the government,” said Maurya further and added, “It take nearly two hours time to reach Kanpur from Lucknow, now soon people will cover Kanpur-Lucknow journey in 40 minutes time as work on the project is underway.” Besides, several developmental projects are underway across the state and a major one is coming up 67 state highways, across the state highway, we are in process of constructing a plastic road within a stretch of 1500 km,” Maurya added. He further said BJP government has not only focused on starting new projects but also arranged adequate funds to complete the projects on time. While talking to reporters, he said, “Opposition is misleading people, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi said agricultural laws will be beneficial for farmers. People should not get influenced by the opposition’s lies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-will-win-200-seats-in-wb-polls-maurya/articleshow/81235027.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||JAC convenor arrested in cheque bounce case||Hyderabad: Chaderghat police on Friday arrested Mushtaq Malik, convenor, Joint Action Committee (JAC) in a cheque bounce case.  The court, however, granted him conditional bail on furnishing two sureties of Rs 20,000 each. Two years ago, Malik had taken a hand loan of Rs 20 lakh from one Mohammed Raheem Ghori and later failed to repay the amount. As a surety, Malik had given four cheques of Rs 5 lakh each. The cheques were dishonoured in the bank upon which a case under Negotiable Instrument Act section 138 was filed before the court, which sent summons to the respondent. When Malik failed to comply with the court summons compelling him to appear before the court, the special magistrate issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against him. On Friday morning, Chaderghat police had taken him into custody and produced him before the court. The JAC convenor applied for bail, upon which the court re-called the NBW, directed him to furnish two sureties of Rs 20,000 each and asked him to appear before the court on the next date of hearing. “The allegations are fake and certain persons are trying to malign my image since I have been actively involved in community service,” said Malik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jac-convenor-arrested-in-cheque-bounce-case/articleshow/81236462.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Monitoring stepped up at check posts in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Covid-19 curbs imposed at six check posts on the Nilgiris- Kerala border have put people from Kerala in a fix.According to the Nilgiris administration, people from Kerala should carry a Covid negative certificate to enter the district or give swab sample at the Covid test centres at the check posts. On Thursday, some tourists decided to go back after officials insisted on testing, sources said.The measure was taken after a surge in Covid cases in Kerala and Maharashtra. But tourists from Maharashtra and Kerala can also take the Mettupalayam-Coonoor -Ooty route after a flight to Coimbatore. These passengers are mostly missed by the officials at the check posts at Burliar and Kunjappanai. While the check posts lack testing facilities, thermal screening is done.“We have introduced a screening system at all check posts on the Kerala –Nilgiris border. We insist on Covid negative report. If it is not available, swab samples are collected from passengers,” said Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health. On Friday, a high-level meeting to discuss Covid-19 curbs was conducted at Coonoor, which was attended by district monitoring officer Supriya Sahu, collector J Innocent divya and other officials. It was decided that checks should be made stringent at all check posts and a fine of Rs 200 should be slapped on those who are found not wearing mask. Locals should create awareness among tourists about using mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/monitoring-stepped-up-at-check-posts-in-nilgiris/articleshow/81236480.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nashik||Don’t harass farmers: Pawar to MSEDCL||Nashik: Dindori MP Bharti Pawar on Friday asked the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) officials to refrain from harassing the farmers. A meeting was called by Pawar in presence of Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare and was also attended by Kalwan MLA Nitin Pawar and Sinnar MLA Manik Kokate along with MSEDCL officials. “The situation is going from bad to worse. The farmers are being given excess bills and the state power utility is running behind them, asking to clear their dues or face power cuts,” claimed Pawar. The MP added that the situation of the farmers is bad due to the ongoing pandemic and at this time when they were realizing the harvest, the situation is again only growing difficult for them. “The grape harvest is round the corner and the farmer is searching for the market for the produce. The MSEDCL notice about cutting of power supply is affecting the watering of the crop in critical time. The farmers may lose the crop because of this,” she claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dont-harass-farmers-pawar-to-msedcl/articleshow/81234824.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 27, 2021||Nashik||Active cases in Niphad cross 100-mark||Nashik: The number of active Covid-19 cases in Niphad taluka of Nashik district has crossed 100-mark for the first time. The number has remained in double digit since January 29. “In Niphad taluka, the number of cases had dropped from 105 to 96 and had remained in double digit until now. On Wednesday, the number of active cases in the taluka jumped from 99 to 107,” district health officer Dr. Kapil Aher said. Niphad is one of the front runners in agriculture business with the taluka being home to Asia’s biggest onion market. At the same time, Pimpalgaon in Niphad is known for grape market. As the grape season is about to begin, traders and farmers from the region have become active. The rise in trade could lead to spike in cases. The neighbouring Sinnar taluka is another prominent place in the district which has witnessed high number of active cases though its figures are still in double digits. Sinnar is known as the industrial town in Rural Nashik and, hence, it attracts a large number of people from across the state and the country for trade and employment. Therefore, the surge of Covid-19 cases in Sinnar was quite high. However, the situation is under control now. Meanwhile, civil surgeon Dr. Rekha Raokhande said that the current situation is the result of people travelling due to the wedding as well as the festive season. “Given the current scenario, it appears that people have failed to stick to Covid-appropriate behaviour, resulting in spike of cases. People should wear face masks, ensure zero physical contact, maintain physical distance and stick to the earlier habit of washing hands, sanitizing places of work, etc.,” Dr Raokhande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/active-cases-in-niphad-cross-100-mark/articleshow/81234828.cms||Abhilash Botekar
February 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Woman, son drown in well||Krishnagiri: A 55-year-old woman drowned while trying in vain to save her 28-year-old son from a well at Chennamalam village in Denkanikottai here on Wednesday.The deceased were identified as M Rathinamma and her son M Mathesh. “Rathinamma, a widow, was rearing goats with the help of Mathesh, who was a hearing- and speech-impaired person. On Wednesday, Mathesh slipped into a farm well while drawing water. Rathinamma jumped into the well to rescue her son. Both of them drowned,” a police officer said.Villagers who noticed sandals floating in the well found the bodies. The Thally police sent the bodies to the Denkanikottai government hospital for postmortem. Police have registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-son-drown-in-well/articleshow/81236446.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Coimbatore||3 forge docus for Rs 2cr insurance claim, in trouble||Salem: A court hearing a motor accident claim has directed officials of an insurance firm to lodge a case against three people – a vehicle owner, a translator and an eye witness - for distorting facts and raising a false claim. The judge also asked the Hasthampatty police inspector to initiate criminal proceedings against them. A source with the special court for the Motor Claims Tribunal Original Petition (MCOP) said Vijayakumari, 29, wife of R Ayyanar, 32, of Sarkar Nattamangalam near Vazhapadi had moved the court seeking a compensation of Rs 2 crore from the insurance firm New India Assurance Company Limited, stating her husband had died in a road accident on March 4, 2018 and he was the sole breadwinner of the family. The petition said Ayyanar was returning home in a sports utility vehicle (SUV) from Anandapura in Dhavanagere district in Karnataka, where he had gone for rig work along with his brother R Loganathan, when the vehicle rammed a roadside tree near Benkikere village on Simoca-Sannagiri National Highway. “The pliant said the accident occurred when Ayyanar, who was at the wheel, tried to avoid hitting a stray dog and succumbed to his injuries on the spot,” the source said. The Chennagiri police in Karnataka had registered the case and held an inquiry. Advocate K V Hemalatha, who appeared for the insurance firm, argued that the petition was false, frivolous and not sustainable in law. She said the manner of the accident as narrated in the petition was not correct. “The postmortem report clearly shows there were no external injuries to the deceased and the cause of death was cardiac arrest and not road accident.” It was later proved that Loganathan, the owner of the SUV, had submitted some fake documents, including copy of the first information report that was prepared by the Chennagiri police, with the support of translator J Sudha, of Bhavani in Erode district. “Sudha twisted facts while translating documents to Tamil from Kannada. He also set up an eyewitness named Viswanathan, who told the court that he was also in the vehicle at the time of the accident.  “However, Viswanathan too hadn’t sustained any injury. Besides, RTO officials had in their inspection report clearly stated that the SUV had only minor damages,” the advocate said. After hearing both the sides, judge S Raju came to a conclusion that the petitioners had made up the incident to receive compensation under the Motor Vehicle Act. “The incident occurred because of the rash and negligent driving of the deceased and not as mentioned in the petition,” he said in the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-forge-docus-for-rs-2cr-insurance-claim-in-trouble/articleshow/81236493.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Dehradun||Man kills self by jumping into lake after informing brother on video-call||NAINITAL: A 27-year-old man, identified as Umar, allegedly killed himself on Thursday night after informing his brother on video call. Nainital police found his body on Friday morning. According to the police, Umar left his home in Moradabad on Thursday evening saying he was going to Nainital for a trip. However, after reaching Nainital, he made a video-call to his brother Aamir at around 9:30 in the night and told him that he was jumping into the lake. When Aamir tried to persuade him to not do so, he disconnected the call. “Though his brother tried to convince him that he should return home, Umar did not pay heed and jumped into the lake. His family thereafter informed police. We looked for him in the night but could not trace him. A search operation was then launched in the morning and we found his body in the lake near Tallital rickshaw stand,” said sub-inspector Deepak Bisht.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-kills-self-by-jumping-into-lake-after-informing-brother-on-video-call/articleshow/81233532.cms||Prashant Jha
February 27, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Reactivation of Mhalunge Covid centre hits roadblock||PUNE: The Khed tehsil administration, which has seen a daily surge in Covid-19 cases , is finding it difficult to reactivate its 1,500-bed Covid care centre (CCC) at Mhalunge village owing to Rs 80lakh dues to contractors. Khed block development officer Ajay Joshi told TOI, “The bills are pending clearance at the tehsildar’s office. We are trying to resolve the issue by meeting the contractors and convincing them to reactivate the facility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/reactivation-of-mhalunge-covid-centre-hits-roadblock/articleshow/81236451.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Drinking water facility installed in Ooty and Coonor stations||Udhagamandalam: A day after TOI reported about the lack of drinking water facility at Ooty, Coonoor and Hillgrove railway stations along the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) track, action was taken immediately by the NMR officials and facilities were installed at both Ooty and Coonoor. However, Hillgrove station is yet to be provided with the facility.It was observed that tourists, who took a journey in the heritage mountain railway did not have drinking water as the stations on the route lacked essential amenitie. What made mattersv worse was that carrying plastic water bottles is banned in the Nilgiris.The mountain train, which is a connecting train to the Nilgiris Express, starts from the Mettupalayam station by 7.10 am and the next stopover is at Hillgrove station at around 9.30 am. The mountain train stops at the station to fill water to the engine of the train but drinking water facility is not available to the passengers. While the Coonoor station lacked a hand washing facility, the Ooty station lacked a drinking water facility.Though the NMR authorities swiftly installed a drinking water facility at Ooty and provided a hand washing facility at the Coonoor station on Thursday, the Hillgrove station is still to be provided with the facility.A.Guatam Srinivas, divisional railway manager, Salem division of the Southern Railways said, “Steps are being taken to provide a RO plant in the Hillgrove station for a purified water facility to the passengers. The work will be done within two weeks”.K.Natarajan, managing trustee, Heritage Steam Chariot Trust said, “It is a swift move by the railways in the interest of the passengers”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drinking-water-facility-installed-in-ooty-and-coonor-stations/articleshow/81236556.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
February 27, 2021||Allahabad||HC lawyers take out march against Education Service Tribunal Bill||Prayagraj: The lawyers of Allahabad high court on Friday took out a procession from high court to Civil Lines in protest against the Education Service Tribunal Bill, which provides for setting up of the principal bench of the Education Service Tribunal at Lucknow. Meanwhile, the working in Allahabad High Court remained paralysed on Friday as lawyers continued to boycott the judicial work on the fourth consecutive day. In a resolution passed on Friday, the Allahabad High Court Bar Association (HCBA) also resolved to continue to boycott judicial work on Monday on the same issue. Later, in a general house meeting, the speakers termed the present Education Service Bill as an attempt to make weaken the judiciary by making inroad into the areas which are earmarked for judicial functions. According to speakers, at present around 10 to 12 courts are dealing with education and education service matters in the high court. The speakers alleged that by this proposed education tribunal, all such matters will go to the tribunal, which will be presided over by retired officers, who have no knowledge of law. The general house meeting was presided over by HCBA president, Amrendra Nath Singh, while secretary Prabhashankar Mishra conducted it. In a press release issued by HCBA joint secretary (press) Rajendra Kumar Singh, a meeting of the former office-bearers and senior advocates will be held on Saturday in the study room of the bar association to chalk out future strategy for the agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-lawyers-take-out-march-against-education-service-tribunal-bill/articleshow/81232695.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Saplings of fruit-bearing trees from Kashmir planted in Sim’s Park||Udhagamandalam: Nineteen new varieties of saplings of pear, peach, apple, walnut, cherry, apricot and persimmon are being planted in Sim’s Park, a colonial garden in Coonoor.The saplings, brought from Kashmir, will replace the old and unproductive fruit trees in the farm, which is spread over 10 hectares.Rs 2.50 lakh was sanctioned from the special area development programme to procure as many as 1,550 saplings, said Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya, who launched the planting drive on Friday. “The century-old farm in Sim’s Park is known for its fruit production. A fruit preservation centre has been functioning at the farm for the last 60 years,” she said.The saplings were brought from Kashmir by flight, said Shiva Subramaniam Samraj, joint director of horticulture department. “Some of the saplings will be planted close to the old and unproductive fruit trees. We will monitor their growth for three years and remove the old and unproductive fruit trees.”Presently, the farm has 320 fruit trees. “The new varieties are known for high yield and taste. This is a trial study. If the new trees are found to be good, the horticulture department would distribute the varieties to farmers,” said Samraj. The farm produces fruit tree saplings that are supplied to farmers. Jam and jelly produced there are sold in other states also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/saplings-of-fruit-bearing-trees-from-kashmir-planted-in-sims-park/articleshow/81236518.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Carcass of calf sparks leopard scare among Arivoli Nagar folk||Coimbatore: The forest department has deployed 10 guards and anti-poaching watchers at Arivoli Nagar in Madukkarai after partially eaten carcass of a calf was found in the area on Thursday.A farmer had left 11 cows in an open area close to his farm for grazing. When a calf failed to return until night, villagers launched a search and found its carcass in a patta land. “On Friday, farmers complained to us saying a leopard had eaten it. We found that some carnivorous animal had eaten the skin, but had left the internal organs intact. We could not find pugmarks in the area,” said forest range officer Srinivasan. “We believe it was a wild dog or a wild boar. The calf could have died due to other reasons and the animals could have bitten the carcass.”To get compensation for the farmer, the department has sent the carcass for postmortem. “We have deployed 10 forest guards and watchers in and around Arivoli Nagar to spot the animal. We need more proof to ensure that it was a leopard attack. We are also planning to set up a camera trap,” Srinivasan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/carcass-of-calf-sparks-leopard-scare-among-arivoli-nagar-folk/articleshow/81236486.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Erode||GST intelligence wing busts fake bill racket in Tamil Nadu, arrests mastermind||COIMBATORE: The director general of GST intelligence, Coimbatore zonal unit, has busted a racket that forge bills and arrested a key person, who is into steel trading business, for generating invoices in the name of his relatives and friends without supplying goods for a taxable value of Rs 55 crore. In a press note on Friday, K Ramakrishnan, additional director general, GST intelligence, said they have conducted simultaneous search operations at the residence and business premises of S Sulaiman, 42, of Erode, who had set up businesses under fictitious name registrations in Erode, Coimbatore and Nilgiris districts with a view to illegally avail and pass on input tax credit. All his firms were dealing in TMT bars and rods, and MS scrap. “He controlled four separate GST registrations with the PAN numbers of his relatives and friends, and generated invoices without supplying goods. These invoices were raised for two of his firms in Erode and used the tax credit for setting off their GST liability,” the officer said. During the search of operation, officials have recovered crucial incriminating documents like printed bill books of fake firms, cheque books and signed leaves in the name of the fake firms. Sulaiman was arrested on Thursday and remanded in judicial custody. “He issued invoices for goods with a taxable value of Rs 55 crore and passed on passed on input tax credit of around Rs 9.9 crore to various entities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/gst-intelligence-wing-busts-fake-bill-racket-arrests-mastermind/articleshow/81240830.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Gas agency employee shot dead in outer Delhi||New Delhi: A gas agency employee was shot dead by miscreants who came to the agency on the pretext of buying a cylinder. The incident occurred recently in outer Delhi’s Mundka. The agency’s owner, Sandeep, told police that he and two of his employees, including Ravindra, the deceased, were sitting at their office when a man came asking for a cylinder. “Sandeep asked the man to come later along with his wedding card. While leaving, the man asked who Sandeep was and left. The man later returned with two more men, brandishing a pistol, and fired at Sandeep but Ravindra who tried to save him instead got hit by the bullet and collapsed on the spot,” said a police officer. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gas-agency-employee-shot-dead-in-outer-delhi/articleshow/81237634.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Dehradun||Forest fire ravages Almora village, 100 people rescued||Almora/Dehradun: Wildfires destroyed nearly three hectares of green cover in Patshal and Thapaniya villages of Almora on Friday. Upon getting the information, fire fighters reached the spot and managed to douse the flames in an hour. The forest fire, that broke out just 15 kilometres away from the district headquarters, triggered panic among the locals as it was gradually moving towards thickly-populated areas. However, the fire fighters were able to rescue all the people, estimated to be nearly 100 in number, in the area. Earlier on Thursday evening, several hectares of forest land were reportedly destroyed as raging wildfires reached near the Kumaon Regiment headquarters in Ranikhet. Fire brigade and military officers brought the fire under control after battling the blaze for over an hour. Sources said that the forest fire swept the low-lying areas of Kapina village on Ranikhet-Haldwani highway. It picked up mainly due to the wind. Fire officer-in-charge Keshav Dutt Tiwari said the blaze was intense, and just around 500 metres away from the Kumaon Regiment headquarters. “Fire brigade with the support of the Army managed to bring the fire under control after a struggle of one and a half hours,” he added. In Uttarakhand, the months of November, December and January are meant for clearing the firelines in the forests for tackling summer wildfires. But this year, the frontline force was busy dousing the flames even during the winter months. In barely four months from October 2020 to February 24, 2021, a total of 374 incidences of fires have been reported, gutting around 444.37 hectares forest land. The wildfires have caused a loss of almost Rs 18 lakh to the exchequer and have claimed the lives of two local women and two fire fighters since October 2020. Elaborating on the wildfires this season, Arti Chaudhary, head of Silviculture and Forest Resource Management Divsion, told TOI, “This is an unusual shift in the forest fire season. The possible reasons could be climate change, anthropogenic pressure, and change in overall environment of the area, among others.” To understand the possible triggers behind these wildfires, experts of Dehradun-based Forest Research Institute will undertake a study in 15 identified states, including Uttarakhand. The study will go on for five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-fire-ravages-almora-village-100-people-rescued/articleshow/81233573.cms||Shivani Azad
February 27, 2021||Allahabad||Beli hospital in city to have OPD of pvt doctors||Prayagraj: For private doctors treating and running OPD for patients in a government hospital, this may sound bizarre but is nonetheless true. The state government has approved the opening of super-speciality clinics at government hospitals too. To start with, the facility is being provided at Tej Bahadur Sapru (Beli) hospital of Sangam city and Balrampur Hospital of Lucknow. “Following the instructions of the government, we would be starting these clinics from March 2 (coming Tuesday) for which we are requesting the private doctors of the city, who are specialist of their own field, to kindly spare some valuable time from their schedule and provide their consultancy to the patients who cannot afford them because of poor financial condition”, said Chief Medical Superintendent (CMS) of Tej Bahadur Sapru hospital, Dr Kiran Malik. Since our hospital has been selected for this unique scheme of providing super speciality clinic for the common man, private doctors would be treating the patients for free. In the initial phase the clinic will have treatment for plastic surgery, gastro and neurosurgery which would be further extended to other fields too, she added. To start with, the hospital has got the acknowledgement from the eminent plastic surgeon of the city, Dr Sanjay Tiwari who would be providing his services from March 2. The CMS also informed that the system of gastro-neurosurgery will start soon. Dr Tiwari would provide consultation to the patients from 9am to 11am on every Tuesday. Besides, he would also conduct operations every Thursday. The private doctors, who would be providing their services at the hospital would also be provided with a suitable honorarium by the government. “It is more of an opportunity for the medicos to contribute towards the society as not many people can afford the fees of private doctors”, said Dr Malik. Only two hospitals in the state have been approved for super-speciality clinics and it’s an honour that Beli hospital has also been included. CMS, the superintendent and the staff members of this 112 years old hospital are very excited about this scheme. “Our efforts to provide best of the treatment will continue at the hospital but indeed the additional help, that would come to us in form of consultation of the private doctors would be an added advantage for the patients”, said superintendent of the hospital Dr Manoj Akhori.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/beli-hospital-in-city-to-have-opd-of-pvt-doctors/articleshow/81232727.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Allahabad||Prayagraj to get direct flight to Bilaspur from Monday||Prayagraj: With the successful trial run of Alliance Air flight from Prayagraj to Bilaspur on Thursday, the two cities are set to get direct air connectivity from March 1. Besides, more cities, including Bhopal and Bhubaneshwar, would be connected with Prayagraj in the coming months. The flight will operate every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. It will take off from Prayagraj at 3pm and land in Bilaspur at 4pm. The flight from Bilaspur would take off at 3.45pm and land in Prayagraj at 5.05pm. The trial run of Alliance Air flight from Prayagraj to Bilaspur covered the aerial distance of 374km in mere one hour. The flight then departed for New Delhi in the evening. With the successful trial run, the deck is clear for regular flights between the two cities four times a week from coming Monday, said officials. The Alliance Air ATR aircraft, as part of its test flight, took off from Bamrauli civil air terminal at 12.39pm and landed in Bilaspur exactly after an hour, they added. The new flight would mark direct air connectivity of Prayagraj with eight cities of the country. From March 28, Indigo Airlines is also expected to begin its flight for Bhubaneswar and Bhopal from Prayagraj. “The city is fast getting connected by air with major cities of the country and this will continue in future as Prayagraj is a major tourist attraction,” said regional director of Airport Authority of India (AAI), Achal Prakash. Presently, the city has direct air-connectivity with seven major cities of the country, including Delhi (two different operators, seven days a week), Mumbai, Pune, Bengaluru, Gorakhpur, Raipur and Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/prayagraj-to-get-direct-flight-to-bilaspur-from-monday/articleshow/81232735.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ahmedabad||Five more societies in quarantine||Ahmedabad: Amdavadis, you need to follow Covid safety rules strictly as the list of micro-contained societies is getting longer. The AMC on Friday put five more societies in the micro-containment zones. Three of these are in the western part of the city, while two are in the eastern parts. According to officials, the 6th floor of Binori Solitaire in South Bopal was declared as a micro-contained area. This is the second society in the area to be included in the list. Also 24 families in Sarvoday-3 Society near K K Nagar, Ghatlodia are in the list. In Sarvoday-3, houses number 42 to 46, 77 to 86, 93 to 101 have been micro-contained. The third society in western Ahmedabad is Devam Apartment in Chandlodia where 2 to 4th floor of Block-D has been quarantined. The two societies in eastern Ahmedabad include 30 families of A-106 TO A-506 in Pushpa Residency in Vatva and other Block-F in Vrundavan Residency in Vastral. In all, 70 families were micro-contained in the city on Friday. So far, AMC has micro-contained 21 societies in the city. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-more-societies-in-quarantine/articleshow/81236521.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Coimbatore||GST intelligence wing busts fake bill racket in Tamil Nadu, arrests mastermind||COIMBATORE: The director general of GST intelligence, Coimbatore zonal unit, has busted a racket that forge bills and arrested a key person, who is into steel trading business, for generating invoices in the name of his relatives and friends without supplying goods for a taxable value of Rs 55 crore. In a press note on Friday, K Ramakrishnan, additional director general, GST intelligence, said they have conducted simultaneous search operations at the residence and business premises of S Sulaiman, 42, of Erode, who had set up businesses under fictitious name registrations in Erode, Coimbatore and Nilgiris districts with a view to illegally avail and pass on input tax credit. All his firms were dealing in TMT bars and rods, and MS scrap. “He controlled four separate GST registrations with the PAN numbers of his relatives and friends, and generated invoices without supplying goods. These invoices were raised for two of his firms in Erode and used the tax credit for setting off their GST liability,” the officer said. During the search of operation, officials have recovered crucial incriminating documents like printed bill books of fake firms, cheque books and signed leaves in the name of the fake firms. Sulaiman was arrested on Thursday and remanded in judicial custody. “He issued invoices for goods with a taxable value of Rs 55 crore and passed on passed on input tax credit of around Rs 9.9 crore to various entities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gst-intelligence-wing-busts-fake-bill-racket-arrests-mastermind/articleshow/81236514.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu: Polling time increased by an hour considering pandemic||CHENNAI: Braving the pandemic, Tamil Nadu would go to polls on April 6 to elect 234 MLAs to the 16th legislative assembly. Bypoll to Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency would also be held on the same date. Chief  commissioner Sunil Arora, making the announcement on Friday, said the model code of conduct has already come into force in the state. The election notification would be issued on March 12 and the last date for filing nominations is March 19. Nominations will be scrutinised on March 20 and the last date for nomination withdrawal is March 22. Counting would take place on May 2 and the entire electoral process would be completed on May 4, said Arora. The term of the 15th assembly ends on May 24. ECI has capped expenditure at Rs 30.8 lakh for every candidate in Tamil Nadu and Rs 22 lakh for ones in Puducherry. Candidates with criminal track record will have to publicise the same in both electronic and print media thrice during the campaign, said Arora. Political parties fielding candidates with criminal cases also should advertise. Polls are being held in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on the same date based on requests from political parties to prevent electoral malpractices, he said. The commission is taking every possible effort to ensure hassle-free voting by the electorate, said Arora. The number of polling booths have been increased by 34.7% - total 88,936 booths - to ensure that there is one booth available for every 1,000 voters, he said. All booths would be in the ground level and adequate polling staff and security personnel would be deployed. The commission has issued separate standard operating procedure for those undergoing quarantine owing to Covid-19, he said. Electorate above the age of 80 years have the option of exercising postal ballots. Taking the pandemic into consideration, polling duration has been increased by one hour, said Arora. All poll-related officials would be treated as frontline workers to provide Covid-19 vaccination to them, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/polling-time-increased-by-an-hour-considering-pandemic/articleshow/81242644.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Kanpur||Manufacturing of Metro trains for Kanpur Metro begins at Savli plant in Vadodara||Done/ALVI Times News Network Kanpur: Friday marked the commencement of manufacturing of Metro trains for Kanpur Metro Rail Project. UP Metro’s managing director Kumar Keshav inaugurated the manufacturing of the rolling stocks (Metro Trains) in Bombardier’s Savli plant located near Vadodara in Gujarat. The manufacturing of coaches for Kanpur Metro started at the Savli plant after the puja ceremony performed by Kumar Keshav in presence of Sushil Kumar, director (operations), UPMRC and Atul Kumar Garg, director (rolling stock and systems), UPMRC. A total 39 trains of three Metro coaches each are to be supplied for both the corridors of the Kanpur Metro project including corridor-I-from IIT to Naubasta and the corridor-II--from Agriculture University to Barra-8. These trains have been designed with assistance from Bombardier Germany and design experts at Bombardier’s Hyderabad office. As per the estimated timeline, the first Metro train is to be delivered in Kanpur in September. These trains are equipped with a communication-based train control system (CBTC) for automatic train operations. These ultramodern trains are having state- of- the-art design for safe operation, energy efficiency and passenger comforts. These trains will also be equipped with CO2 sensor-based air-conditioning systems to save energy during operations. The final design work has already been completed after a series of interactions and meetings with Bombardier Germany and Bombardier India even in this challenging time of Covid-19. The design documents have also been submitted to RDSO for getting their recommendation for final approval of the ministry of railways for timely starting the operations of the Kanpur Metro. Speaking on this occasion, UP Metro’s MD Kumar Keshav said, “The trains for the Kanpur Metro Rail Project are being manufactured in line with the initiatives of ‘Make in India’ and ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ that have been coined by the Government of India. I am glad to announce that UP Metro has successfully commenced the manufacturing of the trains within the estimated time frame, which in turn will ensure the timely start of Metro operations on the Priority Corridor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/manufacturing-of-metro-trains-for-kanpur-metro-begins-at-savli-plant-in-vadodara/articleshow/81235029.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Active Covid-19 cases continue to dip, 51 patients discharged||Coimbatore: The district recorded 41 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, even as 51 patients were discharged, bringing the number of active cases down to 386. While health officials are happy that the number of active cases, which fell below the 400-mark earlier this week, are coming down day by day, the death of four patients has left them a bit concerned. All the four were aged above 50 years and had comorbidities. At 399, it was on Wednesday (Feb 24) that the district for the first time in seven months saw the number of active Covid-19 cases dipping below 400. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We expect the numbers to reduce over the next few weeks. The drop in the fresh cases has been slow but steady. The daily spike is also likely to fall below 40 in a week or two.” Health officials said they were also tracking the Covid fatality rate. While the district hadn’t reported any Covid deaths for five days in a row until Monday, four deaths were recorded since the beginning of this week. Three of the deceased were men, who were aged above 70 years, with diabetes and hypertension, while the remaining one was a 58-year-old woman with hypertension and morbid obesity. “In fact, one of them died in Kancheepuram after having cough and dizziness for two weeks.” Authorities said people coming from Maharashtra and Kerala should remain in home quarantine for seven days to prevent the outbreak of new clusters with new strains of the virus. “We have asked hotels, lodges and hostels to immediately report customers from Maharashtra, if any, and the airport to keep data on all passengers landing from Mumbai,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-covid-19-cases-continue-to-dip-51-patients-discharged/articleshow/81236577.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Corpn opens beautified lakes in hurry, denies public entry||Coimbatore: City corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian inaugurated a slew of lake rejuvenation and beautification projects in a hurry a few hours before the model conduct code for the assembly elections came into effect in the state on Friday.While he announced that the much-awaited recreational spaces were opened for the benefit of the public, people were prohibited from using the facilities.A statement from the city corporation said the commissioner had inaugurated a part of Ukkadam periyakulam, Valankulam, Selvampathy and Kumarasamy lakes and the entire Selvachinthamni lake, and thrown them open for public use. The lakes were beautified at a cost of Rs 217.06 crore.While Ukkadam lake and Valankulam were beautified at a cost of Rs 62.17 crore and Rs 67.86 crore, respectively, Selvachinthamani lake was revamped at a cost of Rs 31.47 crore. Selvampathy and Kumarasamy lakes are, meanwhile, being given a facelift at a cost of Rs 31.25 crore.According to the corporation statement, the road that passes through Valankulam lake, just opposite to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, was also developed at a cost of Rs24.31 crore. The new features at the lakes include walkers’ path, cycling track, open auditorium, children’s play area, watch tower and a well-maintained landscape. The public could also enjoy a boat ride in Ukkadam lake. A few hours after the inaugural function, gates to the recreational facilities were found locked with security guards turning away people who had come to unwind by the lakes. They left the place with a heavy heart.A contractor at one of the sites said they hadn’t received any instructions from the civic body regarding allowing the public inside. “They will be allowed in only after we receive specific instructions from the city corporation.” An official source said the projects were inaugurated on Friday, as it was impossible to do so after the introduction of model code of conduct. “As it was done in a hurried manner, we did not have enough time to deploy sufficient manpower to oversee the public at the lakes. Presently, Ukkadam and Valankulam lakes, which have floating bridges, have only two or three security guards. It is impossible for them to manage the crowd. So, we have restricted entry.”He said the lakes would be thrown open to the public in a few days after putting in place necessary precautionary measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-opens-beautified-lakes-in-hurry-denies-public-entry/articleshow/81236558.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||21 panels working as per law: JMC Greater||Jaipur: Jaipur Municipal Corporation Greater administration is claiming that their 21 committees are still functioning as per law.On Thursday, an order was released by the directorate of local bodies that acting on the note of dissent by the commissioner Yagya Mitra Singh, except executive committees, all the other 27 proposals have been rejected.A meeting was called in by mayor Somya Gurjar on Friday in which deputy mayor Puneet Karnawat, chairmen of the committees and legal experts present, found that except seven, all the other committees are functioning. The note of dissent sent by Singh was also examined in which it was mentioned that he just objected to the seven extra committees not anything else.Karnawat said, “In the note of dissent sent by the commissioner, it was found that the dissent was just on the extra seven committees and rest 21 are still functioning. We agree that as per law, municipal corporation has power to make just 21 committees and the rest will be formed after the permission of state government. We will talk to the state government regarding the validity of our 21 committees and chairmen will resume their offices from Monday onwards.”The confusion arose when the order didn’t state the rejection of exact number of committees by the state government and immediate reaction came that all the committees are rejected. Thursday order also stated that except executive committee in other 20 committees, three people in each committee were made members who are not a part of JMC Greater. A procedure has to be followed for making people outside the corporation members of the committees, which wasn’t seen in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/21-panels-working-as-per-law-jmc-greater/articleshow/81236564.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ahmedabad||AMC budget to focus on healthcare||AHMEDABAD: The coronavirus outbreak has prompted the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation to shore up the city’s health infrastructure. And this is likely to be seen in the new budget which will focus on upgrading existing health infrastructure and setting up more urban health centres in the city. AMC officials said that majority of the proposals for flyovers and underpasses have already been included in the budget. “However, AMC’s focus will be setting up and upgrading health infrastructure in the city. The outbreak of coronavirus has forced the AMC to focus on strengthening health infrastructure. There is a possibility that the new budget will lay allocation for new referral hospitals in eastern and western parts of the city,” the officials added. The AMC is also unlikely to introduce new taxes or increase existing tax structure. AMC officials said that as per the Gujarat Provincial Municipal Corporations Act, the proposals for new or increased taxes have to be cleared by the corporation and sent to the government by February 20. “However, due to the coronavirus epidemic, the elections which were scheduled to be held in December got postponed to February 21 and the results were out on February 23. To give more time to the newly elected body to discuss the budget, the government has issued a notification extending the deadline for approval of the new taxation. Now, it has to be sent to the government by April 20,” said senior official from the AMC. The official said the budget is almost ready. “Once the new body takes over, the AMC administration will talk to them and propose the budget after which the Standing Committee will clear the same. A final discussion is likely to take place in the first week of March,” the official added. Senior officials in Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) also said there is very little chance of imposing new tax or increasing the tax rate in this budget. "The state government bore expenses related to Covid-19. Also, when the Centre did not impose any new tax, there is very little chance that the state government will do so. The civic bodies will follow this pattern,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-budget-to-focus-on-healthcare/articleshow/81236583.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
February 27, 2021||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Polling time increased by an hour considering pandemic||CHENNAI: Braving the pandemic, Tamil Nadu would go to polls on April 6 to elect 234 MLAs to the 16th legislative assembly. Bypoll to Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency would also be held on the same date. Chief  commissioner Sunil Arora, making the announcement on Friday, said the model code of conduct has already come into force in the state. The election notification would be issued on March 12 and the last date for filing nominations is March 19. Nominations will be scrutinised on March 20 and the last date for nomination withdrawal is March 22. Counting would take place on May 2 and the entire electoral process would be completed on May 4, said Arora. The term of the 15th assembly ends on May 24. ECI has capped expenditure at Rs 30.8 lakh for every candidate in Tamil Nadu and Rs 22 lakh for ones in Puducherry. Candidates with criminal track record will have to publicise the same in both electronic and print media thrice during the campaign, said Arora. Political parties fielding candidates with criminal cases also should advertise. Polls are being held in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on the same date based on requests from political parties to prevent electoral malpractices, he said. The commission is taking every possible effort to ensure hassle-free voting by the electorate, said Arora. The number of polling booths have been increased by 34.7% - total 88,936 booths - to ensure that there is one booth available for every 1,000 voters, he said. All booths would be in the ground level and adequate polling staff and security personnel would be deployed. The commission has issued separate standard operating procedure for those undergoing quarantine owing to Covid-19, he said. Electorate above the age of 80 years have the option of exercising postal ballots. Taking the pandemic into consideration, polling duration has been increased by one hour, said Arora. All poll-related officials would be treated as frontline workers to provide Covid-19 vaccination to them, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/polling-time-increased-by-an-hour-considering-pandemic/articleshow/81242658.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Polling time increased by an hour considering pandemic||CHENNAI: Braving the pandemic, Tamil Nadu would go to polls on April 6 to elect 234 MLAs to the 16th legislative assembly. Bypoll to Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency would also be held on the same date. Chief  commissioner Sunil Arora, making the announcement on Friday, said the model code of conduct has already come into force in the state. The election notification would be issued on March 12 and the last date for filing nominations is March 19. Nominations will be scrutinised on March 20 and the last date for nomination withdrawal is March 22. Counting would take place on May 2 and the entire electoral process would be completed on May 4, said Arora. The term of the 15th assembly ends on May 24. ECI has capped expenditure at Rs 30.8 lakh for every candidate in Tamil Nadu and Rs 22 lakh for ones in Puducherry. Candidates with criminal track record will have to publicise the same in both electronic and print media thrice during the campaign, said Arora. Political parties fielding candidates with criminal cases also should advertise. Polls are being held in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on the same date based on requests from political parties to prevent electoral malpractices, he said. The commission is taking every possible effort to ensure hassle-free voting by the electorate, said Arora. The number of polling booths have been increased by 34.7% - total 88,936 booths - to ensure that there is one booth available for every 1,000 voters, he said. All booths would be in the ground level and adequate polling staff and security personnel would be deployed. The commission has issued separate standard operating procedure for those undergoing quarantine owing to Covid-19, he said. Electorate above the age of 80 years have the option of exercising postal ballots. Taking the pandemic into consideration, polling duration has been increased by one hour, said Arora. All poll-related officials would be treated as frontline workers to provide Covid-19 vaccination to them, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/polling-time-increased-by-an-hour-considering-pandemic/articleshow/81236561.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Coimbatore||CM inaugurates Rs 565cr surplus water scheme||Salem: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday inaugurated the Rs 565 crore Mettur surplus water scheme to fill water bodies in dry parts of the district, facilitating better use of water for agriculture and drinking.Addressing a public gathering after inaugurating the scheme at Thippampatti in Mettur, EPS listed the welfare schemes and development projects implemented by the AIADMK government for the benefit of farmers and announced that 24-hour three-phase free power for farm pumpsets would be provided from April 1. The measure was announced by EPS during a recent campaign in Tirupur.Noting that the Mettur surplus water scheme would go a long way in meeting irrigation and drinking water requirements of villages in Salem, EPS said surplus water from Mettur dam will irrigate 4,238 acres of land in 40 villages through 79 lakes. “Besides, drinking water needs of 38 villages will be fulfilled,” he said.Work for the project announced in 2019 was started in May 2020 and was completed in a record time, EPS said. “Surplus water would be supplied from Thippampatti pumping station to M Kalipatti lake and from there to Vellalapuram and Kannandhiri pumping stations to 42 water bodies. Similarly, 31 lakes can be supplied with water via Nangavalli. We have been implementing several such initiatives for the welfare of farmers,’’ he said, adding that AIADMK is the only party, which had waived farm loan twice within five years.“Amma (late chief minister J Jayalalithaa) promised to waive loans during the 2016 election campaign, and did so as soon as election was over. Now, we have waived farm loans once again even before the polls,” he said.The AIADMK government was the only regime that released Rs 2,247 crore to provide relief to drought-hit farmers, EPS said. “We also declared the Cauvery delta region a protected agricultural zone.”EPS also laid foundation stones for 23 minor projects worth Rs 23 crore and inaugurated buildings and projects completed at a cost of Rs 63 crore across Salem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cm-inaugurates-rs-565cr-surplus-water-scheme/articleshow/81236520.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||Black flags shown to Dushyant in Sirsa||Sirsa: Farmers showed black flags to deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who had come to Sirsa by road on Thursday night, near the police line on Friday afternoon. Afterwards, the Deputy CM left for Samalkha by air route via helicopter. The deputy CM had reached his residence in Sirsa by road on Thursday night. After this, he called a helicopter to the police line to go to Samalkha. When the farmers got information about this, they gathered near the police line with black flags. Though the police stopped the farmers by placing barricades, the latter stood near the wall of the police line to show black flags to the deputy CM, who left for Samalkha on a helicopter after some time. Earlier, Dushyant said the state government is fully prepared for the crop procurement season. Six crops — wheat, mustard, paddy, sunflower, gram and barley — will be procured in Haryana in the upcoming season at the minimum support price (MSP), he said, adding that it will be for the first time in history that barley crop will be purchased at MSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/black-flags-shown-to-dushyant-in-sirsa/articleshow/81236545.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Coimbatore||20-year-old man stabbed to death||Coimbatore: A 20-year-old man was found murdered at Mel Lakkampatti village near Uthangarai in Krishnagiri district on Friday morning. The motive behind the murder is yet to be ascertained. Police identified the deceased as T Dhilip, of Mel Chamangalam at Thirupathur. A final-year graduate student of a private college, he used to work as a part-time employee of a flower shop at Thirupathur. His body was found at Kuppamma Land at Mel Lakkampatti junction, some 20 km away from Thirupathur, with cut injuries to the left side of his neck and stab injuries to his throat.Two special teams, led by Uthangarai deputy superintendent of police Rajapandian, have been formed to nab the murderers. The teams have approached mobile phone operators to get the call details of the deceased.“We have picked up five friends of the deceased for questioning. The special teams are working on various angles to get a lead,” police said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/20-year-old-man-stabbed-to-death/articleshow/81236536.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Zinc calcine worth Rs 10 lakh seized in Chittor, 3 held||UDAIPUR: Chittorgarh police arrested three members of a racket that had been involved in the theft of zinc calcine while in-transit to the processing plant of Hindustan Zinc Ltd at Putholi village. The theft was continuing since a month and the gang had stocked the stolen raw material inside a non-functional cement brick making factory in Sirodi.  “The accused stole zinc calcine from the bulkers while being transported from Hindustan Zinc’s Dariba plant in Rajsamand to the processing plant at Putholi in Chittorgarh. They conspired and bribed the drivers to stop at the factory and sneaked out the precious raw material from the bulk carriers. Police seized 351 sacks of zinc calcine each weighing around 50kg which is worth approximately Rs 10 lakh,” said SP Deepak Bhargava. The cops had been tipped off about the suspicious activities at the deserted cement factory in Sirodi for some time and the SP constituted three teams under the supervision of ASP Himmat Singh Deval, DSP Manish Sharma, led by SHOs of Chanderia, Sadar police stations which raided the factory premises on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/zinc-calcine-worth-rs-10l-seized-in-chittor-3-held/articleshow/81240036.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Zinc calcine worth Rs 10 lakh seized in Chittor, 3 held||UDAIPUR: Chittorgarh police arrested three members of a racket that had been involved in the theft of zinc calcine while in-transit to the processing plant of Hindustan Zinc Ltd at Putholi village. The theft was continuing since a month and the gang had stocked the stolen raw material inside a non-functional cement brick making factory in Sirodi.  “The accused stole zinc calcine from the bulkers while being transported from Hindustan Zinc’s Dariba plant in Rajsamand to the processing plant at Putholi in Chittorgarh. They conspired and bribed the drivers to stop at the factory and sneaked out the precious raw material from the bulk carriers. Police seized 351 sacks of zinc calcine each weighing around 50kg which is worth approximately Rs 10 lakh,” said SP Deepak Bhargava. The cops had been tipped off about the suspicious activities at the deserted cement factory in Sirodi for some time and the SP constituted three teams under the supervision of ASP Himmat Singh Deval, DSP Manish Sharma, led by SHOs of Chanderia, Sadar police stations which raided the factory premises on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/zinc-calcine-worth-rs-10l-seized-in-chittor-3-held/articleshow/81236529.cms||---
February 27, 2021||India||Soldier held for leaking ops data to Pakistan’s ISI||NEW DELHI: Alarm bells have been sounded at the Army’s Northern Command headquarters at J&K’s Udhampur, which deals with both China and Pakistan, after a soldier, a NCO (non-commissioned officer), was arrested for allegedly leaking operational data to Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). The ongoing court of inquiry (CoI) into the data breach will establish the “extent of the classified information that was lost and who all were responsible for it,” said a source on Friday. The preliminary probe by the Nagrota-based 16 Corps, based on a tip-off by an intelligence agency, shows the arrested soldier did allegedly leak “some” military maps and troop deployments, along both the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan and Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China, to his ISI handlers, said sources. With Army chief General M M Naravane and Northern Command chief Lt-General Y K Joshi monitoring the progress of the probe, “accountability will be fixed much beyond the soldier” arrested till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/soldier-held-for-leaking-ops-data-to-pakistans-isi/articleshow/81238038.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Three spectators, bull owner gored to death at Sivaganga ‘manjuvirattu’||MADURAI: Three spectators and a bull owner were gored to death and 94 others were injured at the manjuvirattu held on the eve of the Masi magam festival of Baladandhayudhapani temple at Araliparai in Sivaganga district on Friday. Collector P Madhusudhan Reddy said the bull owner died even before the event began as the animal gored him while he was travelling with it on a mini truck. The other three were trying to catch the animals at the collection point and were not registered bull tamers, he said. As many as 111 bulls were unleashed and 70 registered bull tamers participated in the event, which was conducted in an enclosure customary of manjuvirattu. The injured men were taken to the Sivaganga government hospital and Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai where they died. The deceased were Sethu,45, of Pudur, Ajithkumar, 26, of Athangudi, Maruthu, 40, of Namanur and Mahesh, 23, of Melavannaniruppu. People from Mullaimangalam, Sathuvethamangalam, Kannamangalam, Seersenthamangalam and Velamangalam conduct the manjavirattu in a grand manner every year. Friday’s event was held in connection with the tenth day festivities of the temple, a tradition being followed for the past 200 years. Special pujas were performed on Friday afternoon and the temple bull was unleashed first followed by other bulls. Madhusudhan Reddy said he had witnessed the event only for ten minutes as the elections were announced, but other officials were there to monitor it. ``All safety norms and all regulations were followed unlike the Singampunari event. It was a properly monitored event, but unfortunately the deaths happened at the collection point when the bulls ran out without being caught,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-spectators-bull-owner-gored-to-death-at-sivaganga-manjuvirattu/articleshow/81236603.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Dehradun||Don’t take audition, give us work: Almora artists to Information and Public Relations Dept||Almora: The artists from Almora — who are registered with the information and public relations department of the state government — have asked officials to not conduct an audition but give them work directly as they have been reeling under heavy economic losses in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Some days ago, the department announced that an audition would be conducted from April 5 to April 18 and the artists will be shortlisted for work on the basis of it. However, the union of Kumaon folk artists has said that an individual would have to go to Almora town or to Dehradun to just participate in the audition. Also, no travel or lodging arrangements have been made for the artists. And the artists — already hit due to the outbreak of Covid-19 — would not be able to bear these expenses. “Our contracts should be extended for two more years as no cultural events were held last year. I will also take up the matter with the chief minister,” said Devendra Bhatt, a local artist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dont-take-audition-give-us-work-almora-artists-to-information-and-public-relations-dept/articleshow/81233614.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Active Covid-19 cases continue to dip, 51 patients discharged||Coimbatore: The district recorded 41 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, even as 51 patients were discharged, bringing the number of active cases down to 386.While health officials are happy that the number of active cases, which fell below the 400-mark earlier this week, are coming down day by day, the death of four patients has left them a bit concerned. All the four were aged above 50 years and had comorbidities.At 399, it was on Wednesday (Feb 24) that the district for the first time in seven months saw the number of active Covid-19 cases dipping below 400. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We expect the numbers to reduce over the next few weeks. The drop in the fresh cases has been slow but steady. The daily spike is also likely to fall below 40 in a week or two.”Health officials said they were also tracking the Covid fatality rate. While the district hadn’t reported any Covid deaths for five days in a row until Monday, four deaths were recorded since the beginning of this week. Three of the deceased were men, who were aged above 70 years, with diabetes and hypertension, while the remaining one was a 58-year-old woman with hypertension and morbid obesity. “In fact, one of them died in Kancheepuram after having cough and dizziness for two weeks.”Authorities said people coming from Maharashtra and Kerala should remain in home quarantine for seven days to prevent the outbreak of new clusters with new strains of the virus. “We have asked hotels, lodges and hostels to immediately report customers from Maharashtra, if any, and the airport to keep data on all passengers landing from Mumbai,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-covid-19-cases-continue-to-dip-51-patients-discharged/articleshow/81236580.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Mukesh Ambani threat: SUV owner traced, police don’t rule out terror angle||MUMBAI: The crime branch, which is probing the case of an explosives-laden vehicle found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s SoBo residence, has not ruled out a terror angle. Mumbai joint CP (crime) Milind Bharambe said the police are probing all aspects including the possibility of a terror plot. The National Investigation Agency has joined the probe and recorded the statement of a businessman, Hiren Mansukh, who owned the stolen vehicle which was found with gelatin sticks and a threatening note. Bharambe said they are scanning CCTV footage of the past one or two weeks in case the suspects had done a recce. Another senior official said, “When there is a terror attack or terror organisations are involved, they often claim responsibility. Twenty-four hours have passed, nobody has claimed, but that does not rule out the terror angle.” Police said the 20 gelatin sticks weighing 2.5kg had the explosive potential for an impact that could have been felt over an area of 3,000sqft. Police said another vehicle, an Innova, was tailing the SUV from Thane to Carmichael Road, where Ambani’s bungalow Antilia is located. The Innova also had a fake registration number and is yet to be traced. The Scorpio owned by the Thane businessman was stolen on February 17 from the Mulund-Airoli route where it was parked due to a technical snag. Police said the gelatin sticks found in the vehicle were manufactured by a Nagpur company named Solar Industries, but the firm has no system of tracking individual explosive cartridges. A sports bag bearing the Mumbai Indian logo was also found in the vehicle. The Scorpio and Innova crossed the Mulund check naka at 1.20am, passed Priyadarshini Circle at Chunabhatti, Dadar, Byculla, before reaching Carmichael Road at 2.18am. On its way back, the Innova crossed the Mulund check naka at 3.20am, police said, adding it had the driver of the Scorpio in it. Teams are working to find out what happened between February 17 when the Scorpio was reported stolen and February 24 when it was found near Ambani’s residence. Police said attempts were made to erase the chassis and engine number. No information is available on the Innova, police said. An officer said they have recorded the statement of a security personnel who noticed it parked near the Ambani residence and enhanced the family’s security. “We have not decided yet about recording the statement of someone from the Ambani family,” a police officer said. What has baffled investigators is that four number plates found in the Scorpio were the same as those of vehicles in the Ambani security convoy and one used by Nita Ambani. A Reliance Industries spokesperson said, “We are thankful to Mumbai Police for their quick and immediate action. We are confident that Mumbai Police will complete their thorough investigation quickly.” The Gamdevi police late on Thursday registered an FIR against unidentified persons under sections 286 (Negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 465 (Punishment for forgery), 473(Making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc, with intent to commit forgery punishable otherwise), 506 II (Punishment for criminal intimidation) ,120B (Punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and under section 4 (Punishment for attempt to cause explosion, or for making or keeping explosive with intent to endanger life or property) of Explosive Substances Act 1908. (With inputs by Shishir Arya)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ambani-threat-suv-owner-traced-police-dont-rule-out-terror-angle/articleshow/81237660.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 27, 2021||Coimbatore||Burglars have a field day||Coimbatore: Burglars decamped with 3.5 sovereigns of gold ornaments from a locked house at Makkinampatti in Pollachi and Rs 35,000 from an electrical workshop on the Athupalam – Pollachi road in the last two days.D Sharan, who was staying in a rented house, had left for Meenakshipuram to meet his father a week ago. His wife, who was alone at the house, left for her mother’s house on Wednesday around 5.45pm. On Thursday around 5.30am, the houseowner noticed the door lock broke open and informed Sharan. He rushed to the house to find 3.5 sovereigns of gold ornaments including earrings and a gold chain missing.Fingerprint bureau sub-inspectors S Logesh Kumar and Ranjith inspected the crime scene and lifted two prints. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/burglars-have-a-field-day/articleshow/81236572.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||Priyam’s 115 help UP beat Railways by 70 runs||Kanpur: Selectors decision to let free Priyam Garg from captaincy’s burden paid a dividend to Uttar Pradesh (UP) as his fine knock of 115 runs and his 180 runs partnership with Aksh Deep Nath helped his team to drub the challenge of Railways by 70 runs in group C round IV match of Vijay Hazare Trophy played at Alur Stadium in Bengaluru on Friday. UP with this match has recorded victory in its three out of four ties. UP has collected 12 points and is heading for the knock-out phase. Priyam who had been assigned to lead UP team in Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy had failed to impress by his bat and selectors decided to let free him from burden and bat freely. Priyam in a previous match had scored a fine half-century and before that he had played a knock of 40-odd runs. Against Railways he was in flying colour. Stroking beautifully rival bowlers, he scored 115 runs in 99 balls plundering 16 boundaries and 2 sixes. Aksh Deep Nath supported him from other end and the two sent Railways fielders for a leather hunt in most of the inning. UP lost Karan Sharma (5) cheaplybBut Abhishek and Priyam controlled the situation adding 61 runs for the second wicket. Thereafter Priyam and Aksh Deep stole the show. Two batsmen opened the face of their bat and cut and drove rival bowlers beautifully. It was Aksh Deep’s bad luck that he missed his century by 7 runs. He too faced 99 balls for his 93 runs consisting 10 hits to the fence and 3 sixes. In fact, their union broke when Priyam was caught in front of wicket of Anant Saha. Sameer Chaudhary and Bhuvneshwar in 4.5 overs slogged and scored 34 and 30 runs, respectively, in 17 and 14 balls and they scored 65 runs in their unbeaten union. For Railways, Ananta Saha bagged 3 wickets. Mrunal Devdhar and Pratham Singh gave Railways a moderate start adding 51 runs for the opening wicket. They were 117 for 4 after 21.5 overs. And it was appearing that UP will dominate now. But one down Shivam Chaudhary, who stood like a rock, changed the complexion of the game in the company of Saurabh Singh and the two added 117 runs for the fifth wicket and indicted that target could be achieved. But from other end batsmen could not stick in the middle as a result wickets fell at regular intervals. Shivam tried to play from both ends but his efforts failed when he was held by Abhishek of Bhuvneshwar after scoring 107 runs. Thereafter match was a formality as Railways innings folded on 276 runs in 46.1 overs. UP coach Gyanendra Pandey praised the batting of Priyam and Aksh Deep Nath. “Priyam is now batting without any pressure and this would help him in achieving his confidence,” he added. Brief score UP: 346 for 6 (Abhishek Goswami 32, Priyam Garg 115, Aksh Deep Nath 93, Rinku Singh 21, Upendra Yadav 12, Sameer Chaudhary 34no, Bhuvneshwar Kumar 34, Ananta Saha 3 for 66, Amit Mishra 1 for 61, Saurabh Singh 1 for 19, Karn Sharma 1 for 56) Railways: (Mrunal Devdhar 36, Pratham Singh 33, Shivam Chaudhary 107, Dinesh Mor 10, Saurabh Singh 51, Bhuvneshwar 2 for 49, Mohsin Khan 1 for 63, Shivam Mavi 4 for 51, Karan Sharma 1 for 15, Shivam Sharma 1 for 57)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/priyams-115-help-up-beat-railways-by-70-runs/articleshow/81235023.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Varanasi||SP to form next govt after winning 2022 polls: Akhilesh Yadav||VARANASI: Former chief minister and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav claimed that his party would form the next government in the state after winning the 2022 Assembly elections. While taking to reporters during his visit to Mirzapur on Friday, he said, “We are going to form the government with absolute majority in 2022, and for the same the workers training camps are being held in every division.” Raising the issues of rising petroleum prices and agricultural laws, he said that while the middle class is reeling under growing inflation, the new farm laws would prove to be a death warrant for the farmers. “The BJP has forgotten the promises made in its sankalp patra (poll manifesto) during the elections,” he said adding that the UP’s politics has reached a decisive point, and the SP is fully prepared to give it a befitting reply. Akhilesh said that all sections of the society are looking towards the SP. He alleged that the BJP government has done nothing, and is only inaugurating the projects completed during the SP regime. The solar plant at Vijaypur hill in Mirzapur was sanctioned during the SP government, he said adding that this government is selling only dreams. Akhilesh also offered prayer at Sheetala Mandir and visited Swami Adgadanand Ashram in Sakteshgarh during the visit. He will also take part in Sant Ravidas Jayanti at Seer Goverdhanpur in Varanasi on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sp-to-form-next-govt-after-winning-2022-polls-akhilesh/articleshow/81234997.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man tries to kill brother over property in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A Nava Naroda resident has been accused of trying to murder his younger brother over a property dispute. Harivilas Kushwaha, a 55-year-old painting contractor living in Prerna Bungalows, filed a complaint against his elder son Sangram Singh and his four accomplices with the Krishnanagar police.  According to the FIR, at 8pm on Wednesday, Kushwaha was home when Sangram Singh came to his house with his brother-in-law Kuldip Singh Bhadoria, and their friends Kuldip Singh Yadav, Rahul Kushwaha and Gaurav Gaikwad. Sangram Singh began abusing and saying that he wanted his share of Harivilas’s house. Kushwaha said, “I went out and told Sangram Singh to go home, which enraged him and Bhadoria. They all grabbed Dilip Singh stabbed him thrice in the abdomen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-tries-to-kill-brother-over-property/articleshow/81236648.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||SC’s no to contempt against Maharastra govt in Avni shooting case||NAGPUR: In a relief to Maharashtra government, Supreme Court on Friday refused to initiate contempt proceedings against its top officers in the case of alleged illegal shooting of Pandharkawada tigress T1, popularly known as Avni. After hearing all sides, a bench led by Chief Justice Sharad Bobde, agreed to dismiss the case, but petitioner Sangeeta Dogra requested to withdraw it. The bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, then allowed her prayer and disposed of the plea. Alleging breach of the apex court’s orders of September 11, 2018, by the government while allowing killing of the tigress, the petitioner had knocked SC’s doors praying for contempt against respondents. Quoting a postmortem report, she contended that the tigress was not a man-eater and gunshot wounds on her body were suppressed. She also claimed that a silver trophy was gifted by the forest department to shooter, Asghar Ali Khan, in violation of the SC order. Dogra had named chief minister’s principal secretary Vikas Kharge, who was also in charge of state revenue and forest department, as one of the respondents. She pointed out that the government fabricated documents and filed false affidavit before the top court. Subsequently on February 2, the SC had issued notices to Kharge along with former principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF) AK Mishra and deputy conservator KM Abharna, asking them to personally appear before the bench on Friday. Pleading on respondents’ behalf, lawyer Kartik Shukul strongly contended that the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court’s orders on the same issue were already tested before the SC and raising the same allegations again would amount to review of its orders. He pointed out that the petitioner’s allegation on breach of the SC orders was false as no specific act was ascribed to the respondents. “Two committees have already looked into the incident and submitted their reports. The state law and judiciary department had given its opinion on those and Mantralaya would work on it within four months. There’s no suppression in the postmortem report and it clearly refers to the gunshot wound in multiple places,” Shukul said. He further argued that the question of whether or not the tigress was a man-eater was already decided by the HC as well as the SC. After Khan killed the tigress on November 2, 2018, NGO’s — Earth Brigade Foundation and Bezuban Public Welfare Trust — filed a PIL in HC praying for directives to the state and the NTCA to initiate criminal proceedings against the shooters for illegal hunting, tampering with evidence at the crime scene and dereliction of duties under Section 9 of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, Section 3 of Arms Act, 1959, Section 30 of Narcotic and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/scs-no-to-contempt-against-maha-govt-in-avni-shooting-case/articleshow/81236677.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Now apply to ICSE, CBSE civic schools||After its success in the first year, BMC has called for applications for its ICSE and CBSE schools, including 10 new schools which will begin operating from the next academic year. Parents can apply for classes pre-primary to class VI up to March 17. "Help desks are set up at each school to help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-apply-to-icse-cbse-civic-schools/articleshow/81237673.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Pune||Haphazard trimming of peepal tree upsets residents||Pune: Residents of Venkatesh Flora Society in Hadapsar are distressed after a neighbour trimmed an old peepal tree on their premises. Permission was granted for cutting six thin branches of the tree, instead three thick branches close to the trunk were also cut. The reason given to the garden supervisor while seeking permission was that it was a danger to children playing under it as branches. Dyanoba Balwadkar, horticultural mistry at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), stated, “The tree is cut in such a way that it will recuperate. Weak branches were trimmed. We have followed all the protocols.” Residents claim that even the measurements of the tree were wrongly represented on the permission slip given to the PMC. “The tree should be over a hundred years old, but the slip mentions that it is only 65 years old. It is also 35ft high but noted to be only 20ft in the slip. Nobody came to inspect the tree before it was cut. It is rooted in our society premises and trimmed regularly. There was no need for such blatant cutting of branches from one side of the tree. It was not a danger before but after the ruthless cutting it has now become lopsided,” said Jagruti Mallaya, a resident of the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/haphazard-trimming-of-peepal-tree-upsets-residents/articleshow/81234895.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC reunites couple, orders their protection||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has reunited a couple and ordered protection to them after the girl’s family opposed their marriage on the ground that they are living in one mohalla and that they are distant relatives. The case belongs to a small village near Vadnagar in Mehsana district. The man is an MBA working in Mehsana and the woman is his neighbour and she has certain vision impairment. Their elopement resulted in animosity of the two families and the man’s father was beaten. After they were tracked, the woman was separated. This led the man to approach the high court by way of filing a habeas corpus petition through advocate Alok Thakker. The HC summoned the woman’s father and sought to know why he had detained his daughter as alleged by her boyfriend. The woman’s father objected to the marriage saying that sapinda marriage is not permitted and his family and the man’s family are related. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice Sangeeta Vishen asked him to name five generations of his family as well as the man’s family. He could name only four generations of his family, and just two of the man’s family. As the pedigree did not show any relationship between the two families at least for last four generations, the court said that the marriage could not be termed as sapinda marriage, which is prohibited marriage according to the Hindu marriage laws. The court inquired with the woman, who clearly said that she wanted to marry the petitioner. The HC ordered the woman’s father to bring her to Visnagar court on Thursday, from where her custody was handed over to her boyfriend. Advocate Thakker told the HC that the marriage ceremony would take place within one week and the marriage registration certificate would be produced before the court. Since the man’s father was beaten following the couple’s elopement last month, the high court ordered local police to provide protection to the couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-reunites-couple-orders-their-protection/articleshow/81236617.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Two arrested for illegally manufacturing gunpowder||HYDERABAD: Task force sleuths arrested two persons for illegally manufacturing gunpowder and seized 1,360 kilos of gunpowder used for low-intensity blasts in quarries from their possession. The accused, Md Zainulabedin Shabbir (57), a businessman from Edi Bazar and Hameed Khan (49), a businessman from Shalibanda were arrested by the police on Thursday from Vattepally area of Falaknuma. Police seized 34 bags of gunpowder weighing 1,360 kilos, 450 kilos of Sodium Nitrate, 100 kilos of Sulphur, two cell phones and an autorickshaw from the possession of the accused. According to police, in 1967, Shabbir’s father had established a licensed gunpowder manufacturing business at Edi Bazar. After the death of his father, Shabbir along with his brothers is taking care of the business. Subsequently, due to family disputes, Shabbir started his own gunpowder manufacturing business. Shabbir came in contact with Hameed Khan, the seller of coal powder, an essential ingredient in gunpowder manufacturing process. “They hatched a plan and started making gunpowder without a license,” Hyderabad commissioner of police Anjani Kumar said. The accused have been selling the gunpowder for Rs 45 a kilo to Satish and Vishnuvardhan of Karimnagar. The accused were transporting the explosive material through private transport agencies and the recipients, who are selling the gun powder to quarry operators for low-intensity rock blasting, are making online payments, police said. The arrested accused along with the seized material have been handed over to Falaknuma police for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-arrested-for-illegally-manufacturing-gunpowder/articleshow/81236653.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ahmedabad||Mankind to set up Rs 500 crore plant in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: The Government of Gujarat has given an in-principle nod to Indian pharma major Mankind Pharma for setting up a Rs 500 crore pharmaceutical plant in Gujarat. In the first phase of the project, the company plans to invest Rs 500 crore for the plant that will be set up in Vadodara. Mankind Pharma will invest Rs 1,100 crore in a phased manner. The announcement was made during a special virtual signing ceremony held during the ongoing India Pharma and Medical Device 2021 event. The letter of intent detailing the project outlay has been acknowledged by the department of pharmaceuticals and the department has assured all support for the proposed project. M K Das, additional chief secretary, industries and mines, Government of Gujarat, said that Mankind Pharma is being extended all support from the government. The plant being set up by the company will be 100% exports oriented and the products manufactured here will be sent to countries such as United States, Netherlands, to name a few, Das said. He added that companies such as Mankind Pharma will be able to benefit from Government of India’s Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes and which in turn will help reduce the import dependency. “The proactive and forward-looking initiatives of Government of Gujarat has ensured that the state still continues to be No.1 in attracting FDI investments in the country. The state has accounted for 53% of the total FDI investment received that of the entire country (April- September 2020),” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mankind-to-set-up-rs-500-cr-plant-in-state/articleshow/81236662.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||I-T raids on Kundu reveal Rs 125cr fraud; search goes on for 2 days||Chandigarh: The investigation wing of the income tax (I-T) department on Friday claimed to have detected major tax fraud, including bogus expenses of Rs 100 crore and unaccounted for capital gains of Rs 25 crore, during the search and seizures operations carried out at 20 commercial and residential properties of independent MLA from Haryana’s Mehem, Balraj Kundu. The I-T official also recovered Rs 1 crore cash and US $14,000 (over Rs10 lakh), and detected 15 lockers during the raid that had started at 9am on Thursday. The lockers were placed under restraint and the search was continuing till Friday late evening. Entire operation was carried out under the supervision of principal director general income tax (investigations) for northern western region L K Aggarwal. Around 130 I-T sleuths from various offices across the region have been pressed into service. Kundu has a real estate and construction business in Gurgaon. Besides the MLA, the sleuths have searched the offices and residences of his relatives who are directors in the various companies owned by him. Kundu’s main company is in the business of government contracts, with focus on construction of roads, highways, bridges and runways. Other companies owned by him have several real estate development and residential complexes projects. “The search has yielded evidence of long term capital gains of Rs 25 crore by the main promoter and family members in the year 2012-13 and 2013-14, on which no tax has been paid. The search has also established that bogus expenses in the form of sub-contracts to the tune of Rs 100 crore have been claimed by the group to reduce its taxable income,” the information released by the department said. During investigations, the parties, in whose names such expenses were shown, were found to be unaware of transactions done in their names and denied having provided any services, I-T department has said. Many incriminating papers and documents showing receipt and payment of crores of rupees in sale of residential units and purchase of properties have been recovered, the department has said, adding that documents of benami properties have also been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/i-t-raids-on-kundu-reveal-rs-125cr-fraud-search-goes-on-for-2-days/articleshow/81236630.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||6 who attacked prison staff to be quizzed||Chandigarh: Police will take time to reach the actual assailants who killed Jagbir Singh in Sonipat jail on February 21. The special investigation team (SIT) headed by deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ravinder Kumar got production warrants of the six accused who initially attacked jail staff. Police approached the court on Thursday. Jail officials were asked to produce the six accused in court on Monday, from where they will be handed over to the police. Production warrants were sought for Dinesh, a resident of Nahri village, Mohit alias Rohit of Mukimpur, Rajnish alias Palu of Rambhra village, Pawan, a resident of Rewari, Deepak, a resident of Ramgarh and Anil, a resident of Gangana village. The accused first attacked jail staff, triggering chaos. Another group took advantage of the confusion and launched a fatal attack on Jagbir. SSP Sonipat, Jashandeep Singh Randhawa confirmed the development. “In fact, this is where the incident began. They too are equally involved. After their interrogation, we shall see involvement of others and they too will be brought later,’’ he said. Meanwhile, the postmortem report has confirmed death due to stabbing, strangulation and injuries caused by blunt weapons. Jagbir, who has been serving life term for murdering one Sanjay Butana, was stabbed and strangled to death by a group of jail inmates on February 21. The incident is said to be the outcome of gang rivalry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-who-attacked-prison-staff-to-be-quizzed/articleshow/81236652.cms||Manvir Saini
February 27, 2021||Dehradun||53 new Covid-19 cases surface in Uttarakhand, 38 more recover||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand recorded 53 new cases of novel coronavirus on Friday. With this, the total cases of the virus reached 96,890 in the state. The active infections stood at 364. Also, one more coronavirus-related fatality took the toll of the virus to 1,691 in Uttarakhand. On Friday, 38 more people recovered from Covid-19 infection. Till the time of filing of this report, the cured cases stood at 93,438. The recovery rate in Uttarakhand is 96.44%. According to the health department, the sample positivity rate in the state dropped to 4.09% and the death rate rose to 1.75%. “Among the active cases, the maximum of 101 are in Haridwar, followed by 67 in Dehradun, 63 in Nainital, 28 in Pauri, 27 in Udham Singh Nagar, 24 in Almora, 15 in Tehri, 14 in Champawat, 10 in Chamoli, nine in Uttarkashi, four in Bageshwar, and two in Rudraprayag,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/53-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-ukhand-38-more-recover/articleshow/81233634.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||SCR to restore special trains from April 1||Hyderabad: As part of the restoration of train services for the convenience of passengers, South Central Railway will restore special trains from April 1. Train number 07023 from Secunderabad to Kurnool City and train number 07024 in the opposite direction will ply daily from April 1. Likewise, train number 07419 from Tirupati to Vasco Da Gama will ply on Thursday from April 1 and in the opposite direction, train number 07420 will operate on Fridays. Another train — 07021, from Hyderabad to Vasco Da Gama will also be restored and will be plied on Thursdays. In the opposite direction — Vasco Da Gama to Hyderabad, train number 07022 will be operational on Fridays from April 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-to-restore-special-trains-from-april-1/articleshow/81236681.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Four held for kidnapping make-up artiste over monetary dispute||HYDERABAD: Banjara Hills police on Friday declared the arrest of four persons for kidnapping a make-up artiste who works in Tollywood on Thursday. The victim was rescued in Nalgonda, while the accused were taking him to Chennai. Hyderabad police said that Kumara Guru, a cinema production manager, Paluru Lokesh Kumar, a cine artiste, Jagadish, who works in a private company and PK Ganesh Kumar, a cine artiste, were arrested while the prime accused, Pradeep Natarajan, a production manager and Keerthana, a junior artiste are absconding. Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said the victim Amaranath Reddy, 35, is a resident of Srinagar colony. “His wife, Kalpana Reddy received a phone call at 1.30pm on Thursday informing her husband was kidnapped. The kidnapper demanded a ransom of Rs 4 lakh. They also made the victim speak to Kalpana and he confirmed he had been abducted and was assaulted by 7 persons,” the commissioner said. Officials said that the abductors asked her to deposit the ransom in Pradeep’s account. She was informed that Amaranath Reddy was being taken to Chennai and if she failed to pay the ransom, the victim would be killed. Kalpana approached Banjara Hills police, who formed special teams to trace the abductors. Police arranged cash. Pradeep and Lokesh came to collect the cash from Kalpana. While they were accepting cash, police nabbed Lokesh while Pradeep escaped. Based on details given by Lokesh during interrogation, police located the location of the other accused and victim’s phones. They intercepted the vehicle in Nalgonda and rescued the victim, besides nabbing the accused. When the nabbed were questioned, police came to know that Amaranath Reddy was directed by his friend Venkatesham, to recover Rs 13.5 lakh from one Junaid and Anu. By filing case in Bangalore, Amaranath could make Junaid and Anu deposit Rs 10 lakh in the court. For this, Amaranath took the help of the accused involved in the kidnap. The accused were promised Rs 4 lakh by the victim. But the victim, after receiving Rs 10 lakh, became inaccessible to the accused. So, the accused kidnapped him, removed his clothes and videographed him. The victim was threatened that the video will be made viral if he did not give the promised Rs 4 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-held-for-kidnapping-make-up-artiste-over-monetary-dispute/articleshow/81236666.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Third phase vaccine shot: 1.2 lakh to be covered daily in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The state government is planning the next phase of Covid-19 vaccine rollout from March 1 by administering the jab to 1.2 lakh people every day. A total of six lakh people will be given the vaccine in this phase, which is meant for general public in the age group of 45-59 with co-morbidities and those above 60 years. The government is planning to take up the exercise for five days in a week. The Centre conducted a video-conference with health officials recently and asked state governments to give a detailed action plan every 15 days. State government received nearly 20 lakh vaccine doses, out of which three lakh doses are Covaxin. Interestingly, those who will book the slot for taking the jab will not know which vaccine will be administered to them at the time of the booking. Those who want to take the vaccine should carry their photo identity card, an official said. Significantly, if an Aadhaar card is submitted, consent of beneficiaries will be taken and recorded. If a beneficiary cancels first day appointment of dose, booking for both slots (for second dose) will also be cancelled. While the vaccine can be taken anywhere depending on convenience, booking of slots will be closed the previous day at 12 pm. On March 1, there will be a soft launch of the programe between 10 am and 11 am, an official said. Second dose booking will begin from 29th day of administering first dose. Meanwhile, government has identified 1,200 vaccine centres where people can take the shot. Those who want to take the vaccine at a private hospital should pay a service charge of Rs 100 per dose. Vaccine charge will be additional to service fee fixed by central government. Sources said the Centre bought vaccine doses at a price of Rs 187 per each dose, but will fix a separate charge soon for the vaccine rollout in private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3rd-phase-vaccine-shot1-2l-to-be-covered-daily/articleshow/81234919.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||NIN launches e-survey on food and dietary habits||Hyderabad: The Hyderabad-based ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition has launched a national online e-survey to generate a national level participatory real-time data on food intakes, dietary habits and health indicators for mapping nutrition and health status of people across the country. The institute invites people of all age groups to visit the NIN website and fill in a simple e-survey form voluntarily. “Monitoring of food intakes, nutrition and health status of the population should be dynamic in nature to enable the planners, implementers and developmental partners to revise and design new nutrition and health intervention programmes. We hope this experiment of the e-survey will help us fill this gap reasonably,” said Dr Hemalatha R, Director of ICMR-NIN. There are two types of e-survey forms available on the NIN’s website — one is for adults (above 18 years) to collect self-reported data on nutrition status, food frequency and intakes. The second form for parents/caregivers of children below 2 years of age, wherein they are expected to fill in the information related to infant and young child feeding (IYCF), especially in terms of food frequency, diversity and nutritional status. Immediately after filling in the e-survey forms, the respondents can get a quick glance of their nutritional status or the child’s nutritional status based on the data provided online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nin-launches-e-survey-on-food-and-dietary-habits/articleshow/81236711.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Submit Covaxin Phase 3 efficacy data before seeking nod for kids trials: SEC||HYDERABAD: The Subject Expert Committee (SEC), which advises the Indian drug regulator Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), has asked Bharat Biotech to submit efficacy and safety data from its ongoing Phase III Covaxin trials before seeking approval for conducting trials on children. The committee has also asked Bharat Biotech to revise its trial protocol for children to a Phase II/III study and submit it before the committee. Bharat Biotech had applied to the drug regulator for approval to conduct Phase III trials of Covaxin on children in the 5-18 years age group along with clinical trial protocol. “Firm should submit efficacy and safety data of the ongoing Phase III clinical trial in adults along with the age subgroup analysis. The design of trial should be revised to Phase II/III. Sample size and other consequential changes should be made to the protocol, accordingly...firm shall submit revised clinical trial protocol for review of the committee,” SEC said at its meeting held on Wednesday. However, the minutes of the meeting were uploaded on the CDSCO (Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation) website only on Friday. Bharat Biotech had conducted Phase I trials of Covaxin on 375 volunteers in the 18-55 years age group at 11 sites across the country, followed by Phase II trials on 380 volunteers in the 12-65 years age bracket at nine sites across the country. The Phase III trials of Covaxin are currently being conducted on 25,800 volunteers aged over 18 years at 25 sites across the country. The company expects the interim efficacy data from the Phase III study to be available over the next couple of weeks, Bharat Biotech's chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella said recently. Covaxin is a whole-virion, inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, two doses of which have to be administered 28 days apart. The vaccine candidate received DCGI nod for restricted EUA (emergency use authorisation) in clinical trial mode in early January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/submit-covaxin-phase-3-efficacy-data-before-seeking-nod-for-kids-trials-sec/articleshow/81234929.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
February 27, 2021||Patna||Student shot at for resisting loot in Patna||PATNA: A GATE aspirant was shot at and critically injured for resisting the criminals who robbed him of Rs2000 when he was going to Patna Junction in an autorickshaw to board a train around 4.30am on Friday. The injured youth was identified as Rahul Patel (23) from Nokha village under the same police station area in Rohtas district. The incident took place near Dwarika High School under Kankarbagh police station area in Patna. Kankarbagh police station SHO Ravishankar Kumar said Rahul left his residence on road number 3 at Ashok Nagar for Patna Junction. “Two of Rahul’s friends — Kumar Gaurav and Chote Lal — saw him off in an autorickshaw. After a short distance, 3 bike-borne criminals intercepted the autorickshaw and snatched his bag and purse containing his belongings and Rs2,000,” he said. Kumar said Rahul’s friends saw the incident from a distance and rushed to his rescue. “Rahul and his two friends overpowered the criminals and snatched back the looted bag and managed to take out the bike key. At this point, one of the criminals opened fire in which Rahul was injured. Out of nervousness, Rahul’s friends threw the bike key and the criminals picked it up and fled with the purse,” he said. The SHO said an FIR has been registered on the statement of Rahul’s father Anil Chaudhary. Patna Sadar SDPO Sandeep Singh said raids were being conducted to nab the unidentified accused. When contacted, Rahul’s uncle Sudhir Kumar Chaudhary told this newspaper over phone that his nephew was an engineering graduate from Shershah Engineering College at Sasaram in Rohtas. “He had secured overall 82.11%. Result was declared hardly a few months back. He had shifted to Patna mere a month back to prepare for GATE,” Chaudhary said. He said they reached Patna from Rohtas after receiving information about the incident. “Rahul is presently on a ventilator support after being operated for the bullet injury,” he said. Police sources said he was shot between his chest and abdominal area. They said the injured was immediately rushed to a private hospital in Kankarbagh from where he was shifted to PMCH and then to a private hospital where doctors finally operated upon him and extracted a bullet from his body,” police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/student-shot-at-for-resisting-loot-in-patna/articleshow/81234926.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Upward trend forces Covid guard up again||NEW DELHI: Is Delhi veering towards another peak in Covid-19 cases? This concern, expressed by many in the backdrop of resurgence in new cases in states like Maharashtra and Kerala in the past few weeks, became serious with the national capital registering 256 fresh cases — the highest in February — on Friday. This was the third time in a row when Delhi recorded more than 200 cases this month. The positivity rate — number of Covid cases from those tested — also went up to 0.41% on Friday from 0.34% on Thursday. Health department officials said 62,768 people had undergone tests — 41,775 RT-PCR and 20,993 Rapid Antigen Tests — in the last 24 hours. One death was recorded on Friday. The number of active cases has reached 1,231. Of them, 400 people are hospitalised and one person is in a Covid Care Centre while 574 are under home isolation. “We are admitting five to six patients daily for the past few days,” Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, told TOI. Last November, when the outbreak was at its peak in Delhi, they were admitting 70 to 80 patients daily, he added. Daily admissions went down significantly over the last two months. Lok Nayak Hospital, designated for Covid treatment along with several other state-run hospitals, saw sharp reduction in the footfall, including zero admissions on some days, following which the government had scaled down the number of Covid beds. “If the current trend holds for another one to two weeks, the need for admissions may also go up,” Dr Kumar said. Stressing on the need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, he said, “I see so many people moving around in markets and eating out in restaurants who care a little about maintaining physical distance or wearing mask.” New admissions have gone up in a few private hospitals too. “A recent serosurvey shows 56% people in Delhi have antibodies against Covid-19. But 44% people still remain vulnerable. Also, the presence of antibodies doesn’t guarantee immunity against the virus,” said Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director of internal medicine at Max Super Specialty Hospital Saket. “Studies conducted abroad have found the antibodies developed through natural infection gives immunity that can last for up to six months.” The emergence of Covid-19 caused by newer strains of novelcorona virus is a major concern, doctors say. Delhi needs to be on high alert to detect new Covid clusters and carry out tests to rule out any such possibility, they emphasise. It is important to map new strains to detect significant changes that may affect the transmissibility or virulence of the disease. The Delhi tally has now reached 6,38,849, out of which 10,906 people have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/upward-trend-forces-covid-guard-up-again/articleshow/81236780.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Borivli-Vile Parle belt in western ’burbs re-emerges as hotspot||MUMBAI: The Borivli-Vile Parle belt in the western suburbs is re-emerging as a Covid hotspot with five civic wards comprising 32% of the city’s total active cases. Civic officials and local corporators attribute the spike in cases to increased testing,more people stepping out for work and leisure, along with the resumption of local train services. Also, most of these cases are from non-slum areas, they pointed out. According to data from the BMC, the total active cases in Mumbai as of February 24 was 8,320. Among the 24 administrative wards, R-Central, which covers Borivli, Gorai and Magathane areas, topped the list with 601 active cases, followed by K-West, which covers Andheri West, Vile Parle West and Juhu, with 563 cases. The other three wards on the top five list were R-South (Kandivli, Charkop, Poisar), P-North (Malad east and west) and K-East (see graphic). In contrast, wards in the island city, namely B (Dongri), C (Kalbadevi, Bhuleshwar and Marine Lines) and A (Churchgate, Colaba, Cuffe Parade and Nariman Point), have the least number of active Covid cases. While B ward has 60 active cases, C ward has 109 and A ward 201. It’s almost a year since the lockdown had been first imposed and people cannot continue to sit at home even now, said R-South ward corporator Leena Patel Deherkar. “People have started going to their workplaces, to malls and even to gardens for walks. Many people are also travelling by trains which are running packed,” Deherkar said. She added that she has asked the BMC to conduct RTPCR tests in her ward especially in areas from where more cases are being traced. “We conducted a few tests on Friday, and continue over the weekend too.” Andheri MLA Ameet Satam said increased testing was the reason for the rise in the number of cases in his area. “K-West ward has seen 80-plus cases a day in the last two days, but it was due to increased testing, On Thursday, 484 tests were conducted and on Wednesday, 559 in K-West ward alone,” he said. Borivli corporator Vidyarthi Singh pointed out that most of the cases in R-Central ward were from housing societies and highrises. “But these are stable patients and many are also asymptomatic. In the earlier days, surge in cases in slum pockets was a huge concern,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/borivli-vile-parle-belt-in-western-burbs-re-emerges-as-hotspot/articleshow/81234947.cms||Richa Pinto
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||SEC asks Dr Reddy’s for Phase II/III Sputnik data||Hyderabad: Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has been asked to submit immunogenicity and safety data of the Phase II and III trials of Sputnik V in India by the expert panel that advises the Indian drug regulator. The company had applied for EUA (emergency use authorisation) approval for the Russian vaccine last week. “Firm presented its proposal for grant of permission to import (marketing authorization) for emergency use of Gam-COVID-Vac combined vector vaccine (component one and component two) along with the safety & immunogenicity data of Phase II part of Phase II/III clinical trial in India and interim safety, efficacy & immunogenicity data from overseas Phase III clinical trial,” the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) said at its meeting on February 24, 2021. “After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that firm should submit immunogenicity and safety data of Phase II and III trial as per approved protocol for further consideration of the committee. Further, the firm is requested to present its data with more clarity,” the expert panel said, as per minutes of the meeting uploaded on the CDSCO website on Friday. A Dr Reddy’s spokesperson said the company would be approaching DCGI with the requisite data shortly. “We confirm that the DCGI has recommended Dr Reddy’s to present further data on Sputnik V vaccine before considering its approval for emergency use. We understand the importance of effective investigation and we will approach the regulator with the requisite data soon,” the spokesperson said. Dr Reddy’s had tied up in September 2020 with Russian sovereign wealth fund, Russian Direct Investment Fund for conducting Phase III trials and distributing over 100 million doses of the vaccine in the Indian market. Dr Reddy’s has completed Phase II trials of Sputnik V on 100 volunteers and a Phase III study on 1,500 volunteers in India as part of a bridging study to a larger global Phase III study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sec-asks-dr-reddys-for-phase-ii/iii-sputnik-data/articleshow/81234938.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
February 27, 2021||Dehradun||At 31.8 degrees Celsius, Dehradun records hottest day in February ever||DEHRADUN: The maximum temperature in Dehradun was 31.8 degrees Celsius on Friday, almost eight notches above normal and the highest ever on a day in February in recorded history. This was just a day after Thursday's maximum temperature, 31.3 degrees Celsius, was recorded as the warmest ever in Doon during this time of the year. Before these two days, February 25, 2006, when the maximum temperature soared to 31.2 degrees Celsius in Doon, was the hottest day in February ever. Officials of the regional meteorological centre said that a prolonged dry spell and lack of moisture had resulted in rising temperatures and onset of summer as early as February. In fact, Dehradun had started seeing higher than normal temperatures around the third week of February. It breached the 30-degrees Celsius mark on February 24, which usually happens in the first week of March. “On Friday, the maximum temperature in Dehradun was recorded at 31.8 degrees Celsius, which is the hottest day ever recorded in the month of February. On Thursday, the maximum temperature had settled at 31.3 degrees Celsius, the second highest yet,” said Rohit Thapliyal, senior meteorologist, IMD. He added that a dry winter may be the reason behind the unusual heat. “Three feeble western disturbances were witnessed in the month of February in Uttarakhand, which hardly made any difference on the weather conditions of the state. As a result, dry conditions prevailed and temperatures continued to soar. Usually, at this time of the year, snow and rainfall activity keep the temperature in check,” Thapliyal said. Meanwhile on Friday, Pantnagar in Udham Singh Nagar district also witnessed the highest maximum temperature ever on a day in February at 31.3 degrees Celsius, the Met office said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/at-31-8-degrees-celsius-dehradun-records-hottest-day-in-february-ever/articleshow/81233678.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||State resumes health bulletin after HC rap; 190 cases, 2 deaths recorded in Telangana||HYDERABAD: After a gap of three days, the Telangana health department on Friday resumed releasing the daily Covid-19 bulletin in the state. The authorities resumed the practice after Telangana High Court directed the state government to release the bulletin within 24 hours so that people get information on daily basis, especially when there is an upsurge in cases in some states, leading to fears of a second wave of the pandemic. Director, public health, Dr G Srinivasa Rao had announced on Tuesday that they were stopping the issue of the bulletin as the human resources used for the same can be used for Covid vaccination. He had said that a weekly bulletin would be issued instead of daily information. The bulletin released on Friday shows that the state recorded a total of 189 new Covid-19 infections and two deaths were recorded in Telangana on Friday, taking the overall toll to 1,632. There are 1,910 patients under treatment, but the recovery rate in the state has now touched 98.81 %. So far, a total of 86,18,845 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the state, out of which 2,98,453 have tested positive and 2,94,911 persons have recovered. In the data released on Friday, 42,432 Covid tests were conducted in the state while reports of another 756 samples are awaited. Meanwhile, the director of public health and family welfare, in its bulletin, once again said, “If symptoms related to Covid-19 are observed, please report to the nearest government health facility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-resumes-health-bulletin-after-hc-rap-190-cases-2-deaths-recorded-in-t/articleshow/81234944.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Ambulance contractor not being paid on time?||ULHASNAGAR: A contractor providing ambulances to Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) through RTO during Covid has accused civic body officials for delaying payments by giving excuses. In Mumbai metropolitan region, including Ulhasnagar, in June last year cases peaked and there was an ambulance shortage, Thane collector had ordered Kalyan RTO to provide services to civic bodies in their jurisdiction. RTO had provided 23 ambulances to UMC through Khanderai Travels, owned by Manoj Ghodke. Ghodke converted his vehicles into ambulances and arranged for drivers, to take Covid-19 patients to hospitals 24x7. Ghodke told TOI, “Many of our drivers were scared of getting infected, so they were not ready to work so I paid them advance salaries. Even our cleaners picked up bodies with civic staff when no family members were allowed at cremation grounds.” He said initially they got payments on time, but later, transport department civic started delaying. “I took a loan to pay staff and mortgaged my family jewellery,” he said. Ghodke said whenever he goes to the department officials claim the civic body does not have funds or tell him to bring more documents. Ghodke has written to Kalyan RTO officials, who gave him the contract. RTO have also written to UMC and Thane collector to clear his dues. Narendra Kumari, former Opposition leader of UMC, said, “I request the civic chief to immediately pay the ambulance contractor, as his staff risked their lives during an emergency.” Civic chief Dr Raja Dayanidhi said, “I have ordered the transport and account departments to clear bills on priority as per availability of funds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ulhas-civic-body-delaying-money-to-ambulance-contractor/articleshow/81234160.cms||Pradeep Gupta
February 27, 2021||Varanasi||IIT-BHU to give design expertise to MSMEs||Times News Network Varanasi: The IIT(BHU) has recently signed an MOU with the Ministry of micro, small and medium enterprise (MSME) to provide design expertise to manufacturing MSME sector under Credit Linked Capital Subsidy and Technology Up-gradation Scheme (CLCS-TUS). The IIT(BHU) has been incorporated as one of the implementation agencies and would facilitate the smooth running of this scheme, which would be implemented through the office of the Development Commissioner (MSME). Dr Mohd Zaheer Khan Yusufzai of the department of Mechanical Engineering, IIT(BHU) said that the goal is to help MSME manufacturing industries move up the value chain by switching the production mode from original equipment manufacturing to original design manufacturing and hence original brand manufacturing, and enhance strategic design application among MSMEs for improving the manufacturing competitiveness through well design and quality. The main objective of this scheme is to bring Indian manufacturing sector and design expertise/fraternity on a common platform and provide expert advice and cost-effective solutions on real time design problems, resulting in new product development, continuous improvement and value addition for existing products including new products. He said that the IIT(BHU) would assist the MSMEs by providing them with the best possible design expertise present in the country. It would help the MSMEs to solve their design problems, improve the quality of their existing products and convert their innovative ideas into new and marketable products. The MSMEs can approach the ministry through IIT(BHU) for funding these design projects where funding up to Rs 15 lakh can be provided by the ministry and only 25% has to be provided by the enterprise interested in that project. The institute would also help the MSME in preparing the project’s proposal. He said that another interesting part of the scheme is the ‘students design project’ where the manufacturing industries can take the services of students from IIT(BHU) to solve their design problems and develop innovative products. A funding of Rs 1.5 lakh would be provided by the ministry (with 25% fund provided by the MSME).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/iit-bhu-to-give-design-expertise-to-msmes/articleshow/81234964.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Law admission takes its own course, to close March-end||MUMBAI: At a time the academic year usually draws to an end, admission to first year LLB (three-year) programme, is yet to conclude in the state this year. While the first half of the year was lost due to the pandemic, a series of technical glitches followed, leading to further delay. After rescheduling the process multiple times, admissions are now expected to close on March 31, putting students and colleges in a fix over the academic session ahead. In the latest schedule issued by the state’s CET cell, the provisional merit list that was to be out on February 23, was released late on Friday. However, an official said that final dates will not be impacted as they have made use of buffer days in between. “We were not expecting many students filling options in the second round. So the verification process took time,” added the official. Times ViewThe state government should engage competent agencies for conducting online admission process as it is very crucial for students’ academic year. Loss of time due to technical glitches should be avoided as much as possible. There should be proper co-ordination between all government admission agencies and universities to ensure proper planning and operation.The second list of allotments will be issued on March 8. If all goes well, the institutional round will start on March 17 and the cut-off date for admissions, so far, is till March 31. The principal of a south Mumbai college said that this delay is unprecedented. “While admissions to most professional courses ended in January, law will take a month more. Colleges will have to take extra effort to deal with this crisis. We will have to take extra lectures, even on weekends, and will have to scrap all vacations. We do not know when the university will schedule exams. If next year’s admissions start on time, we will have two batches of first year students — one in the first semester and the other in the second,” said the principal. Another principal said there is no co-ordination between the CET cell and state universities. “Delay in marksheet distribution by the university also delayed the process a bit. The CET cell also changed the schedule five to six times. Also the manual was not in lucid language and most students made mistakes in submission of documents. Many admissions were rejected in the first round at college level, and so, more students had to fill choices again in the second round,” he said. An official from the CET cell said there were glitches in the start in the Maha-IT portal. “The CET was held late due to the pandemic and the Maratha issue delayed it further. Then there were technical glitches in the Maha-IT portal, a government portal, after which we had to seek a third-party audit. Also, unlike in engineering, in law admissions we allow students to fill options again in the second round. This also extends the process by at least 10 days,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/law-admission-takes-its-own-course-to-close-march-end/articleshow/81236805.cms||Yogita Rao
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Slight increase seen in daily Covid-19 cases in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana reported 741 covid cases since the health department stopped its daily bulletin. The figures indicate a slight daily increase in the gap period from the average 160 cases to around 180 cases. This increase was confirmed when the bulletin was resumed on Friday, which showed 189 new covid cases. Data also shows that a total of 129 persons recovered on Friday. The GHMC limits saw 31 new cases followed by 19 new cases in Medchal Malkajgiri district and 16 new cases in Rangareddy district. Karimnagar — where there was a recent outbreak — had nine cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/slight-increase-seen-in-daily-covid-19-cases/articleshow/81234948.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Anxious, many take antibody tests before and after jab||HYDERABAD: Apprehensions over Covid vaccination has led to a rise in people taking the antibody tests, before and after the vaccine shots. Apart from doctors, medical students and hospital staff, some frontline workers too are learnt to be taking these tests — keen on recording the change in the antibody levels after two shots of the vaccine. Health experts maintain these tests are unnecessary and even discourage people from taking them. “These tests are unnecessary and should not be encouraged. Also, these do not serve any purpose, as the vaccines have been tested and will do their work,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana. Some medical students TOI spoke to said they took the tests out of curiosity. They argued that the tests may help people decide on whether they need the vaccine, based on whether they have antibodies or not. “Although it a costly test — doing one before the vaccine shot is taken, another after the first shot and third after the second shot — I decided to go for it because I was curious. Since there are people who have tested positive for the antibodies without having tested positive for Covid-19, many are checking if they already have antibodies. In that case they don’t want to go for the vaccine as no one knows how effective it will be,” said a senior resident doctor from one of the state-run hospitals in Hyderabad. These tests are currently available in select private healthcare facilities only and are priced between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,400 each. Running three tests, to observe the change in the antibody levels, would cost an individual anywhere upwards of Rs 3,000. “It is out of anxiety that people are doing these tests. In some cases, where symptoms persist for a few days, people are running to do these tests,” said Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, secretary Indian Medical Association (IMA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anxious-many-take-antibody-tests-before-and-after-jab/articleshow/81234966.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 27, 2021||Goa||‘31 startups in 2 years at GIM, achieved double our target’||PANAJI: The Atal Incubation Centre at Goa Institute of Management (GIM), the only one to be set up under NITI Aayog in the state, has hand-held 30 startups until now, double the target provided to the centre by NITI Aayog, said GIM director Ajit Parulekar on Friday, after opening the new facility for the centre at GIM’s campus at Sakhali. “Goa has become a hub for startups. Goa has one of the highest incubation centres. This is because of the government policies. Goa provides a great recipe for start-ups. There are 1,300 NITI Aayog-supported startup centres across the country, with the one at GIM being the only one in Goa. We have 31 startups within a span of two years, which is twice the number we had promised NITI Aayog,” said Parulekar. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who opened the Atal Incubation Centre’s new facility, asked GIM to provide its expertise to help implement the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goem’ programme in villages of Goa. Sawant said that Goa was on its way to becoming a preferred destination for startups and the centre at GIM could play a key role in encouraging and facilitating entrepreneurship as an alternate career option for young men and women. The incubation centre launched four new programmes on Friday. Three of the programmes will be to identify entrepreneurial talent in Goa, to nurture women micro-entrepreneurs and provide support to social impact startups. The fourth programme will be ‘Goa Invest-a-thon’ to attract investments for Goa-based startups and in turn help Goan startups, who are looking to raise up to Rs 1 crore, with the investment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/31-startups-in-2-yrs-at-gim-achieved-double-our-target/articleshow/81236810.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Tractor march: Court grants bail to 3 youths||New Delhi: Three youths accused of rioting during the tractor march on January 26 have been granted bail by a Delhi court. Their bail was opposed by the state on the ground that the violence had left 94 policemen injured. Additional sessions judge Samar Vishal was acting on the bail applications of Gursewak (18), Daljinder (22) and Rohan (22) —all of whom were granted bail considering their young age. The court in each of the three orders stated, “Considering the age of the applicant/accused, his clean antecedents and the period of incarceration, I deem it fit to release him on bail.” The court observed that the prosecutor had rightly opposed the bail application of the applicant, as the riot which broke out on that day was violent and none of the act of the rioters/protesters comes within the purview of democratic right of protest. “Right to protest means right to peaceful protest and not to resort to violence of any kind even on provocation. The facts portrayed by the prosecution shows that the acts of the protesters/rioters cannot be condoned,” it said. The court, however, highlighted that the guilt or innocence of the applicant was a matter of trial and nothing couldn’t be stated about it at the current stage. “The applicant is a young boy of 22 years and has a minor child of one-and-half-years. No previous criminal involvement is reported against him, which shows that he has clean antecedents. He has been in custody for about 26 days,” the court underscored in its bail order. The prosecution had submitted that during the incident, protesters hit the police barricades and police vehicles with their tractors. As bail conditions, the trio was directed not to leave the country without prior permission of the trial court and surrender their passports within one week from their release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tractor-march-court-grants-bail-to-3-youths/articleshow/81237713.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||After 4 months, Dharavi sees double-digit cases in one day||MUMBAI: Dharavi, the city’s largest slum cluster, on Friday reported 16 Covid cases, a steep rise from the single-digit numbers it was logging over the past few days. The area had last reported double-digit numbers on October 23, 2020 (18 cases). On Friday, the total number of active cases in Dharavi rose to 51 from 19 recorded on February 17. Civic officials do not believe it to be a local outbreak, but attribute the rise to increased testing. “We are aggressively testing as many people as possible to curb the spread. Our teams are specifically identifying crowded areas, including religious places, and ensuring adequate tests are done,” assistant municipal commissioner of G-North ward Kiran Dighavkar said. Dharavi had reported its first Covid-19 case on April 1, 2020. —Richa Pinto||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-4-months-dharavi-sees-double-digit-cases-in-one-day/articleshow/81234973.cms||Richa Pinto
February 27, 2021||Pune||Experts say more than certs, data scientists need practice||Pune: Computer vision, natural language processing, regressive algorithm are some fields in data sciences that have a huge hiring potential in India, Sucheta Dhere, ambassador for Women in Data sciences Pune chapter, said on Friday. The chapter in collaboration with Stanford University-ICME global Initiative, has thousands of members and works pro bono to support women and others get into this field, and solve problems using technology. “All students have certificates, but when it comes to applying that knowledge, they are clueless. Even if they are completing a course in data science, instead of working on clean data, as is the case in many places, they need to work on unclean data and then do the whole process of using their skills to extract the useful data and do what is required with this data. Hence, they need to keep practising, especially on real-time data to understand the scope of the technology,” Dhere said. Rohini Mulay, co-ambassador and a retired training and placement officer from Cummins College of Engineering for Women, said many a times, it is the non-computer/IT background student, who learns the best of data science software. “The computer/IT students sometimes get complacent. They are good coders. But non-IT branches have the drive to learn something new and they practice because they feel inadequate. Hence, their drive to become experts in this field sets them apart,” Mulay added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-say-more-than-certs-data-scientists-need-practice/articleshow/81234970.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 27, 2021||Pune||200+ illegal structures razed in PCMC limits since February 1||Pimpri Chinchwad: The anti-encroachment department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has demolished over 200 illegal constructions across eight civic zones since February 1.Deputy engineer Vijay Bhojne said that around 2.5 lakh square feet of illegal constructions have been demolished in the drive.“First, we send a notice to property owners about illegal constructions. They are told to demolish the structures on their own within a stipulated time. If they fail to do so, we carry out the demolition drive. The expense is recovered from the property owner,” he said, adding that the drive started only after the stay on demolition was lifted by the Bombay High Court on January 31.Asked about re-encroachment by offenders after the demolition drive, he said that the issue would be looked into.Rajesh Patil, municipal commissioner, told TOI, “There will be zero tolerance of encroachments. However, we will also think on humanitarian grounds when it comes to starting a drive against vendors operating from illegal makeshift shops. We are working on a proposal on setting up a proper vending zone in the twin towns so that the vendors will not have to suffer due to anti-encroachment drive.”Patil said he will need more time to synchronise things as encroachment is an issue that prevails across the country.Earlier in 2018, the Bombay High Court had directed the PCMC to submit an affidavit mentioning the steps taken to demolish illegal structures in the twin towns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/200-illegal-structures-razed-in-pcmc-limits-since-february-1/articleshow/81234967.cms||Piyush Bhusari
February 27, 2021||Vadodara||Two more videos of BJP MLA create flutter||Vadodara: More controversy was in store for Waghodiya BJP MLA Madhu Shrivastava with two videos going viral on Friday. Shrivastava is heckled by a man from the audience in a public meeting in one of the videos, while in another he is heard saying that irrespective of the code of conduct, he would campaign on the day before the polls. While the location and timings of the videos are not known, they are clearly done during election campaigns in which Shrivastava is not a candidate and is addressing people to seek votes for others. In one video, he is addressing a public meeting from the dais while in another, he is addressing a group of persons without any dais or public address system. In the public meeting, a visibly irate man is seen using foul language against the MLA while he was addressing. Shrivastava later insists that the man is removed from the place saying he was a drunkard. The second video shows Shrivastava saying that it was the last day of campaigning, but there was still one day to go for the elections. “Tomorrow also we are going to move around. I do not bother about any code of conduct,” he says. Shrivastava was mired in controversies recently too when his son Dipak Shrivastava filed nomination after being denied a ticket by BJP. The son could not contest the polls due to the two-child rule. It came to light that he had three children and the MLA had adopted one of them. He had recently threatened journalists repeatedly including an incident ahead of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-more-videos-of-bjp-mla-create-flutter/articleshow/81234240.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||After tiff with wife, tailor slits his throat in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 35-year-old man attempted to commit suicide by slitting his throat in Jeedimetla on Friday. The police said Naresh, a tailor, who is an alleged alcoholic, quarrelled with his wife. Following the argument, he took a a knife and slit his throat. He was immediately shifted to a hospital by family members. Police said his condition is currently stable. Naresh is a resident of Petbasheerabad. Police registered a case and said investigation is being carried out. Police said that he used to frequently quarrel with his family members in a drunken state. Despite being counselled by friends and family, he continued troubling his family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-tiff-with-wife-tailor-slits-his-throat/articleshow/81234968.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||IOC launches 100 Octane premium petrol in Hyderabad, fuel to cost Rs 160/litre||HYDERABAD: If your pocket is full and rising petrol price is not a concern, then head to select outlets of Indian Oil Corporation in Hyderabad for premium grade petrol which is designed to boost engine performance and give better drivability. IOC has launched 100 Octane petrol in Hyderabad at Rs 160 per litre. Premium world-class petrol was first introduced in Delhi, Gurugram, Noida, Agra, Jaipur, Chandigarh, Ludhiana, Mumbai, Pune and Ahmedabad in December last year. Since last few days, its sales have begun in Hyderabad as well. The price of this fuel is uniform across cities at Rs 160 per litre. “The 100 Octane fuel received good response from customers. Select outlets are recording daily sales of 200 litres to 300 litres per day. It is advisable to switch over to branded fuel for better performance of vehicles and enhanced engine life,” Rajiv Amaram, Consortium of Indian Petroleum Dealers joint secretary, said. This petrol is produced in IOC’s Mathura refinery. Experts say this premium grade fuel is best suited for BS VI vehicles. Since March 2020, any new vehicle which is not BS VI emission standard-compliant, it will not be registered. Industry sources said high-end version of branded fuel not only gives faster acceleration but is also environment-friendly with reduced tailpipe emission. “It is suitable mostly for high-end and imported vehicles,” sources said. 100 Octane petrol has a niche market for luxury vehicles that demand high performance, they added. There are different types of branded fuels (different Octane versions) in the market. About 90% of the petrol sold in the market is non-branded, non-additive variety with 10 per cent ethanol. Different oil companies add more additives or detergents at about 0.2% which are branded as premium petrol. “Sales of branded fuels is around 6% of total volume,” an industry expert said. Interestingly, oil companies give targets to dealers to sell branded fuels with additives, but often they are not reached as there is not much awareness, and because of the high rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ioc-launches-100-octane-premium-petrol-in-hyd-fuel-to-cost-rs-160/litre/articleshow/81234976.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Nine-year-old girl kidnapped from east Delhi, body found in UP||NEW DELHI: A nine-year-old girl was kidnapped for ransom from near her house in Kalyanpuri in east Delhi and killed by her abductors. Her body was recovered four days later from Murad Nagar in Uttar Pradesh on Friday. Four people, including a neighbour of the girl, have been arrested for the crime. Alleging inaction on the part of police, the girl’s relatives held a protest and also vandalised vehicles. They also blocked the road in Trilokpuri and moved only after senior officers promised action. TOI is withholding details of the accused and the deceased as sexual assault has not been ruled out yet. The autopsy report is awaited, police said. The girl was a Class V student and her father did odd jobs to make a living. On February 23, she was playing with her friends when two men lured her on the pretext of buying toffee and taking her for a joyride in their Eeco car. As she knew one of them, she accompanied them without getting suspicious. Police said the accused later realised that the girl would identify them if she was let go, so they decided to kill her. She was taken to a field in Murad Nagar and bludgeoned with iron rods. The accused then dumped the body and fled. The child was found missing when her father returned from work and started looking for her. Based on his complaint, police lodged a kidnapping FIR. While scanning footage of CCTV cameras in the area, the kidnapping and vehicle used in the crime were spotted in one clip. Local inquiry by cops also revealed that a youth in the neighbourhood was missing. The accused was tracked to Tibda village near Modinagar with the help of technical surveillance and arrested on Thursday evening. He had criminal antecedents and was found involved in a case in UP too. He led police to the other accused. The body was subsequently retrieved on Friday morning and sent for autopsy. The weapon of offence has been recovered. During interrogation, the accused neighbour said that people from the locality and the girl’s family started calling him on the night of the incident after he was found missing. He panicked and thought he had been identified. The kidnappers then decided to kill the girl to save themselves. They got inspired to commit the crime and make money after watching a movie. The motive would only be formalised after the probe gets over, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/9-year-old-girl-kidnapped-from-east-delhi-body-found-in-up/articleshow/81236946.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: In a first, Common Shelduck quacks loudly in Hussainsagar||HYDERABAD: In a rare sighting in Telangana, observers spotted a migratory bird — Common Shelduck — in Hyderabad’s Hussainsagar towards Sanjeevaiah Park earlier this week. According to the e-bird status, an online database of bird observers, Common Shelduck has never been sighted in Andhra Pradesh or Telangana in the past. The solitary bird was first sighted by a seasoned birdwatcher and photographer Rama Sarvani on a rock in the middle of the lake along with a few other migratory birds such as the Fulvous Whistling Ducks, Lesser Whistling Ducks and a male Northern Shoveler. Experts said the Common Shelduck, is usually found in coastal regions of Europe and scattered sites around the Mediterranean. “I spotted this bird during one of my regular birdwatching trips to Sanjeevaiah Park. It was only after I checked the status of this bird online, I learnt that there is just one record of it in Ameenpur lake which we still need to verify. Though it is sighted regularly in parts of north India, the records show that it was never spotted in Hussainsagar lake,” said Sarvani. “The bird has a wide geographic range and that’s why it is called the Common Shelduck,” said Ananda Banerjee, an ornithologist and author of the book Common Birds of the Indian subcontinent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-a-first-common-shelduck-quacks-loudly-in-hussainsagar/articleshow/81235008.cms||Moulika.KV
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Three men held for transgender person’s murder in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Three men were arrested and a juvenile was detained within 48 hours of the murder of a transgender person on a busy street at Goregaon (W). Suresh Mastud (43) had been attacked with a hammer and knife on Link Road on Wednesday afternoon. “Each accused had a different grudge against him, so they plotted the attack together,” said ACP Deepak Phatangare. Dheeraj Vishwakarma (20), Vinay Yadav (22), Rajesh Yadav (23) and the 16-year-old, who lived in his neighbourhood, had tried to eliminate Mastud in the past. On Wednesday, Yadav, who worked with Mastud, accompanied him to a restaurant, where Mastud was to meet members of an NGO he wanted to join. While the meeting was on, Yadav texted the other three about his whereabouts. They arrived on a motorcycle and waited some distance away. After the meeting, when Mastud left the restaurant, they pounced on him. They fled and later met up at a relative’s place in Mira Road. The relative suggested they should surrender so they left moved to a vacant apartment in Vasai. “We picked them up after tracking down their location through technical surveillance,” said detection officer Abhijeet Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-men-held-for-transgender-persons-murder/articleshow/81234171.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Goa||New IIT site within a month: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that a new location for the permanent campus of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Goa, will be finalised by next month. Sawant said that IIT-Goa director B K Mishra has already been asked to visit some sites that have been shortlisted. Mishra has been asked to understand the issues on ground at the shortlisted sites, if any, after the proposal to have the IIT campus at the last identified location at Melauli, Sattari had to be withdrawn following massive opposition from locals. “After what we have experienced, we will first have to find out what are the difficulties in the shortlisted locations and only then we can finalise it, only then will the survey and other basic work start,” said Sawant. On January 15, the chief minister had said that a team will be constituted to help identify land at the IIT, and on Friday Sawant said that names of those who will make up the IIT site selection team will be announced within the next four to five days. “But before that, though the team has not yet been formed, our work of searching for a new site is on. I have asked the IIT-Goa director to visit the shortlisted sites. We have three to four proposals before us, and within the next 15 to 20 days, they will visit these places and see what are the practical difficulties involved, if any, at these locations. After that we can declare the site,” said Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-new-iit-site-within-a-month/articleshow/81236833.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Goa||‘Tie-up with startups can improve admin’||Panaji: The state government will soon adopt a policy decision to tie-up with local startups, which can help improve administration and the functioning of other sectors in Goa, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday. “One is working in the sector of tourism across the world, if we use this, we can benefit hugely from it. Post-Covid, the government can benefit from help from the expertise of such startups. Rather than saying the startups will benefit from us, we should say the government will benefit from the startups We are willing and coordination on various levels is already on. The government will take a policy decision. We are coming up with a collaboration with them,” said Sawant. Sawant said that one such startup is already assisting the public works department to streamline its billing systems. “Startups should come forward and present their ideas to the government. It can help make government functioning become more efficient,” said Sawant. The government is currently also deliberating over how its policy can be made friendlier for startups. “Representatives of the IT association were summoned and their meeting has already taken place with the secretary. The next meeting with them will be held by the IT minister and me. Startup policy will not lapse. Once again from April, we will incorporate whatever changes that have been suggested by them. IT association has already met me once. I have told them to give their suggestions at the secretary level,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tie-up-with-startups-can-improve-admin/articleshow/81236842.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Three held with 16kg cannabis in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Three persons were arrested by Kulsumpura police on Friday for allegedly being in possession of 16 kg of ganja. Police said that the accused were nabbed while they were travelling on a bike along with three gunny bags. One of the three accused is a repeat offender, who went to jail previously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-held-with-16kg-cannabis/articleshow/81236877.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Special leave to probationers for higher education||JAIPUR: State government on Friday announced amendment to the state service rules allowing extraordinary leave provision for the probationers for higher studies or to prepare for competitive examinations. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has approved the proposal received from the finance department in this regard. According to the proposal, if a probationer is studying in a higher studies course before his appointment in the government service, he may be given an exceptional leave to complete the course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/spl-leave-to-probationers-for-higher-edu/articleshow/81236949.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Woman held for matrimonial fraud in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A woman was arrested by Rachakonda police on Friday for allegedly being involved in matrimonial fraud, where in she created fake profiles and duped few men and their families by collecting money. Police said that in past, five cases were booked against her and she was arrested as well. After obtaining bail, the accused continued to dupe gullible victims. She was booked under IT Act and other relevant sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-held-for-matrimonial-fraud/articleshow/81236942.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Few buy Covaxin at home, many takers abroad||HYDERABAD: At a time when there are not many takers for India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin here in India, other countries are queuing up to buy as many doses as possible. The Brazilian government has signed a deal with Covaxin’s developer Bharat Biotech to procure 20 million doses for approximately $290 million, Bharat Biotech sources told TOI on Friday. Covaxin doses will be delivered to Brazil in the second and third quarters of 2021, the company said. Brazil’s order is double that placed by Indian government which has so far procured 5.5 million doses and issued a letter of comfort to company for another 4.5 million doses. Bharat Biotech officials said several countries have evinced “strong interest” in Covaxin and they are in the process of filing regulatory documentation in over 40 countries globally. This includes neighbouring nations like Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Myanmar. “The supply timelines and pricing discussions are ongoing with several countries. The pricing of Covaxin for international markets would be based on supply timelines, purchase commitments and procurement volumes,” a company official said. Ukraine's health minister Dr Maksym Stepanov even led a high-powered delegation to Bharat Biotech’s facility in Hyderabad’s Genome Valley earlier this week, in what is being seen as a precursor to Ukraine sealing a procurement deal. Stepanov had said in a statement that Ukraine will soon be firming up a Covaxin delivery plan for mass vaccination of its citizens and was also looking at procuring Bharat Biotech’s intranasal vaccine, codenamed BBV154, after initial results from its phase 1 trials are out. Bharat Biotech is also partnering with US-based biopharma player Ocugen for co-developing and marketing Covaxin for the US market. As part of the deal, it will get 55% share of the profits from US sales of Covaxin, while Ocugen will retain 45% of the profits. Covaxin was granted approval for restricted EUA (emergency use authorisation) in clinical trial mode by the Indian drug regulator, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), in the first week of January. However, it ran into a controversy after some questioned the decision as Phase III efficacy trials were still underway and the entire issue proceeded to take on a political hue as well. Earlier this week, Bharat Biotech's chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella had said the company hopes to be ready to come out with interim efficacy data from the ongoing Phase III trials of Covaxin, being conducted on 25,800 volunteers, in the next couple of weeks. He had also said that the company was confident of coming up with a vaccine for variants in just 15 days once it gets the mutated virus strain from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/few-buy-covaxin-at-home-many-takers-abroad/articleshow/81237738.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s 1st toy zone sells more than 50% plots to investors||JAIPUR: Launched last year, the sports goods and toys zone at Khushkhera in Bhiwadi has attracted investors’ interest with 22 of the 39 plots available having been sold in the product specific cluster. Citing the investment proposals of the companies Jasco Handicrafts, Dang, Gaabaa Jee, ESPI Toys, Nippon Toys, Cheikku Toyz which have bought the plots, an industry department source said the 21 new projects will fetch investments of Rs 62 crore and generate employment of over 1,000 people. The industries department is showcasing the zone in the Centre’s four-day ‘The India Toy Fair 2021’ that starts from Saturday as it wants to attract investors in the remaining 17 plots. Rajasthan already has several clusters in Udaipur, Chittorgarh, Mewar, Kathputali Nagar and Jaipur where traditional toys and artifacts are made. The industries department is also pitching them in the ITF2021. “In the digitally accessible exhibition and trade show, several states will participate in discussions on investment potential, building a vibrant domestic toy industry and reducing imports from China. The state will pitch its case as compelling destination for investments in the toy sector and explain the competitive incentives Rajasthan Investment Promotion Scheme (RIPS) 2019 provide,” said the source. He said that the industrial area in Khuskhera offers a strategic advantage because of its location in the National Capital Region and availability of quality infrastructure and skilled manpower. “Along with the traditional handicraft toys, the state pavilion at the fair will market its industrial areas where big standalone toy manufacturing projects also can come up,” he added. Before the outcry over Chinese imports broke out following the LAC conflict, the state government had identified the opportunity in the sector and launched the zone in February last year. The Centre has singled out toys import among others which can be manufactured in India to reduce dependency on China. According to a research analysis done by RIICO, size of sports goods and toys sector in terms of value is at around Rs 18,000 crore. About20% of the country’s toy market is served by domestic manufacturers and the rest is met through imports, mainly from China and Italy. India’s toy industry has a share of 0.51% in world toy market as compared to China’s share of more than 45%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajs-1st-toy-zone-sells-more-than-50-plots-to-investors/articleshow/81236944.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||No lockdown, but may curb train timings: Maharashtra minister||NAGPUR/MUMBAI: The state is still against a total lockdown, but will impose stricter restrictions to control the spike in Covid-19 cases, said relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar in Nagpur on Friday. It is considering reducing locals’ frequency in Mumbai, shutting down cinema halls, and strictly monitoring marriage halls. In a similar vein, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad indicated her department may promote students of Class I-IX and Class XI without exams, but clarified board exams for Class X and XII would be held offline. “In the coming days, restrictions, not lockdown, will be put in place. We are not going to stop trains, only rescheduling is being worked out,” he said. ‘Trains fuelled surge, steps to curb crowding on the anvil’Speaking to TV channels in Nagpur on possible stricter curbs to rein in the Covid surge, cabinet minister Vijay Wadettiwar said: “We are considering reducing the frequency of local trains, crowding in buses, placing restrictions on markets and strict monitoring of marriage halls.” Senior officials said steps to reduce crowding in the trains are also under consideration. “It is clear resumption of local train services for all fuelled this surge and so the state is considering certain restrictions on train travel, if the situation doesn’t improve,” said a senior official. A review will be taken next week. There is a suggestion to stop non-essential workers from taking trains for a few days to cut the chain of transmission. “This will be considered if other interventions do not work. We cannot wait till the moment the hospitals are full,” said an official. Train travel, albeit with time restrictions, was thrown open for all commuters in February 1. Within 10 days, cases started rising, said officials. With focus on reducing crowds, the state is looking at how various exams can be conducted. “In Tamil Nadu, they promoted all students, hence Maharashtra too will have to take a decision about it. There are people who insist that taking an exam is a necessity, hence online exams will be looked into,” said Wadettiwar. Gaikwad told the media on Friday the government may consider promoting students without exams and on the basis of cumulative marks of all semesters. “The board exams have not been cancelled and will be conducted offline,” she added. Reacting to criticism about a severely truncated budget session, Wadettiwar said: “Some ministers themselves had Covid and we are taking stock of how many MLAs are infected. Going for a full-fledged session is fraught with risks, hence it’s unfortunate that the opposition is playing politics at a time like this.” “The spike in cases has been noticed mainly in Maharashtra and Kerala. Almost 70% cases are from these two states.... To control this we have to take strong steps,” said Wadettiwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/trains-fuelled-surge-steps-to-curb-crowding-on-the-anvil/articleshow/81235081.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Lorry rams bike, one dies on spot||Hyderabad: When three persons were travelling on a bike under Madhapur police station limits, a lorry which was allegedly travelling at a high speed hit the bike and the motorists on the bike fell down. One of the three persons who fell down, came under the wheels of the lorry, and died on the spot. Police registered a case under Section 304-A (negligence causing death) of Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lorry-rams-bike-one-dies-on-spot/articleshow/81236976.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Goa||Congress sets membership target at 1,000 per booth||PANAJI: While expressing confidence that its membership drive will meet with success, Congress also sent out a fresh warning to its party workers and senior members asking them to “perform or perish” during the drive and overhaul process. The party admitted that the digital membership drive has encountered hiccups due to the poor internet connectivity in Goa. “We must perform. The message to every leader — from the booth to the Pradesh Congress committee level — perform or the entire leadership will perish,” AICC observer for the state, Prakash Rathod, said. He said that after the digital membership drive is complete the entire party organisation will be overhauled. Rathod, who was addressing a press conference at the Congress house, said that more than 4,700 members have been enrolled in Margao assembly constituency itself. He said that the drive is going on “very well” with all party members working towards enrolling more people. “Our AICC in charge Dinesh Gundu Rao has made it very clear that perform or perish is the new mantra for Congress functionaries. The membership drive is to assess the capacity and capability of each leader from top to bottom. It is an opportunity for each one of them to show their leadership quality,” the AICC observer for the state said. Rathod said that the party has also discussed the technical glitches encountered during the drive due to poor network connectivity in Goa. “We have now decided to go ahead aggressively with alternative arrangements to overcome the network connectivity issue. I urge the state government to take up the issue of poor network connectivity with the Union ministry of telecommunications,” he said. Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat, co-ordination committee chairman advocate Ramakant Khalap, district observers Mansoor Khan and Sunil Hanumannavar and state Congress vice-president M K Shaikh were also present. The party is targeting an enrolment of 500-1,000 members per booth so that party workers perform along the lines of the BJP cadre and take on BJP’s election machinery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-sets-membership-target-at-1000-per-booth/articleshow/81236979.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: HC reserves order on bail plea of ex-Baran collector||JAIPUR: The high court reserved its order on bail plea of former district collector of Baran, Indra Singh Rao, accused of accepting illegal gratification. The bail application said that he has been falsely implicated in the case and all the charges are on the PA and he is being made an approver. Neither any amount has been recovered from him nor has he demanded any amount. Home department officer summoned The state home department officer responsible for withdrawing the security of witnesses in the kidnapping and murder case of Bhanwar Sinodia, son of Nathuram Sinodia, former MLA of Kishangarh, has been ordered to appear before the Rajasthan High Court on March 15. The court has directed that the concerned officer should also bring the minutes of the meeting where a decision was taken to withdraw the security given to the witnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-reserves-order-on-bail-plea-of-ex-baran-collector/articleshow/81236971.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Atishi targets BJP, police||NEW DELHI: Senior AAP functionary and MLA Atishi on Friday lashed out at Delhi Police alleging that instead of catching the kidnappers and killers of a nine-year-old girl from east Delhi despite having CCTV footage, the cops were busy providing protection to BJP members. The body of the child was found in sugarcane fields in a village in Modinagar on Friday morning. “Delhi Police, which comes under the BJP-led central government, has failed miserably in protecting the safety of the citizens of Delhi, especially women and children. That is why such a tragic incident has taken place again. The girl was reported missing three days ago. After this incident, the local people got very agitated and reached out to the local police to file a complaint,” said Atishi. The MLA added, “Despite having CCTV footage, police were protecting BJP functionaries who reached the area. It is unfortunate that Delhi Police under the BJP-led central government did nothing to find the missing girl.” Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “Our sympathy is with the bereaved family and we will meet them soon. We urge political parties to not politicise such a sad incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/atishi-targets-bjp-police/articleshow/81237005.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||Uneven concrete-tar Khamla road testing riding skills||Nagpur: The newly-laid cement road between Orange City Hospital Square and Khamla has become an accident-prone spot. Half of the road width is concrete while the remaining has been tarred, that too in an unscientific manner. The two portions are uneven due to which two-wheeler riders often skid, as per motorists and residents of Khamla. According to superintending engineer from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) public works department, Manoj Talewar, they had to tar half of the road as the work was stalled after the state government withheld the amount sanctioned for the project. The previous Devendra Fadnavis-led state government had sanctioned Rs14 crore to convert this tar road into cement. Another senior official from the NMC said that along with this project, 85 different works, mostly construction of roads, retaining walls of nullahs etc worth over Rs157 crore in South-West Nagpur assembly constituency too were stalled. Pande Layout and other residents of South-West Nagpur said they were pleased when the long overdue road development work from Orange City Hospital Square to Khamla was taken up last year. “The joy was short-lived as only half of the road was concretized that too in a haphazard manner,” said Dr Anup Marar, president of Poonam Pride Housing Society in Khamla. “Who designed such a road?” said Pande Layout resident Subhadeep Bera. “No road manual must have ever conceptualized such an uneven and dangerous combination. I am not sure what the contractor was attempting. Hope the NMC road engineers have noticed this absurdity and withheld the payments, besides taking corrective measures to prevent serious accidents,” said Bera. Bhavik Parikh, another resident, mentioned that even sidewalks and footpaths on the developed side have not been done properly, thus creating a lot of hassles for the walkers. “Immediately after the Fadnavis government had sanctioned the project, the NMC awarded the tender and the work started,” said Talewar. But when the work was in progress, there was a change of government in Maharashtra. “The present government withheld the sanctioned amount. As a result, the NMC could not release even half the payment to the contractor and the work was left incomplete recently,” said Talewar. “Sensing the unequal road portion could pose risk for motorists, the NMC has tarred half the road width,” he said. Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari said that he has already spoken to district guardian minister Nitin Raut in this regard. “Soon, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar will be convening a meeting on the issue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/uneven-concrete-tar-khamla-road-testing-riding-skills/articleshow/81235040.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 27, 2021||Goa||Be self-reliant, Sawant urges entrepreneurs||Panaji: While admitting that it is difficult for Goan industries and entrepreneurs to be self-reliant, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that a focus on local agricultural produce along with utilisation of Goa’s skilled manpower could help industries grow. Sawant also admitted that the state needs to provide time-bound approvals if Goa’s private sector is to grow and contribute to the state’s economy. “Speeding up the process related to land, electricity, water and licences, and amending certain policies will improve the ease of doing business and make it possible for the Goan industry to attain a level of self-sufficiency to some extent,” said Sawant while speaking at the annual Confederation of Indian Industry meeting. The chief minister acknowledged that the lack of raw material in Goa and hurdles in purchasing raw material pushes Goan business houses to procure most of their requirements from the neighbouring state. “Given the past history and current scenario, it may not be possible for Goa to be self-reliant overnight, but at least to begin with, I request the industries to look at horticulture, agriculture and skilled manpower,” said Sawant. He urged entrepreneurs should grab the opportunity to become self-reliant, particularly in the food processing and agriculture sector. “We can explore smart farming instead of keeping fields fallow. The government will set up processing units and the cluster to help the farmer to process the rice cultivated in the state. Growing of fruits and vegetables have to be looked at,” said Sawant. He also said that the government is ready to give the necessary boost to the industry. “We will work closely with Investment Promotion Board and Goa Industries Development Corporation to improve the ease of doing business environment in Goa,” the chief minister said. At the annual general meeting, which was held virtually, managing director of New Era Shipping Atul Jadhav was nominated to be the chairman of CII-Goa, while Swati Salgaocar, director of the Vimson Group, was picked for the post of vice-chairperson. Jadhav has served as the president of Goa Barge Owners Association for 11 years, while Salgaokar has served on the Special Task Force constituted by the department of Industries to review the Goa Investment Promotion Act as well as a Joint Consultative Group for framing of the Goa State Entrepreneurship Policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/be-self-reliant-sawant-urges-entrepreneurs/articleshow/81236963.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Encroachers eyeing 1,500 acres in Kukatpally, say farmers in Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: Six farmers of Kaithalapur have approached Telangana high court alleging that efforts are being made by land sharks to gobble up 1,500 acres of prime land in Kukatpally worth Rs 3 lakh crore. Pilli Mallaiah and five others complained to the court that persons and entities nowhere connected to the area are out to grab the land of farmers like them who have been tilling it for several decades and in possession of a lawful title over 74 acres. “Ours is only a limited extent of land, but the encroachers are planning to swallow 1,500 acres,” the farmers alleged, hinting at a huge land scam in survey No. 1007. They urged the court to vacate a stay order issued by the high court earlier in a petition filed by Prime Properties company. “This stay has adversely affected the farmers over their rights, pattas and title over the land,” Mallaiah and others said in their plea. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy heard their plea and sought answers from the state government and Prime Properties within four weeks. The stay imposed on the single judge order would remain in force. The case has been posted to July 18. The farmers had earlier entered into a development agreement with Aditya Constructions and looked forward to executing their agreement. Aditya Constructions was acting as their GPA holder. In the meantime, Prime Properties, which was claiming 1,500 acres in survey Nos. 806, 1007, 1009, 1043 to 1065 without any documents, has been trying to eat into the farmers’ patta land, the petitioners alleged. Mallaiah and others in their plea also brought to the notice of the court that a single judge of the high court had ruled in their favour (in January 2020) by directing the revenue authorities to issue e-passbooks to them because they already have passbooks. The bench said the counter from the farmers came at the last minute and directed the government to file its counter and Prime Properties to file its rejoinder to the allegations levelled against it by the farmers and their GPA holder. The farmers’ counsel said though they had approached the Supreme Court challenging the HC stay order, the same could not be taken up by the apex court due to the restricted functioning during the ongoing pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/encroachers-eyeing-1500-acres-in-kukatpally-say-farmers-in-hc/articleshow/81237761.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Sri Venkateswara College to Andhra Pradesh? Why teachers aren’t amused||NEW DELHI: Sri Venkateswara College has found itself in the middle of a unique tussle after Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank requesting that the Delhi University college’s affiliation be shifted to Andhra University “to facilitate greater access to higher education in Delhi for students of AP origin”. The college, established in 1961, and several DU teachers have objected to the request, stating a state university’s affiliation can’t be extended beyond its geographical location and such a move will be detrimental for the college. The staff association of the college held a dharna on the premises on Friday. The CM has written that to “operationalise this, the government of AP intends to amend the AP Universities Act 1991 to expand the power of affiliation of AU to affiliate Sri Venkateswara College, Delhi”. In its general body meeting on February 19, the staff association had unanimously resolved to “resist any attempt to change the character of the college that it enjoys as a ‘constituent college’.” No such move is also allowed under the University Grants Commission (UGC) rules and any tinkering with it will “prove to be a disaster”, it stated. Its president, Nirmal Kumar, said “the rules, ordinances and statutes of DU have shaped Sri Venkateswara College into a premier institution today that we take pride in. Any attempt to change the constituent college status will severely affect our USP”. The association also claimed any such move would drastically change salaries, employment tenures and service conditions of employees that would also adversely impact academic quality. Delhi University Teachers’ Association said the plea to amend the 2009 UGC order disallowing the jurisdiction of a university beyond the state forgot that the college was established as a premier institution within the framework of DU. “We fear that this move may be driven by and find support from the National Education Policy recommendations to universities to have off-shore campuses,” it stated. Sources in the education ministry told TOI that while it had recieved the request, “the college comes under DU, which is an autonomous institution and can decide on this matter on its own”. DU dean of colleges Balaram Pani told TOI that “no such information has been sent to us by the ministry. We will comment only when that happens”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/venky-to-andhra-pradesh-why-teachers-arent-amused/articleshow/81237765.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Now, JDA nod required to put up gates on city colony roads||JAIPUR: Giving relief to city residents, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) on Friday decided to remove colony gates on sector roads which are over 60-ft wide and not to allow residential welfare societies to put up gates without the permission of zone commissioners. The decision was taken at a meeting of the traffic control board, in which the officials of JDA, JMC, transport department and traffic board participated. In a four-part series from February 6 to 9, TOI had published articles on inconveniences caused by colony gates to the public and traffic, the high-handed behaviour of residential welfare societies and problems faced by common people. JDA enforcement in-charge Raghuveer Saini said that the decisions were taken after listening to the complaints of residents. “We opened 59 colony gates recently. There are many who support gates as they are a form of security. We have regularised them and decided that the gates will be operated by resident welfare associations. They can keep the gates closed from 11am to 5am. Security guards will have to be appointed and one gate has to be kept open at night for the convenience of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-jda-nod-required-to-putup-gates-on-city-colony-roads/articleshow/81237021.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi govt warns on liquor bottles sans 2D barcode||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s excise department has warned clubs, hotels and restaurants of strict action if they are found serving alcohol to customers from liquor bottles not bearing 2D barcode. The move comes after it was found during an inspection that bars at some establishments were using liquor and beer bottles that did not have 2D barcode and those that were not readable. In an order, deputy commissioner Rajeet Singh said this practice has been viewed “very seriously”, adding that the absence of 2D bar-code on the bottle will be treated as “non-duty paid liquor” and action will be taken. An official said a bar code shows that this is excise-duty paid liquor and also indicates that liquor being served and sold to people is not spurious. There are over 1,000 hotels, clubs and restro-bars in the national capital which have an excise license to serve liquor to their customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-warns-on-liquor-bottles-sans-2d-barcode/articleshow/81237032.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Parents sell girl, 12, for Rs 10,000 to treat her sibling||VIJAYAWADA: Parents desperate to raise money for treatment of 16-year-old daughter allegedly sold their 12-year-old younger daughter to a neighbour for Rs 10,000 in Nellore district in AP. The incident happened in Kottur on Wednesday but came to light on Thursday night after locals alerted integrated child development services (ICDS) officials who rescued the girl from the man, Chinna Subbaiah (46), who claimed he had married the minor. Subbaiah has been detained by cops. The child’s parents are daily wage workers. Police said Subbaiah’s wife had left him following marital discord and he had his eye on the minor. He is said to have made offers to the family in the past too, seeking to marry the 12-year-old. After ‘buying’, he married the girl and brought her to his relatives’ house in Dampur village under Nellore’s Vidavalur mandal on Wednesday night. The child was heard screaming and crying in the residence by neighbours. “When neighbours went to his house, Subbaiah admitted the whole thing as if there was nothing wrong in what he had done,” an ICDS official said. Officials later shift the child to a district childcare centre where she is being counselled. Officials also traced the parents of the child and learnt that their eldest daughter was suffering from a respiratory illness. The couple could not afford to treat her and hence sold the younger child, police said, who have registered a case against Subbaiah and are interrogating him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/12-yr-old-sold-for-rs-10k-by-parents-to-treat-ill-elder-girl-rescued/articleshow/81237767.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||Tipeshwar’s Walker leaves Dnyanganga sanctuary in search of mate||Nagpur: The Tipeshwar tiger, T1-C1 aka Walker, which logged 3,020km by travelling through eight districts to make Dnyanganga Wildlife Sanctuary in Buldhana district its home has deserted it and has not been seen since one month. PCCF (wildlife) NH Kakodkar did not respond to TOI calls. However, the APCCF & field director of Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) MS Reddy confirmed that “T1-C1 has not been seen by the field staff since January 28-29, 2021.” “We’ve also not recorded any direct sighting or indirect evidence like camera trap pictures, pugmarks, scat, etc. Considering the battery issues and risk of the collar getting tight around the neck, it was remotely removed by using the drop-off option,” said Reddy. Even after the radio collar of the tiger dropped on March 28, 2020, the staff recorded its direct and indirect evidence in Dnyanganga (205sqkm) till last month-end. Now, tracking is done physically but it has not been seen. Buldhana’s Shiv Sena MP Prataprao Jadhav expressed surprise over the development and was quick to add, “Not releasing a female partner for the tiger is one of the prime reasons why it left the sanctuary in search of a mate.” Jadhav had twice demanded the release of a mate for T1-C1. He had first written to the forest secretary on January 24, 2020, and later again on November 3, 2020, to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to release one female for C1 and take up voluntary relocation of Devhari village in the sanctuary to create an inviolate space for tigers. “I had already warned that the male tiger will not stabilize unless a female is released in the area. It was in the sanctuary for over one year. This is really sad, especially when tourism has provided an alternative to locals,” said Jadhav. “Had a female been released in the sanctuary, the tiger would have stabilized and also brought fortunes for the locals by way of tourism,” said Jadhav. A five-member technical committee set up by PCCF (wildlife) to study the feasibility of translocating the tigress in Dnyanganga had already submitted a report in September 2020, recommending the release of a tigress for C1. Kishor Rithe, one of the committee members, said, “We recommended the release of the tigress with riders like declaring the adjoining forested area of the sanctuary a buffer zone for the home range of tigers and also to strengthen corridors between Dnyanganga-Katepurna-Ambabarwa sanctuaries.” “No doubt the sanctuary acts as a potential site for translocation of a tigress, but to sustain the tiger population, there is a need to create more inviolate space. Besides, options should be explored to relocate Devhari village from the sanctuary. In addition, efforts should be made to add an adjoining area to the sanctuary,” said Rithe. “However, a decision was not taken apprehending that the release of a female in Dnyanganga would increase the tiger numbers and would further lead to human-animal conflict in the district,” said top forest officials. Walker had started from Tipeshwar sanctuary on June 21, 2019, and traversing through two states and eight districts, had reached Dnyanganga on November 29, 2019. WHAT NEEDS TO BE DONE * Overall prey density of Dnyanganga is about 18.23 individuals per sqkm. * Suitable for holding a small tiger population * Adjoining forested area of the sanctuary should also be considered as a buffer zone for the home range of tigers * Protective measures should be taken * To sustain tiger population, need to create more inviolate space by relocating Devhari village * Stop cattle/sheep grazing along the fringe area of sanctuary * Identify potential sites within sanctuary for prey recovery plan * Habitat development and management for increasing prey population * Close Khamgaon-Buldhana road, 18 km of which, between Botha-Warwand, passes through Dnyanganga * Ensure corridor connectivity between Dnyanganga-Katerpurna-Ambarbarwa sanctuaries||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tipeshwars-walker-leaves-dnyanganga-sanctuary-in-search-of-mate/articleshow/81237065.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||No physical hearings at NCLT: Lawyers||Mumbai: Over 750 lawyers have sought virtual court proceedings at National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) Mumbai, citing apprehension of “a real threat” of infection with recent “resurgence” of Covid-19 cases in the city. They sent a representation to NCLT president in New Delhi for withdrawal of its office order dated February 23 in so far as it concerns NCLT Mumbai branches. The order had called for commencement of physical hearings from March 1 at NCLT Mumbai bench among other benches. The lawyers gave a thumbs down to even a hybrid system which they say “is unwieldy and not successful”. Several high courts which had resumed physical hearings had shut down the “experimental re-openings of courts”, they said in a representation signed by leading senior counsel Iqbal Chagla, Janak Dwarkadas, Nitin Thakker the newly elected president of Bombay Bar Association and Dinyar Madon. Interaction of persons in courts is hard to regulate, they said. —Swati Deshpande||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-physical-hearings-at-nclt-lawyers/articleshow/81237096.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Otter found dead in Chinna Cheruvu||Hyderabad: A smooth-coated otter was found dead on Friday morning after getting caught in a fishing net in Chinna Cheruvu of Thummada in Nidmanoor mandal of Nalgonda district. The incident came to light when the photo of the otter went viral on a social media group related to Thummadam. “Smooth-coated otter would be generally spotted in rivers of Godavari and Krishna,” a forest officials said. Earlier, the otter was spotted at Udhaya Samudram at Panagal and at Gundlapally in Nalgonda district. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/otter-found-dead-in-chinna-cheruvu/articleshow/81235079.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ajmer||Gradual spike in Covid infections in Rajasthan, 149 new cases on Friday||JAIPUR: From 76 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the state on Friday reported a near 100% jump with 149 daily infections, indicating a gradual increase in corona patients. Out of the 149 cases, Kota alone recorded 60 cases and has become a major cause of concern for the health department. With one death reported on the day from Jodhpur, the Covid toll in the state has gone up to 2,786. Similarly, active cases are also not dipping in the state. Alarmed over the gradual spike in cases, the state government on Thursday made negative RT-PCR tests compulsory for those visiting Rajasthan from states such as Maharashtra and Kerala. While there has been a continuous rise in new infections over the last couple of days, there are still many districts reporting zero cases. On Friday, 60 new cases reported from Kota was followed by Jaipur (17), Jodhpur and Udaipur (13 each), Banswara (9), Bikaner (6), Nagaur (5), Bhilwara and Ajmer (4 each), Rajsamand and Sikar (3 each), Barmer (2) while one case each were reported from Alwar, Baran, Bharatpur, Chittorgarh, Sriganganagar, Jalore, Karauli and Pratapgarh. However, districts such as Bundi, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Dungarpur, Jaisalmer, Jhunjhunu, Pali, Sawai Madhopur, Sirohi and Tonk did not report any new infection. Similarly, the number of active cases has remained indifferent. “For the past one week, active cases in the state have been between 1,200 to 1,250 and not dipping. I think people have become careless and complacent and are not following the protocol. I must appeal to the public to wear masks and follow social distancing irrespective of the fact that you have got vaccinated or not,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/gradual-spike-in-covid-infectionsin-state-149-new-cases-on-friday/articleshow/81239809.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Gradual spike in Covid infections in Rajasthan, 149 new cases on Friday||JAIPUR: From 76 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the state on Friday reported a near 100% jump with 149 daily infections, indicating a gradual increase in corona patients. Out of the 149 cases, Kota alone recorded 60 cases and has become a major cause of concern for the health department. With one death reported on the day from Jodhpur, the Covid toll in the state has gone up to 2,786. Similarly, active cases are also not dipping in the state. Alarmed over the gradual spike in cases, the state government on Thursday made negative RT-PCR tests compulsory for those visiting Rajasthan from states such as Maharashtra and Kerala. While there has been a continuous rise in new infections over the last couple of days, there are still many districts reporting zero cases. On Friday, 60 new cases reported from Kota was followed by Jaipur (17), Jodhpur and Udaipur (13 each), Banswara (9), Bikaner (6), Nagaur (5), Bhilwara and Ajmer (4 each), Rajsamand and Sikar (3 each), Barmer (2) while one case each were reported from Alwar, Baran, Bharatpur, Chittorgarh, Sriganganagar, Jalore, Karauli and Pratapgarh. However, districts such as Bundi, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Dungarpur, Jaisalmer, Jhunjhunu, Pali, Sawai Madhopur, Sirohi and Tonk did not report any new infection. Similarly, the number of active cases has remained indifferent. “For the past one week, active cases in the state have been between 1,200 to 1,250 and not dipping. I think people have become careless and complacent and are not following the protocol. I must appeal to the public to wear masks and follow social distancing irrespective of the fact that you have got vaccinated or not,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gradual-spike-in-covid-infectionsin-state-149-new-cases-on-friday/articleshow/81237062.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Udaipur||Gradual spike in Covid infections in Rajasthan, 149 new cases on Friday||JAIPUR: From 76 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the state on Friday reported a near 100% jump with 149 daily infections, indicating a gradual increase in corona patients. Out of the 149 cases, Kota alone recorded 60 cases and has become a major cause of concern for the health department. With one death reported on the day from Jodhpur, the Covid toll in the state has gone up to 2,786. Similarly, active cases are also not dipping in the state. Alarmed over the gradual spike in cases, the state government on Thursday made negative RT-PCR tests compulsory for those visiting Rajasthan from states such as Maharashtra and Kerala. While there has been a continuous rise in new infections over the last couple of days, there are still many districts reporting zero cases. On Friday, 60 new cases reported from Kota was followed by Jaipur (17), Jodhpur and Udaipur (13 each), Banswara (9), Bikaner (6), Nagaur (5), Bhilwara and Ajmer (4 each), Rajsamand and Sikar (3 each), Barmer (2) while one case each were reported from Alwar, Baran, Bharatpur, Chittorgarh, Sriganganagar, Jalore, Karauli and Pratapgarh. However, districts such as Bundi, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Dungarpur, Jaisalmer, Jhunjhunu, Pali, Sawai Madhopur, Sirohi and Tonk did not report any new infection. Similarly, the number of active cases has remained indifferent. “For the past one week, active cases in the state have been between 1,200 to 1,250 and not dipping. I think people have become careless and complacent and are not following the protocol. I must appeal to the public to wear masks and follow social distancing irrespective of the fact that you have got vaccinated or not,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/gradual-spike-in-covid-infectionsin-state-149-new-cases-on-friday/articleshow/81239807.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Jodhpur||Gradual spike in Covid infections in Rajasthan, 149 new cases on Friday||JAIPUR: From 76 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the state on Friday reported a near 100% jump with 149 daily infections, indicating a gradual increase in corona patients. Out of the 149 cases, Kota alone recorded 60 cases and has become a major cause of concern for the health department. With one death reported on the day from Jodhpur, the Covid toll in the state has gone up to 2,786. Similarly, active cases are also not dipping in the state. Alarmed over the gradual spike in cases, the state government on Thursday made negative RT-PCR tests compulsory for those visiting Rajasthan from states such as Maharashtra and Kerala. While there has been a continuous rise in new infections over the last couple of days, there are still many districts reporting zero cases. On Friday, 60 new cases reported from Kota was followed by Jaipur (17), Jodhpur and Udaipur (13 each), Banswara (9), Bikaner (6), Nagaur (5), Bhilwara and Ajmer (4 each), Rajsamand and Sikar (3 each), Barmer (2) while one case each were reported from Alwar, Baran, Bharatpur, Chittorgarh, Sriganganagar, Jalore, Karauli and Pratapgarh. However, districts such as Bundi, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Dungarpur, Jaisalmer, Jhunjhunu, Pali, Sawai Madhopur, Sirohi and Tonk did not report any new infection. Similarly, the number of active cases has remained indifferent. “For the past one week, active cases in the state have been between 1,200 to 1,250 and not dipping. I think people have become careless and complacent and are not following the protocol. I must appeal to the public to wear masks and follow social distancing irrespective of the fact that you have got vaccinated or not,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/gradual-spike-in-covid-infectionsin-state-149-new-cases-on-friday/articleshow/81239808.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Goa||Activists request HC to postpone public hearings on draft CZMP||Panaji: Environmentalists, the AVCB Traditional Fishermen Association, Mulakh Khajan Tenants Association, Citizens for Coastal Communities, residents of Canacona, Shiroda, Arossi, Mandrem and the Federation of Rainbow Warriors have petitioned the high court to postpone the public hearings for the draft coastal zone management plans (CZMP). The public hearings are scheduled for March 7 at both Margao and Taleigao, denying citizens the right of participating at both the hearings, Claude Alvares of Goa Foundation said. The government is already seven years late, he said, and questioned the government’s hurry in getting it approved. The petitioners submitted to the high court that the plans have not been prepared in consultation with local stakeholders, which is essential according to CRZ notification 2011. “No attempts have been made to explain the draft CZMPs to the stakeholders, who include fisher folk, farmers and other persons who are not able to read or understand the maps without assistance. As a result, lakhs of people are threatened to be denied their right to participate in the hearings and their right to ensure that their lives, environment and livelihoods are protected,” the petition stated. The need for the early finalisation of the draft CZMP for Goa cannot justify the carrying out of the public hearings in such haste in the midst of a global pandemic, without completing the procedures or allowing people a fair chance to participate, the petitioners stated. They submitted to the high court that the public hearing is being “hastily” carried out to complete the procedures laid down in the CRZ notification 2011 without complying with the provisions for facilitating public participation, constitutional safeguards and principles of natural justice. The petitioners submitted that the CZMPs related to the coastal areas include 178 villages and 8 municipalities spread from Torxem in Pernem to Loliem in Canacona taluka. “The CZMPs have a direct impact on the lives and livelihoods of lakhs of Goans living in these villages and urban areas, who hold intricate community knowledge essential to the preparation of the CZMPs and are also most keen in protecting the CRZ areas of Goa,” the petitioners stated. The case will be heard next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/activists-request-hc-to-postpone-public-hearings-on-draft-czmp/articleshow/81237100.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Woman, 79, murdered in Worli, Rs 5 lakh gold missing||MUMBAI: A 79-year-old woman resident of a Worli Sea Face bungalow was found murdered a little after Thursday midnight. Police said prima facie they suspect a newly recruited domestic help of killing Vishni Dolwani as he has gone missing and so has gold jewellery worth Rs 5 lakh from the safe. The Dolwani family that resides in the two-storey Prasana Kutir is engaged in the manufacture of automobile radiators. Police said Vishni lived on the first floor with her husband in a joint family with her son, his wife and two children. Around 12.15am on Friday, when there was no response from their room, Vishni’s 82-year -old husband opened the door with duplicate keys to find her “lying unconscious” with her hands and legs tied and her mouth gagged with a piece of cloth. The family rushed her to a hospital where she was declared dead on arrival. The bungalow’s watchman told the police he was unaware about the incident. Police said the woman might have been killed between 11pm on Thursday and 12.15am on Friday. Police said the family had hired the youth two months ago for daily household chores. “The deceased was found asphyxiated and prima facie it appears to be a case of strangulation,” said Paramjit Dahiya, deputy commissioner of police (Zone 3). The Dolwani family told the police their domestic help was missing and their safe was found open, and gold jewellery and other items worth Rs 5 lakh was missing. Worli police have registered an offence of murder and theft and launched a manhunt to trace the man. Crime branch teams too are on the lookout for the suspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-79-murdered-in-worli-rs-5l-gold-missing/articleshow/81237770.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 27, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two more teachers of Kasba school test Covid positive||KOLKATA: Two more teachers of Kasba Chittaranjan High School that was shut down earlier this week after a teacher had tested positive for Covid have also tested positive for the virus. They had allegedly shared the staff room and interacted with the teacher who was infected with the virus earlier this week. The teachers went for Covid tests on their own. A source in the school said that as many as six teachers have already got themselves tested. “Out of them, two are positive. However, we are not being told about the findings by the school authorities, though teachers were present on the school premises even on Tuesday,” said a miffed teacher. Sources also indicated that both the teachers had come to the school with fever since Tuesday while they had voluntarily undergone the tests on Wednesday. Senior officials of the school education department at Bikash Bhavan confirmed that they had received reports in this regard. “We are waiting for the reports of the students who were tested on Thursday. Thereafter, further instructions will be given to the headmaster of the school,” he said. The government-aided school had to be closed on Tuesday after a case of Covid was first detected among teachers. The school had sent 33 students who had attended the classes of the teacher to a government hospital for test on Thursday. The Covid positive teachers had taught the students of classes between IX and class XII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-more-teachers-of-kasba-school-ve/articleshow/81235278.cms||---
February 27, 2021||India||CEC: Need to move forces, political climate led to 8-phase Bengal polls||NEW DELHI: Polling in West Bengal will be spread over an unprecedented eight phases this time, making it the country’s most staggered state poll ever. However, the poll will be 11-days shorter than the timeframe of the assembly poll in 2016, calculating from announcement to counting day. Chief Election Commission Sunil Arora, while announcing the dates, said the decision to stagger polling in West Bengal over eight phases – unlike six phases during 2016 assembly poll (which effectively was seven phases as the one of the phases was split over two different dates) and seven phases in 2019 Lok Sabha poll – was based on factors like availability and need for movement of Central forces as well as “current kind of charges and counter-charges”, an apparent reference to allegations of political violence levelled by BJP against ruling Trinamool Congress and counter-charges by the latter. As per crime data for 2019 compiled by National Crime Records Bureau, West Bengal accounted for the highest number (12) of total 61 murders due to “political reasons” in 2019, though this figure is a repetition of its 2018 count since West Bengal did not submit its 2019 crime data to NCRB in time. In 2019 Lok Sabha poll, EC had to curtail the campaign period in West Bengal due to increased incidents of violence. Referring to allegations and counter-allegations, Arora said “we have to find a kind of mean…way out”, adding that an increase of seven to eight phases was no big deal. To a question on how poll in Tamil Nadu, where excess use of money power had earlier led to rescinding of poll in some constituencies, was going to polls in one phase, the CEC reminded that the state had a single-phase poll in 2016 and 2019 Lok Sabha poll too. An EC official, while speaking to TOI, also pointed out that even in BJP-ruled Assam, the number of phases was raised to three this time from two in 2016. Sources said 1,000-1,200 companies of Central armed police forces (CAPFs) – comprising 1 lakh to 1.2 lakh personnel – will be deployed for the ensuing polls, with the largest chunk headed to West Bengal. Sources said polling stations in West Bengal have gone up from 77,413 to 1.02 lakh due to Covid concerns, requiring more phases as the limited forces need to be moved between the constituencies. Around 12,470 polling stations will go to polls in each phase this time, more than around 11,000 in last election. Also, since districts in West Bengal have a large number of assembly constituencies, the highest being 33, the EC had to hold polling in more than one phase in 12 of the state’s 24 districts. “More than anything, adequate deployment of security forces helps in building more confidence for the electors. It should be a welcome step for all,” said an EC official A three-member panel comprising the state chief electoral officer, state police nodal officer and state CAPF coordinator will jointly decide the election security plan and ensure randomization of state police and CAPF personnel. “The new arrangement – which will apply to all future elections -- will ensure that the CAPF coordinator will have an equal say in all decisions relating to deployment,” an EC functionary told TOI. Sources said standard operating procedures will be issued soon to guide deployment. Meanwhile the CEC assured that Central para-military forces will only be in aid of state authorities, as is the norm, and shall be there for “handholding”. To keep a close watch on polls in West Bengal, EC has appointed special observer Ajay Nayak, an ex-IAS officer and former Bihar chief electoral officer, two special police observers – retired IPS officers Vivek Dubey and Mrinal Kanti Das – and one special expenditure observer B Murali Kumar. EC has also requisitioned the ministry of home affairs for 2-3 BSF helicopters, in which the special police observers shall tour the poll-going states/UT to carry out checks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cec-need-to-move-forces-political-climate-led-to-8-phase-bengal-polls/articleshow/81238149.cms||Bharti Jain
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||Zero Mile Stone’s structural audit to be over in a month||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has informed the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court that public works department (PWD) would complete Zero Mile Stone’s structural audit in a month. The detailed project report for restoration of the iconic structure as per the audit report would be completed within 45 days and its execution would be finished in 120 days, said the NMC. The NMC’s affidavit was filed through counsel Jemini Kasat while hearing a suo motu PIL (No 59/2019) regarding utter neglect of the iconic monument that led to its steady deterioration. All decisions in this regard were taken during a task force meeting held on February 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/zero-mile-stones-structural-audit-to-be-over-in-a-month/articleshow/81235086.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||RLD candidate Dileep Kumarjoins BJP||Hyderabad: Former MLC K Dileep Kumar on Friday joined the BJP. Dileep, who had submitted his nomination papers from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates constituency as Telangana Rashtriya Lok Dal (TRLD) candidate, withdrew his papers and extended his support to BJP candidate N Ramchander Rao. Dileep, who unsuccessfully contested Malkajgiri Parliament seat in the last elections, joined the saffron party in the presence of BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar. A former TRS leader, Dileep alleged that the CM K Chandrasekhar Rao brought the former PM PV Narasimha Rao’s daughter Vani Devi into the picture with a view to dividing Brahmin votes in the March 14 elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rld-candidate-dileep-kumarjoins-bjp/articleshow/81235094.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Man who made hate video in Dubai held on arrival in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: After 10 months of constant surveillance, sleuths of Hyderabad Central Crime Station (CCS) arrested Abu Faisal on charges of posting communal hate videos on the Internet, soon after he landed at the city airport from Dubai on Friday. In May 2020, cybercrimes police registered a suo motu case under IPC section 153(A) (promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred between different groups) and other sections of IT Act against Dubai-based Abu Faisal, an original resident of Barkas in the Old City for allegedly making communally provocative statements through social media. On Thursday June 4, 2020, he again released another similar video on social media. Subsequently, police issued a Look out Circular (LoC) against Faisal. All the airports across the country were alerted against the entry of the accused. On Friday, the officials of the Bureau of Immigration at RGI Airport detained him after he arrived from Dubai in an Emirates airways flight based on the LOC pending against him. CCS police confirmed the detention of Abu Faisal while adding that the accused will be produced before court. In May 2020, the Bombay High Court passed an ex-parte interim order directing the state government to block a video clip uploaded on social media by Faisal immediately, observing that it was prima facie inflammatory. A division bench of Justice RD Dhanuka and Justice Abhay Ahuja passed the order in a petition filed by one Imran Khan who had sought directions to the state and police machinery to take preventive action under sections 149, 151,110 of CrPC against Faisal for his “incriminating hate speech video” on social media. Khan also sought directions to permanently block Abu Faisal’s access to social media platforms including YouTube, Google and Facebook. According to the petitioner, Abu Faisal alleged in the said video that the media has been directed to target Muslims and defame Islam under the garb of coronavirus pandemic. The petitioner alleged that the video would create hatred between Hindus and Muslims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-who-made-hate-video-in-dubai-held-on-arrival-in-city/articleshow/81237774.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Dehradun||Ahead of polls, CM gives minister of state status to 17 legislators||DEHRADUN: With assembly elections scheduled in early part of the next year, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat distributed 17 key positions in various boards, committees, council, and corporations. The move has sparked speculations of cabinet expansion in the next few weeks. Three cabinet berths are lying vacant in Uttarakhand. On Friday, senior BJP member Anil Goyal was made the vice-chairperson of Uttarakhand Civil Aviation Development Authority and Kailash Pant was named the chairman of Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Advisory Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-gives-minister-of-state-status-to-17-legislators-names-them-in-various-boards-committees/articleshow/81233876.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS ups the ante, ministers lead charge in MLC polls||HYDERABAD: To ensure party’s victory in both the graduates MLC constituencies, TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao is working out strategies, especially to wrest Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat, which is presently held by the BJP. KCR held a meeting with party leaders on Friday on Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituency and appointed three ministers as in-charges for three erstwhile districts. While T Harish Rao has been given Rangareddy, Gangula Kamalakar was made in-charge of Hyderabad. Vemula Prashanth Reddy will look into Mahbubnagar. The ministers of respective districts will continue their campaigning work. Interestingly, for the first time in the last six years, Harish Rao has been given election responsibilities beyond erstwhile Medak district. In previous general elections, GHMC elections (both in 2016 and 2020) and bypolls, Harish Rao was not involved with poll-related work other than Medak district, which is his native district. Sources said KCR reportedly asked the ministers to start working from Saturday itself and ensure the victory of the party’s candidates. Harish Rao will take part in Uppal assembly constituency party workers’ meeting on Saturday. The TRS has fielded former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao’s daughter Surabhi Vani Devi, while the BJP has renominated N Ramchander Rao as its candidate. Congress fielded former minister G Chinna Reddy. As many as 93 candidates are in the fray from the constituency. “KCR himself proposed the candidature of Vani Devi and asked the party workers to leave no stone unturned to ensure her victory,” a senior TRS leader said. The CM reportedly called up some important leaders also from the three districts. A couple of days ago, TRS working president KT Rama Rao held a meeting with the elected representatives of all the assembly constituencies in the districts that are heading to the polls. He directed them to hold constituency-level meetings on Saturday. Party sources said KTR is likely to address some meetings at select places in poll-bound districts from Monday as the withdrawal of nominations is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-ups-the-ante-ministers-lead-charge-in-mlc-polls/articleshow/81235100.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Technical snag causes minor disruptions on Blue Line||New Delhi: Passengers travelling by the busy Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City) on Friday morning had to face delays due to a technical snag. The problem started at around 8.40 am. The snag led to delay in services from Dwarka to Rajiv Chowk and normal services resumed only after 10.50 am. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), however, said the problem was intermittent and didn’t lead to any major delays even when the snag occurred at peak passenger traffic hour. “Train services on Blue Line witnessed a minor delay on Up line as they headed from Uttam Nagar West towards Dwarka due to a technical issue with a track circuit intermittently near Uttam Nagar station between 8 am and 10 am. However, train services on the entire Blue Line were broadly normal during this period,” a DMRC spokesperson said. A problem in the track circuit is linked with the signalling system and it requires manual intervention whenever the circuit ‘drops’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/technical-snag-causes-minor-disruptions-on-blue-line/articleshow/81237110.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Dehradun||Dehradun to Delhi in 2 hours by 2024, says Nitin Gadkari||HARIDWAR: Union road, transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday announced a six-lane express highway economic corridor between Delhi and Dehradun via Haridwar that will reduce the travel time. He said once the work on this economic corridor is completed in 2024, the travel time between Delhi and Dehradun would be reduced to around two hours from around 5 hours at present.  The Dehradun-Delhi expressway will be 210 km long, and the estimated cost of the project is around Rs 13,000 crore. Gadkari also dedicated four major highway projects to the public ahead of the Kumbh Mela and virtually laid the foundation stone for three other mega highway projects in the state at the VIP ghat in Haridwar.  NH projects that have been dedicated to the public are Muzaffarnagar-Haridwar four-lane highway, Roorkee-Chutmalpur four-lane, Haridwar-Dehradun four-lane and Muzaffarnagar-Haridwar bridge across the escape canal in Haridwar.  He also laid the foundation of three NH projects in the state, including a one-km-long tunnel and a bridge in Rudraprayag, and launched the works on NH-309 in Almora and NH-119 in Pauri Garhwal. The total cost of all these projects is estimated to be Rs 5,400 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gadkari-announces-delhi-dehradun-economic-corridor-will-reduce-travel-time-to-2-hours/articleshow/81233978.cms||MS Nawaz
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||Rs 1.50 lakh & sex: Maharashtra woman gives ‘supari’ to kill lover||NAGPUR: A 20-year-old woman has been arrested for planning her lover’s murder, by promising to pay the assailant Rs 1.50 lakh and have sex with him after the murder. Victim Chandu Mahapur, who was married but was in a relationship with the woman, was killed on February 25. Hassled by her married lover objecting to her getting married, the 20-year-old woman of Mahapur plotted to get him murdered. She hired Bharat Gujar, who is the victim’s friend, and also a distant relative, by offering cash Rs 1.5 lakh and sex. Gujar was arrested by local crime branch team of rural police under senior inspector Anil Jittewar on Friday before he could get anything for the brutal murder of Mahapur. It’s learnt Gujar had murdered the victim by first smashing his head and then slitting his throat. He then hurled the body down 200 feet into an abandoned crusher mine at Salaimendha on February 25. Mahapur, who had a monetary dispute with Gujar, had been lured by the assailant to accompany him to consume liquor. Later, Gujar took him to Salaimendha to bump him off. A CCTV footage of the two on a bike had to the detection of the murder. Rural police team has arrested the woman, her parents and Gujar for plotting and executing the murder. Watch Sex & Rs 1.5 lakh: 20-year-old woman gives 'supari' to murder her lover||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-50-lakh-sex-maharashtra-woman-gives-supari-to-kill-lover/articleshow/81235113.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Goat sacrifice video lands Kota district cop in soup||KOTA: A Rajasthan police sub-inspector, posted as station house officer (SHO) at Deoli-Manji police station in Kota district, was suspended on Friday after a 54-second video clip of the officer allegedly chopping the neck of a goat surfaced on social media. Disciplinary action has been ordered against SHO Bhanwar Singh and a case will be registered against him under relevant sections of the Animal Protection Act at a police station in Baran district where the incident allegedly occurred. The video of the animal sacrifice was tagged by a Twitter handle two days ago and activists of animal welfare organisations claimed that the man in the video was Bhanwar Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/goat-sacrificevideo-lands-kotadist-cop-in-soup/articleshow/81237109.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Court asks cops to look into points raised by Deep Sidhu||New Delhi: After Punjabi actor-activist Deep Sidhu moved a Delhi court seeking a free and impartial investigation in a case related to the Red Fort violence on Republic Day, a Delhi court on Friday directed police to investigate on the points raised in his plea. Chief metropolitan magistrate Gajender Singh Nagar also directed that appropriate action may be taken if Sidhu “tried to mislead the investigation by fabricating false evidence”. The order further says, “IO is duty bound to conduct proper investigation in the matter in a fair and impartial manner...He has to bring the true picture before the court. Application stands disposed of accordingly.” Sidhu, through his counsel Abhishek Gupta, argued that there was no video of him calling people to gather at Red Fort. “He did not indulge in any kind of violence. He was only a peaceful protester. In fact, he was staying at a hotel in Murthal. He checked out from there at 12noon. By that time people had already reached Lal Qila,” it was argued. “No call was ever made by him in connection with going to Red Fort on Republic Day, nor did he join any tractor rally,” Sidhu’s plea stated. Calling for preservation of video evidence, his plea stated, “CCTV footage is already with the investigating agency. It shows that the applicant/accused did not participate in any act of violence and rather he was helping the police in pacifying the crowd...” The additional public prosecutor, however, submitted that Sidhu couldn’t guide the police to conduct investigation in a particular manner for the police was duty bound to conduct fair and impartial investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-asks-cops-to-look-into-points-raised-by-deep-sidhu/articleshow/81237786.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fewer taking trains now as offices keep staff away||MUMBAI: Western Railway (WR) and Central Railway (CR) suburban trains have become less crowded, compared to previous weeks, as a rise in coronavirus cases has forced many employees and employers to revert to ‘work from home’. General passengers have been permitted to travel by suburban trains during off-peak hours from February 1. Card ticket sale data for CR reveals that tickets sold since February 23 have gone below four lakh for the first time. Only twice this month CR registered sale of card tickets below this, that too in the first week after opening services for general passengers. On WR, around 3.3 lakh tickets were sold. CR and WR claim 20 lakh and 17 lakh daily commuters, but it was calculated on the assumption that all who buy season tickets travel daily, which may not be the case as many offices have reverted to ‘work from home’ or are telling staff to attend office on limited days. CR commuter Akshay Sawant said, “I took the 7.39pm Badalpur fast local and was surprised as people were standing comfortably even after we crossed Dadar. The train used to be very crowded in previous weeks, even though it was not as much as it was before resumption of services.” Many offices have told employees to avoid coming after initially making attendance mandatory soon after general commuters were allowed to travel. Ghatkopar resident Pankaj Shah, who works at an IT firm in Belapur, said, “Our company told us to work from home after office was shut for three days, when some staff tested positive.” Goregaon resident Swati Nair, who works in the shipping industry, said, “For all these months women were called to office but after the spurt, staff have been told to come on alternate days.” Harbour services continue to be crowded as many from those areas depend on daily income. Panvel resident Umesh Gupta said, “I work in an electronics shop at Manish Market. We cannot afford to lose business due to lack of manpower.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fewer-taking-trains-now-as-offices-keep-staff-away/articleshow/81235137.cms||Manthank Mehta
February 27, 2021||Ludhiana||Man suspects tenant of stealing Rs 1k, kills him||Ludhiana: A man thrashed his tenant to death in Gagan Nagar of Daba in the early hours of Friday. The accused allegedly suspected the victim of stealing Rs 1,000 and they also had a fight on Thursday night. The area residents had intervened and pacified them. Later, the accused attacked the victim with a stick, killing him. The deceased has been identified as Vijay Morya, 30, a labourer. He hailed from Uttar Pradesh and had been living in Ludhiana in a rented accommodation owned by accused Gabbar Singh, 50, for the past two years. According to the locality residents, Gabbar and Vijay used to live together and on Thursday night, people gathered outside their house on hearing them quarrel. Gabbar was accusing Vijay of stealing Rs 1,000 while the latter was refuting the allegation. People pacified Gabbar and went to sleep.Around midnight, residents again heard noises and rushed towards the house. Gabbar was thrashing Vijay and the latter was screaming. When they entered the house, they found Vijay dead. Daba SHO inspector Mehma Singh said Vijay had died on the spot as Gabbar had thrashed him with a stick. People nabbed the accused and handed him over to the police.The police have informed the family of Vijay in UP and of Gabbar in Bihar and they would be reaching Ludhiana soon. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered against the accused and the body of the victim has been kept in the civil hospital mortuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-suspects-tenant-of-stealing-rs-1k-kills-him/articleshow/81233946.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Govt pressure allegations as two VCs quit||Mumbai: Two vice-chancellors of state universities have abruptly tendered their resignations to governor B S Koshyari, reports Hemali Chhapia. While they said they were stepping down due to “personal reasons”, there were allegations on Saturday from sources as well as the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad that “harassment and interference” from the state government, particularly over tenders, had forced them to quit. Governor Koshyari, who is chancellor of state universities, accepted the resignations of Pradip Patil, VC of Kavayitri Bahinabai Chaudhari North Maharashtra University, Jalgaon, and of Vedala Rama Sastry, VC of Dr Babasaeb Ambedkar Technological University, Lonere, in Raigad on Friday. Immediately, the governor gave additional charge to two VCs: to E Vayuandan, head of Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University, for Jalgaon; and to Aniruddha Pandit, VC of the Institute of Chemical Technology, for Lonere. “I have submitted my resignation on personal grounds. I will go back to my parent institution where I came from, NIT-Surathkal, work there as a senior professor, be happy doing my research and work for the direct benefit of my students,” Sastry told TOI. He was appointed VC in March 2019 and had three more years of his term left. Recently, the state government asked Sastry to give away 40 acres of land for setting up NIPER (National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research), which he agreed to hand over. Then the ministry sent four non-academic members to be introduced in the university’s executive council. “There was constant pressure to award tenders to certain parties and to appoint a certain person as registrar,” said a source. “I am happy with the work I have done in ushering major academic reforms like introducing minors and honours programmes for engineering students. I introduced the credit transfer scheme, allowing students to pick courses from top universities. Before leaving, I have also initiated the process of a credit bank which permits students multiple entry and exit.” Similarly, outgoing VC of KBCNMU Pradip Patil told TOI his health was deteriorating and hence he had put in his papers. But his university’s management council member Deepak Patil said, “The VC was being harassed. He was being pressurized over whom to award tenders to. Also, many times, even as meetings would be on, Shiv Sena karyakartas would just barge in and demand the VC’s time and attention. They would threaten him that if he did not concede their demands, they would take videos and make them viral. The VC often told some of us he felt mentally tortured.” Minister for higher education Uday Samant of the Shiv Sena was unavailable for comment. In a press statement, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad said, “Recently the educational sector has been complaining about increasing governmental overreach and interference in universities in Maharashtra. Tales of instructions regarding University’s tenders from ministries have been doing rounds in all the universities. This overreach and the constant interference has compelled two VCs to resign, and this is a worrisome state for the education sector in Maharashtra.” TOI had on March 3, 2020 reported that the higher and technical education department had issued a directive seeking information on tenders floated, procedures followed, bidders’ details, contractors hired, upcoming infrastructure projects to be undertaken, service providers appointed and new tenders to be called for, from all state universities. ABVP Konkan state secretary Prerna Pawar said, “The resignation of two VCs because of political interference by the government even after repeated lashing by the courts indicates the sorry state of affairs in the education sector under the MVA government.” She appealed to stakeholders of the educational fraternity to unite against the governmental overreach and interference, saying it was politically charged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-pressure-allegations-as-two-vcs-quit/articleshow/81251579.cms||Hemali Chhapia
February 27, 2021||Ludhiana||At 30.2 degrees, city sees its hottest Feb day in 50 yrs||Ludhiana: Ludhiana witnessed its hottest day of February in the past more than 50 years, as the day temperature crossed the 30 degrees Celsius mark on Friday. The School of Climate Change and Agricultural Meteorology, PAU, has predicted weather disturbance in the city on Sunday.As per PAU, the maximum (day) temperature in Ludhiana on Friday was recorded at 30.2 degrees Celsius, which is 7.6 degrees more than normal. The minimum (night) temperature on Friday was recorded at 12.6 degrees Celsius, which is 3.5 degrees more than normal.PAU weather expert Kulwinder Kaur Gill said the day temperature had not soared so high after 1970. She said the day temperature had reached 29 degrees Celsius in 2006, 2001 as well as in 1973, but it had never reached the present value. The weather expert said around February 28, western disturbance is likely to hit the region and light showers are expected and temperatures might fall. Meanwhile, such high day temperature took the city residents by surprise. “Though days start getting hotter in March, we had not witnessed such high temperature in February. It was so hot that we had to peel off warm clothes and switch on the fans,” said Harpreet Singh, a resident of BRS Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/at-30-2-degrees-city-sees-its-hottest-feb-day-in-50-yrs/articleshow/81233964.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Son shot Avni from close range, deserves President award: Shafath Ali||HYDERABAD: Shooter Nawab Shafath Ali Khan of Wildlife Tranqui Force said his son Asghar should be given President’s national award for killing tigress Avni, a maneater, from a close range. Asghar alleged that a death trap was laid for him as part of a larger conspiracy on November 2, 2018, when two veterinary doctors sprinkled urine of another tiger because of which Avni charged at him. Avni was shot dead in Yavatmal district of Maharashtra by Asghar on November 2 three years ago. The father-son duo was reacting to the Supreme Court which said on Friday that the killing of Avni was carried out as per court orders as she was a maneater and declared the contempt case against Maharashtra forest officials filed by animal rights activist Sunita Dongre as invalid.  Shafath Ali said he and his son are ready to help Telangana forest department tranquilise the suspected maneater tiger A2 in Asifabad district. “In one shot, Asghar killed the tigress T1, which was a confirmed maneater that killed 13 innocent humans outside the forest. How did human killings stop after she was shot if she was not a maneater? All procedures were scrupulously followed in the operation. Asghar should have been honoured with a national award by the President for his brave act of shooting a maneater. Activists want cheap publicity. Sadly, there is no one to wipe the tears of the 13 families,” Shafath Ali said. Asghar alleged a debt trap was laid for him by some of his own team members. “It was a quick reflex action and proficiency in shooting that I was able to shoot the tigress. We risked our lives. Though several times I had spotted the tigress, I did not shoot it. We wanted to capture it alive. I have no pleasure of shooting it. It was an emergency situation when I had no option when it came charging at me,” he recalled. Shafath Ali went on to say that Telangana government has not invited them to kill A2, which is believed to have killed two persons in Asifabad forests. “If they call us, we are ready to track it and assist the forest teams in tranquilising it. We had tranquilised the Brahmapuri maneater tiger that killed five persosn. Due to the noise made by some NGOs, the forest department must be keeping quiet,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/son-shot-avni-from-close-range-deserves-prez-award-shafath-ali/articleshow/81235180.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||G Saiprakash is new forest boss||Nagpur: The state government has promoted G Saiprakash as the new principal chief conservator of forests (head of forest force) of Maharashtra. He will take over from N Rambabu, who will retire on February 28. The order to appoint Saiprakash, an IFS officer of 1982 batch, was issued by the state government on Friday. Saiprakash, who was PCCF (budget, planning & management) before being promoted as HoFF, has been asked to hold additional charge of the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/g-saiprakash-is-new-forest-boss/articleshow/81235188.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mirchi’s kin get fugitives tag, ED to seize assets||MUMBAI: A PMLA court on Friday declared late drug smuggler Iqbal Memon alias Mirchi’s wife, Hajra, and two sons, Asif and Junaid, fugitive economic offenders and ordered the seizure of their properties in India and abroad. Last December, the ED, investigating the money laundering case against the Mirchi family and DHFL promoters Dheeraj Wadhawan and Kapil Wadhawan, had filed an application before the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court requesting confiscation of the Mirchi family’s 15 properties. The accused did not respond to the plea. Till date, businessman Vijay Mallya and diamantaire Nirav Modi have been declared fugitive economic offenders in India. Sources said that the ED is likely to first go for the seizure of properties wholly owned by the family, like two floors of Ceejay House in Worli. The investigating agency had provisionally attached the family’s properties worth Rs 798 crore in the country and abroad under PMLA. It had filed a chargesheet against them. Earlier, the court had issued open-ended non-bailable warrants against Hajra, Asif and Junaid. In the second chargesheet against the Mirchi family, the ED tried to map all illegal activities of Iqbal Mirchi with the help of documents and statements of his associates and relatives. Mirchi died in London in 2013. In the chargesheet, the ED stated that Mirchi had earned his money through smuggling of narcotics, arms and extortion activities. The accused laundered, layered and invested Rs 574 crore projecting it as untainted money. He mainly purchased properties on the name of his family members and companies associated with them with the help of the money, it stated. Mirchi had purchased three buildings at Worli from money he allegedly earned from his narcotics business which were attached by the government under SAFEMA and the NDPS Act. But Mirchi managed to free them from the government attachment in 2005 fraudulently. In 2010, Wadhawans had allegedly purchased these properties from Mirchi after paying him through fictitious transactions and hawala channels. Mirchi had trained his son Asif to handle all the illegal activities, including betting, match-fixing and matka, witnesses told the ED. Asif was also allegedly involved in illegal shipping of liquor from Dubai to Saudi Arabia. Abdul Kadar, Mirchi’s brother in his statement to the ED, said that Mirchi used to steal goods from Bombay Dockyard during the 70s to sell them in the local market. In 1993, Mirchi shifted to Dubai and he was into the drugs business. He would allegedly arrange for drugs from Pakistan and Afghanistan. Abdul was an informant of the Indian government agencies and divulged information on the smuggling activities. In 1987, he received Rs a 1.25-crore reward from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mirchis-kin-get-fugitives-tag-ed-to-seize-assets/articleshow/81237783.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 27, 2021||Dehradun||Will propose green ranking for states: Niti Aayog VC||Dehradun: Rajiv Kumar, vice chairman of NITI Aayog, supported the demand of green bonus by Uttarakhand but maintained that rather than seeking it from the Centre, the state should put itself at international forums such as the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and seek green bonus by highlighting its contribution to save the environment of the globe.Kumar, who was in Dehradun for the inauguration of a water mill station at the Himalayan Environmental Studies And Conservation Organisation (HESCO), founded by Padma Bhushan Anil Joshi, also said that the NITI Aayog will propose green ranking for states to promote a healthy competition among them for protection of the environment. “Green bonus is a good thing to ask for, and Uttarakhand should get it as well. But it will be better if we get it at the international level. For it, Uttarakhand should look at collecting carbon credit. I think 70 to 75 per cent land in this state is covered by forest. The state should approach the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) or UN’s climate change initiative and seek fund by highlighting their contribution to save the environment of the globe. UN does give carbon credits. The state can figure out the process in detail and work on it as it will bring more recognition and profit,” said Kumar. According to experts, for the process, Uttarakhand has to approach the ministry of environment of India with its proposal for green bonus, and the ministry will further pitch it at the UN. Commenting on self-reliant India slogan given by PM, Kumar said that the state’s role will remain intact even if private entrepreneurship flourishes. “A state’s job is to give a conducive environment to private businessmen which will create jobs, will help economy grow and the revenue that the government will generate from the same should be used in a way that develops things further. I will give an example that equality will not come in society if we stop private players. It will come if all children get the same education. Government schools should give quality education like the private schools, and this is the state intervention which should happen,” said Kumar. He added that state socialism was a concept that suits the bureaucracy and no one else. “Our country cannot run without private enterprise. Our strength is our private investors, entrepreneurs and private innovators. We were never dependent on the government,” he added. Kumar also supported the initiatives being run by HESCO in the city where rural people are being trained to promote their exclusive crops in unique ways. He maintained that agriculture sector has to modify in a way that profits goes directly to farmers. “I will support Anil Joshi’s concept of GEP (gross environment product) and I will ensure that the Niti Aayog works on a proposal in which ways will be showed to take environment along in the development process. One thing is clear that we will not be able to grow by compromising the environment because now, retrofitting the environment after destroying it is not possible. We will also promote to rank states on the basis of environment protection like we give for education and other indices,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-propose-green-ranking-for-states-niti-aayog-vc/articleshow/81233987.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Tiger A2 made 20 cattle kills in last two months||Hyderabad: The suspected ‘man-eating’ tiger A2 that killed two people within a span of 18 days last November is believed to have made nearly 20 cattle kills in the last two months. Its movement is giving sleepless night to the residents of around 11 villages, situated on the periphery of forests in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district. According to the forest officials, who are constantly monitoring its movement, the tiger killed around 7 to 10 cattle on an average in January and another eight so far this month. The officials say this is more than the number of cattle kills made by other resident tigers. The authorities attributed this behaviour of the tiger, which is depending more on cattle than going for other prey base in the forest, to its close association with human-dominated habitats since its birth. “This tiger (A2) was born and grew up in and around the Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS) in Maharashtra before it migrated into Telangana and made some part of our forest as its territory. So we believe that the way this tiger spent the initial few years of its life in proximity to human settlements, maybe the reason why it still prefers to move close to the villages here. It also explains why it is dependent more on cattle instead of other prey base available in the forest,” said Shantaram, district forest official (DFO), Kumaram Bheem Asifabad. CSTPS is connected to Maharashtra’s Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) through a corridor of coal mines and is said to have an adequate prey base in the form of stray cattle, wild boars and substantial tree cover to help meet all the basic needs of tigers. However, experts say that tigers that were born or live close to human habitations such as CSTPS, which is also a non-forest area, often tend to live in similar conditions wherever they migrate due to natal memory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiger-a2-made-20-cattle-kills-in-last-two-months/articleshow/81235151.cms||Moulika.KV
February 27, 2021||Goa||State govt notifies flying squads for CCP, municipal elections||Panaji/ Poinguinim: As part of the civic election process, the state government has appointed flying squads and sector officers to maintain law and order and to curb attempts to influence or intimidate voters. Eighteen flying squads and five sector officers have been formed to keep a watch over the 30 wards that fall within the Corporation of the City of Panaji jurisdiction. Similarly, 15 flying squads have been formed to monitor the civic polls in the four municipal councils of Pernem, Valpoi, Bicholim and Mapusa. The flying squads have been empowered with the powers of the executive magistrate under Section 20(1) of Criminal Procedure Code, 1973.Flying squads and sector officers for byelections in wards of 13 village panchayats have also been appointed. Meanwhile, nine nominations were received by the election authorities on Friday– two each from Canacona, Valpoi, Mapusa and Cuncolim while one from Quepem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-govt-notifies-flying-squads-for-ccp-municipal-elections/articleshow/81237122.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Goa||FC Goa, Hyderabad chase final playoff spot on final day||After five months of waiting, 19 matches and plenty of ups and downs, it all comes down to 90 minutes. These minutes at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Sunday will define FC Goa and Hyderabad FC’s season. Regardless of what happens, to the neutral, the teams have punched above their weight. Hit by departures of more than half of the team that finished on top last season and qualified for the AFC Champions League, Goa have still remained in the race. Their 12-match unbeaten run so far is a league record too. Hyderabad have their own success story, and it’s not just for their 11-match unbeaten run. A team that finished at the bottom last season are now every neutral’s favourite. Coaches Juan Ferrando (Goa) and Manolo Marquez (Hyderabad) have done this in their own style. If Marquez trusted youngsters and didn’t bat an eyelid even when he had just two foreign players among the 11, Ferrando showed faith in six players who were making their debuts in the Indian Super League “The season is (depending) on one game. But this is football life. I am not thinking about success or failure, on this game alone. We have to stay calm,” Ferrando told TOI on Saturday. Fortunately for both, the teams have their fate in their own hand. While Goa need a point to qualify, Hyderabad must win to occupy the last available top-four slot. That would mean big pressure, isn’t it? Normal, said Ferrando. “There is pressure every game. The mentality of this club is to get three points from every game. Even the friendlies, we play to win. The mentality of the club is so high. “My belief is we have to stay calm for two more weeks. We can do better. We need time to know whether this season was good or not,” he said. Ferrando will continue to miss Brandon Fernandes through injury but is expected to have others back. Jorge Ortiz, who sat out of the last game, has resumed training. Seriton Fernandes, who didn’t train for a couple of days, should be ready too. For Hyderabad, the news is not exactly encouraging. Marquez will miss the experience of captain Aridane Santana through suspension (four yellow cards), while Chinglensana Singh picked up a red card in the last game, a fascinating 2-2 draw against ATK Mohun Bagan, despite playing almost the entire match with a numerical disadvantage. Injured Ashish Rai is also unavailable. “One of the strengths of this team is that they are brave and very confident in every game,” said Marquez. “Everyone knows about these three guys, but this team has shown during the full season that it’s not too important. They are key players, but I remember we played the last game without Ashish. “Sana was not there for the first game, which we won, and we did well with just two foreign players against ATK Mohun Bagan,” said Marquez. Like the coach explained, playing with handicaps is not alien to Hyderabad. No team this season has missed its quota of foreigners for so many games as Marquez’s team; he was without his full quota of five foreign players for 13 games. For the all-important game on Sunday, Marquez will now have six foreigners to choose a maximum of five. He will have his trusted Indians too as they seek to upset the odds against a team who turned the tables on them with two goals in the last four minutes when they met in the first leg. “It will be harsh on the team who does not make it (to the playoffs),” said Marquez. One team will miss out on a playoff spot. But whether it’s Hyderabad or Goa, can that be termed as failure?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-hyderabad-chase-final-playoff-spot-on-final-day/articleshow/81249703.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray slams delay in nod to classical status for Marathi||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray made a jibe at the BJP and the Narendra Modi government for keeping the proposal on sanctioning ‘classical language status’ to Marathi pending, saying it is Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s language and that sole evidence itself is enough to approve the proposal. “Marathi is not only our mother tongue, but it was Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s too. Hence, Marathi, should not only get the status as classical language, but it should be considered a supreme one,” Thackeray said. Stating BJP has spread across the country and is ruling at the centre, he said, “It needs to be told to those who have kept the proposal pending for years that you (BJP) exist only because of Shivaji Maharaj’s language.” Thackeray made the comments while addressing a programme organised by the state legislature secretariat and the Marathi language department on the occasion of Marathi language day. He added that everyone should learn English. “We do not hate English language, however, we should take care that our mother tongue is not weakened. It’s a matter of pride and with this intention all should unite and make an effort for classical status to be conferred on Marathi by the next Marathi language day,” said the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/uddhav-slams-delay-in-nod-to-classical-status-for-marathi/articleshow/81237142.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Pune||Cops crack whip on 1,864 people without masks||Pune: Police on Friday penalized 1,864 people in the district for moving around without face masks in public places in violation of the Covid-19 norms and recovered Rs6.85 lakh in fine from them. The Pune city police penalized 1,001 people and recovered Rs4.87 lakh in fine, while their Pimpri Chinchwad counterparts mopped up a penalty of Rs61,500 from 121 violators. The rural police, on their part, penalized 742 people, including 85 in Baramti, and recovered from them Rs1.36 lakh in fine. Pune additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said,“We will continue to take effective action against people found violating the Covid norms.” Pimpri Chinchwad police senior inspector Vitthal Kubade said,“We want the people to wear face masks and maintain social distance for the safety of themselves and others.” The Pune rural police conducted checks in 84 hotels and took action against 27 — twenty-two in Bhigwan and five in Daund — and recovered Rs13,500 in fine. The police also took action against 10 business establishments, including malls and shopping centres, and recovered Rs5,000 in fine. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation penalized 62 people for not wearing face masks and recovered Rs31,000 in fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-crack-whip-on-1864-people-without-masks/articleshow/81235189.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Daring heist at jewellery showroom in Aminabad||LUCKNOW: A daring heist, just hours after midnight at the Aminabad showroom of city’s leading jewellery firm, Lala Jugal Kishore and Bankers, sent ripples through the state capital’s busy trading hub and jolted the Lucknow Police brass into action. The precision, skill and dare of the burglars can be gauged from the fact that the showroom was only metres away from the Aminabad Kotwali and neither cops or the owner was aware of the break-in till Friday noon when employees found locks smashed and gold and diamonds jewellery worth several lakhs missing. Cops don’t rule out an insider hand in the heist. When the owner, Arvind Rastogi alias Guddu, reached the showroom, he was shocked to find the unit on the ground floor ransacked with shelves and safes emptied of valuables. CCTV cameras were blacked out and iron gates leading to the showroom melted down and prised open. Guddu told police he downed shutters and locked the shop on Wednesday night before going home. “Since Aminabad observes a weekly closure on Thursday, I returned on Friday to find my showroom burgled,” he said. Lucknow police commissioner, D K Thakur along with senior officers rushed to the spot and hand over investigations to a special task force. Forensic teams too arrived to collect samples. The burglars were well versed with the topography of the area and layout of the showroom, said police. “They first scaled an abandoned building adjacent to the jewellery shop, smashed the gate and leapt to the terrace of the three-storeyed firm. Armed with gas cutters, they cut through the iron door on the rooftop and drilled through three gates before engineering another break-in on the ground floor to reach the showroom. Talking to TOI, police commissioner D K Thakur said, “Prima facie it appears to be an inside job as the criminals were acquainted with every nook and corner of the showroom. They entered the building from the terrace to break into the shop, three floors below. They also knew where the jewellery was stashed.” Additional deputy commissioner of police, west zone, Rajesh Srivastava, called it the handiwork of a professional gang adept in use of gas cutters. “They recced the area and planned the raid in advance, targeting the showroom by scaling a desolate building alongside. We have detained some people for questioning,” he said. Trader bodies of the city met law minister Brajesh Pathak on Friday and demanded swift arrest of the criminals and return of stolen valuables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/daring-heist-at-jewellery-showroom-in-aminabad/articleshow/81237134.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Goa||Rising Covid cases a cause for concern: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that the rising cases of covid-19 is a cause for concern and he appealed to the people of the state to stay on alert and take necessary precautions. He also hinted that there would no lockdown. “The rising Covid-19 cases is a cause of concern. Our Government is monitoring the situation closely. Though the situation in Goa is under control, the fight against pandemic is not over,” he said. “I appeal to the people to stay alert to the situation and avoid mass gatherings, follow all norms such as social distancing, wearing masks and using sanitisers. I am also requesting citizens not to fall prey to rumours of another lockdown,” Sawant said. In view of the rising Covid cases in the neighbouring states, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday asked the health department to review the situation in other parts of the country. “Necessary decisions will be taken after the state health department takes stock of the situation in other states,” the chief minister had told TOI after a review meeting with health minister Vishwajit Rane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rising-covid-cases-a-cause-for-concern-sawant/articleshow/81237146.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Pune||Rs 68k siphoned off in card cloning cases, 2 file complaint||Pune: The Hinjewadi police are investigating two complaints of suspected card cloning lodged on Thursday. In one case, a 48-year-old woman lost Rs38,000, while in the other, a 33-year-old engineer claimed he lost Rs30,000. Police suspect both cards were cloned, as both complainants said they hadn’t shared their card or bank account details with anyone. On February 16, the woman — a homemaker — said she received SMSs from her bank, stating that Rs38,000 was withdrawn from her account. “The amount was withdrawn in four transactions within four minutes, between 9.50am and 9.54am, the same day. The amount was withdrawn from an automated teller machine (ATM) in Satara,” a police officer said. The woman told police she did not make any online transactions using the debit card, and also had not used the card elsewhere recently. She holds an account with a Tamil Nadu branch of a public sector bank. As the woman was recording the statement, the engineer arrived at the police station to lodge a complain stating Rs30,000 was withdrawn from his account with a public sector bank. “He too claimed that he did not share any details of his account or debit card,” the officer said. He said both were cases of card cloning. “We have told the bank in Satara to share closed circuit television camera (CCTV) footage from the ATM kiosk where the cash was withdrawn,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-68k-siphoned-off-in-card-cloning-cases-2-file-complaint/articleshow/81235197.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Cong flays KTR’s claim on govt jobs||Hyderabad: AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan on Friday charged municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao with misleading the people of Telangana, especially the youth, by stating that the TRS government has filled up 1.32 lakh jobs in the government sector. High drama prevailed at Gun Park where Congress members gathered. They said they were waiting for KTR to come for a debate on jobs filled up and existing vacancies in the government sector. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-flays-ktrs-claim-on-govt-jobs/articleshow/81235196.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Pune||Harris Bridge Metro pillars constructed, viaduct next||Pune: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) has finished constructing 12 piers on the stretch between Harris Bridge and the Dapodi station site. This stretch is crucial, as this is where the Metro rail will cross over from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits into Pune. MahaMetro said it would soon start launching segments for the viaduct in this portion. MahaMetro recently completed constructing the viaduct from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation till the bridge. The route will now proceed towards Khadki. MahaMetro said work on Metro infrastructure in the area would not affect traffic movement, as the piers have been aligned parallel to bridges. “There are four vehicular bridges in the area — two each for to-and-fro movement of vehicles. The Metro viaduct will run parallel to these bridges and will not affect vehicular traffic. We have made adequate space for traffic movement at both ends,” a MahaMetro official said. Hemant Sonawane, MahaMetro’s general manager (public relations), said they had expedited work in the PCMC-Dapodi stretch in the past few months. “We completed the viaduct till the Dapodi station site and in the past couple of months, started launching segments beyond the station towards Harris Bridge. The launcher has now reached the bridge,” Sonawane said. MahaMetro also said work on the foundations and pier construction in Bopodi area has been expedited. Work in the Khadki area has yet to gather pace. As the plan stands, the metro viaduct has been aligned through the centre of the road till the Khadki station site. Thereafter, the viaduct will cross the railway tracks and proceed towards Range Hills. An official said work on pillars on both sides of the railway tracks has begun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/harris-bridge-metro-pillars-constructed-viaduct-next/articleshow/81235195.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||‘T gave more jobs than BJP-ruled states’||Hyderabad: Telangana government has provided more jobs than the BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka and other states like West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, claimed government whip Balka Suman. He said that the Congress and the BJP are making false allegations, even after releasing the department-wise list of jobs filled by the state government. Addressing a press conference at the Telangana Bhavan on Friday, Suman said the BJP doesn’t have any moral right to talk about recruitment in the government sector as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced plans to privatise public sector undertakings. “Instead of supporting the state government, BJP leaders are trying to stall the projects and development,” Suman said, adding that several important files are pending with the Centre. “I am asking the local BJP leaders to look into the file pending with the Centre on the new zonal system. If the file is cleared, more jobs can be filled and local youth can get jobs. The BJP leaders should use their good offices and get them approved,” Suman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-gave-more-jobs-than-bjp-ruled-states/articleshow/81235193.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Dehradun||Water level in artificial lake at Muranda dips by 2 feet in 2 days||DEHRADUN: The water level in the artificial lake formed following the February 7 natural disaster in Chamoli district has dipped by nearly two feet in the last two days, officials said on Friday. Four Navy divers on Thursday were air-dropped to measure the lake’s depth for the second time. Divers had earlier measured the depth using echo sounders last Saturday. On Friday, ITBP claimed that after the tree trunks and wooden logs, which were blocking the flow of lake water, were removed, the water level of the lake was found to have reduced by two feet. "With the efforts of ITBP and SDRF personnel, the water level of the lake has reduced by nearly two feet. The depth of the lake varies between eight and 20 metres. Increased water has been discharged from the lake in the last two days due to persistent efforts," said Vivek Pandey, spokesperson, ITBP. Pandey added that water intake into the lake is now much less than the water being discharged from it, which reduces the threat of any sudden water release due to breaching of the embankment. Meanwhile, the work to clear the obstacles in front of the lake and widening of the flow is still underway. "Manual removal of logs, stones and slush have resulted in faster discharge of water from the lake," an ITBP official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/water-level-in-artificial-lake-at-muranda-dips-by-2-feet-in-2-days/articleshow/81234063.cms||Gaurav Talwar
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||Facelift of Faizabad Junction on cards to meet Ayodhya tourist influx||LUCKNOW: After Ayodhya, railways has come up with a plan to expand and redevelop Faizabad junction considering the expected rise in the passengers’ footfall following the construction of Ram temple. Not stopping here, the railways have written to the state government, seeking permission to rename Faizabad junction as Ayodhya Cantt railway station. After an inspection of railways assets and ongoing projects along the Lucknow-Ayodhya stretch on Friday, northern railway general manager Ashutosh Gangal informed reporters about the Faizabad railway station project. “After the construction of the temple, we expect that footfall of pilgrims will rise. Therefore, we have developed a concept plan for expansion and redevelopment of Faizabad junction which currently has a maintenance facility. Secondly following the request of local MP Lallu Singh, we have sent a proposal to the state government to rename Faizabad junction as Ayodhya Cantt,” said Gangal. The redeveloped station will have a double-storied building, mela shed, circulating area, two foot overbridges, dormitory, sick rooms, escalators, elevator, food court, air-conditioned retiring room, LED billboards, furnished quarters of railway staff and other facilities. After the completion of the second phase, the station will have a large waiting and parking area for pilgrims in the southern part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/facelift-of-faizabad-jn-on-cards-to-meet-ayodhya-tourist-influx/articleshow/81237152.cms||Arvind Chauhan
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Farmer’s death: Police deny victim had gunshot wound||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Friday denied that a 25-year-old man whose tractor overturned leading to his death during the Republic Day farmers’ rally suffered any gunshot wound and blamed a section of protesters for preventing medical aid to reach him. In a report filed in Delhi High Court, police cited the postmortem report and opinion given by a medical board to maintain that the farmer had died due to a head injury as a result of the accident at ITO and all his injuries were possible in a road mishap. “On the basis of CCTV footage analysis and examination, it is self-evident that the protesters did not take injured Navreet Singh to nearby hospitals in Delhi such as Loknayak, Lady Hardinge and RML,” police submitted. Two ambulances reached the spot but “the unruly and violent mob didn’t even allow them to take the injured to the hospital due to which timely medical aid was not provided, which led to the death”, they claimed, adding that the protesters also attacked the ambulances. The report stated that despite all protesters having vehicles, they kept the body on the road for about five hours instead of taking Singh to a hospital. “They also spread the rumour that the deceased was killed in police firing”, for which they would be prosecuted, police told the court. Ten CCTV cameras are installed at four points on the ITO-Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg stretch and “none of the footage shows firing by any policeman”, the report claimed. “In fact, it clearly establishes high-speed and dangerous driving of tractor drivers at ITO and DDU Marg, with Navreet Singh’s tractor being one of them.” Police cited the footage collected from CCTV cameras located at the site on Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg and said the farmer was driving the tractor at a high speed and the vehicle had overturned after hitting barricades. The footage showed policemen running for safety from the speeding tractor, they added. The Uttar Pradesh police also maintained that the postmortem and X-ray reports, given by the district hospital at Rampur in UP, prima facie stated that “there was no gunshot injury in the body of the deceased”. The submissions came in response to a plea by the deceased’s grandfather, Hardeep Singh, that the victim had gunshot injuries on the head. The petition, filed through advocates Vrinda Grover and Soutik Banerjee, sought a court-monitored SIT probe into the death. The UP police, in its status report, has stated it hasn’t registered any FIR in connection with the death as claimed by the petitioner. It also said there was no provision of giving the videography of the postmortem or original X-ray plates, which are medico-legal documents, to the family of the deceased by the medical department. The family has alleged that police abandoned all procedures mandated in such cases, including inquest proceedings, conducting a postmortem and lodging an FIR. But police said no inquest proceeding was required after a postmortem determined the cause of death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmers-death-police-deny-victim-had-gunshot-wound/articleshow/81237794.cms||Abhinav Garg
February 27, 2021||Pune||PIFF rescheduled, to be held from March 11||Pune: The Pune International Film Festival (PIFF), organized by the Pune Film Foundation and the state government, has been rescheduled to March 11 to 18 against the backdrop of the rising Covid-19 cases. Earlier, it was scheduled to start from March 4. This year, the festival would be held in theatres, while certain parts of it would also be made available via an online platform. “There is no change in the format, only the dates have been changed,” Jabbar Patel, the festival’s director, said. As per the guidelines set by the state government, the festival would be held with 50% capacity in each designated theatre. It would be held at seven screens at venues including PVR on Senapati Bapat Road, Inox Camp and the National Film Archive of India on Law College Road. Online delegate registration has started on www.piffindia.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/piff-rescheduled-to-be-held-from-march-11/articleshow/81235206.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Vadodara||Ahead of polls, beer flows freely in Dahod||Vadodara: Elections officials and Dahod police have begun a probe after a video of liquor being openly distributed in a pandal believed to be put up for a public meeting went viral. The video is said to be from a village in Devgadh Baria taluka of the tribal district. The video shows beer tins being distributed in large numbers to people who were present in the pandal. Many in the crowd were also wearing orange scarves. Dahod superintendent of police Hitesh Joysar said that police had also received the video and started an investigation. “We are looking into the violation of prohibition while election officials will probe violation of the poll code,” he said. “One of the candidates contesting the polls had also approached the election officials with a complaint in this regard,” said Joysar. Investigation will be conducted by deputy superintendent of police Kanan Desai. Joysar said that help of forensic experts was also being taken to ascertain the authenticity of the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ahead-of-polls-beer-flows-freely-in-dahod/articleshow/81234258.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Kolkata||School offers offline, online exams after parents’ protest||Kolkata: A day after a section of parents staged a protest at Calcutta Boys School and met principal Raja McGee, demanding online conduct of annual examinations for the students of Classes IX and XI, the school modified their earlier notice and announced that both online and offline modes will be held. But the examinations for the students of Classes X and XII, who are gearing up for their ICSE and ISC exams, will be held only in the physical mode. In the last circular that was issued on February 23 and had led to the protest, the school authorities had asked students to appear for the exams being conducted offline. “It is against the SOPs and guidelines issued by both the state and Centre for opening schools. It has been clearly stated that students will not be forced to be present on the school campus physically. We objected to the school authorities forcing our children to be present for offline exams,” said an agitated parent. Principal McGee said: “We have modified the earlier notice and allowed the annual exams to be conducted in both physical and online modes. This has been done since a section of the guardians were reluctant to send their children to school.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/school-offers-offline-online-exams-after-parents-protest/articleshow/81235208.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Transport bodies protest, seek fuel price reduction||VIJAYAWADA: As part of the Bharat Bandh call given by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), various associations from the transport sector held protest programmes across the state on Friday, demanding reduction of fuel prices. Andhra Pradesh Lorry Owners Association along with Taxi Owners Association, Oil Tanker Owners Association and Trailer Owners Association staged a dharna at Benz Circle in Vijayawada. Similar programmes were held in all district headquarters followed by representations to respective collectors with a charter of demands. Several trade unions extended support to transport associations. APLOA general secretary YV Eswar Rao said the transport sector has been badly hit by the pandemic. He said at a time when lorry owners were finding it difficult to even meet their own needs, the continuous rise in fuel prices is only rubbing salt on their wounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/transport-bodies-protest-seek-fuel-price-reduction/articleshow/81233737.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Special cover to mark visit of Dr Ambedkar||KAKINADA: The postal department on Friday released a special cover to commemorate the platinum jubilee year of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar’s visit to Kakinada in 1944. Kakinada MP Vanga Geetha launched the special cover in the presence of chief postmaster general of Andhra Pradesh circle, Dr M Venkateswarlu at a special function. As per postal department officials, Dr Ambedkar visited Kakinada on September 29, 1944. He was taken in a procession on a decorated elephant to the venue of the public meeting held at Pithapuram Raja College grounds. At the meet, Babasaheb had emphasised on the need to continue the rule of law. Speaking at the cover launch, Vanga Geetha said she was fortunate to release the second special cover in her constituency to commemorate Babasaheb’s visit. Earlier in the morning, the chief postmaster general had flagged off a procession attended by staff of all cadres, including several representatives of SC/ENT bodies, who paid tributes to Dr Ambedkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/spl-cover-to-mark-visit-of-dr-ambedkar/articleshow/81233801.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Rajkot||Admn issues leave eight lions languishing in zoo||Rajkot: Eight lions that were captured near Jetpur town in Rajkot district are languishing in Junagadh’s Sakkarbaug zoo instead of moving around freely in their natural habitat for a month now. The lions were captured after Jetpur MLA and minister Jayesh Radadia had written to the state government seeking shifting of the felines from the area claiming that villagers were living in constant fear. Strangely, forest department officials cite administrative and jurisdiction issues for the reason for delay in releasing the lions into their natural abode. The department did not reply to the representations of wildlife activists who opposed the capturing of the lions ‘without any reason.’ The lions have neither attacked any human in and around Jetpur nor they have any health issues which could necessitate their prolonged stay in captivity. DT Vasavda, chief conservator of forest (wildlife circle) told TOI: “There are multiple forest divisions involved in this case. The lions were captured from the social forestry division of Rajkot by Junagadh circle, but their custody is with wildlife circle. We have to jointly decide the habitat of these eight lions while releasing them in wild.” Bhushan Pandya, a member of state wildlife board, had shot a letter to chairperson of wildlife board and chief minister raising objection against capturing the lions without any valid reasons. “There was no human-animal conflict and none of the lions was found aggressive. If the forest department found it necessary to shift them from human habitat, they should have been released in the forest and not kept the zoo,” his letter dated January 30 states. Activists also expressed apprehension that if there are no checks on the forest department, they may capture more lions in the future for no reason. Revtubha Raijada, a wildlife activist said, “As per the normal procedure, a captured lion is released into the forest within two-three days once found medically fit. According to experts, if the lions are required to be kept under observation, they should be released within a week, lest they lose their wildness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/admn-issues-leave-eight-lions-languishing-in-zoo/articleshow/81234618.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
February 27, 2021||Pune||Businessman falls prey to pre-used BMW car bait, loses Rs 1.5 lakh||Pune: The Hadapsar police on Thursday booked a vehicle agent on the charge of duping a Magarpatta City businessman after accepting an advance payment of Rs1.5 lakh for a pre-owned BMW car on October 10 last year. Businessman Gaurav Tupe (32) registered an FIR after the agent failed to show him the car and refused to return the money. The crime branch has taken over the investigation from the Hadapsar police. Inspector Balaji Pandhare of the anti-extortion cell of the crime branch said on Friday, “Tupe, a local businessman, was planning to purchase a pre-owned BMW car. One of his friends introduced him to the vehicle agent from Latur, then residing in Hadapsar. Tupe sought his assistance for buying the vehicle.” Pandhare said the agent wooed Tupe saying that he would help him purchase a car priced in the range of Rs8-10 lakh in the shortest possible time. He induced Tupe to make an advance payment of Rs1.5 lakh and initiate negotiating the deal if he liked the car, based on its supposed pictures. “Tupe paid the required amount after holding two meetings with the agent in Hadapsar but the latter then avoided meeting him to show him the car. He switched off his cellphone and his whereabouts were unknown since then,” he said. Tupe realised that he was tricked and he filed a complaint application with the Pune police soon after the incident. “The anti-extortion cell conducted a preliminary inquiry, recorded Tupe’s statement and registered an FIR,” Pandhare added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/businessman-falls-prey-to-pre-used-bmw-car-bait-loses-rs-1-5-lakh/articleshow/81235201.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Pune||Western Maha consumers clear Rs 580cr power dues||Pune: Over 4.54 lakh consumers in western Maharashtra have cleared their electricity bill dues worth Rs580 crore in February in response to an appeal by the Maharashtra State Electricity Corporation Limited (MSEDCL). According to the power distribution company, Pune district consumers have cleared the highest dues worth Rs301crore. Dues worth Rs84 crore have been cleared in Kolhapur, Rs81crore in Solapur, Rs60 crore in Sangli, and Rs51crore in Satara. Officials said there is a total pendency of Rs1,690 crore from residential, commercial and industrial consumers. A statement from MSEDCL said, “There are over 26 lakh power consumers across Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur, Solapur, and other areas of Pune district, with a pendency of Rs1,690 crore. Over 9lakh consumers have not cleared their dues worth Rs687crore since April 1, 2020.” Ankush Nale, MSEDCL’s Pune regional director said, “We had not resorted to disconnection of power supply to consumers who still have a huge pendency from April 2020 to January 2021, but the financial condition of the MSEDCL is getting worse with each passing day. Hence, we have started disconnections from February 1. The power distribution company has been contacting consumers frequently, reminding them of the dues. However, if they do not respond, the final option is disconnection.” Till February 24, the MSEDCL has disconnected power supply to over 80,000 households, commercial, and industrial consumers. “Those who have received high power bills have been given the facility of monthly instalments,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/western-maha-consumers-clear-rs-580cr-power-dues/articleshow/81235199.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||GST returns date won’t be pushed to June: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Friday declined to extend the last date for filing annual goods and services tax (GST) annual returns for 2019-20 in Maharashtra till June 30. The last date is February 28. A bench of Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Milind Jadhav dismissed a Goods and Services Tax Practitioners’ Association petition to extend the period of filing annual returns “until the complete lockdown is lifted or until the Covid-19 pandemic situation improves completely”. Its petition said Maharashtra is still the worst affected state and has seen a surge in cases. In Mumbai, fresh Covid-19 guidelines have been issued and there is a fresh lockdown in some districts with sealing of buildings. A majority of traders and tax practitioners have not started their daily business due workforce shortage and no relief in local train travel. The association’s advocate P C Joshi argued under Section 44 of Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, considering the genuine hardship faced by its members and taxable persons, the discretionary power to extend the time limit must be exercised by the state commissioner. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh said there are 1.2 crore assessees registered under GST. He said considering the Covid-19 situation, the Centre had extended the last date from December 31, 2020, to February 28, 2021. Singh said Supreme Court in February 2020 had stayed that portion of Rajasthan high court’s order which had extended the deadline for submitting returns for 2017-18. Assistant government pleader Jyoti Chavan said extension of time-limit cannot be granted only for Maharashtra “ because it is one nation, one tax”. She said Section 44 states the state commissioner can only extend if GST Council recommends. The judges said they are not inclined to accede to the prayer made “that too, at this eleventh hour”. They also took “note of the fact it is the professional body of GST practitioners who are before us and not any individual taxable person expressing any difficulty in adhering to the extended timeline of February 28, 2021”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-refuses-to-push-gst-returns-date-to-june-from-feb-28/articleshow/81235270.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 27, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Officials told to focus on livelihoods programme||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked officials to focus on livelihoods programme and ensure that beneficiaries of welfare schemes improve their standards of living. The chief minister held a review meeting at his Tadepalli camp office on Friday on the implementation of the welfare schemes, particularly YSR Cheyutha, YSR Asara, Jagananna Thodu and MNREGS programmes. The chief minister asked the officials to work in tandem with the banks and the beneficiaries to ensure that the monetary benefit given by the government is used for productive purpose. He asked the officials to ensure that the livelihood activities like milk production, vegetables cultivation, goats and sheep rearing, small time business are promoted. The officials told the chief minister that options were received to set up 66,702 retail outlets under Cheyutha and Asara schemes of which 98% outlets were established and added that they also have set up a call centre to provide immediate help. The officials said that there are about 16.25 lakh people who have opted for small businesses, textiles, handicrafts, food products, jewellery and chemicals apart from retail outlets. Reviewing the Jagananna Jeevakranti, officials said goats and sheep will be distributed to another 70,719 people by December and added that they have been distributing them to 5,000 people every month. Detailing on Jagananna Palavelluva, officials said another 1,06,376 units of goats and sheep will be distributed by December 2021. Explaining progress of work under MGNREGA, officials said the government has logged 2,328 lakh working days in 2020-21, which was highest since the programme was started and added that the highest number of working days was in June with 798 lakh working days. The officials briefed the chief minister on felicitating volunteers across the state. Volunteers will be selected into three categories according to their qualifications. Volunteers who have served continuously for one year will be considered in Level 1, five people from every mandal or town will be considered in level 2 and five volunteers in every constituency will be considered in level 3 for felicitation. For Level 1 volunteers, a cash incentive of Rs 10,000, badge along with Seva Mitra Award, for level 2 volunteers, a cash incentive of Rs 20,000, special badge along with Seva Ratna award, for level 3 volunteers, a cash incentive of Rs 30,000, special badge, medal along with Seva Vajra award will be given, officials at the meeting said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/officials-told-to-focus-on-livelihoods-programme/articleshow/81233640.cms||Gopi Dara
February 27, 2021||Pune||MSMEs need government support: Union minister||Pune: External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday said the Union Budget 2021-22 was formulated to give the necessary government support to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in India. Jaishankar was speaking at the inaugural session of Asia Economic Dialogue 2021, conducted by Pune International Centre (PIC) under the aegis of the Ministry of External Affairs. The topic for the inaugural session was “Resilient Global Growth in a Post-Pandemic World”. It was chaired by PIC trustee Naushad Forbes and was also attended by Jaishankar’s Australian counterpart Marise Payne. Jaishankar observed that MSMEs in the country have felt shortchanged over the years. “It is the business of the government to support MSMEs in India. We have not done enough, and I think that reflects in the budget,” he said. The minister also touched upon three major developments that affected the nation last year — Covid-19, the economy and border issues.  “As a government, we listened to everybody and did what we thought was the right thing: early lockdown, induced social discipline — unimaginable in India — and set up a good health infrastructure in a shorttime. We grew from zero to exporters of PPE kits, masks and testing kits,” he said. On economic revival, Jaishankar said, “We consciously decided to not get pressured into front-loaded stimulus measures and took the decision on when to respond, and timed it according to the situation.” Jaishankar also said India did what it had to on the border issue. “There is a very active, ongoing debate in this regard. People offered advice, but we were resolute about protecting our interest. We gave this complicated issue careful thought and eventually fashioned an effective response.” Jaishankar said India needed to contribute more abroad. He said it was also important to be strong at home. “The litmus test is employment. Jobless growth is not a great testimony to the policies of the country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msmes-need-government-support-union-minister/articleshow/81235207.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Pune||Four arrested on charge of assaulting, robbing trader||Pune: Four men were arrested on Thursday night on the charge of assaulting a businessman with sharp weapons and robbing him of Rs2,500 outside a community hall on Shivaji Road around 4pm. The businessman — Bapu Kante (47) from Nehrunagar in Pimpri — was on his way to Mandai, when the men accosted him and demanded money. “After the businessman resisted, the suspects beat him, placed knives on his neck, stomach and back and robbed him of the cash he had. They threatened him with dire consequences and fled,” assistant inspector Abhijit Patil of Vishrambaug police said. Kante did not know the suspects. “We got the description of the men from the residents because the robbers would loiter in the area and harass people by demanding money to consume liquor,” Patil said. “We worked on certain clues and took the suspects — Anand Sonawane (32), Prakash Shinde (30), Nitin Vetal (19) and Arjun Thapa (36) — into custody. During questioning, the men admitted to their involvement in the crime. We have arrested them on the charge of robbery, criminal intimidation and wrongful restrain, under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Maharashtra Police Act,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-arrested-on-charge-of-assaulting-robbing-trader/articleshow/81235198.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: ULB polls in April or May, special officers to run the show||HYDERABAD: Elections to the seven urban local bodies (ULBs) will be held in April or May and special officers are likely to be appointed to Khammam, Greater Warangal municipal corporations and Atchampet municipality, among others, as the term of elected bodies in these urban local bodies will end on March 14. The complete exercise of delimitation of wards, inviting objections and suggestions, disposing them and a final notification ontotal number of wards post-delimitation would be completed by March 25 only. Officials in the State Election Commission said polls cannot be held to these civic bodies until the delimitation exercise is completed. Once this process is over, the SEC will start the process of preparation of ward-wise voters list and subsequently ask the state government to notify the reservations. After the notification of reservations, the SEC will consult the state government as annual examinations of educational institutions are scheduled in April/May. Based on the consultation process, the commission may announce an election schedule for seven urban local bodies in April or May. Though delimitation of wards was completed in 131 urban local bodies in the state in December 2019 itself, the mandatory exercise was not taken up in some of the ULBs, including the seven municipal bodies of Khammam, Greater Warangal, Siddipet, Atchampet, Nakrekal, Jadcherla and Kothur, which did not go to polls in early 2020. Delimitation of wards in the ULBs is not only a pre-requisite for the conduct of civic elections but also to facilitate smooth governance and development, officials said. State election commissioner C Partha Sarathi told TOI that they will take up the pre-election exercise, including preparation of voters list for municipal elections, only after the final notification of wards after the completion of delimitation exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ulb-polls-in-april-or-may-spl-officers-to-run-the-show/articleshow/81235205.cms||Roushan Ali
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana rooster that killed its owner gets security detail||HYDERABAD: Catching a criminal may be relatively easy for cops but not for Jagtial police in Telangana. They have a tough task on hand – to protect and keep alive a rooster which was apparently responsible for the death of its owner. The rooster is key to a case which Gollapalli police are investigating. The case pertains to Tanugalla Satish (45), who died of knife injuries at Lothunur village on February 22. Satish had gone to a local temple premises where some people had gathered for a cockfight. Organising cockfights is illegal, but the group had a secret gathering. Satish also took his rooster with him. As he was releasing it for a fight with another rooster, the three-inch knife (‘kodi kaththi’ in local parlance) tied to one of its legs pierced him in the groin. Satish suffered loss of blood and died while being shifted to a hospital. The rooster was taken into ‘protective custody’. Cops took the bird to the police station and kept it there. “We tied it to a tree for some time and took care of it,” station house officier Jeevan told TOI. It was fed grains and given water. Later in the evening, it was shifted to a poultry farm under protection. While the rooster cannot be accused of having committed a murder, it will have to be produced in court. “We have to protect it, keep it alive and produce it in the court,” Jeevan said. He was not willing to say where it was kept except to say that it was in safe and protective custody. Since the rooster is a piece of evidence, cops will produce it before the magistrate to explain how Satish had died. The knife tied to the rooster, which caused the bleeding injury, was also seized by cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rooster-keeps-jagtial-cops-on-their-toes/articleshow/81235229.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 27, 2021||Pune||Build your strength and beat stress with yoga||Pune: Practising yoga daily can help one build their strength, immunity and beat stress. Yoga has proven to be beneficial for people of all age groups and for those with co-morbid health conditions as well. With this in mind, The Times of India, in partnership with the Yoga Institute, Mumbai, has launched the “Yoga At Your Doorstep” campaign. A series of yoga sessions are being conducted at housing societies every Sunday for the benefit of their residents, as part of the campaign. This Sunday, the session will be held at Gateway Towers, Amanora Township in Hadapsar, from 7am to 8am. It will comprise demonstration of a few important yoga poses by skilled instructors, tips for improvement of health and some fun games. Residents of the housing society that are interested in participating in the event are requested to register online on www.yogaatyourdoorstep.com or at The Times of India kiosk that will be set up at the venue on Saturday and Sunday. A letter will be put up on the notice board of the society and WhatsApp messages will be sent on the residents’ groups to encourage them to participate in this entertaining as well as educational session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/build-your-strength-and-beat-stress-with-yoga/articleshow/81235218.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||Probe ordered into WhatsApp msg to judge before hearing||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday ordered inquiry into a WhatsApp message received by a judge, allegedly trying to influence him. Justice Rohit Deo directed the high court registrar (judicial) to conduct probe into the source of a message he received from a family acquaintance, who is a housewife. He was sent a screenshot of HC cause list highlighting that an application for anticipatory bail by one Amrindersingh Bagga was listed for hearing on Friday. It also contained a note which is either an extract from prosecution’s response or drafted by the complainant or a well-wisher. It emphasized on the petitioner not deserving pre-arrest protection and the complainant continues to be haunted by fear and terror. “While it’s quite possible that the acquaintance may not have realized the implication or gravity of the act and she may have fallen prey to chicanery of some person interested in the complainant’s cause, it would be necessary to probe deeper. The intent is obviously either to prejudice me or to ensure a recusal. Either way, prima facie, the attempt is to pollute streams of justice,” said Justice Deo. “No judge, much less a judge of the constitutional court, would succumb to such crude albeit nefarious designs. A judge is bound by the oath to decide without fear or favour. This duty is an article of faith. A judge, who is true to oath of office, is not expected either to be browbeaten or to be prejudiced,” he added. While directing the registrar to submit an inquiry report before March 5, the judge told him to include the name and identity of the originator/source of the WhatsApp message and the screen shot. Bagga was apprehending arrest in a crime registered at Wathoda police station under sections 420, 467, 468, 471,447, 385, 506 read with Section 34 of IPC, related to a land dispute. Before granting interim bail to him on Rs50,000 PR bond and surety of similar amount, the HC had issued notice to the police officer that was waived off by assistant public prosecutor Nitin Rode. Justice Deo told Rode to inform the prosecution's response on the nature and extent of the role allegedly played by the petitioner in the crime. The petitioner was told to appear before the Economic Offences Wing on March 1, 2 and 3 from 10am to 3pm and cooperate with the investigating officer. “It’s made abundantly clear that breach of the condition to attend the EOW shall entail immediate cancellation of bail. He shouldn’t make any attempt to directly or indirectly influence the witnesses or the course of investigation. He shouldn’t leave the country without the jurisdictional court’s permission,” Justice Deo said before adjourning the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/probe-ordered-into-whatsapp-msg-to-judge-before-hearing/articleshow/81235234.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||Six top Australian varsity campuses in UP likely||LUCKNOW: Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma presented a proposal of opening campuses of six top Australian universities in Uttar Pradesh to Australian High Commissioner Barry O’Farrell on Friday. At a meeting with the Australian high commissioner, the Deputy CM discussed possibilities and scope of investment in various sectors of the state. “I informed him that UP is the most populated state in the country and the UP Madhyamik Shiksha is the largest board in the world where around 56 lakh candidates appear for classes 10 and 12 examinations every year. Students of the state need international exposure hence a student exchange programme between the two countries can be held,” said Dy CM . The discussions on strengthening of sports, exchange programmes (for secondary education and higher education), skill development and employment information and facilitation and other were also held Impressed with the way the state handled the pandemic situation and its development in the IT and education sector the Australian commissioner said, “India’s educational policies are encouraging for foreign universities, including Australia, to consider establishing campuses in states like Uttar Pradesh.” The Australian high commissioner also met Prof Sudhir Panwar of Lucknow University’s zoology department at his residence on the LU campus. In an informal meeting with the professor, the high commissioner discussed the growth of various sectors in UP. “We discussed the potential of Uttar Pradesh in various fields, be it education, perfumery or others. I explained to him that the state has a favourable climatic condition and fertile soil that can make it a leader in the agriculture sector.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/6-top-oz-varsity-campuses-in-up-likely/articleshow/81237175.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Goa||Cops get special training to up investigation skills||Panaji: Goa police along with the bureau of police research and development (BPR&D), Delhi, conducted training in women safety and crimes against women for its investigating officers. Talking about the training, which Goa police took up on priority, crime branch superintendent of police (SP) Shobhit Saksena told TOI that it was conducted in two batches, from February 14 to February 26, for a duration of five days per batch. Fifty investigating officers of the police sub-inspector (PSI) rank were trained in latest investigating techniques and laws pertaining to crimes against women. “In this training, experts were invited as resource persons, which included experts in the forensics, medical, cyber and legal fields. The objective of this training organised under the leadership of the Goa DGP and under direct supervision of SP crime was to train the officers of Goa Police to ensure swift and effective investigation of crimes against women,” Saksena said. He said that officers were taught cutting edge techniques to detect any crime, whether cyber or physical. It is felt that such trainings will ensure better and more scientific investigations resulting in higher convictions in cases of crimes against women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-get-special-training-to-up-investigation-skills/articleshow/81237204.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Aurangabad||Cancel DL, permits of traffic rules violators, RTO urged||Aurangabad: City police, in order to bring a check on rising number of traffic violators not paying the e-challan fine, have decided to reach out to the Regional Transport Office (RTO) for cancelling the driving licence or vehicle permit of motorists who have defaulted on the payment of dues. As per the latest instructions issued by Aurangabad police commissioner Nikhil Gupta, the traffic police will daily check the list of challans that are unpaid for over 10 days. Accordingly, the list will be prepared with a recommendation to cancel either their driving licenses or vehicle permits, and it will be sent to the RTO. The traffic police across the state use a centralised system, One State, One E-challan, under which hand-held devices provided to the traffic police are directly connected to the data from RTO offices. The traffic violators are issued e-challans via SMS on the registered mobile number mentioned on the RTO records. However, the authorities have found that many violators do not pay the fines issued to them via e-challan, due to which the fine amount is not getting realised. “E-challan system is meant to ensure transparency in the overall process and also ensure commuter violating the norms are also at ease in several ways. However, it has been found that the violators are failing to pay the fines, forcing us to take stringent action,” Gupta said. Earlier, the police would issue manual challans and would collect the fine on the spot. Under the current system, the commuter can pay the fine via debit or credit card, through an e-wallet, by logging on the official website (Mahatrafficechallan.gov.in) or by clicking on the link given in the text message. Mukund Deshmukh, assistant commissioner of police (traffic), said the total number of unpaid e-challans is rising, which indicates the violators are not serious about making the payment.  In several cases, when a police officer enters the violators’ vehicle registration number, it has been found that they have dozens of unpaid challans. The vehicle owners have to pay all the unpaid challans ranging from Rs10, 000 to Rs 30, 000 in such cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cancel-dl-permits-of-traffic-rules-violators-rto-urged/articleshow/81233064.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 27, 2021||Pune||6 arrested, minors detained for bid to kill man at salon||Pune: The Vishrambaug police on Thursday arrested six men and detained as many minor boys for attempting to kill a man with sharp weapons inside a salon near Hatti Ganpati temple at Navi Peth on February 21. The assailants, as well as victim Adarsh Misal, his cousin Sunny Mahapure, who runs the salon, and the latter’s brother, Kanifnath Mahapure, are all known to each other as they earlier resided in the same locality at Nana Peth. Senior inspector Vijay Tikole of Vishrambaug police said on Friday, “Kanifnath Mahapure assisted Sunny in running the rented salon and tattoo shop and often visited Nana Peth for meeting his friends and others.” Tikole said, “There is an old rivalry between Kanifnath and some of the assailants because he was in the habit of hurling abuses and passing adverse comments at them. Kanifnath stayed at Nana Peth before shifting to Katraj.” Around 6.45pm on February 21, the assailants, armed with sharp weapons, entered the salon with an intent to eliminate Kanifnath, but he was not present there. “They gave vent to their frustration by damaging the counter glass with sickles and attacked his cousin, Adarsh Misal. They also threatened to kill Kanifnath whenever he was found, police said. The assailants created a reign of terror among passers-by and forced shopkeepers to down their shutters before running away towards Perugate,” Tikole said. An injured Misal did not then report the incident to the police out of fear, but Sunny visited the police station on Monday. He lodged an FIR after the police counselled him to do so. “We have arrested six men and detained six minors on the charge of rioting, attempt to commit murder and using sharp weapons, among other charges,” said Tikole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/6-arrested-minors-detained-for-bid-to-kill-man-at-salon/articleshow/81235236.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Panic Makes Way For Picnic As Delhiites Reclaim Their Lives||New Delhi: Delhi is stepping out, keen to get out of the cloistered living forced on them by the novel coronavirus. Neighbourhood parks, gardens and open spaces are the flavour of the season and the long forgotten picnics are again the craze. Not surprisingly either, the farmer markets and weekend artisan fairs at Sunder Nursery, Bikaner House, Worldmark Aerocity, DLF Avenue, Saket and One Horizon in Gurgaon are drawing people. Menu Nageshwaran, founder of The Earth Collective, a popular weekend artisan market at Sunder Nursery, reasoned that after being locked in for so long, people not only wanted to be out in the sun but also eat healthy and support local producers. Weekend markets are perfect for all these. She said the setting was also ideal for the 40 vendors or so at her market to showcase their offerings in the open space to crowds over the weekend. Such open markets are the need of the hour, declared Puneeta Chadha, creator of the artisanal market, Handpicked by PC, at Horizon Plaza, Gurgaon, and DLF Avenue, Saket. Chadha said that these have become popular hangouts where people not only explore new food concepts but also interact with the faces behind the handmade products. “Small batches, handmade and homemade are vague concepts until people actually come and interact with people behind such products,” smiled Chadha. The local producers aren’t complaining. Mother-son duo of Namita and Armaan Mehta of Mamacita, a range of homemade dips and sauces, said the spot feedback on their products was very encouraging. Having set up a stall for the first time last Sunday, they not only sold out but got orders for the following weekend. They have decided to be present also at Worldmark in Aerocity and Bikaner House this weekend. Some who are still wary of crowded spaces aren’t averse to a picnic. Vinod Pandey, manager, Taj Mahal Hotel, said bespoke baskets cater to guests requesting a picnic at, say, Lodhi Garden, Sunder Nursery or even in the lush green poolside lawns or terrace garden at the hotel itself. Pandey said the hotel concierge catered to special requests, like making the picnic more memorable with games and books, perhaps a heritage walk or a wellness activity. Societies such as DLF5 are curating gourmet baskets for their residents who wish to visit The Sanctuary, their linear park, or DLF Avenue’s weekend markets. Muckth Dogra, centre head, DLF Avenue Saket, reported happily that gatherings of these sorts have revived the neighbourhood community experiences one use to enjoy in pre-pandemic days. Shruti Jain, cofounder, Kaze Living, hosts hydroponic farm visits over a weekend. She said that people neither knew about hydroponics or had heard of stories behind the artisan products sold on the Kaze website. “People come and listen to the stories and their interest peaks,” she said. “We started and grew during the Covid period, and these experiential events helped us build a relationship with the customers. Events like farm visits make sustainable food choices accessible and easy for people to understand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/panic-makes-way-for-picnic-as-delhiites-reclaim-their-lives/articleshow/81237814.cms||Amin Ali
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||Lukewarm response to trade bandh against GST||Nagpur: The trade bandh called against recent amendments to goods and services tax (GST), called by Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), had a marginal impact on Friday. CAIT had called the bandh against alleged complications of the GST laws. A day after the CAIT had announced the bandh after a conference here, the government had invited the trade leaders for talks. The first round of talks was held on February 16. As there was no further headway, the association went ahead with the bandh. The bandh evoked poor response in Nagpur, which is the home turf of BC Bhartia, chartered accountant from the city, who heads CAIT, which is billed to be a national association of unorganized traders. CAIT claimed bandh a total success on the other hand. A press release claimed more than eight crore small business establishments affiliated to 40,000 trade associations in the country kept their shutters down. This has given a strong message to the government, said the press release. Bhartia told TOI in Nagpur that shops opened only during the second half. The traders here decided to keep shops open because local authorities have announced a two-day lockdown on Saturday and Sunday due to Covid situation. This led to some shops remaining open for consumers’ convenience. There was a total response elsewhere, he claimed. CAIT had also announced transport strike. Transport also continued as usual, however. Kukku Marwah of Nagpur Truckers Unity said there was no call from the All India Transport Congress — an umbrella body of the truckers. The call was given by another union, which does not have a major presence in the city. A press release by Pratap Motwani, secretary of Nagpur Grain and Seeds Merchants association, said the dealers will keep their establishments shut on Saturday and Sunday. Though the traders deal in essential commodities, the association has decided to keep establishments shut considering the rising Covid cases. Pankaj Agrawal, former president of Nagpur Chilli Merchants’ Association, said there was a nominal support to the strike. Shops dealing in the commodity at Kalamna were seen shut, though. Dipen Agrawal, a steel merchant and president of Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industries and Trade (CAMIT), said steel traders did not join the strike considering the ensuing two-day closure. The traders worked with black ribbons on their arms as a mark of protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lukewarm-response-to-trade-bandh-against-gst/articleshow/81235267.cms||Shishir Arya
February 27, 2021||Pune||Cantt court hears plea for FIR over woman’s death; order likely on March 5||Pune: A magisterial court in Pune cantonment on Friday heard a private complaint filed by a social body seeking its direction to the city police under Section 156 (3) of CrPC to lodge an FIR and investigate the alleged death by suicide of a 22-year-old woman in a housing society at Mohammadwadi in the early hours of February 8.Judicial magistrate first class R S Patil reserved her order after hearing lawyer Vijay N Thombare, representing complainant Bhakti R Pandhre, a member of the Legal Justice Society, an organisation formed by lawyers.“The court is likely to pass an order on March 5,” Thombare told TOI.The young woman’s death is at the centre of a political controversy, with senior state BJP leaders, including former CM Devendra Fadnavis, demanding a thorough investigation after a series of posts on social media linked the girl with a state cabinet minister, and suggested the latter’s involvement in driving her to take the extreme step.Thombare said, “We moved the complaint under CrPC Section 2 (d) against an unknown person considering the overall circumstances of the case and have sought the court’s direction for a thorough investigation. This was after our plea to the Pune police for such investigation evoked no response.”Thombare said, “We have argued before the court the CrPC provision enables any person to set a criminal law into motion by way of filing such private complaint. Besides, the court has the powers to issue directions to get the matter investigated and bring the culprit to book.”“We also cited a series of audio clips that are being circulated on the social media and related matters and argued that, by and large, people know about the woman’s death and the circumstances preceding the incident and also what happened thereafter. Already, there is fear of vital evidence being destroyed and all this entails an apt investigation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cantt-court-hears-plea-for-fir-over-womans-death-order-likely-on-march-5/articleshow/81234103.cms||Vishwas Kothari
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||UP Hindi Sansthan literary awards: Bharat-Bharti honour for Suryabala||Lucknow: Dr Suryabala from Mumbai will get the coveted Bharat-Bharti award given by Uttar Pradesh Hindi Sansthan (UPHS). It includes Rs 5 lakh cash prize and a citation. This was announced by the UPHS on Friday while releasing the names selected for its annual literary awards in various categories for lifetime achievements and publications. Dayanand Pandey of Lucknow will be felicitated with Lohia Sahitya Samman, while Tarun Vijay of Delhi will get Hindi Gaurav Samman. Mahatma Gandhi Sahitya Samman will go to Rameshwar Prasad Mishra from Bhopal. Dr Surya Kant Bali from Delhi will get Deen Dayal Upadhyay Sahitya Samman and Avantibai Sahitya Samman will be awarded to Dr Kapil Tiwari of Bhopal. Rajshree Purshottam Das Tandon Sammam has been given to Rashtra Bhasha Prachar Samiti of Vardha. All these six prestigious awards carry a citation and Rs 4 lakh cash prize. As many as 45 writers have been selected for various other awards in different categories which include a citation and Rs 2 lakh cash prize. Besides, 61 writers have been picked up for awards for their publications in 2019. Prof Mukul Srivastava, head of Lucknow University’s mass communication and journalism department, will be conferred with Nirmal Verma Puruskar under the best travelogue book category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-hindi-sansthan-literary-awards-bharat-bharti-honour-for-suryabala/articleshow/81237189.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Aurangabad||Guardian minister orders counting of trees at Priyadarshini Garden||Aurangabad: State industries minister and Aurangabad guardian minister Subhash Desai on Friday ordered green audit of Priyadarshini Garden in the N-6 Cidco area where memorial of Shiv Sena chief late Balasaheb Thackeray has been proposed.After participating in the drive to plant different varieties of indigenous trees at the venue, Desai issued the directives to count the total number of trees in the area, varieties and other relevant details and submit a detailed report to him. Later, he asked the civic body authorities to ensure that not even a single tree is chopped for the construction of the memorial. “And, if need arises for taking a call even about a single tree, environmentalist and subject experts should be consulted,” said Desai.He also held a meeting with the civic body authorities as well as the project consultant for ensuring that scientific methods are adopted for increasing green cover at the site.Stating that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is committed to the conversation and preservation of trees, Desai said that the government is sensitive about environment and related issues. “We intend to increase green cover of this venue to the extent that even Google search would clearly depict lush green patch at this site,” said Desai who was accompanied by MLC Ambadas Danve and Aurangabad municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/guardian-minister-orders-counting-of-trees-at-priyadarshini-garden/articleshow/81233084.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 27, 2021||Pune||Jewellery store staffer steals ornaments worth Rs 9L; held||Pune: Crime branch officers recovered gold ornaments, collectively valued at Rs9.59 lakh and stolen from a jewellery store on Laxmi Road on February 14, following the arrest of an employee on Wednesday.A magisterial court on Thursday remanded Rajendra, alias Tukaram Bapu Salunkhe, to police custody till March 1.Saheb Dayasingh Dilbaughsingh Bir (37) from Neelkanth jewellers at Patrya Maruti chowk in Narayan Peth had found the ornaments missing during stock-checking. He did not report the theft to the police instantly. Bir suspected that his employees were behind the theft. He then registered an FIR with the Vishrambaug police on February 23.Senior inspector Sunil Takawale from crime branch (Unit 1) and his team, who were conducting parallel investigations, questioned the employees and took Salunkhe into custody after finding his movements suspicious.Takawale said, “Salunkhe told the police that he stole the ornaments for repaying a loan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jewellery-store-staffer-steals-ornaments-worth-rs-9l-held/articleshow/81235244.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Dehradun||Auli winter games cancelled due to lack of snow||DEHRADUN: The winter games in Auli, that were scheduled to be held in the last week of February, have now been cancelled due to lack of snow in the area. This is the fifth time that skiing events have been cancelled in Auli due to insufficient snow. The winter games were cancelled here in 2012, 2013, 2015 and 2016 as well.  Vivek Chauhan, joint director of Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB), confirmed that the skiing championship events will not take place in Auli this year. Notably, participants from Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and other states were to participate in the event. It is worth mentioning that the Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam (GMVN) had also procured a snowmaker machine for the Auli slopes but it didn’t prove to be of much help. The one-of-its-kind machine was originally bought for the South Asian Winter Games in 2011. Sources say that GMVN officials have spent lakhs of rupees in fixing the machine, which suffered a breakdown in 2016. Meanwhile, Roop Chand Negi, secretary general, Skiing and Snowboard India, the governing body of winter sports in India, said that the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir have been asked to hold the winter games this year as these places have received decent snowfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/auli-winter-games-cancelled-due-to-lack-of-snow/articleshow/81233081.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 27, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Today, devotees to offer pongala at homes||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Perhaps for the first time in the history of Attukal Pongala festival, the city streets will be devoid of women seated along the footpaths to offer pongala, on Saturday. The Covid-19 pandemic has forced the district administration and temple trust authorities to keep the festivities minimal this year. This year devotees have been asked to offer pongala at their homes to avoid crowding on the streets. District collector Navjot Khosa has urged devotees to ensure that social distancing is maintained during the pongala. Devotees are requested not to throng the temple after pongala is offered. Those who visit the temple must make sure that they do not linger around for long, resulting in formation of crowds. Devotees are also not allowed to bring children under the age of 10 to the temple. As many as 10 sectoral magistrates have been deployed in the temple region to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are followed. Special parking spaces have been identified to park vehicles of the devotees. Parking of vehicles on road sides are strictly banned to ensure free and unrestricted movement of devotees on foot. Even though the turnout of devotees is expected to be very less, the police have set up their special control room on the temple premises as usual. As many as 29 surveillance cameras have been installed in and around the temple. The police will also be deploying a contingent of 1,500 cops in the city to regulate the movement of devotees to and from the temple. The district medical office and fire and rescue services personnel too have their control rooms nearby. However, their focus will be action taking place inside the temple, which is the preparation of pongala offering in ‘pandara aduppu’. Under normal circumstances, the penultimate day of the pongala would be a hectic day for the police as they have to make sure that the safety measures put in place are foolproof. But on Friday, the focus of the cops was more on sending back devotees who turned up unaware of the restrictions this year. “There were some who turned up here from distant places unaware of the restrictions, however, there were only a few of them,” said Fort assistant commissioner S Anil Das. On Saturday morning too, the police will be carrying out a final round of patrolling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/today-devotees-to-offer-pongala-at-homes/articleshow/81237818.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||Indefinite stir to save lake gains momentum||Chandrapur: The indefinite hunger strike by Eco-Pro president Bandu Dhotre for conservation of the historic Ramala Lake has evoked a tremendous support in the last five days. Chandrapur MLA Kishor Jorgewar and former Union minister of state Hansraj Ahir along with scores of social, cultural, industrial and environmental organizations have extended their full-fledged support to the cause. On Friday, mayor Rakhi Kancharlawar and deputy mayor Raul Pawde had a detailed discussion with Dhotre over measures needed to be undertaken by the civic body for the lake’s protection. The Chandrapur Municipal Corporation (CMC) has also issued a communiqué detailing its efforts towards the protection of the lake. Officials claimed that the civic body recently cleaned the lake by removing the echornia weed and also built a weir over the mucchi nullah to divert sewage water from flowing into the water body. Officials also claimed that CMC has time and again sent proposals seeking funds for works needed to be done for protection and conservation of lake to the district collector and is waiting for its sanction.  Earlier, Ahir met Dhotre at the agitation site and extended his full support to the cause. He claimed that the 550-year-old lake is a precious heritage spot of city and needs all the measures for its conservation and beautification. He assured to take up the issue with the authorities to get aid through the Prime Minister Mining Development Fund and corporate social responsibility. MLA Jorgewar also met Dhotre and said that he would take up the matter with the state government for sanctioning funds for cleaning, de-polluting and conservating Ramala Lake. He also called upon the district collector and had a detailed discussion regarding the hurdles causing a delay in cleaning of the historic lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/indefinite-stir-to-save-lake-gains-momentum/articleshow/81235276.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 27, 2021||Ludhiana||Year on, recovery agent’s kin move rights panel for justice||CUSTODIAL DEATH Ludhiana: The family of recovery agent Deepak Shukla, who died in custody, is waiting for justice even one year after his death. On Friday, his kin wrote to the Punjab Human Rights Commission. The family stated that six months after the death, three cops were booked for contempt of court, but the truth behind custodial death has not come out ever after a year. Deepak Shukla, 26, died on the night of February 26 last year and the family was informed the next day. The family alleged that the cops brutally thrashed Deepak in the lockup and the next day he was sent to Ludhiana Central Jail, where he died a night after. An FIR was lodged against three cops, including the then SHO of Division 5 police station sub-inspector Richa Rani, the then in charge of police post of Kochar Market Jaskaran Singh and ASI Charanjit Singh on August 14 for contempt of court. Despite the court orders, the cops had not sent Deepak to jail and kept him in the lockup on February 25 last year. Rakesh, uncle of the deceased, said, “It’s been one year, but the circumstances that led to Deepak’s death are still not clear. Only one FIR was lodged and even that of contempt of court. These cops were also suspended, but after some time the sub-inspector was reinstated. We do not know about the other two. We have demanded the status report of the probe through the court. We want to know why and how Deepak died in custody. We have approached the Punjab and Haryana high court for a murder case against the accused cops. The hearing is on April 22.” He claimed, “The judicial inquiry in custodial death had suggested that there was a need to investigate the role of police officials for mercilessly beating Deepak and demanding a bribe. But no action was taken on the report. Now we have written to the Punjab Human Rights Commission for intervention and an action taken report from the police.”The Division 5 police had arrested Deepak on February 22 last year for vehicle theft and he was produced before the court, which sent him in two days’ police remand. On February 24, when Deepak was again produced before court, the court ordered judicial custody. But the police took him back to the police post, where he was allegedly tortured and was sent to jail on February 25. Two days later, the family received a call that Deepak was unwell and had died.The kin of the deceased had alleged that the cops had demanded Rs 1.25 lakh from them for releasing Deepak and they had also paid Rs 25,000 bribe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/year-on-recovery-agents-kin-move-rights-panel-for-justice/articleshow/81234129.cms||Payal Dhawan
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: 1/3rd of health workers immunised against Covid-19||LUCKNOW: The fourth round of Covid vaccination drive to administer second/booster doses to healthcare workers witnessed 89% turnout on Friday, taking the number of those who have completed vaccination course of two doses to 18,396. This also means that nearly one third (31%) of the total 59,000 healthcare workers in the city are now fully immunised against Covid-19. On Friday, against the 7,811 enlisted beneficiaries, 6,941 took the shots at 102 booths in 40 centres. Two doses, primary and booster, at a gap of four weeks are given to a beneficiary for the complete vaccination course. Those who missed second dose can take it in the coming rounds, said officers, while cautioning that booster dose was a must. “We are also calling beneficiaries to enquire about the reason for missing the second dose,” said district immunisation officer Dr M K Singh. At Fatima hospital, endocrine and breast surgeon, Dr Navneet Tripathi (38), told TOI, “I have taken my second dose, but two colleagues of mine did not come as there was a slight reaction after the first dose.” However, those who took the second dose advised others to do so. Dr Arun Sharma (66), who has history of diabetes, said, “Severity of catching Covid is higher in diabetic patients so vaccine is a must for them.” 777 workers get vax : Friday also saw 777 healthcare and frontline workers, who missed their first dose in earlier rounds, coming out of turn to get jabs. As a result, total inoculation jumped to 7,718 (first and second doses). With this, of 1.04 lakh healthcare and frontline workers, 78,043 (75%) have received their first shots. Now, 25,957 (25%) are left and will be covered in the remaining rounds for booster doses. Exception made for lawyer: Health officials made an exception and gave the first dose to a 76-year-old advocate at a centre in Mahanagar. He told TOI that he had requested the officer to consider his age. However, when contacted, district immunisation officer said the name of the recipient might have been registered as health or frontline workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1/3rd-of-health-workers-immunised-against-covid/articleshow/81237214.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
February 27, 2021||Aurangabad||2 booked for forging RTO scrap report||Aurangabad: City police have booked two suspects on charges of cheating and forgery after the Regional Transport Office (RTO) officials found that the duo had allegedly forged the vehicle scrap report by forging signatures of an RTO inspector. Citing the complaint lodged by RTO inspector Ravindra Narale ,senior inspector Rameshwar Rodge said the cheating and forgery took place sometime between October 10, 2020 and February 24. Narale in his complaint to Vedantnagar police said an owner of an autorickshaw appointed a representative to carry out the processing of the documents at the RTO office. The owner wanted his vehicle to be scrapped and moved the application through his representative at the RTO office that granted him permission to take the vehicle to the sub-office in Karodi. As per procedure, the vehicle to be scrapped is inspected by an RTO official, then it is scrapped and its chassis plate along with documents is surrendered. However, the process was not followed and forged papers were submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-booked-for-forging-rto-scrap-report/articleshow/81233095.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ludhiana||Virus kills 3, infects 75||Ludhiana: Three residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 75, including four students and two teachers, tested positive on Friday.As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 50-year-old man of Model Gram, a 66-year-old man of Sahnewal and a 75-year-old man of Model Town.On the day, three patients from other districts, too, succumbed to the disease at the city hospitals and 24 outsiders tested positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the district toll tally has risen to 1,026 and that of outsiders to 505.To date, 6,61,138 persons have been tested.Of the 75 new cases, eight were from flu corner, 33 from OPD, 22 through tracing process, two police personnel, one health-care worker and three severe acute respiratory infection cases. Four students (two from a private school in Shastri Nagar, one from a private school in Samrala and another of a nursing college) and two teachers (one from a private school and another from a government school in Halwara) have also contracted the virus.The local health department officials said the district case count was 26,991 and that of outsiders 4,186.So far, 25,434 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.23% of the total cases.There are 528 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-kills-3-infects-75/articleshow/81234122.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Goa||This game makes me feel alive: Ivan||Panaji: On his social media account, Ivan Gonzalez has a message for everyone. “Now it’s our moment. Five months (we’ve been) working hard together like a big family.” Little wonder, FC Goa’s concluding league clash against Hyderabad FC on Sunday has got everyone excited. Battered by departures from last season’s champion squad, the two-time finalists have managed to stay in the hunt and now need just a point to qualify for the playoffs. Should they manage to do that, it will be quite an achievement for a team that has six debutants and five foreign players new to India. Gonzalez is one of them. The Spanish defender has given a good account of himself, even at the heart of a defence that has shipped far too many goals – 23 at last count. But after all that the team has done for 19 games, unbeaten in 12, these 90 minutes matter the most. “For me, this is a challenge,” Gonzalez told TOI on Saturday. “I told (coach) Juan (Ferrando), these are the kind of games that makes you feel alive. It’s that feeling inside your stomach. I play football for these games. This is a challenge, not pressure.” The 30-year-old can take the heat. He’s been in these situations before, and having captained Cultural Leonesa last season in Spain, knows what it takes. “I’ve played a lot of games like these in Spain. I think the most important thing is the attitude. We need to focus for 90 minutes, don’t make mistakes and show a strong mentality,” he said. Goa need only a draw to knock out Hyderabad on Sunday, but for a side that has attacking football in its DNA, they are unlikely to sit back. “FC Goa always attack. If we think a draw is enough (and defend), it will be wrong. For me, coach and teammates, we don’t know to play for a draw. If you see our games, you will know that whether it’s 2-1 or 3-1, we always want to score another goal. This is our style. I prefer to play like this. “For sure, there will be lot of pressure on the field. Maybe some bad moments too. If you think in your mind during the 60th minute you are qualifying, (and relax), you will be out of the playoffs. You need strong mentality. You need positivity. We need to give everything we have for these 90 minutes,” said Gonzalez.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/this-game-makes-me-feel-alive-ivan/articleshow/81249833.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra yet to get UPSC nod on Hemant Nagrale as DGP||MUMBAI: Close to two months have passed since senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale was given additional charge as director general of police (DGP) of Maharashtra on January 7 and still the government hasn’t taken the mandatory approval of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). According to a Supreme Court ruling, a state government must send the names of all director-general rank IPS officers to UPSC, which will shortlist three and return them to the state. One of them can be appointed DGP. In 2018, while providing clarity in the Prakash Singh v/s Union of India verdict of 2006 on police reforms, the Supreme Court had added: “None of the states shall ever conceive of the idea of appointing any person to the post of Director General of Police on acting basis for there is no concept of acting Director General of Police.” A senior government official, who has handled the process earlier, said: “It is an established process and there is no point in holding back the list. There should not be any politics in this.” Maharashtra additional chief secretary (home) Sitaram Kunte did not respond to text messages and telephone calls. Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said he was unaware of the status of the file, which was being handled by Kunte’s office. Home minister Anil Deshmukh was also unavailable for comment. In December, former DGP Subodh Jaiswal had opted for Central deputation before his term was over due to differences with the state government. The state government gave Nagrale, a 1987 batch IPS officer, additional charge as state police chief. At that time Nagrale, the most senior IPS officer in the state after Sanjay Pandey, was DG (legal and technical) looking after the forensic science laboratories in the state. The Supreme Court, to minimise the role of politicians in appointing the police chief, set out a detailed guideline --- a state needs to send the names of the senior-most IPS officers who are eligible to become DGP to UPSC, which sets up a panel, including the chief secretary of the respective states, to shortlist three names after evaluating their past record. UPSC sends it back to the state which can select one from among the three for the post of DGP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-yet-to-get-upsc-nod-on-nagrale-as-dgp/articleshow/81237225.cms||Vijay V Singh
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||Need to nurture ignited minds,talent for self-reliant UP: Experts||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh is doing well in terms of policy framework and infrastructure support for industrial development and the state should increase the income of people to promote enterprise and concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat, according to experts. During the two-day Interdependence, Integration and Co-creation (IIC)-2021 conference titled ‘The Resurgent and Emerging State of Uttar Pradesh’ at Jaipuria Institute of Management on Friday, experts shared their thoughts on development, advantages and future prospects of the state. Highlighting the role of investors’ summit in accelerating industrial growth in the country, chairman of Jaipuria Institute of Management Sharad Jaipuria spoke about recent achievements made by the state in areas like education, industrial development and focus on small, micro and medium enterprises. He said the initiatives taken by the government helped UP become number two state after Maharashtra in terms of GDP. MD & CEO of the National Collateral Management Services Ltd, Siraj Chaudhary, said: “The state is characterized by fertile land, ignited minds and skilled hands. UP is a major producer of wheat, sugarcane, dairy products, among others. Educational institutes of excellence are nurturing ignited minds and various schemes are promoting skilled artisans and craftsmen in the state.” He said the operating environment for industries needs to be improved and strengthened like Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. He added that a large number of corporate leaders were from UP which showed the talent that the state had. Senior director, P&G (Singapore Operations), Siddhartha Vachaspathi appealed to budding managers and industrialists to come forward and support the cause of girl education as it would benefit family, society, state and the country at large. Ashish K Gupta of DMD Texmaco Rail and Engineering Ltd said branding or image makeover of the state was a crucial area that should be worked upon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/need-to-nurture-ignited-mindstalent-for-self-reliant-up-experts/articleshow/81237234.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Sisodia welcomes retd judge into AAP fold||New Delhi: Additional district judge (retd.) Sukhbir Singh Malhotra on Friday joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and was welcomed by senior AAP functionary and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia by honouring him with a turban. “I welcome Sukhbir Singh into our party with the hope that he furthers this people-centric vision of AAP and does wonders in making Delhi a progressive city,” Sisodia said. “I know that our party will only benefit from the joining of such an esteemed personality, especially when we make laws keeping in mind the needs of our citizens.” “I have extended my hand and joined AAP because I believe in the vision of this party and its rightful actions. I want to work for the aam aadmi, the people of this nation. I am honoured that our deputy CM welcomed me to this party,” Malhotra said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-welcomes-retd-judge-into-aap-fold/articleshow/81237821.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Business||Pradhan steps in for IOC Haldia refinery land nod||Kolkata: Minister of petroleum and natural gas and steel Dharmendra Pradhan has written a letter to minister of chemicals and fertilizers D V Sadanand Gowda and minister of state for ports, shipping & waterways Mansukh Mandaviya seeking their personal intervention in leasing 175 acres of land for undertaking expansion work for IndianOil’s Haldia refinery. Pradhan in his letter stressed on the continued endeavour to be self-reliant in petroleum products and wrote that the infrastructure development in oil and gas sector is driven with an intention to expand its facilities to meet the domestic demands of quality and quantity of fuels and specialities. He wrote about the Haldia Refinery’s increased crude processing capacity from 2.5 million tonne per annum (mmtpa) initially to 8mmtpa and the capacity to produce the best quality of fuels, lubricants and speciality products. He further wrote that in recent times when the refinery was required to construct new units for the Bharat Stage VI standards, this could only be partially accomplished by dismantling existing storage tanks and for construction of some critical units, additional land is required. Adjacent to 175 acres in possession of Hindustan Fertilizers Corporation is on lease from KoPT. “IOCL has been in constant touch with SMP-HDC authorities and HFCL to acquire this land parcel. The issue of pending lease rental from HFCL needs to be resolved between the ministry of chemicals and fertilisers and ministry of ports, shipping and waterways, before the CCEA accords approval for disposal of the land,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pradhan-steps-in-for-ioc-haldia-refinery-land-nod/articleshow/81237235.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nashik||Spl squads to keep a tab on schools in Satara||Kolhapur: Satara district collector Shekhar Singh, after the recent incident of over 50 students testing positive for Covid-19 in two schools, has formed as many as 50 special squads to check strict implementation of Covid-related safety norms at educational institutes. District administration officials said that special squads will visit the schools without any notice and a strict warning has been issued to the schools and other educational institutions regarding implementation of the safety norms. In Satara taluka, 30 students tested positive for Covid in an ashramshala, a residential school, while 20 students of a school in Pusegaon of Khatav taluka also tested positive for the contagion. Officials said that a girl’s family was positive, but she used to attend the classes. The girl was later found Covid positive, forcing the administration to undertake testing at the school. According to Singh, the school management, teaching and non-teaching staff will be held accountable if any of the rules are flouted. The collector has also asked the schools to ensure that everyone on the premises must wear face masks, maintain social distancing and wash hands at regular intervals. “The schools must keep a watch on all the students and check if anyone has developed any Covid-related symptoms. They must inform the authorities about the said student. Even if anybody from the student’s family has any symptoms, it has to be informed,” he said. The district administration has also issued a circular asking all clinics and hospitals to conduct RT-PCR test of any person showing symptoms of flu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/spl-squads-to-keep-a-tab-on-schools-in-satara/articleshow/81233104.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Uber, Amazon Pay tie up for passengers’ safety||New Delhi: Cab aggregator Uber and Amazon Pay on Friday announced a partnership for installing plastic screens in 40,000 Uber Autos for enhancing the safety of passengers and drivers in Delhi and six other Indian cities. “We are delighted to expand our partnership with Amazon Pay,” Prabhjeet Singh, President, Uber India and South Asia, said. Mahendra Nerurkar, CEO, Amazon Pay said that they have witnessed multi-fold growth in adoption of contactless payments in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/uber-amazon-pay-tie-up-for-passengers-safety/articleshow/81237298.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Ludhiana||Financier, her aide held day after employee dies||Ludhiana: The police on Friday arrested a woman financier and her accomplice for culpable homicide after her 24-year-old employee died a day before. The financier’s son, who too has been booked, is on the run. The kin of the victim alleged that the accused murdered him by injecting him with poison. The deceased has been identified as Parkash Singh, of Daba. The accused are: Reeta Rani of Azad Nagar, her son Ajay Kumar and her aide Poonam of Friends Colony, Jassiyan Road. Parkash’s father Lakhvir Singh, 52, of New Satguru Nagar, said in his police complaint, “Parkash had been working with Reeta for the past few years. He lived in a room at her house. Parkash was earlier a drug addict. He wanted to leave the job, but Reeta was not letting him quit and harassing him.” On Thursday, his younger son Rajveer had gone to meet Parkash. “There, Reeta was fighting with Parkash. When Rajveer asked the reason, Parkash told him that Reeta was not allowing him to go home. In the evening when Rajveer again went there, he found Parkash lying unconscious on the floor. He took him to a hospital, where he died. On the way to hospital, Parkash had told Rajveer that Reeta, her son and accomplice had injected something into him after which his health deteriorated,” Lakhvir added.Daba SHO inspector Mehma Singh said the FIR has been registered under sections 304 (culpable homicide), 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. “It is suspected that Parkash died of drug overdose. We are waiting for the report of his viscera chemical examination. More sections could be added to the FIR after receiving the report,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/financier-her-aide-held-day-after-employee-dies/articleshow/81234142.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand MLAs fail to spend over Rs 220 crore from their funds||Nainital: The members of Uttarakhand assembly failed to spend over a quarter of the money kept under the MLA Local Area Development (MLALAD) Funds between April 2017 and December 2020. The representatives received Rs 940 crores in the period but could only spend around Rs 705 crore, an RTI reply has revealed. The query was filed by Kashipur-based RTI activist and lawyer Nadim Uddin. According to the reply received from the rural development department of the state, over Rs 235 crore remains unused under the scheme. “As the name itself suggests, the funds under MLALAD are used by the elected representatives for various development-related works in their constituencies. The reply revealed that each representative could sanction projects worth Rs 13.25 crore in the period. However, at least nine of the 71 MLAs (70 elected and 1 nominated) could not even spend 60% of the amount meant for their constituencies,” said Nadim Uddin. The RTI further revealed that nominated MLA GIG Mann was the best performer when it came to spending his fund as records show that he spent over 93% of the money meant for his constituency. Apart from Mann, Manglaur MLA Nizamuddin also spent around 92% of the total money. The two MLAs are followed by Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion, Rajkumar, Dhan Singh Negi, and Adesh Chauhan. Each of them spent over 85% of their funds. On the other hand, Kedarnath MLA Manoj Rawat was found to be the worst performer because he could spend only 40% of the fund. The second worst performer was Manish Dhami who represents Dharchula in the assembly. Dhami spent only 44% of the fund in the period. When asked on the issue, Congress MLA Manoj Rawat said, “I have not been able to spend much of the amount under MLALAD scheme as the state government keeps blocking all projects in my constituency. Even the projects that cost very less are cleared in not less than three-to-four months. In fact, the projects that were started with MLALAD funds remain stuck for over two years now.” Despite repeated attempts by TOI, Dhami did not respond to calls. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat spent over 79% of the fund meant for his constituency Doiwala. Leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh used 80% of the fund. The performances of state ministers are as follows — Arvind Pandey used 82% of the money, followed by Rekha Arya (80%), Harak Singh Rawat (78%), Subodh Uniyal (73%), Satpal Maharaj (65%), Madan Kaushik (65%), and Dhan Singh Rawat (56%). Under the MLALAD scheme, each Uttarakhand MLA can recommend development programmes involving spending of Rs 3.75 crore in his/her constituency every year. The amount is intended to be utilised for small but essential projects/works based on the felt needs of the local public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-mlas-fail-to-spend-over-rs-220-crore-from-their-funds/articleshow/81233107.cms||Prashant Jha
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||‘Nagpur Municipal Corporation to reserve 5% shops in its malls for physically challenged’||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to reserve 5% of shops in its malls for physically challenged persons in the city, according to mayor Dayashankar Tiwari. He said, “The civic body has also decided to dedicate Guru Govind Singh stadium in north Nagpur only for physically challenged people of the city. Besides, a gym in the name of Arjun and Dronacharya awardee Vijay Munishwar will be started for them.” On Thursday, Tiwari chaired a meeting to take review on various projects and schemes for differently abled persons in the city. The mayor made provisions of Rs7.50 crore (sanctioned by the standing committee in its 2020-21 NMC budget) for differently abled persons under various beneficiary schemes for them. According to the mayor, the idea came to his mind after many such persons informed him that several people have allegedly taken money from them to provide shops on footpaths under different schemes of the state government. “I have given directives to conduct an in-depth inquiry into their complaints and if we come across any of such persons who took money from them, police complaint will be filed,” he said. Under one of the schemes, the NMC has decided to provide battery-operated tricycles to them by procuring the same from Nagpur-based companies, said the mayor. Earlier, the NMC had roped in a Kanpur-based company to provide battery-operated tricycles to the beneficiaries. “As the company did not have any repair centre in the city, beneficiaries faced a lot of hardships over maintenance of their tricycles,” he said. He further said the NMC has also decided to give choices of three different battery-operated tricycles to the beneficiaries by putting them on display. Besides, audio-clipped on how to maintain the tricycles will also be provided to the beneficiaries, he said. Similarly, the NMC has earmarked Rs25 lakh for deaf and mute for cochlear implant surgery. “An amount of Rs1 crore has been sanctioned for sponsoring them to participate in various sports in city, state, national and international level,” he said and added that the NMC would finance 75% of the money. The NMC has also earmarked Rs50 lakh for mentally challenged, Rs50 lakh for different vocational courses, Rs2 crore for equipment for differently abled persons especially kids, he said. The NMC will try to execute all these works before the end of this financial year (March 31), he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-reserve-5-shops-in-its-malls-for-physically-challenged/articleshow/81235294.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Inoculate 60-plus and comorbid people aged above 45 in Maharashtra by June: Experts||Covid-19 taskforce members and health experts want Maharashtra government to aim at inoculating citizens aged above 60 and those over 45 with comorbidities within three to four months, to reap maximum benefit of vaccine-induced herd immunity, beyond which the exercise may not be much beneficial. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to state government on Covid control, told TOI, “State health authorities must aim to cover this group of beneficiaries in three to four months. Prolonging completion of vaccine coverage to 6-12 months for the group may not be of much great. Vaccination has two major purposes: Individual and public health benefits. In terms of public health, vaccine-induced herd immunity will be achieved only if the process is completed in three to four months, from March. Massive preparations are needed, including major help from private hospitals, to deliver the vaccine.” Intensivist Dr Rahul Pandit, member of state Covid taskforce, told TOI, “Three to four months would be ideal period to cover the third priority group in Maharashtra for the benefit of the community. This is achievable for the state as per a rough calculation. Around 10,000 government centres and 20,000 private centres in India are expected to be roped in for the second phase of vaccination.” Shashank Joshi, member of state Covid taskforce, said, “After frontline workers, the third priority group should be vaccinated as early as possible. But the time-table of vaccinating this group and those remaining in the first two priority groups will depend on availability of vaccines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/inoculate-60-plus-and-comorbid-people-aged-above-45-in-state-by-june-experts/articleshow/81235299.cms||Neha Madaan
February 27, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Police stall move to collect toll on Kollam bypass||KOLLAM: City police stopped the move by a contract company to collect toll on the Kollam bypass on Friday. The Union government had allowed the company to collect toll from 8am on Friday. Police told the company officials that they cannot collect toll as they did not get permission for the same from the state government. District collector B Abdul Nazar said that the state government had sought some more time in this regard.  The company had not formally informed the district administration about the move to collect toll from Friday morning. Instead the company officials informed the authorities through a WhatsApp message. Company officials said they had received the permission from the Union government to collect the toll. But the state government is yet to approve the same. Meanwhile, PWD minister G Sudhakaran wrote to the national highways authority of India (NHAI) that as the bypass was constructed as a joint venture funded by the Centre and state at 50:50 ratio, Centre could not take a unilateral decision. He also had pointed out that state government was against toll collection. “As you know, 50% of the construction cost is shared by state government. Our policy is against imposing toll for roads and bridges,” Sudhakaran wrote to NHAI. Sudhakaran had also written to the Union minister for road transport and highways, Nitin Gadkari, in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/police-stall-move-to-collect-toll-on-the-kollam-bypass/articleshow/81237819.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Five held for Rs 1.5 crore armed robbery at jewellery store||PALGHAR: Five persons have been arrested for an armed robbery at a jewellery store in Mira Road, police said on Friday. They allegedly robbed the store at Naya Nagar in January and decamped with valuables worth over Rs 1.5 crore after brandishing a revolver at staff, deputy commissioner of police (crime) Dr Mahesh Patil said. An offence under sections of Indian Penal Code and Arms Act was registered and police had nabbed three accused based on technical inputs. Dinesh Nishad, Shailendra alias Bablu Murari and Vinaykumar alias Sindu Chandrahas Singh were arrested from their hometown in Uttar Pradesh and jewellery worth over Rs 30 lakh was recovered from them, along with cash and country-made weapons, police said. Sonu Mahipal Singh was traced to Ghazipur jail in Uttar Pradesh, and Sanjit Rajmukh Singh was nabbed in Nallasopara. On January 7, armed men had robbed gold and diamonds from a showroom. The over 15-minute theft carried out leisurely was captured on CCTV cameras of the showroom. The accused are seen in CCTV footage, wearing masks due to Covid-19. After an initial interaction with counter staff about jewellery, one of them pulled out a revolver while the others walked around the showroom, picking up ornaments and putting them in their bags. agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/five-held-for-rs-1-5cr-armed-robbery-at-jewellery-store/articleshow/81235418.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||Lack of bar codes on explosive sticks makes pilfering easy: Solar||Nagpur: The explosive sticks found near Reliance chairman Mukesh Ambani’s house were traced to Nagpur’s Solar Industries Limited (SIL).Headed by city industrialist Satyanaran Nuwal, SIL is a leading global manufacturer of commercial explosives. Though the company confirmed that the sticks are from its stable, it added that there’s no system of tracking individual explosive cartridges. The trade of commercial explosives is governed by the petroleum and explosives safety organization (PESO), an agency under the ministry of commerce. The incident again exposes loopholes in the present tracking system of PESO.After the source of explosives used in the 2007 Hyderabad blast was traced to another Nagpur-based company, PESO built a system to track the movement through barcoding. However, at present only boxes in which cartridges are stored and transported are barcoded. There is no barcoding of individual cartridges like those found near Ambani’s residence. The process to barcode even individual cartridges and detonators is under way. However, certain technical hiccups are being faced in barcoding detonators. A blast is initiated through a detonator. It is a small component and sensitive to electronic transmission. There are risks of the detonator blasting, if exposed to the device scanning the barcode. The hassle needs to be overcome, said PESO sources. Nuwal said even the company wants that barcoding of each cartridge should be made mandatory. As it involves a major cost, if a single company barcodes the cartridges, it may not be able to match the rate of the others.Lack of barcoding of sticks leaves a chance for pilferage during transit. The user may also under report the consumption and sell the material in the grey market.Four years ago, a report by international agency Conflict Armament Report (CAR) had mentioned that components like fuses and detonators used by the Islamic State belonged to seven Indian companies, including Solar Industries. “The company was given a clean chit as it was a case of diversion through users’ end,” said sources.Nuwal also clarified that what was found near Ambani’s house were emulsion based explosives that have a shelf life of not more than 6 months and is useless without a detonator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lack-of-bar-codes-on-explosive-sticks-makes-pilfering-easy-solar/articleshow/81234184.cms||Shishir Arya
February 27, 2021||Dehradun||Illegal mining causing irreparable loss to Noon river, say locals||Dehradun: Noon, a seasonal river in Dehradun’s Jaitanwala area, has become the new hotspot for illegal mining, say local residents. According to the residents, people from a nearby village can be seen carrying away stones, sand, and other construction materials every day. They add that these materials are further sold at construction sites. They expressed fear that the seasonal river may dry up due to the illegal mining. Dinesh Singh, an area resident, said, “We have approached the local police a number of times but no serious action has been taken so far. Earlier, vehicles were used for mining activities but now, mules are also being used to ferry stones and sand. The illegal activity starts as early as 3 am. Many a times, we have woken up due to noises coming from near the river. This illegal mining must be stopped before the river dries up and a natural calamity knocks at our door.” In a similar vein, Radha Devi, another local, said, “People involved in the mining have dug up four-to-five feet deep pits into the riverbed to extract construction material. They leave behind their mules and flee when police chase them and return the very next day.” A TOI team visited the spot on Friday morning and spoke to the people carrying out mining activity in the river. One of them, who claimed to be resident of a nearby village, said, “We sell the stones and sand at construction sites and earn around Rs 400 every day.” Residents say that they have had a number of arguments with the villagers who carry out these activities but the mining hasn’t stopped. "The house owners who objected to the mining have even been threatened a number of times,” said a resident. Meanwhile, Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava when apprised of the concerns of people of the area, said, “I will look into the matter personally. Strict action will be taken against anyone carrying out illegal mining activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/illegal-mining-causing-irreparable-loss-to-noon-river-say-locals/articleshow/81233119.cms||Abhijeet Singh
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||Gadkari’s plea to dismiss election case against him rejected||Nagpur: Union minister Nitin Gadkari’s plea to dismiss a petition challenging his election to the Lok Sabha in 2019 was rejected by the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Friday. Justice Atul Chandurkar stated that petitioner Nafis Khan’s election plea has some substance to challenge his victory.The minister through counsels — Sunil Manohar and Deven Chauhan — moved an application under Section 86(1) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, on the ground that Page 45 A, which contains Khan’s affidavit in support of his plea, wasn’t served to him.Seeking dismissal of the plea, he contended that there’s a breach of provisions of Section 81(3) and Khan’s petition doesn’t comply with the provisions of Section 83(2) of the same Act.“The petitioner (Khan) indicated his willingness to supply a copy of page 45A to the returned candidate (Gadkari) in his reply. It’s thus found that the defect being curable in nature, the petition isn’t liable to be dismissed summarily on that count,” the judge said.The court directed the petitioner’s counsel SV Purohit to supply a copy of Page 45A to the Gadkari’s lawyers within ten days. He clarified that Khan’s contentions regarding discrepancies in the land owned by the minister under Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) and declaring his source of income as agriculture, has some substance and, therefore, couldn’t be struck down.The petitioner pointed out that the two-time city MP made false claims in his election affidavit that the entire land was owned by his family, whereas he was its sole owner. Moreover, he had claimed that he didn’t owe any agricultural land, yet he earns from the farming, Khan alleged. Justice Chandurkar granted some relief to the union minister by rejecting a host of allegations made against him regarding his family’s income and property owned by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadkaris-plea-to-dismiss-election-case-against-him-rejected/articleshow/81234205.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||Upkeep firms warned over poor facilities in apartments||Lucknow: No power backup, poor fire tender equipment, paint peeling off walls, no grills on windows, broken tiles and no numbering of flats. These are some of the anomalies found by the Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) officials during a recent inspection of apartments under their jurisdiction. The LDA has issued showcause notices to the private agencies it hired for the maintenance work in these apartments. LDA chief engineer Indu Shekhar Singh said, “We have asked the private agencies to complete the work at the earliest, failing which legal action will be taken against them.” The development authority has so far conducted inspections in Srishti Apartment in Jankipuram Extension and Smriti Apartment and Sunrise Apartment on Kanpur Road. According to officials, several apartments in Gomtinagar, Gomtinagar Extension, Hardoi Road, Rae Bareli Road and Kanpur Road will also be inspected. District magistrate and acting vice-chairman of LDA Abhishek Prakash recently visited Shristhi Apartment on the request of locals. During the inspection, residents complained about no power backup, resulting in blackouts for several hours. They said an elderly resident died in the intervening night of September 8 and 9 after suffering an heart attack as he reportedly could not be taken to a hospital on time as the lift was dysfunctional. The problem still persists, they claimed. The VC was also made aware of the poor condition of road in the basement of the apartment. He asked LDA zonal officials for conducting the maintenance work and promised to make provisions for installing generator in the apartment. In another inspection of Sunrise Apartment on Kanpur Road, officials found incomplete fire tender equipment, broken tiles and paint peeling off the walls. “The possession process of the apartment started in 2010. After five years of the completion, condition of the apartment started deteriorating. There are no proper fire tenders and even flats have not been numbered till now," said Utkarsh Awasthi a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upkeep-firms-warned-over-poor-facilities-in-apartments/articleshow/81237244.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||Shocker: UT lays power cables over sewer lines||Chandigarh: In perhaps the first case of its kind, the electricity department of the Chandigarh administration has laid down 66 KV wire just over the main sewage line and the adjoining water supply line of the municipal corporation, Chandigarh at Industrial Area. The move has posed a major life threat to the MC’s employees and its maintenance staff. Following this, terming the move illegal, the MC has written to the electricity department to immediately shift their electricity cables from the site. In what is more shocking, the power department has also put blue strip where they laid power cable. This has increased the risk multifold as the blue strip are used for water cables. According to the civic body, the blue strip is meant for the water supply line so that the maintenance staff and other related employees of the MC can dig out the area in case of repair. But as the blue strip has now been put over the power cables, it will certainly be a danger for the employees if they dug up the area for any repair work of the sewage lines. The MC’s engineering department, dealing with sewer matters, has written to the UT electricity department. The letter states, “Your department is laying 66 KV cable over the sewer pipelines, which is against the rules. This may put life of the maintenance staff in danger. The cables cannot be laid down over the sewer lines as per the rule. Necessary direction may be given to the authorities concerned for shifting the cable, which has already been laid over the sewer line.” Another letter, written by the MC engineering department says, “It will be difficult to maintain the water supply line and in future, once the cable is energized, it will pose a life threat for the maintenance staff. This office also wants to draw your kind attention that using blue strips, which are used for water, has been put up on the power cables. This will create confusion among the maintenance teams. Orange jacket is for electrical cables. Thus, it is requested to change the casing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shocker-ut-lays-power-cables-over-sewer-lines/articleshow/81234167.cms||Deepak Yadav
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||If cases keep rising, only then will mull night curfew: Admn||Chandigarh: The UT administration has ruled out immediate restrictions in the city due to surge in the coronavirus cases. The decision was taken in a review meeting, which was chaired by UT administrator V P Singh Badnore and was attended by UT adviser Manoj Parida, home secretary Arun Kumar Gupta and others. UT administrator V P Singh Badnore said the option of night curfew, closure of markets, sealing of borders and restrictions of various events will only be considered in case the number of Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the city. He appealed residents to co-operate with the administration and voluntarily follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Parida said there is no need for restrictions at this stage and clarified that the UT administration is keeping a close watch on the situation and will accordingly take a call in the coming days. The UT administrator expressed serious concerns about the laxity seen among people regarding Covid-19 protocols. He said people have thrown their guards off considering that coronavirus has disappeared. He appealed residents to strictly observe the protocols like wearing masks, social distancing and washing hands regularly. The administrator said although he had directed functioning of normal OPDs at all medical Institutions, yet keeping in view the increase in the number of cases, the directors concerned must take in-house decision regarding a cap on number of patients and other precautions to be taken within the premises. He also appealed citizens to strictly follow Covid-19 norms. He also requested hosts and organisers of events like marriages, conferences etc. to provide masks and sanitisers. He appreciated the UT cops for persuading the uniform personnel to opt for vaccine in large number. He stated that the Chandigarh police have acted as a model for the rest of society. The administrator directed that mobile teams for testing should be sent to crowded places. Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary health, said vaccination facility is currently available at 13 sites. It will be extended to 16 sites in the next few days. He also mentioned that private hospitals will be approached and if found suitable, the facility for vaccine will be created there too so that people can get vaccine on payment. He also mentioned that the Government of India has introduced vaccination facility for people above 60 years and also for patients with co-morbidities and above 45 years. This will be notified soon. MC commissioner K K Yadav said apni mandis do not pose risk and necessary precautions have been taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/if-cases-keep-rising-only-then-will-mull-night-curfew-admn/articleshow/81234196.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
February 27, 2021||India||Filing of multiple complaints by spouse ground for divorce: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday said that filing of multiple complaints by an educated person against their life-partner amounts to mental cruelty as it affects the reputation and career of a person and divorce can be granted on that ground. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy said such behaviour on the part of spouse cannot be termed as “normal wear and tear” of married life, particularly when the person is educated and well aware of the adverse consequences of filing complaint. It allowed divorce plea of an army officer whose wife had filed multiple complaints against him before various authorities, including the Army chief. The officer contended that his wife had made several defamatory complaints to his superiors in the Army for which a court of inquiry was held against him. He said that similar complaints were also filed before other authorities, including the State Commission for Women. His wife, however, contended that she filed complaints out of her desperation to save the matrimonial relationship. The Bench, after hearing both sides, said her action undermined the dignity and reputation of the officer and the wronged party cannot be expected to continue with the matrimonial relationship and there is justification for him to seek separation. “Here the allegations are levelled by a highly-educated spouse and they do have the propensity to irreparably damage the character and reputation of the appellant. When the reputation of the spouse is sullied amongst his colleagues, his superiors and the society at large, it would be difficult to expect condonation of such conduct by the affected party,” the bench said. The apex court quashed the Uttarakhand HC order which had set aside the divorce granted by a family court. The HC had termed the conduct of the parties as “squabbles of ordinary middle class married life” and had passed the order in favour of the wife. Watch Filing of multiple complaints by spouse ground for divorce: SC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/filing-of-multiple-complaints-by-spouse-ground-for-divorce-sc/articleshow/81238330.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: District records 234 new Covid-19 cases on Friday||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Covid-19 cases were reported among 234 people in the district on Friday. As many as 164 people were infected through local transmission and one among them is a healthcare worker. With this the total number of Covid-19 cases reported in the district till date has become 1,01,966. As many as 372 more recoveries were also recorded on Friday. The total number of people who have been cured is 98,185. At present, the total number of active cases is 3,241. The total number of Covid-related deaths in the district is 817. There are 22,677 people who are put on observation in the district and 54 people are admitted in various hospitals or quarantine centres with suspected symptoms. Meanwhile, Kollam reported 378 new cases on Friday of which 372 people were infected through local transmission. As many as 518 people recovered from the disease in the district on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/district-records-234-new-covid-19-cases-on-friday/articleshow/81237826.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Goa||Changes in defence didn’t help Goa says Donachie||Panaji: It may sound cliched but FC Goa’s battle for a playoff spot in the Indian Super League (ISL) is going down to the wire. Goa are third and will need a point against Hyderabad FC in the concluding league clash on Sunday to qualify. “Hyderabad are similar to us as they try to play football. Mumbai and Hyderabad are always good football games. Obviously, Aridane (Santana) is out due to suspension, but they have the new foreigner (Roland Alberg) who came in January and does look dangerous, so we are just trying to keep him quiet very much,” Goa’s centre-back James Donachie told TOI in an online interaction on Friday. Goa have been unbeaten in 12 games which included seven draws, some of them thanks to late equalisers. Their goal average is not so impressive this season as Goa have scored 31 and conceded 23, most of them through set pieces. “I don’t think we have had problems with the set pieces. I think we have had trouble keeping our back line on the field. There have been lot of games and we have got a lot of injuries. (coach) Juan (Ferrando) has done his best to keep a back line that hasn’t changed too much but the truth is it’s been impossible,” said James. The Australian has missed games due to niggles. So also, Ivan Gonzalez, Seriton Fernandes and January signing Adil Khan. “Other teams have had similar problems but in different areas, we have had it in our back line. If we had kept the same back line all year, it is ideal but obviously, we haven’t been able to. That hurt set pieces as well because you don’t have the same people and same organisation,” said James. However, one signing that has brought some spark in the squad is Glan Martins, who announced his arrival with a thunderous strike against Mumbai City FC. The midfielder has got more minutes under his belt already in five appearances than he did at ATK Mohun Bagan in seven outings. He is establishing his place and providing more options to Ferrando. His impact has been felt and Goa have hit form with wins in their last two games against Odisha FC and Bengaluru FC. Most importantly, Goa scored in the first half, rather than leave it late. “First of all, the goal gave me the confidence to play which I was lacking. Even that time the coach always kept on motivating me on how I have to play. Once you get the confidence, it is easier to play,” said Glan. Goa are high on confidence but will have to stick to the plan against a side that has been unbeaten in the last 11 games. Hyderabad last lost 1-2 against Goa in the first leg after late goals from Ishan Pandita and an injury time winner from Igor Angulo. But Manuel Marquez’s side are capable of hurting Goa’s ambitions when it matters most and they cannot afford to let it slip after coming so close.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/changes-in-defence-didnt-help-goa-says-donachie/articleshow/81235444.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||Now, no stray dog will be confined||Panchkula: The city’s stray dog-free concept goes for a toss as it challenges the Animal Birth Control (ABC) Act which says that stray dogs cannot be confined in an enclosure or cannot be displaced from the area where they have been living. The dog pound constructed at a cost of Rs 4.5 crore is now only a waste as the Act does not allow stray dogs to be kept under confinement under any circumstances. Panchkula MLA Gian Chand had declared in his manifesto to make Panchkula city free of dogs and had initiated the project with the announcement to keep stray dogs in the pound. However, on Friday, Panchkula municipal commissioner R K Singh announced that the stray dogs will not be kept under captivity and the MC will follow the Supreme Court orders under the ABC Act. “We have constituted a surveillance and implementation committee which will ensure that there is no violation of the ABC Act. We will not keep stray dogs under captivity at the Sukhdarshanpur dog pound.” The SoP for implementation of the Animal Birth Control (ABC) Act has been brought out by the Animal Welfare Board of India to ensure uniform and professional standards of care are provided to stray dogs in the country. Singh said, “According to the ABC Act, only dogs which are rabid and are dangerous to leave in the open will be kept under captivity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-no-stray-dog-will-be-confined/articleshow/81234207.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Slain lawyer’s father moves HC seeking CBI probe||Hyderabad: Gattu Kishan Rao, father of slain advocate Gattu Vaman Rao, on Friday filed a writ petition in Telangana high court seeking a CBI probe into the February 17 murders of his son and daughter-in-law PV Nagamani near Peddapalli. He expressed doubts about police investigation at Ramagiri where the FIR on the double murders was registered and also about Ramagundam police commissioner and other police officials. “The way the police are carrying out investigation into the crime is not instilling confidence,” he said. Kishan Rao also expressed doubts on the role played by politicians belonging to the ruling party because Vaman Rao and his wife were exposing the corrupt deeds of the political class. “The local police too may not do justice because my son and his wife fought against the cops too,” he said, citing the case of Seelam Rangaiah lock-up death at Manthani. The case is likely to come up for hearing on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/slain-lawyers-father-moves-hc-seeking-cbi-probe/articleshow/81235376.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Only private hospitals with govt schemes can give jabs, says Centre; BMC to appeal||MUMBAI: Only private hospitals empanelled under a government health scheme will be allowed to join the Covid-19 vaccination drive, central health officials said on Friday. This puts a question mark on the availability of charity trust-run hospitals such as Breach Candy or Hinduja Hospital. BMC officials said they will appeal to the state government to allow them to continue using the 15 trust-run hospitals that are already a part of the vaccination programme. With the third phase coming up, Friday saw a boost in the number of vaccine-takers — a record 58,809 in the state and a healthy 108% turnout in the city. At the moment, there are 40 vaccination centres in the city, with the BMC working to raise it to over 100 for senior citizens and those above 45 with comorbidities. “The number of beneficiaries is so huge in this phase that we will need many vaccination centres,” said BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani. The 60-plus population in Mumbai would be over 10 lakh. On Friday, the central health ministry held a briefing about the third phase beginning March 1 for officials from states. Apart from explaining the modes of registration for the elderly, the team said only those private hospitals empanelled under Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS), Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) and similar state health insurance schemes would be eligible as vaccine centres. A senior state official said these are possibly recommendations for the initial days. “Once the third phase picks up pace, the government will have to allow other private hospitals to be enrolled as well,” he said. With the third phase coming up, more beneficiaries of the first two concurrent phases targeting healthcare and frontline workers are turning up for their shots. On Friday, the state registered its highest turnout when 58,809 people, including 35,534 healthcare workers and 23,275 frontline workers, took the jab. So far, 12 lakh people have been vaccinated. Mumbai witnessed a 108% turnout of the expected numbers on Friday, with 12,159 people — 5,504 healthcare workers and 6,655 frontline workers — taking the shot. In Mumbai, 2.2 lakh have been vaccinated so far. There will be no vaccination on Saturday and Sunday throughout the country as the Co-WIN app will be upgraded,’’ said state immunisation officer Dr Dilip Patil. The app is likely to be opened for self-registration by third phase beneficiaries on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/only-pvt-hosps-with-govt-schemes-can-give-jabs-says-centre-bmc-to-appeal/articleshow/81235359.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||NMC to seal two lawns for conducting marriages||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to seal two lawns where marriage ceremonies were organized a day ago.Marriages ceremonies have been prohibited in lawns, halls, hotels, resorts etc from February 25. “Still two lawns hosted marriage ceremonies. Nuisance detection squad (NDS) inspected them and levied penalty on Thursday. Directives have been given to seal those two lawns. FIR will also be registered on owners of lawns, halls etc if marriage ceremonies are hosted till March 7,” he said.NDS teams have also started inspecting marriage ceremonies organized in residential areas. The state government had allowed attendance up to 50 people for marriage ceremonies organized at homes. Penalty was levied after over 200 people were found in attendance at a ceremony that too without mask and physical distancing a couple of days ago.Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari directed NMC officials to ensure owners of lawns, hotels, halls etc refund advance taken from people for marriage ceremonies for bookings done till March 7. “NMC administration should take steps so that no one faces loss,” he said.Action On Establishments On Friday*Rs 5,000 fine on poha stall on Wardha road*Fine of Rs25,000 on tuition class at Mohan Nagar*Rs 5,000-10,000 fine on computer institute, wine shops, restaurants, kirana shop for violating norms of attendance, mask and social distancing*Total recovery: Rs1.23 lakhAction For Not Wearing Mask*On Friday: Fine of Rs500 on 160 people, total- Rs80,000. Laxmi Nagar Zone- 34, Dharampeth- 13, Hanuman Nagar- 14, Dhantoli- 11, Nehru Nagar- 23, Gandhibagh- 20, Satranjipura- 8, Lakadganj- 15, Ashi Nagar- 2, Mangalwari- 18 and NMC Head Office- 2*Cumulative: 34,016 fined and Rs1,53,67,000 recovered from September 4, 2020 to February 26, 2021||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-seal-two-lawns-for-conducting-marriages/articleshow/81234222.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 27, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: 65-year-old man critically injured in gaur attack||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A 65-year-old man was seriously injured after he was attacked by a gaur in the forest on Friday. Madhavan, a resident of a tribal settlement colony at Kunnatheri under Peppara forest range is the one who was injured. He is currently under treatment at the Medical College Hospital here. According to forest officials, the incident happened around 7.30am on Friday when Madhavan, along with a few others in the colony, ventured into the forest to collect firewood. He was alone when attacked by the gaur. Madhavan survived the attack with a deep wound on his stomach. He has also suffered a fracture on his spine as well as other injuries on both arms. Soon after the attack, the others who accompanied Madhavan raised alarm. He was rushed to hospital with the help of forest watcher Binu. Peppara forest range officer C K Sudheer said that it was a very rare incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/65-yr-old-man-critically-injured-in-gaur-attack/articleshow/81237827.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||Indian Bank drub BoI by eight wickets||Lucknow: The all-round performance by Rohit Chaurasia (2 wickets, 45 runs) helped Indian Bank defeat Bank of India by eight wickets in the league (season 2) match of the Bank Premier League at Parth cricket grounds on Friday. Batting first, Bank of India were all out for 91 runs. Pawan scored highest 16 runs for the team while Gaurav Chaudhary, Rohit Chaurasia and Vineet Singh of Indian Bank claimed two wickets each. Chasing the target, Rohit Chaurasia (45) and Amit Verma (20 not out) helped their team win the match at the loss of two wickets. Rohit was named the man of the match. In the second match of the day, Canara Bank defeated Punjab National Bank by 17 runs. Batting first, Canara Bank scored 173 runs at the loss of six wickets in 20 overs. Kshitij Shukla and Manish Rai contributed 57 runs each. Ashish Tripathi of PNB claimed four wickets. In reply, PNB could score 156 runs in 19.5 overs. Amrendra and Ashish scored 44 and 35 runs for PNB. Kshitij of Canara Bank, who was also the man of the match, took three wickets. Hockey trials: Selection trials for UP junior boys hockey team will be held at Padma Shri Mohd Shahid Synthetic Hockey Stadium on March 6 and 7. Candidates born on or after January 2002 may report with their original age certificate to participate in trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/indian-bank-drub-boi-by-eight-wickets/articleshow/81237254.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Delhi||8 units get closure notices for plastic waste rule violations||New Delhi: With the air pollution season almost over, Delhi Pollution Control Committee has started focusing on management of plastic and e-waste in industrial areas. A special drive to ensure plastic waste management rules are implemented has started with DPCC sending closure notice to eight units and imposing an environmental compensation of Rs 8.8 lakh. A senior official of DPCC said, “After the onset of winter, we conducted special drives and random inspections of construction sites and restaurants. We acted against the violators and also imposed environmental compensation. However, as pollution season is going away and air quality is likely to improve further from March, we will now conduct drives on plastic and e-waste.” DPCC teams inspected 37 units in industrial areas this week and found seven units flouting the norms of the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. The defaulters were served closure notices and a total of Rs 8.8 lakh fine was imposed and of these, Rs 87,500 have been received. “We acted against those units for lack or expired registration for manufacture of plastic products and multilayered packaging, processing and disposal of plastic waste. Some units were found running in non-permissible areas or were using inappropriate thickness of plastic (should not be less than 50 microns). Some units were found burning plastic waste,” said another official. The official added the drive against plastic waste was being conducted only in industrial areas of Delhi. “DPCC informs the respective municipal corporation if violation is found in other parts of the city.” The drive against plastic waste will continue for a month. “After plastic, we will start drive for checking compliance of e-waste norms. We will take action against units found illegally dismantling e-waste,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/8-units-get-closure-notices-for-plastic-waste-rule-violations/articleshow/81237828.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Ball in AIMIM court to back Congress or TRS, says Revanth||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Friday said Hyderabad MP and AIMIM president Assaduddin Owaisi should decide whether the AIMIM will support a secular party like Congress or the TRS which has friendly ties with BJP at the Centre in the two graduate MLC seats going to polls on March 14. Revanth said this while campaigning for party candidate G Chinna Reddy who is contesting from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar MLC seat. He said Owaisi should decide whether he will support Chinna Reddy of a secular party or Vani Devi of TRS which has supported BJP in passing several bills in Parliament. Revanth sought to ask sitting MLC N Ramchander Rao of BJP whether he had raised the problems being faced by the people of Telangana in the state legislative council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ball-in-aimim-court-to-back-congress-or-trs-says-revanth/articleshow/81235399.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Double murder: Cong leaders meet guv||Hyderabad: Stating that police will not do a fair investigation into the murder of lawyer couple, Congress on Friday urged governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to use her good offices and ensure that a court-monitored CBI probe is ordered into the double murder of Gattu Vaman Rao and PV Nagamani. A Congress delegation of TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, MLC T Jeevan Reddy, MLAs D Sridhar Babu and T Jayaprakash Reddy, among others, met the governor and submitted a representation to her. Later, Uttam told reporters that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao did not issue even a statement condemning the brutal murders. Congress leaders also met DGP M Mahendar Reddy urging him to expedite the investigation into the case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/double-murder-cong-leaders-meet-guv/articleshow/81235411.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||City surgeon gets patent for device with 100% success in hernia repair||Nagpur: Senior surgeon Dr Devendra Sortey and gynaecologist Dr Kanchan Sortey have been granted a patent for a ‘device and process of making 3-D mesh prosthesis for hernia repair surgery’. This specially designed mesh supports damaged tissue around the hernias. Dr Sortey has been using it for last 17 years and repaired hernias of more than a thousand patients across Central India. Dr Sortey said that none of them came back with any major complications post surgery, neither did any surgery prove to be a failure since he is using this devise.“Hernia requires nothing but surgery. Earlier, when hernias were repaired just by suturing the hole in the muscles, the failure rate was as high as 50%. Later, when the use of ‘mesh’ was introduced to cover the defects in the muscle, failure rate reduced to less than 10%,” Dr Sortey said. Still, the use of traditional mesh was showing up to 10% failure or complications post surgery. So, Dr Sortey started his research with an intention of giving durable repair and bringing failure rate further down to near zero.With the help of his engineer brother Chandrakant Sortey and designer Ashok Yewatkar, he developed a new model of the mesh in 2003. They named it 3-Dimensional Mesh Prosthesis. “Since 2003, I have been using it in various types of hernia. We have documentation of hundreds of hernia patients from Vidarbha, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, who have been benefited with this device in last 17 years,” said Dr Sortey. Other advantages of this mesh are same day discharge, allowing routine activities, and allowing bath as it is a stitch-less operation. Even follow up can be done on video-consultation. Dr Sortey was encouraged to file a patent by one of his patients, who used to work in patent office at Nagpur. “We started official process in 2014. It got delayed as we were asked several questions and counter queries. Advocate Swapnil Gawande helped us clear many hurdles,” Dr Sortey said.Gawande said that the patent is very unique. “This has all the potential to prove to be a major step towards Atmanirbhar Bharat, especially in the field of biomedical engineering, where India is still lagging in technology and majority depend on imports,” he said.Dr Sortey, after getting the patent, is now in contact with several companies to start mass production of this device that can help many patients across the world.(REPAIRED) HOLE IN ONEHernia mesh is a medical device that supports damaged tissue around hernias as it heals3D Mesh — a specially designed mesh by Dr Sortey has given exemplary resultsOver last 17 years, Dr Sortey has used this on hundreds of patients Not a single major complication or failure was reported in last 17 yearsDr Sortey has received patent for ‘device as well as process of making 3-Dimensional Mesh Prosthesis for hernia repair surgery’ in February 2021||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-surgeon-gets-patent-for-device-with-100-success-in-hernia-repair/articleshow/81234243.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 27, 2021||Ludhiana||Jab less than half done in district||Ludhiana: The Covid-19 vaccination drive continues to receive a tepid response in the district, as less than half of those registered have got themselves inoculated so far. Those who have received the jab are healthcare and frontline workers, including police, security forces, Army, BSF, CRPF personnel, disaster management, revenue department and municipal corporation employees, among others. The health department data from the start of the drive till Thursday evening shows that 27,849 (46.1%) healthcare and frontline workers have been vaccinated against the 60,516 registered for the campaign.Of the 36,195 healthcare workers, 19,504 (53.9%) have received the shot. And of these 19,504 who got the first jab since January 16, 46.7% have received the second shot in February.Among the frontline workers, 8,345 (34.3%) have got themselves vaccinated against the 24,321 registered for the drive. Their vaccination had started on February 3.An officer involved in the vaccination process said, “Though the number of persons receiving the jab is less than 50% till now, we expect it to improve. A large number of healthcare workers have got themselves vaccinated, but we are facing problems in the case of frontline workers as they have misconceptions about the vaccines.” “It is also the responsibility of the departments concerned to create awareness among their staff members about the vaccine being safe. The departments should tell them not to believe in rumors about adverse side-effects and convince them to take the shot to save themselves from the disease,” said sources in health department. The health department officials said since vaccination was a voluntary process, they could not force people to receive it.District immunisation officer Dr Kiran said the number of healthcare and frontline workers registered for vaccination till Thursday was the same as on February 23.The officer had earlier said that people were motivating others by getting themselves inoculated. “We are making efforts to encourage people and will keep telling them that it is good,” she added.Experts said steps need to be taken to increase the coverage.“A large number of healthcare workers have got themselves vaccinated. If less number of frontline workers is coming forward, then the authorities concerned should hold special awareness campaigns and tell them that vaccination is necessary. There is another problem that has hit the process—portal for vaccine registration doesn’t work properly even as many healthcare workers want to get themselves inoculated,” said Dr Saroj Aggarwa, president of Ludhiana Indian Medical Association.Frontline workers said they were hesitant as they feared adverse reactions.“We have been hearing about the side-effects of vaccine, like severe allergy and headache, among others, which act as a deterrent. Many of the frontline workers are waiting to see the impact of vaccine on a larger population before they go for it,” said a frontline worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jab-less-than-half-done-in-district/articleshow/81234248.cms||Shariq Majeed
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Panic Makes Way For Picnic As Delhiites Reclaim Their Lives||New Delhi: Delhi is stepping out, keen to get out of the closed spaces forced on them by the novel coronavirus. Neighbourhood parks, gardens and open spaces are the flavour of the season and the long forgotten picnics are again the craze. Not surprisingly either, the farmer markets and weekend artisan fairs at Sunder Nursery, Bikaner House, Worldmark Aerocity, DLF Avenue, Saket and One Horizon in Gurgaon are drawing people. Menu Nageshwaran, founder of The Earth Collective, a popular weekend artisan market at Sunder Nursery, reasoned that after being locked in for so long, people not only wanted to be out in the sun but also eat healthy and support local producers. Weekend markets are perfect for all these. She said the setting was also ideal for the 40 vendors or so at her market to showcase their offerings in the open space to crowds over the weekend. Such open markets are the need of the hour, declared Puneeta Chadha, creator of the artisanal market, Handpicked by PC, at Horizon Plaza, Gurgaon, and DLF Avenue, Saket. Chadha said that these have become popular hangouts where people not only explore new food concepts but also interact with the faces behind the handmade products. “Small batches, handmade and homemade are vague concepts until people actually come and interact with people behind such products,” smiled Chadha. The local producers aren’t complaining. Mother-son duo of Namita and Armaan Mehta of Mamacita, a range of homemade dips and sauces, said the spot feedback on their products was very encouraging. Having set up a stall for the first time last Sunday, they not only sold out but got orders for the following weekend. They have decided to be present also at Worldmark in Aerocity and Bikaner House this weekend. Some who are still wary of crowded spaces aren’t averse to a picnic. Vinod Pandey, manager, Taj Mahal Hotel, said bespoke baskets cater to guests requesting a picnic at, say, Lodhi Garden, Sunder Nursery or even in the lush green poolside lawns or terrace garden at the hotel itself. Pandey said the hotel concierge catered to special requests, like making the picnic more memorable with games and books, perhaps a heritage walk or a wellness activity. Societies such as DLF5 are curating gourmet baskets for their residents who wish to visit The Sanctuary, their linear park, or DLF Avenue’s weekend markets. Muckth Dogra, centre head, DLF Avenue Saket, reported happily that gatherings of these sorts have revived the neighbourhood community experiences one use to enjoy in pre-pandemic days. Shruti Jain, cofounder, Kaze Living, hosts hydroponic farm visits over a weekend. She said that people neither knew about hydroponics or had heard of stories behind the artisan products sold on the Kaze website. “People come and listen to the stories and their interest peaks,” she said. “We started and grew during the Covid period, and these experiential events helped us build a relationship with the customers. Events like farm visits make sustainable food choices accessible and easy for people to understand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/panic-makes-way-for-picnic-as-delhiites-reclaim-their-lives/articleshow/81244781.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Covid grips GMCH as 10 doctors, 3 paramedics, OT staffer test positive||CHANDIGARH: Ten doctors, three paramedics and an OT (operation theatre) technical staffer at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, have tested positive for Covid-19, forcing the authorities to suspend OPDs in one of the departments. The doctors — five from ENT, four from anaesthesia department and a deputy medical superintendent — had got the first dose of the vaccine on February 11 and were scheduled to take the second dose on March 11. One of the doctors, the head of the department, ENT, was reinfected — he had earlier contracted the virus in November last year. He is asymptomatic. The doctors were tested when some them reported with fever and fatigue. All the doctors from the two departments were tested, with 12 in home isolation for a week. The infected doctors were quarantined. TimesViewIt is important for everyone, especially doctors and health staff to follow Covid-19 protocol and get vaccinated, especially against the backdrop of the spurt in cases and reports of more virulent strain. Drop in cases in January has made the general public behave as if the pandemic is over. Even a little laxity in adopting Covid-safe behaviour can have a negative fallout in a hospital where many people work together and many visit every day.On the work front, routine ENT surgeries were postponed. Only emergency operations would be performed for a week. “As these doctors have tested positive, we have suspended the ENT OPD for a week. However, the teleconsultation will continue,” said Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal, GMCH. She said, “We would appeal to all to continue wearing masks and observe Covid-appropriate behaviour even after the vaccination.” Sources claimed an OT technician student who had not been vaccinated was the carrier, triggering the chain of infection. A hospital employee said classes for BSc technical staff had started with full strength from the middle of February. But they were not asked to get vaccinated. “However, when the MBBS classes had to restart, all the doctors were given the choice to be vaccinated. There is discrimination in vaccination at the institute,” the employee alleged. In fact, GMCH had been faring badly in vaccination amongst all other government hospitals in the city, with hardly more than 25% of coverage. “When the health care workers were supposed to get complete immunisation by February 20, why did the GMCH doctors delay the vaccination?” asked an official from the UT health department. In April last year, when the city had started witnessing a spurt in cases, three doctors had tested positive from GMCH. They were posted in the operation theatre. Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, which had become a hot spot of the virus, had its first case of a GMCH 32 employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-grips-gmch-as-10-doctors-3-paramedics-ot-staffer-test-positive/articleshow/81234235.cms||Shimona Kanwar
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||Paid shots likely at 31 private health centres in Tricity||CHANDIGARH: The UT health department has identified 31 empanelled hospitals – 12 under Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) and 19 under Ayushman Bharat - across the Tricity to carry out the Covid vaccination drive for those above 60 and 45 with comorbidities from March 1. All these private health centres will be inspected in the weekend and allowed to give the shots only if they fulfil key parameters. The department plans immunisation sites at community centres and health and wellness centres too. “This is to enable the elderly population easy access, as they do not feel comfortable visiting hospitals. It will also allow not congest hospitals,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services. People will have to carry a certificate from a registered medical practitioner mentioning the underlying condition they are suffering from. Those with the Ayushman Bharat card will be given the shot free of cost. “Those who wish to register at the government facility can do it on their own,” said the DHS. She said, “One needs to carry age proof document. Those who are above 45 years must carry an authentic certificate of serious comorbidities. If it is found fake, action will be taken against the doctor.” At the same time, the department in its meeting on Friday decided to make CoWin 2.0 app live on March 1 to allow people above the age of 60 and 45 with comorbidities to register or walk in at any site and then register themselves for the vaccination All registered residents will be given Covishield. “We have 15 government sites at the moment. After we find that there is adequate space and vaccinators and adverse events at private hospitals that are Ayushman Bharat empanelled can be managed, we shall qualify them for the vaccination sites,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, UT. She said, “These sites will charge some amount, which is yet to be fixed by the government. Out of the fixed charge, Rs 100 will be for the private hospital, while the rest will be deposited to the government.” SLOT CHOICE All residents under third priority group will be free to select any slot, location and schedule the appointment according to their convenience By April 30, there will be 25 vaccination sites in the city , with an increase of four every fortnight Anyone who wants counselling, can call 1075, the centralised helpdesk number||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/paid-shots-likely-at-31-pvt-health-centres-in-tricity/articleshow/81234253.cms||Shimona Kanwar
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||6 cities to host IPL; ban on fans in Mum||Mumbai: Moving away from its initial plan to host IPL 2021 in Mumbai and Pune, with part of the playoffs and the final in Ahmedabad, BCCI has now shortlisted six cities to conduct the tournament slated to begin in the second week of April. Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad and Delhi have been shortlisted to play hosts. Delhi, it is learned, was included after the board was convinced it could not include Hyderabad for reasons concerning the local cricket association. TOI understands the state has given the go-ahead for matches to be held at Wankhede Stadium, but crowds will be kept out due to the spike in Covid cases, just like the 3 ODIs vs England in Pune, which will be played behind closed doors.The IPL is scheduled to begin around April 11 and conclude in the first week of June. Spectators may not be allowed at some centres, while other centres may allow fans up to only 50% of the stadium’s capacity. While BCCI has taken a call on the games, it hasn’t had any word with the IPL franchises yet. Franchises, who have learnt about this decision unofficially, are blowing hot and cold. While some are willing to wait and see how BCCI goes about organising the tournament across six cities and prepare bio-secure bubbles across these venues for the smooth conduct of the tournament, others are not happy. “Obviously, it’s scary. The earlier idea of hosting it in one or two cities sounded far better. After all, the 2020 edition was conducted between three venues and it went well,” a franchise representative told TOI. The board has proposed that the eight franchises should be divided into groups and matches should be conducted venue-wise, where all teams that are part of one group play their home and away games between them before moving to another group at another venue. “The format of the tournament will not change. It’s the same home-and-away format, with each team hosting seven games and travelling for the other seven. That’ll mean a total of 60 matches, like it is conducted every year. The grouping of teams is only to ensure that preparing bio-secure bubbles becomes easier and there’s less confusion,” say those in the know. The decision on whether to club the teams into groups or not is still being debated. What’s relatively clearer is BCCI’s intent to host it across multiple cities with the final at the Narendra Modi Stadium, Ahmedabad. “Franchises had started preparing, thinking it was only going to be between Mumbai and Pune, with the playoffs in Ahmedabad. Those plans change now. Obviously, they’ll want to know more and that will happen soon,” say sources tracking developments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/6-cities-to-host-ipl-ban-on-fans-in-mum/articleshow/81251655.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ahmedabad||Youth undergoes scoliosis surgery in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: An 18-year-old youth underwent a surgery to correct his sideways spine - a condition identified as scoliosis – at Civil Hospital in the city. The condition is recorded in about 2.5% persons in the world, said experts. The team of surgeons said that Abhay Radadia from Bhesan in Junagadh district, was a normal child, but with progression of his age, his back started twisting sideways, making his life difficult. His family consulted several experts, but desired result was not achieved, they claimed. Dr JP Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that his diagnosis based on MRI, CT scan, etc revealed that he was a patient of scoliosis. “He had approached us three years back, but we waited till he attains adulthood to prevent any complications. The surgery took place along with neurologists,”he said. “We want to appeal to citizens not to wait if the child or teenager starts developing back deformity as it can lead to multiple health issues.” Experts said that in India scoliosis is found in about 0.4%population and is more prevalent among males.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/youth-undergoes-scoliosis-surgery/articleshow/81235502.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||7-day quarantine must for symptomatic visitors to UP||LUCKNOW: Following orders from Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to finalise a plan to track and test people coming from states witnessing a fresh surge in covid-19 cases, the state health department made a week-long quarantine mandatory for symptomatic persons arriving from Maharashtra and Kerala to UP even if they have been found negative in the RT-PCR test. All persons coming from the two states will be screened though the mechanism to track and test them will be different. As per the order, issued by additional chief secretary health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, those coming from these states and landing at airports would be tested through rapid antigen method even if they are non-symptomatic. Those showing flu-like symptoms will have to give their samples for RT-PCR test. The symptomatic persons, even if they are found Covid negative in the RT-PCR test, will have to serve one-week quarantine either at their homes or at a health facility. Details of such persons will be notified to the domicile district for tracking purposes. Chief medical officers and district surveillance officers will have to collect details of persons arriving from the two states from the railway and bus stations in their domains and undertake testing work as required. The people may also contact their district health office and self-notify their arrival. The government also directed district units to publicise Covid-19 prevention protocol at points of arrival like airports, railway stations and bus stations. In addition to this, the government revived the gram and mohalla nigrani samiti to keep an eye on the people and under home isolation and alert the system in case of non-compliance. The order also instructed districts to keep an eye on cases of acute respiratory infection in their districts and undertake Covid-19 testing in case of any unusual pattern. Earlier, reviewing the Covid-19 situation in UP, the CM told officials to take all possible steps and ensure that the pandemic virus continued to lie low in the state. “While cases are increasing in many states, the number of active patients is constantly on the decline in UP. Therefore, surveillance and testing activities must remain in top gear to ensure that the chain of infections is not able to find any footing in Uttar Pradesh,” the CM said. He also told officials to schedule and undertake more focused testing activities and bring out hidden cases from vulnerable pockets. Reiterating that Covid-19 prevention protocol was a potent tool to keep troubles away, the CM urged people to follow social distancing, wash hands often and wear masks in public places. Meanwhile, 121 new cases took the state's tally to 6,03,350. Of the total, 5,92,441 including 114 in the past 24 hours have recovered. Also, two persons died of the pandemic infection taking the total number of deaths due to covid-19 to 8,725.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/7-day-quarantine-must-for-symptomatic-visitors-to-up/articleshow/81237279.cms||Shailvee Sharda
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Slight dip in Maharashtra’s cases, ‘no marked rise in deaths in Mumbai’||MUMBAI: The state as well as the city continued to witness a steady jump in cases, although the new detections on Friday were marginally lower than on the previous two days. Maharashtra, on Friday, added more than 8,000 cases (8,333) for the third day in a row, taking the state’s tally to 21,38,154. The state had added 8,807 cases on Wednesday and 8,702 on Thursday. Mumbai too reported over 1,000 cases for the third day in a row. It added 1,035 cases, marginally down from 1,167 on Wednesday and 1,145 on Thursday, taking the city’s overall tally to 3,23,879. The city reported less than five deaths (3), taking its toll to 11,466. Civic authorities said despite the surge in cases seen since February 10, there has been no marked rise in deaths. The city’s cumulative case fatality rate is 3.5% while the weekly death rate is below 1%. Deaths across Maharashtra too saw a slight dip on Friday. There were 48 deaths added, the lowest in four days. It took the state’s toll to 52,041. Of the 48 deaths, 25 occurred in the last 48 hours, while the rest were from previous weeks. Akola circle from Vidarbha saw the highest deaths in the last 48 hours (14), of which 10 were reported from Amravati district and three from Buldhana. Bigger regions like Mumbai circle and Pune circle reported 6 and 9 deaths respectively. Active cases in Maharashtra rose to 67,608 while those in Mumbai jumped to 7,899. On February 1, the state had 43,701 active cases and Mumbai had 5,658. Yavatmal is scheduled to be put under total lockdown from 5 pm on Saturday to 9 am on Monday. According to official sources, the centres of milk and dairy products will function from 6 am to 9 pm. Other essential services such as hospitals, medical shops, LPG supply, petrol pumps etc would operate as usual. If anyone is found guilty of flouting rules, he/she would be dealt with the set rules and nobody would be spared, sources said. A senior state official said the state has been taking a review of cities where cases are on the surge and accordingly, fresh curbs may be imposed in other cities. “The crackdown on people without masks and crowded areas is not seemingly a deterrent and if cases surge, stricter restrictions will have to be imposed,” said the official. All markets, excluding essential services and offices, will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday in Nagpur and unless there is emergency or essential work, people should not venture out of their homes, said district guardian minister Nitin Raut. Nagpur district is seeing a surge for the last few days, and authorities had announced various curbs earlier in the week to break the chain of infections. “Though new strains have been detected at many places in the country, no mutation was observed in samples collected in Nagpur district,” said Raut. He reiterated there will be no full lockdown. “There will be no restriction on movement of people on roads and at public places on Saturday and Sunday,” he said and added there will be no restriction on people coming to the district from other parts of Vidarbha or states. Within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Kalyan-Dombivli, the worst-affected part after Mumbai, reported 175 fresh cases and one death on Friday. 185 fresh cases and two deaths were reported in Thane city, 119 cases and two deaths from within NMMC areas, and the PCMC areas reported 75 new cases and two deaths. Recovery rate in has slightly improved to 96.3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/slight-dip-in-states-cases-no-marked-rise-in-deaths-in-city/articleshow/81235491.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 27, 2021||Ludhiana||Bandh call for a simple GST gets mixed response||Ludhiana: The daylong bandh call by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) evoked a mixed response in the city on Friday as only a few markets closed and that too briefly. Confusion prevailed among several residents who were under the impression that public transport will also remain closed. Office-bearers of CAIT claimed the bandh was hugely successful, and in accordance with the call given by confederation’s Punjab unit, dozens of businessmen, led by state president Harkesh Mittal, submitted a memorandum of demands to Tejbir Singh Sidhu, deputy commissioner, state tax, Ludhiana division. Businessmen also offered several suggestions regarding changes required in the GST laws and Sidhu assured them these would be conveyed to the senior officers. Speaking to the TOI, Mittal said, “The nationwide bandh call given by our association has been very successful everywhere, including Ludhiana. A large number of shops in city markets remained closed and at some places these were partially shut. We got the best response in areas like Kesar Ganj, Books’ Market, Sabun Bazaar and other Old City markets. The success of the bandh can be gauged from the big size of our delegation that went to meet the state taxation department officers. It included people from all walks of life.”Mittal said they were against the harsh provisions under GST and the ever-increasing complexities in this law, which were making doing business impossible. “No businessman is against taxation, but how can the government expect us to comply with the system that even their officials are unable to understand even after three years. Through the bandh we only wanted to make the government aware about these complexities and seek GST simplification.”Gurdeep Singh Gosha, Ludhiana president of Youth Akali Dal, said, “The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) fully supported the bandh call and shopkeepers and traders associated with our party kept their shops and offices closed. Our workers also convinced other businessmen to join the protest against highhandedness of the Centre. We have conveyed to the CAIT that our party stands with the business community and could even hit the roads in their support.”Harvinder Pal Singh, a cloth merchant from Akal Garh Market, said, “Though not all the shops in our market were closed, we decided to keep ours shut for half day as the reason for the bandh was justified. We are indeed suffering a lot due to the complexities of GST and it needs to be simplified at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bandh-call-for-a-simple-gst-gets-mixed-response/articleshow/81234255.cms||Mohit Behl
February 27, 2021||Aurangabad||Traders close shops, want some GST norms removed||Aurangabad/Kolhapur: Traders from Kolhapur and Marathwada participated in the nationwide bandh called to lodge protest against several provisions in goods and services tax regime. In Kolhapur, the wholesale shops and market places such as Gujri famous for jewellery and Laksmipuri famous for grain trading remained shut for most of the day on Friday. Around 50% of the shops from the Rajarampuri area were shut through the day, but reopened after 3pm. The shops with essential supplies, however, remained open. The traders had planned a motorbike rally to register their protest but the Kolhapur police did not grant permission. The traders associated with Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI) met district collector Daulat Desai and submitted the petition to be sent to Union government. KCCI is the apex organisation of the traders outfits from the city. KCCI president Sanjay Shete said, “The process of filling GST returns has become complicated. It is done to nab the tax evaders but those paying the tax regularly face uphill task to file the returns. We demand rollback of the anti-business provisions as early as possible.” Shete claimed that around 60% traders shut their shops and business establishments in support of the bandh. Commercial setups across eight districts of Marathwada region also actively participated in the bandh on Friday. Police said the bandh was peaceful. Post 6 pm, some traders opened their shops. Aurangabad Vyapari Mahasangh, the parent body of 72 different trade organizations from the district, participated in the bandh. Mahasangh’s president Jagannath Kale said, “The Union government should seriously pay heed to the sufferings of small and marginal traders, who are being harassed by the arbitrary rules introduced in GST.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/traders-close-shops-want-some-gst-norms-removed/articleshow/81233138.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: DGP Nagrale visits Gadchiroli, meets police jawans||NAGPUR: State director general of police (DGP) Hemant Nagrale reached Gadchiroli on Friday for a two-day visit to the Naxalite-infested district. He visited the remote Sawargaon police post near Chhattisgarh border on the first day. It’s learnt Nagrale met jawans deployed at the sensitive post and tried to boost their morale. Earlier in the day, Nagrale met senior officers at the SP office to take stock of the law and order situation in Gadchiroli and Naxalite movement. A day ago in Nagpur, Nagrale had stated that his force in Gadchiroli would show ‘result-oriented’ policing and ensure curbs on Naxalism in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dgp-nagrale-visits-gadchiroli-meets-police-jawans/articleshow/81235470.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 27, 2021||Nashik||Rs 30L paid to get farmer murdered, says DCP||Nashik: The murder of 70-year-old farmer Ramesh Mandlik in the Anandwali area of Gangapur Road on February 17 was a case of Supari killing, said (Zone 1) DCP Amol Tambe on Friday. “Police have arrested two contrat killers as well as prime suspects on whose behest the crime was committed. They have also seized the weapon and vehicle used in the crime,” said the officer.So far, 12 suspects have been arrested and police has secured their custody till March 1. The suspects have been identified as Ganesh Kale (25), a home guard and his associate in the crime Bhagwan Changle (27) — both residents of Panchavati. Ganesh Kale was arrested on February 24. The duo killed Mandlik by slitting his throat on the behest of the victim’s nephew Sachin Mandlik and four others in lieu of Rs 30 lakh and approximate 1,000 sq.m of land.DCP Patil said that they are investigating the case. “There are various aspects involved in the case. While there was a land dispute between Ramesh Mandlik and suspects who have been arrested, it appears that some land sharks were also pressuring the victim to sell off his land so that his land can be amalgamated with the plots surrounding it for a big project. Things would become clear during the course of investigation,” said Tambe. Two more suspects in the case are yet to be arrested said, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rs-30l-paid-to-get-farmer-murdered-says-dcp/articleshow/81233173.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Fr Stan Swamy’s bail plea order to be given on Mar 11||Mumbai: A special NIA court is likely to pronounce an order on the bail plea of Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist, Fr Stan Swamy, arrested in Elgar Parishad case on March 11. NIA had opposed his bail plea and submitted that there was sufficient evidence against the 83-year-old, and the offence was grave. It said there was a “deep rooted conspiracy”. Swamy, arrested on October 8, denied the allegations in his bail plea. He had said the Persecuted Political Prisoners Solidarity Committee, which NIA alleged was a frontal organisation of CPI(M), was one of the most prominent human rights organisations in Jharkhand providing legal aid. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fr-stan-swamys-bail-plea-order-to-be-given-on-mar-11/articleshow/81235556.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Boyfriend’ held after woman died of fall from auto||NEW DELHI: A day after a 20-year-old woman died after falling off an autorickshaw, her alleged boyfriend who was present in the same vehicle and was seen constantly hitting her has been arrested. The boyfriend suspected her of having an affair with her ex-boyfriend. He even threw her mobile phone out of the auto. The auto driver, Shamshul Ali, told police that he kept slapping her constantly due to which she fell off the vehicle. She was declared brought dead at a hospital. DCP (Southeast) RP Meena said, “The accused, Hritik (21), was arrested on Friday and a case of murder has been registered. He said that he was in a relationship with the victim, Paramjeet Kaur (20), who was pursuing a beautician course.” “On Thursday, it was his birthday and he met Kaur at a park near Ashram Chowk. They later stayed for a short while in a paying guest accommodation. He suspected her of speaking to her former boyfriend, Siddharth, and even called him. Siddharth soon reached there and an argument ensued. She then decided to return home. She was also contemplating whether she wanted to be with Hritik. This is when they boarded the auto near Ashram Chowk. During the ensuing scuffle, she fell off and her head hit the road divider,” added Meena. Police were informed about the woman being brought dead at the hospital around 6.30pm. Meena added that after Hritik threw her mobile phone out of the auto, they got out to pick it up and then continued their journey. Later, when the auto reached the flyover on NH-24, the woman fell off the vehicle. Siddharth was following the couple as he stayed near the woman’s house. He took Kaur to a hospital in Pandav Nagar where she was declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/boyfriend-held-after-woman-died-of-fall-from-auto/articleshow/81237850.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Six-month-old receives gene therapy with parents’ Rs 16-crore crowdfund||MUMBAI: A six-month-old girl suffering from a rare disease called spinal muscular atropy (SMA) received a novel gene replacement therapy for which her parents raised over Rs 16 crore through crowd-funding. “We administered Zolgensma, the gene replacement therapy, to Teera Kamat around 10.30am on Friday. We have kept her for observation and will discharge her on Saturday,” said paediatric neurologist Dr Neelu Desai from P D Hinduja Hospital, Mahim. The medicine is given as a one-time intravenous drip. “As a part of this therapy, the defective gene causing SMA will be replaced by a normal gene which is encoded in a virus vector,” explained Dr Desai. Teera’s parents, Priyanka and Mihir Kamat, said, “It has been a very arduous journey for the last six months and we thank each one of you who poured their love by donating to give Teera a second shot at life.” The couple also managed to get customs waiver on the drug with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention. SMA is a rare genetic disease affecting one in every 8,000 children and leads to wasting of muscles. Children with the condition rarely make it beyond two years without medical intervention. Teera is the second child to receive the treatment in Mumbai. A boy was administered the medicine in Hinduja Hospital itself less than four weeks back. “We got the medicine free from Novartis as a part of its global access programme,” said senior neurologist Dr Vrajesh Udani who had treated the boy. Dr Udani said it would take at least two months before Zolgensma’s effects are noticeable. Another six to seven children in Pune and Delhi have also received the drug through the pharma company’s access programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/6-month-old-receives-gene-therapy-with-parents-rs-16-crore-crowdfund/articleshow/81237311.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Goa||Chhetri likely to stay with Bengaluru FC despite big interest from other clubs||PANAJI: In January when there were just six months left on his existing contract at Bengaluru FC, Sunil Chhetri was told by his representative, Sonu Lamba, that he was free to listen to offers from elsewhere. “This is my home. Where will I go,” Chhetri asked Lamba. If he really wants to know, there are several clubs waiting to lay out the red carpet. FC Goa, for a start, knocked on Chhetri’s door in January itself when Brandon Fernandes picked up an injury and was ruled out for a while. With Bengaluru still in the mix for a playoff spot in the Indian Super League (ISL), the India captain didn’t want to rush into a decision. ATK Mohun Bagan want Chhetri to return to Kolkata and end his career with the club where it all began almost 20 years ago. SC East Bengal are also in the fray. Despite the uncertainty surrounding the club due to their battle for control, the ISL debutants have told Chhetri to “wait” before he commits his future. “Sunil’s contract is getting over (at the end of this season) but he said he can never play against the Bengaluru FC fans. In all likelihood, he will stay at the club,” said Lamba. Lamba has already started talks with Bengaluru and his future is likely to be sorted sooner rather than later. If the captain gets on a conference call with club owner Parth Jindal and CEO Mandar Tamhane, a new contract is likely to be on the table in the next 48 hours. Chhetri was Bengaluru’s star signing when the club was launched in 2013. Returning from Portugal, the striker had just won the I-League with Churchill Brothers SC and the Goan side were willing to meet all his demands. “Going to Bengaluru FC was just a very lucky chat with me, my agent and my father. We had the offer from Churchill. We were going to play the AFC Cup. The family (Churchill) loved and adored me. I was almost going to sign. Why would you leave an I-League winning team? I met Mandar Tamhane. He said, ‘Don’t sign for Churchill, we’ve got something for you. Give me 10-15 days.’ “I waited and they showed me the plan of BFC because there were no names. I was skeptical, but Mandar was convinced and told me it was important that I sign. So overnight I decided. Now when I look back, I'm really happy with the decision. Look at the number of trophies we won,” Chhetri had told TOI in a previous interview. For the first six seasons, Bengaluru won a trophy every year, alternating between I-League, Federation Cup and Super Cup. For the last two seasons, though, the club has been left with nothing to show. What Bengaluru do have is Chhetri. And all indications are that he’s going nowhere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/four-clubs-chase-chhetri-but-captain-unlikely-to-leave-bengaluru/articleshow/81235659.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 27, 2021||Nashik||Loan camps in banks for vendors||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has organised camps in the nationlised banks in the city to facilitate loans for the benefit of street vendors under the PM street vendor’s Atma Nirbhar Nidhi (PM Svanidhi) scheme. Under the scheme, loans up to Rs 10,000 are given to the street vendors. The camps will be held on February 27, March 6 and 13. Additional commissioner of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Praveen Ashtikar has appealed to the street vendors, who have submitted their loans proposals to the banks but are yet to be approved, to be present at the branches of the banks where they have applied for the loan. Moreover, the street vendors concerned will have to carry necessary documents like Aadhar card, election card among others. The NMC administration has submitted online applications of 24,674 street vendors to the banks for the loan. Of which, the banks have disbursed loans to 7,955 street vendors in the city. Moreover, the banks have also approved the loan proposals of 12,438 street vendors. But 16,692 street vendors are yet to receive the loans. They have to be present during the camps at their respective banks' branches on the given dates.  Ashtikar said all the six divisional officers of NMC have been appointed as nodal officers for the camps. He has also appealed to all the beneficiaries and bank officials to follow the Covid norms during the camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/loan-camps-in-banks-for-vendors/articleshow/81233209.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Congress-led farmers’ rally postponed||Hyderabad: The proposed rally of the Congress along with the farmers from the Parade Grounds in Secunderabad to the Dharna Sthal at Indira Park has been postponed as the organisers did not get police permission. All India Kisan Congress state president Anvesh Reddy accused the ruling TRS of not allowing the Congress-led farmers rally as it has decided to implement the three farm laws of the BJP government at the Centre. He said a new date for the rally will be announced soon and sought to assure the farmers that the Congress will intensify its agitation until the farm laws are repealed, MSP is provided for agricultural produce and procurement centres are established again in Telangana. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-led-farmers-rally-postponed/articleshow/81235614.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Delhi||‘Give us 5 yrs, you’ll forget 25 of BJP’||Surat/New Delhi: After the astounding victory of its 27 candidates in Surat Municipal Corporation, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has set its eyes on a bigger electoral challenge in Gujarat—the 2022 assembly elections. “Give us five years. You will forget 25 years of BJP rule. AAP is a party of young blood,” AAP national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said at an impressive roadshow he led in the Diamond City to express gratitude to people who voted for the party in the civic election. AAP wiped out Congress completely from Surat Municipal Corporation. “The people of Gujarat have done wonders. People from across the country are talking about you, I have come here to personally thank the people of Surat for showing their trust in AAP. I assure you that our AAP members will stand by the trust you have shown in them and fulfill every responsibility,” he said. Kejriwal said, “the victory has left BJP petrified, not by AAP, but by the people who have discovered a new alternative in Gujarat politics.” “You contested the election in Gujarat and Surat, which are BJP bastions. You fought the polls without any resources and this is a remarkable victory. People were tired of BJP, but never had any alternative,” he told the candidates. “There was no one to question BJP.” Kejriwal also urged good leaders in Congress and BJP to join AAP. He said the victories in Delhi—from 28 to 67 seats—were a result of reducing people’s electricity bills, free water, eradicating corruption and focussing on health and education. Thousands joined the seven kilometre roadshow that started from Patidar-dominated Varachha Mini Bazaar and culminated at Sarthana Jakat naka where Kejriwal addressed a public gathering near Takshashila Arcade. Slamming the BJP government over education and jobs, Kejriwal said, “After completing schooling, students in Gujarat have to run from pillar to post to get admission in colleges. Upon graduating, they again run around in search of jobs.” “Now, stop begging for jobs from the state government. Join politics, enter the state assembly and become job givers,” he added. ‘Beware of BJP’s enticement’ On a lighter note, AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal inquired with the 27 corporators if they had received a call from BJP, indicating that the saffron party would make efforts to entice them into its fold. “If a single person from AAP switches to BJP, you will lose trust of six crore people of Gujarat,” he said. ‘Be humble, solve people’s problems’ “Work hard for people who voted for you, be humble to them and try to solve their problems. If you perform well, Gujarat will witness a revolution in December 2022.” This was Kejriwal’s clear advice to the victorious candidates as he asked them not to get arrogant after the win. “People can tolerate anything but not humiliation,” he said, asking the youngsters to open an office in every ward. ‘Do not underestimate the power of people’ When Gujarat BJP president CR Paatil tweeted that “all AAP candidates have forfeited their deposits in municipal elections in three cities in the states, 90% candidates in two cities and above 50% in one and Kejriwal is holding a roadshow to celebrate this,” Kejriwal replied in a tweet – “People of Gujarat are celebrating it. People of Surat celebrated it today. Everyone in Gujarat is talking about AAP. Kindly do not underestimate the power of people.” Watch Gujarat wants to end BJP, Congress style politics: Arvind Kejriwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/give-us-5-yrs-youll-forget-25-of-bjp/articleshow/81237890.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||UP to train 86,000 youths||LUCKNOW: The UP government’s chief minister apprenticeship promotion scheme aims at benefiting around 86,000 youths this year, said a government spokesperson. The training will take place in government, non-government, cooperative, corporation and private industries. A training allowance of Rs 2,500 will also be given to candidates during the course of the training. “The government is committed to making the youth of Uttar Pradesh self-reliant and self-sufficient. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that for the skill development and employment generation for youth, many schemes and campaigns are being launched by the government and the department of skill development,” said the spokesperson. Out of the target set for this year, 50,000 youths will be trained under various schemes run by the MSME department. The remaining around 36,000 youths will be trained in 18 departments. This includes 5,000 youths under department of health and family welfare, 1,000 in urban development department, 5,000 in irrigation department and 2,000 in secondary and higher education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-train-86k-youths/articleshow/81237308.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Senior citizen found asphyxiated: Cops||MUMBAI: A 79-year-old resident of a bungalow at Worli Sea Face was found murdered a little after Thursday midnight. “The deceased was found to have been asphyxiated and prima facie it appears to be a case of strangulation,” said Paramjit Dahiya, deputy commissioner of police (Zone 3). The Dolwani family told the police their domestic help was missing and their safe was found open, and gold jewellery worth Rs 5 lakh was missing. Worli police have registered an offence of murder and theft and launched a manhunt to trace the youth. Crime branch teams are on the lookout too. It may be recalled in 2017, a senior citizen, Ruksh mani Visariya (67), was found dead in her Mulund flat. A month later, her cook was arrested for the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-senior-citizen-found-asphyxiated/articleshow/81235671.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 27, 2021||Kolkata||School offers offline, online exams after parents’ protest||Kolkata: A day after a section of parents staged a protest at Calcutta Boys School and met principal Raja McGee, demanding online conduct of annual examinations for the students of Classes IX and XI, the school modified their earlier notice and announced that both online and offline modes will be held. But the examinations for the students of Classes X and XII, who are gearing up for their ICSE and ISC exams, will be held only in the physical mode. In the last circular that was issued on February 23 and had led to the protest, the school authorities had asked students to appear for the exams being conducted offline. “It is against the SOPs and guidelines issued by both the state and Centre for opening schools. It has been clearly stated that students will not be forced to be present on the school campus physically. We objected to the school authorities forcing our children to be present for offline exams,” said an agitated parent. Principal McGee said: “We have modified the earlier notice and allowed the annual exams to be conducted in both physical and online modes. This has been done since a section of the guardians were reluctant to send their children to school.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/school-offers-offline-online-exams-after-parents-protest/articleshow/81235656.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Playgrounds vanishing in the name of development||SECUNDERABAD: A major portion of the five-acre land in Professor Jayashankar Indoor Stadium is set to be converted into an international standard swimming pool. The volleyball ground opposite this stadium will also vanish as a multi-purpose function hall is being built there. Peeved by these developments, several walkers and athletes who train at these grounds are complaining about the disappearance of the lung spaces. Not only these two areas but several infrastructure projects are coming up on sports grounds in the Secunderabad zone. According to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), there are 56 playgrounds spread over the five circles —Secunderabad, Begumpet, Amberpet, Malkajgiri and Musheerabad. Several new projects are occupying playgrounds. “Non-availability of land in prime areas could be a reason for choosing the sports grounds. But the construction is taking place on vacant land which is lying unused for many years,” GHMC sports wing assistant director Srinivas Goud told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/playgrounds-vanishing-in-the-name-of-development/articleshow/81235636.cms||Sunil Mungara
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||300 acres for horticulture centre on agri varsity campus||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday directed officials to set up a centre for excellence for horticulture development in the state. He announced that 300 acres of land will be allocated for the centre on the premises of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agriculture University at Rajendranagar. The CM also directed the officials to prepare a policy for horticulture development in the state based on the weather and soil conditions. He held a review meeting on horticulture development with senior officials on Friday. He said there is a need to strengthen the horticulture university at Mulugu in Siddipet district. He said the state government would provide required funds for the development of the university. On the Rythu Vedikas, KCR said 2,601 vedikas have been completed in the state till now and agriculture market complexes would be constructed in all municipalities and major towns on the lines of Gajwel agriculture market complex. He said that the horticulture department should encourage cultivation of vegetable, fruits and other crops by selecting farmers in 129 municipalities, Greater Hyderabad and other major towns by giving them incentives as this would avoid the situation of importing vegetables and fruits from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/300-acres-for-horticulture-centre-on-agri-varsity-campus/articleshow/81235709.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Killer ‘hubby’ dumps woman’s body on Basanti highway, held||KOLKATA/JIBANTALA: A 37-year-old man from Narkeldanga was arrested by the Jibantala police on Friday for allegedly killing his “wife” in Kolkata and then dumping her body on the Basanti Highway close to Pragati Maidan. The accused, Shahrukh Ahamed, was trying to flee to Sunderbans after the crime but cops stopped him at a naka check near Sarberia Market at Dhamakhali around 2.30am. As he was speeding away on seeing the naka check, cops chased him down at night. The accused parked his car and tried to hide in a bush adjacent to a water body. Cops caught him there. Ahamed looked quite nervous while cops saw blood stains in the rear seat of his car. During interrogation, he broke down and confessed to the crime. The victim was identified as Hama Qamar (35), a resident of Raja Ram Mohan Sarani. The accused claimed that he had married the woman, a bar dancer, about 10 years ago and they had a six-year-old son. Two years ago, the couple had differences that prompted the woman to move to a separate address in Jadavpur. On Thursday, the accused reportedly came to the woman’s house to convince her to return home. “We are ascertaining the exact place where the woman was killed. The accused is changing his statements. It appears that the woman had received several calls while the couple was together on Thursday in the car. This led the accused to suspect that his wife was having an illicit affair with someone. He also forbade her to join the bar again. This resulted in a tiff between the couple and after that, the accused had throttled her and then smashed her head with a brick. He drove the car with her body and dumped it on the highway,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/killer-hubby-dumps-womans-body-on-basanti-highway-held/articleshow/81235728.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 27, 2021||Delhi||BJP failed in all key civic duties: Chadha||New Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party functionary Raghav Chadha on Friday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led municipal corporations have failed in each of its three primary responsibilities. Chadha further alleged that development in Delhi will be much faster if the corporations are also led by the Arvind Kejriwal government. In a press conference, the AAP functionary said that people of Delhi will vote for AAP candidates with an overwhelming majority in the upcoming bypolls in five municipal wards on Sunday. He said that the civic bodies has three major responsibilities — cleanliness in city, building and maintaining small roads and streets, and cleanliness and beautification of parks under its jurisdiction. He claimed that the corporations have ‘failed spectacularly’ in each of these responsibilities. “Delhiites will eliminate the 15-year-long corruption cycle of the BJP-led corporations by voting for each of the five candidates of the AAP with an overwhelming majority,” he said. Delhi BJP Spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that apart from the campaign by CM Arvind Kejriwal, AAP has shoved in dozens of its MLAs including Raghav Chadha, but the campaign build-up shows that AAP is in for disappointment, forcing it to now resort to offering inducement to the electorate. Kapoor claimed that AAP’s enthusiasm over the Sunday’s corporation by-elections is fizzling out as it’s quite clear that party is in for a drubbing and BJP is confident of win in almost all wards, including Shalimar Bagh North.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-failed-in-all-key-civic-duties-chadha/articleshow/81237891.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||Eye on investment, govt to ease 795 biz processes||Lucknow: The industries department has identified 795 processes which it is working on to simplify, merge or just do away with in order to improve ease of doing business in the state. Addressing the CII UP annual session here on Friday, additional chief secretary Arvind Kumar said that the step was being taken to reduce the compliance burden on investors and industrialists. “We have identified 795 processes which can be combined, removed or modified. A timeline of August has been decided to have a more concrete action plan in place,” Kumar said. He asked industry representatives to set up sector wise working groups and give their inputs to the government on what processes, related to any department pertaining to industrial work, can be merged or deleted. He said that the processes could pertain to schemes, laws, policies, etc. The ACS also said that another concern which the government will be addressing shortly is empowerment of women in the workplace. Talking about the state’s ongoing Mission Shakti programme, Kumar asked CII to identify women entrepreneurs in the state and recognize their contribution to the sector. The government, he added, would support such an initiative. Industries minister Satish Mahana said that the government’s pro-active measures had significantly improved UP’s status as an investor hub. “We set up help desks which have helped us realize a conversion rate of 40-45% in MoUs we signed for investments in the state, which is among the highest anywhere in the world,” he said. The minister added that due to Covid-19, the government’s focus had been on helping industries survive, but in 2021, it will focus on their revival and progress. Nikhil Sawhney, chairperson, CII northern region, emphasized on the importance of agriculture, infrastructure and information technology in shaping the next wave of growth in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/eye-on-investment-govt-to-ease-795-biz-processes/articleshow/81237324.cms||Neha Lalchandani
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Cricket ball-sized tumour removed in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 55-year-old who was diagnosed with a tumour that was the size of a cricket ball in his right kidney was operated upon in a city-based hospital on Friday. Doctors removed the tumour using laparoscopic surgical procedure and informed that performing a keyhole surgery to remove such a large tumour from the kidney is an uncommon practice and was done not to cause major incision and to ensure a speedy recovery of the patient. “Relieving the patient of the ailment and pain through the best approach was the route taken by us. Nephrectomy was performed on the patient using keyhole surgery aided by laparoscopic technology and the patient was discharged on day-3 of the procedure, which could have taken longer in the traditional approach,” said Dr Aman Chandra, consultant urologist at Aware Global Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cricket-ball-sized-tumour-removed/articleshow/81235691.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Rajkot||Youth threatens to kill girls of builder’s family, demands Rs 72cr||Rajkot: A 20-year-old youth was arrested for trying to extort Rs 72 crore from a Rajkot-based real estate developer by threatening to kill three girls of his family. The accused identified as Paras Monpara had sought the money to live a luxurious life. He used to study with one of the girls whom he had threatened to kill, said police. According to a complaint registered by the realtor Kishor Parsana, his sister-in-law Sangeeta received a message on WhatsApp on February 22 where the accused had demanded Rs 72 crore and threatened to kill three girls of the family. In the message, Monpara had gave some information about a one of the girls who is studying in Ahmedabad. Parsana first called the girl studying in Ahmedabad to Rajkot. The girl the accused had threatened to kill was already married and living with her in-laws. While the third girl mentioned in the message was living in London, UK. Talking to media persons, Rajkot crime branch inspector V K Gadhvi said, “The accused (Monpara) was studying with one of the girls who is now studying in Ahmedabad. They both were friends.” He added that when they first read the message, they got suspicious that somebody who knew the family was behind the extortion bid. When they traced the mobile number they found that the sim was purchased in Rajasthan. However, when cops traced the IP address they found that the message was sent from a phone in Rajkot. “The father of the accused owns a small factory. The accused wanted the money to live a luxurious life. Since he knew one of the girls of the family he decided to target them,” said Gadhvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/youth-threatens-to-kill-girls-of-builders-family-demands-rs-72cr/articleshow/81234704.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||7% samples in Nagpur divn, 20% in Amravati test positive||Nagpur: Though the entire Vidarbha is being considered as a Covid-19 hotspot with over a thousand cases reported from Nagpur district in the last three days, figures show that there is better control on the infection in Nagpur division compared to Amravati division.Less than 7% of the total samples tested in Nagpur division tested positive on Friday. These include samples from Nagpur district where a record 12,396 tests were conducted and 1,074 of them tested positive, which is nearly 8.6% of the total samples. Barring Wardha, where 11% of the 1,572 samples tested positive on Friday, not a single district in Nagpur division reported sample positivity rate in double digits.On the other hand, in Amravati, nearly 20% samples tested positive. The sample positivity rate is the highest in Amravati district (38%) followed by Akola (18.7%) and Yavatmal (17.5%). Near 12% samples in Washim and Buldhana tested positive.The present trend of increased number of tests in all 11 districts has resulted in increased number of new cases too. But conditions are improving slowly. Overall, 3,173 cases were reported on Friday. Though, more than 3,000 cases are being reported for the third day in a row, increased testing is one of the most important reason for the same. Overall, 25,823 tests were done in Vidarbha on Friday which is a record in itself. The highest 22,000-odd tests were done earlier during the September peak. With 3,173 new cases, the total cases in Vidarbha reached 3,13,695. Recoveries were 2034, slightly more than Thursday. In all, 2,84,269 patients have recovered. This makes the recovery rate 91.8% which is less than the state and national average.With 22 deaths reported in a day, the total toll reached 7,341. Deaths include six from Nagpur. These include 3 patients referred from other state/division, 2 from Nagpur city and 1 from rural. Amravati once again reported 8 deaths followed by Yavatmal (3), Wardha (2) and one each in Bhandara, Gadchiroli and Akola. As the number of new cases is on the rise significantly, the fatality rate is going down rapidly in Vidarbha. On Friday, it further reduced to 2.34% which is less than the state average of 2.48%.Akola: Out of 1,437 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, 268 tested positive. This took the total caseload to 15,392. With 47 recoveries reported in a day, 11,888 have recovered. A senior citizen patient died taking the toll to 363. Now, 3141 patients are under treatment. The district collector has extended lockdown-like restrictions in Akola up to March 8.Gadchiroli: The district reported the first death of February on Friday. A 70-year-old woman died during treatment. She was a patient of hypertension. This took Gadchiroli’s toll to 106. With 24 new cases and 11 recoveries, the district now has 9,514 cases, 9,322 recoveries and 86 patients under treatment.Buldhana: A record 3,273 tests were done in Buldhana out of which 391 tested positive. No death was reported. The district now has 17,979 cases, 15,258 recoveries, and 192 deaths. Total 2529 patients are under treatment.Washim: The district reported 146 new cases out of 1,240 tests conducted on Friday. Covid-19 caseload in Washim reached 8,621, still lowest in Vidarbha region. With 39 patients recovered in a day, total 7,270 of them have recovered. No death was reported. Washim now has 1,193 patients under treatment.Bhandara: Swab samples of 970 individuals were tested on Friday and 44 of them were found to be positive. Now, Bhandara has 13,612 cases. With 21 recoveries on Friday, 13,079 have recovered. A death was also reported which took the toll to 328. Now, 205 patients are under treatment.Gondia: The district conducted 380 tests on Friday and 11 of them tested positive. Only 1 patient recovered. No death was reported. Now, the district has 14,400 cases, 14,109 recoveries and 185 deaths. 106 patients are under treatment.Amravati: A spike of 754 fresh cases and eight deaths took the district’s Covid caseload to 33,585 and toll to 495 on Friday. The day’s spike in cases is lesser than the ones recorded in the last three days. The day also saw 594 recoveries for a total of 28,358, which left 4,732 under treatment, including 3,483 in home isolation.Yavatmal: Three deaths of senior citizens took the Covid toll to 460. Out of the 1,374 test reports, 241 were positive. Currently, there are 1,427 patients undergoing treatment in Covid Care Centres across the district. Out of 17,097 patients, 15,213, including 154 of Friday, have recovered. Wardha: After 175 new Covid cases were detected on Friday, collector Prerana Deshbhratar has issued an order of 36-hour lockdown starting 8pm of Saturday to 8am of Monday. The new cases took the caseload to 12,032, while 85 patients were discharged thus recoveries increased to 10,717. A 70-year-old man from Wardha and an 80-year-old woman from Arvi died due to Coronavirus, which took the Covid toll to 339. As on date, the number of patients in the district is 976. Out of 1,572 test reports received on Friday, 109 men and 66 women (175) tested positive. The cases were reported from Wardha 89, Deoli 30, Arvi 17, Hinganghat 16, Karanja 9, Selu 6, Ashti 5 and Samudrapur 3.Chandrapur: In all 45 new Covid cases were detected in the district on Friday, while 18 patients were discharged, leaving 245 under treatment. No death reported during the day keeping the toll at 398. The Covid case count has climbed to 23,558, while total recoveries to 22,915.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-samples-in-nagpur-divn-20-in-amravati-test-positive/articleshow/81234370.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 27, 2021||Surat||SCET to celebrate National Science Day||Surat: The Sarvajanik College of Engineering and Technology (SCET) will celebrate National Science Day with an online Science Quiz Competition for school students on February 28. It will be held on two levels. Besides the quiz competition, SCET will be organising various activities like parent awareness workshops, college campus visits, entrepreneurship and startups talks, real-life science applications, discussion, a student internship program in the institute under the ‘College School Interaction Programme’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/scet-to-celebrate-national-science-day/articleshow/81234460.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||TPECET notification to be issued on March 1||Hyderabad: Notification for the Telangana State Physical Education Common Entrance Test (TPECET) will be issued on March 1 following which submission of online applications shall commence on March 8. The test will be conducted by the Mahatma Gandhi University, Nalgonda on behalf of the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) for entry into first year of the undergraduate professional courses for the academic year 2021-22. The TSCHE has issued detailed schedule for the TPECET as per which last date for submission of online applications is May 8. Candidates can download their hall tickets on May 17 and the physical tests shall be held on June 7. As per the number of registered candidates, the results will be declared within a week after the last date of the test. While the application fee for scheduled caste and scheduled tribe candidates is Rs 400, it is Rs 800 for candidates from other categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tpecet-notification-to-be-issued-on-march-1/articleshow/81235734.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal youth dies in artillery barrel explosion in Jammu||KOLKATA: The Army and the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) may continue to spar on the issue of alleged faulty ammunition or barrels of artillery guns but the common soldier continues to suffer. On Tuesday, Sepoy Sayan Ghosh of the 73 Field Regiment was killed after the barrel of a 105mm field gun burst during live fire training at Akhnoor in Jammu. Two others were injured. Ghosh (22), was a resident of Kanchrapara in North 24-Parganas. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed grief and announced an immediate relief of Rs 10,000 for the family. This was handed over by Gp Capt Sanjay Bhattacharya of the Rajya Sainik Board to the family. Gp Capt Bhattacharya also laid a wreath on Sep Ghosh’s mortal remains on behalf of the chief minister on Thursday at the Kanchrapara Military Station, a source said. Ghosh was the sole bread earner of the family. While full military honours were accorded during the last rites, his next of kin will receive all dues. Questions have again been raised on how safe our artillery pieces are for the men who use them. The Army had recently raised the issue of faulty ammunition with the ministry of defence. While the Army claims that accidents take place due to defective shells supplied by the OFB, the latter maintains that all its products undergo stringent tests and the results comply with international standards. According to the OFB, accidents occur due to faulty storage of shells and maintenance of the artillery pieces. This is something that the Army denies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-youth-dies-in-artillery-barrel-explosion-in-jammu/articleshow/81235777.cms||Jayanta Gupta
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Officials to verify forest land under Chenchus’ occupation||Hyderabad: With forest officials and tribals often fighting over ownership of land, revenue officials have begun an exercise to identify and verify the forest land that Chenchus have in their occupation in Amrabad in Nagarkurnool district. “We have visited the habitations of Chenchus and checked as to how long the tribals have been in occupation of the forest land. We will submit a report once we complete the exercise,” Amrabad tahsildar Maruthi told TOI. Nagarkurnool district collector L Sharman decided that a factual report on the ground level should be taken and asked the officials to conduct a survey. The tribals claim that they have been engaged in podu cultivation for several decades and the land has been in their occupation for generations. On the other hand, the forest officials have been trying to identify the occupied land and bring it under the forest department by taking up plantation. Organisations representing tribals have been raising a hue and cry about this, while the tribals complain that attempts are being made by the forest officials to displace them from the Nallamalla forest. In the last couple of days, a survey was conducted in the limits of ITDA Mannanur near Tirmalapur, Thatigundala and Rollabanda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-to-verify-forest-land-under-chenchus-occupation/articleshow/81235729.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Maid played Cinderella to hide identity, dolled up after stealing gold to live it up||MUMBAI: She loved the high life. But unable to afford it, the domestic help stole gold and silver from her employers and blew it all up on treating herself at beauty parlours and at restaurants with friends. When she went to these places, she wore her make-up such that she could well fail to recognise herself! A 32-year-old woman, Sheetal Upadhayay, who lives in a slum in Kurla (west), has been arrested for stealing over 500 gm of gold worth Rs 13 lakh from an 80-year-old woman’s flat in Andheri where Upadhayay had taken up a job as house help in November. The police said that she used to spend anywhere between Rs 5,000 and Rs10,000 a month to treat her friends at swanky restaurants. Upadhayay, whose husband died a few years ago, spent the rest on her three children. The police scanned footage from 35 CCTV cameras around Versova to track her down at her home in a slum at in Kranti Nagar locality on February 19. At least 200 gm of the gold stolen from the elderly woman’s home has been recovered, said the police. Senior inspector of Versova police station, Siraj Inamdar, said that she got the gold ornaments melted and disposed through a small-time goldsmith. Assistant commissioner Jyotsana Rasam said that Upadhyay would scout for work as a domestic help in different places across the city, especially looking for senior citizens who needed a domestic help. Sub-inspector Ganpat Dhaigude said that when Upadhyay was not in her domestic help mode, she would dress to the nines. “It would be difficult to identify her when she wore costly attire and put on her make-up,” said Rasam. The police scanned footage from at least 35 CCTV cameras and also took technical help to track her down, said deputy commissioner Abhishek Trimukhe. Upadhyay has been booked for theft and is in police custody till March 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maid-played-cinderella-to-hide-identity-dolled-up-after-stealing-gold-to-live-it-up/articleshow/81237345.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||Ponds in gram sabha to be named after topper girls||LUCKNOW: In the third phase of the ongoing Mission Shakti programme leading up to International Women’s Day on March 8, the government has said that a pond in every gram sabha will be named after girl students who score the highest marks in classes 10 and 12. A government spokesperson said that this will help encourage girls and acknowledge their achievements publicly. “A pond in every gram sabha will be named after meritorious students for a year. The following year, it will be renamed after the next students,” he said. These ponds will be beautified and boards will be put up next to them with the name of the meritorious student. The work will be done under MNREGA. The government on Friday launched 10-day programmes which will continue till March 8. Several events will be held to mark the achievements of women and to sensitise people about women’s rights and empowerment. “The programmes during the 10-day period will emphasise on spreading awareness about the government’s schemes for women and welfare initiatives. These will be executed at the district level by the revenue department,” the spokesperson said. A plantation drive will also be held in every district, dedicated to the role of women in UP’s development and to encourage campaigns like ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’. Women help desks will be set up at village, block, tehsil and district levels to address their grievances. These help desks will also allot land approved in 2020-21 to eligible women from rural backgrounds on March 8. They will also distribute copies of land rights records among registered women under the Varasat scheme. Revenue department help desks will provide information related to women’s rights under revenue laws and other online facilities for women. These will be organised at the village level on February 26, 27 and 28, at block level on March 1, 2 and 3, at tehsil level on March 4 and 5 and at district level on March 6 and 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ponds-in-gram-sabha-to-be-named-after-topper-girls/articleshow/81237334.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||IIIT-Hyderabad student gets 3 papers published||HYDERABAD: At a time when many students struggled to complete coursework online, Sumit Kumar Jha, a dual degree student from the International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad (IIIT-H) managed to get three papers published in 2020. “I think doing any research that is mathematical requires a lot of boredom (to fuel the creative process) and isolation. For someone like me, the lockdown helped with both,” said Sumit. He said he counts Srinivasa Ramanujan as his inspiration and credits all his work – 12 papers in all — to the methods learned from the great scholar. Sumit said that his interest in numbers and Math has persisted since high school. “But I was not very good at it,” he added, and said the numerical fascination began with reading of Ramanujam’s first paper on Bernoulli numbers. Incidentally, my first Math research paper (and four others) is on Bernoulli numbers,” said Sumit, who secured admission in a dual degree at IIIT-H under the Lateral Entry programme. Girish Varma, a professor at the Center for Security, Theory, and Algorithmic Research (CSTAR), who Sumit’s advisor, said that the 27-year old is mostly self-trained. “Sumit mostly self-trained on using combinatorics and generating functions. He gave combinatorial identities relating sequences that are seemingly unrelated. His proofs are short and involve clever manipulations of generating functions,” said Varma on combinatorics, the science of counting. “It’s something that we often take for granted. However, counting can be very difficult,” he added. Sumit’s papers -- ‘A formula for the number of partitions of ‘n’ in terms of the partial Bell polynomials’ accepted for publication in The Ramanujan Journal, ‘A Combinatorial Identity for The Sum Of Divisors Function Involving pr(n)’ published in The Integers Journal, and ‘An Identity For The Sum Of Inverses Of Odd Divisors of n In Terms Of The Number Of Representations Of n As r Squares’ published in The Rocky Mountain Journal Of Mathematics, were published in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iiit-h-student-gets-3-papers-published/articleshow/81235743.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC wing to speed up work on open drains||HYDERABAD: The Strategic Nala Development Programme (SNDP) wing of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) decided to expedite works pertaining to nalas after municipal administration & urban development department (MAUD) principal secretary Arvind Kumar reviewed nala related works in a meeting held at GHMC head office on Friday. At the meeting, officials of line departments presented the critical points and encroachments to MAUD officials. In an effort to fix the city’s drainage system, SNDP was rolled out in November 2020 post the floods. The SNDP wing is responsible for developing and maintaining the storm water drain/nala system in the city. Hussainsagar surplus nala, Kushaiguda nala , Gurram Cheruvu nala and the outlets of Ramanthapur lake are some of the water channels where SNDP works will be executed. “We have already identified critical points and repair works were also taken up. A study of the existing storm water drainage system is also underway,” said a GHMC official. Storm water drains/nalas have been damaged due to the recent floods at 101 stretches in the GHMC limits, causing an estimated loss of Rs 83 crore. The MAUD department had in January proposed to spend Rs 2,961 crore to upgrade the nalas and remove encroachments. “A zone-wise action plan for GHMC has been tabled. The plan includes removal of encroachments, identification of vulnerable locations and reasons for inundations through field-level assessment,” said a GHMC official. While storm water drains were repaired at multiple locations, encroachments on nalas have turned into a major hurdle. As per records, there are around 800 structures along the 16.5 km nalas in the GHMC limits that are preventing the free flow of storm water. In the 26 urban local bodies (ULBs) within the Outer Ring Road (ORR), there are 573 nala encroachments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-wing-to-speed-up-work-on-open-drains/articleshow/81235776.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Etawah Safari lions to roar at Gorakhpur zoo||LUCKNOW: The upcoming zoological garden at Gorakhpur is set for a roaring start with animals arriving here from other zoos across the country. As of now, 57 animals have reached Gorakhpur and soon lions from Etawah and animals from Kanpur and Lucknow are likely to arrive at the zoo soon. During his visit to Gorakhpur earlier this month, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had said that the Gorakhpur zoo would open at the end of next month as animals had already started arriving. Director, Gorakhpur zoo, H Rajamohan said, “Lions from Etawah Safari are likely to reach here by Sunday (February 28).” In September 2019, seven lions were brought from Gujarat to Etawah Safari of whom one had died a few days later. Two of the lions from Etawah Safari will now be brought to Gorakhpur zoo. At least 50 animals will also be transported to Gorakhpur from Kanpur zoo. Similarly, 35 animals from Lucknow and 19 from Delhi zoo will also attract visitors at Gorakhpur zoo. All animals from Vinod Van in Gorakhpur and mini-zoo in Prayagraj, which have been closed down, will also be accommodated in Gorakhpur zoo. According to officials, animals reaching Gorakhpur will first be put under 21-day quarantine. Animals coming to Gorakhpur zoo are donations from other zoological gardens since there are no animals to be exchanged. Zoos cannot buy or sell animals but only exchange them under exchange programme. Gorakhpur zoo has the capacity to house 387 animals. Under the first phase, 133 animals will be brought to Gorakhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/etawah-safari-lions-to-roar-at-gorakhpur-zoo/articleshow/81237347.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ahmedabad||Floor trembles due to sewing machine, neighbours fight||Ahmedabad: Two neighbouring families on Thursday fought with each other over an issue of “tremors being felt” due to constant work on sewing machine in a pol in Khadia area of city. According to two FIRs filed with Khadia police, Jaya Joshi, 35, a resident of second floor in a hourse in Narsinhji ni pol in Khadia took objection against her neighbour Pani Prajapati for constantly working on sewing machine due to which Joshi’s family members were getting disturbed. She said in her FIR that she and her family members were feeling termors due to constant functioning of the sewing machine. When she raised the issue with Prajapati’s family, she allegedly abused her and her family members and later thrashed her. On the other hand, Pani Prajapati states in her FIR that Joshi’s husband, Sunil Joshi, abused and attacked her with wooden stool on her back. In this attack, she suffered fracture on her hipbone. Later, she was shifted to a hospital in Usmanpura here she was admitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/floor-trembles-due-to-sewing-machine-neighbours-fight/articleshow/81235863.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Dehradun||Naukri Do Ya Degree Wapas Lo: NSUI stages protest against unemployment||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand unit of the National Students Union of India (NSUI) came out on the streets and protested against 'rising' unemployment in the country on Friday. The NSUI members, along with several students, marched towards the CM residence in Dehradun but were stopped midway by the police force. This led to several instances of face-off between the police and the students. “Unemployment in the country has reached its peak and both the state government and the Centre aren’t taking any steps to address it. Therefore, we have no other option but intensive protest,” said Mohan Bhandari, state president of NSUI. He added, “There are several government service exams of which the state government is yet to declare the results. We want the government to release results as the candidates have been waiting for years now.” Notably, the protest was part of the NSUI’s ongoing “Naukri Do Ya Degree Wapas Lo” campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/naukri-do-ya-degree-wapas-lo-nsui-stages-protest-against-unemployment/articleshow/81233279.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||One time chance to clear backlogs||Hyderabad: With the academic year 2020-21 coming to an end, the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) is in the process of identifying students who have completed their coursework but have backlog in colleges that are either derecognised or have closed down in the last five years. The university said that it has decided to conduct a special supplementary examination for all such students in April/May 2021. In a notification issued recently, the university stated that all the students who have pursued undergraduate and postgraduate courses will get a one time chance to clear backlog subjects. Since 2015-16, a total of 87 colleges have been closed and 210 have been de-affiliated by the JNTUH. The university has instructed all colleges to identify all such students and send the details to it by March 9, 2021. Besides this, students who are writing a one time chance exam and have low internal marks shall also be given one chance to improve their marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-time-chance-to-clear-backlogs/articleshow/81235780.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Engineering colleges violate govt order, seek condonation fee||HYDERABAD: Ahead of the semester exams, several city engineering colleges are seeking condonation fees from students for lack of attendance during the lockdown. This, despite the Telangana government making it clear that 100 per cent attendance should be given to students attending online classes during the lockdown period. The semester exams at the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) affiliated colleges are scheduled to be held from March 8. As per the university guidelines, it was resolved not to consider attendance-based detentions for odd semesters of the academic year 2020-21. However, many students have raised concerns over college managements seeking condonation fee to the tune of Rs 200 to Rs 1,000. “In addition to the semester exam fees, we are being asked to pay condonation fee for lack of attendance. When the University Grants Commission has clearly stated that attendance should not be made mandatory, how can the colleges levy condonation charges,” questioned Guntha Mahesh, a BTech student, adding that no receipt is given for condonation fees. Some students have also raised complaints about scholarships being discontinued by the colleges over lack of attendance. Not just that, some colleges are also asking students to clear tuition fee dues to be able to appear for the ensuing semester exams. “Some colleges have asked students to pay the tuition fee, condonation fee and the semester fees upfront to be able to appear for the ensuing semester exams. Many of such students have approached us seeking help as they fear that they might be detained by the college managements,” said Mohammed Sohail, general secretary of National Students Union of India, Rangareddy district which has the highest number of engineering colleges. Officials agreed that colleges are not supposed to collect any condonation fee during the pandemic period. “If students approach us, we will initiate action against such errant colleges,” said Manzoor Hussain, registrar, JNTUH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/engg-colleges-violate-govt-order-seek-condonation-fee/articleshow/81235795.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Kolkata||Calcutta University lets PG departments take a call on mode of conducting practical exams||KOLKATA: Calcutta University has decided that the mode of practical examinations will be determined by the individual post-graduate departments after discussing in the respective Board of Studies. It was decided at a meeting on Friday that that the marks of the odd-semester exams will have to be submitted within 21 days. This time the semester exams will be held as per the CSR of the respective subjects and thus the duration and marks allotted won’t be curtailed like the online, end-semester exams in October 2020. Among the resolutions of the meeting of PG Board of Studies Chairpersons, which was held in CU on Friday, the dates for the odd-semester exams were fixed on March 8 and March 26. The exams will be held online. “Post-graduate departments will conduct the entire process of paper setting, moderation, distribution of questions, collection and evaluation of answer scripts. The departments will submit evaluated marks to our Controller’s office within 21 days online, after each examination, so that University can publish results in time,” said a senior CU official. Post graduate departments will, however, decide the mode of conducting practical examinations. “In case of the subjects, for which colleges also conduct post graduate courses, the faculty members of corresponding university departments will evaluate all the answer scripts, including those of the PG students in colleges,” added the official. The decision has been taken to introduce transparency in the evaluation system since the degree is awarded by CU that bears the hallmark of excellence in imparting quality education. Till 2019, when a college applied for a PG programme, CU determined the syllabus for the first three years After this, the colleges had the autonomy to frame their own curriculum with approval from the university. Since a discrepancy was observed between the syllabus being followed by the PG departments in CU and in the colleges, resulting in ‘qualitative deterioration,’ the PG Board of Studies in 2018 decided to bring parity. CU also decided to implement a uniform examination system in the PG course. “Now, the evaluation will be done by the teachers of CU post-graduate programmes,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-lets-pg-departments-take-a-call-on-mode-of-conducting-practical-exams/articleshow/81235850.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Cop guilty, Bombay HC acquits woman of son’s murder||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Friday upheld the conviction of a police officer for the 2013 murder of his ‘partner’s’ 25-year-old son, but it acquitted the victim’s mother. Shivaji Narawane was a senior inspector in Tilak Nagar police station, Chembur, when he met Nanda Zodge, who used to visit the police station to complain about her son, who allegedly had some vices, said the high court. The police officer “visited her house quite often”. She was harassed by her son to a point it had “become unbearable’’ said additional public prosecutor Prajakta Shinde, citing it as a motive to murder him. “We are pained to observe that a high-ranking police officer, instead of taking action against notorious Rohan in accordance with law, thought it fit to eliminate him by causing his homicidal death and, thereafter, attempted to cause disappearance of evidence,” said a bench of justices Sadhana Jadhav and NR Borkar, while dismissing his appeal against the conviction. “…the fact that he was not true to his oath as a police officer to uphold the rule of law cannot be ignored and hence, (he) does not deserve to be shown any leniency,” said the bench. The sessions court had sentenced both to life imprisonment. Both have been in jail since their arrest in 2013. The victim lived with his single mother and a sister. On October 25, 2013, police had found the victim’s body with the throat slit, in a pool of blood, on the steps of his house. He had also suffered a skull fracture. Police found a knife behind the house, and another ‘murder weapon’, a grinding stone, with blood stains nearby. In their appeal filed last year, Zodge, 53, and Narawane, 61, denied any role in the crime. Narawane’s counsel Mahesh Vishwakarma argued recovery of the ‘grinding stone’ from an open place was no proof against him and neither was there any evidence to prove his presence in the house that night. The high court, however, said the prosecution had proved its case against him. In Zodge’s case, the HC agreed with her counsel Aniket Nikam and said the “evidence on record is not sufficient to establish conspiracy between both the accused to eliminate Rohan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cop-guilty-hc-acquits-woman-of-sons-murder/articleshow/81235855.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Delhi||CNG crematorium with ‘mukhagni’ in Subhash Nagar||New Delhi: Expediting the work on expanding the modern crematoria infrastructure during the pandemic is now starting to yield results. In the last two weeks, the number of CNG crematoria sites in Delhi has gone from two to four. Less than a fortnight after the Green Park CNG facility was opened, the city got its fourth CNG cremation ground on Friday. The new facility equipped with two furnaces is being operationalised in West Delhi’s Subhash Nagar. Unlike the other CNG units, the Subhash Nagar facility will have a provision of providing ‘mukhagni’ by a relative of the deceased, a senior official said. “We have noticed that there has been some hesitancy in using CNG units, as there was no provision of a relative igniting the pyre as per the traditions. Therefore, on the lines of traditional wooden pyres, we have kept a separate button in this unit which will be pressed by the relatives after all the traditional rituals are performed so that pyre is ignited. Instead of operators, it will be family members who will start the process,” an official explained. The furnaces were built at a cost of Rs 2 crore and were inaugurated by MP Parvesh Verma and leader of the House Narendra Chawla. Delhi now has operational CNG crematoria in Nigambodh Ghat, Punjabi Bagh, Green Park and Subhash Nagar, while a fifth CNG unit is being built in Dwarka’s Sector 24. Chawla said that a large hall has been constructed in the area with the furnaces. “30m high chimneys have also been installed separately with the furnaces. The CNG-based furnace takes 80 minutes in performing the last rites while wooden-based pyre takes 3 to 4 hours,” he added. The Subhash Nagar cremation ground earlier had a provision of traditional pyre platforms, where 30 bodies were cremated every day. It will now be able to process more than 40 bodies, benefitting people living near Subhash Nagar and Punjabi Bagh and easing the load on Punjabi Bagh shamshan bhumi. Deputy health officer Dr Saurabh Mishra oversaw the development of the facility, which was created in just 6 months. Chawla said that CNG cremations help protect the environment, as it is less polluting than traditional cremation. Usually, Delhi witnesses around 80-90,000 cremations in a year. Each wood based traditional cremation utilizes 400-500kgs of wood. While considering that around 225-250 cremations (higher rates in extreme weather conditions) take place in Delhi every day, it is estimated that wood is equivalent to over 4 lakh trees are consumed in cremations in the city annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cng-crematorium-with-mukhagni-in-subhash-nagar/articleshow/81237914.cms||Paras Singh
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav’s temple run an attempt to woo Brahmin & Dalit voters||LUCKNOW: In his bid to consolidate his political strategy of winning over Brahmin-Dalit electorate in the run-up to the 2022 Assembly elections and taking his party beyond the Muslim-Yadav factor, national president of the Samajwadi Party has been visiting temples and religious places in eastern UP for the past three days. Akhilesh has now realised that to emerge victorious at the hustings, the SP would have to come out of the M-Y mould, bringing people of different castes and communities in the party-fold, say political analysts. Since Thursday, the former chief minister has been camping in and around Varanasi. He has visited Jaunpur for a social programme and will visit Vindhyachal temple in Mirzapur on Saturday. On Thursday, Akhilesh offered prayers at Sankat Mochan temple, spending a substantial time at a famous ashram, seeking blessings of saints and seers. On Saturday, he is also scheduled to visit the Ravidas temple in Varanasi's Seer Gowardhanpur on the occasion of the birth anniversary of the dalit saint. In a well-calculated move, Akhilesh has decided to spend three days in Varanasi as he knows well that Varanasi is the social and political epicentre of eastern UP and the spiritual city has a tremendous influence in adjoining areas. Besides, priests and Brahmins of Varanasi have a powerful presence in the socio-political set-up of the state. Before Varanasi, Akhilesh had camped in Chitrakoot in Bundelkhand where Lord Ram had spent 12 years of his 14-year exile. For the Samajwadis, the holy place of Chitrakoot has a special significance as the great thinker and ideologue Ram Manohar Lohia, who had strongly advocated for holding a Ramayan Mela in this tiny hilly region, often meditated on the Kamadgiri hills to give a call for demolishing his political opponents. Akhilesh had also stayed at the Kamadgiri temple last week and exhorted party workers to unite against parties exploiting the name of Sri Ram for petty political motives. With his temple visits in and around Varanasi and specially his visit to Swaminarayan temple in Ayodhya on Saturday, Akhilesh is eyeing on social groups which have not been committed to him – the Brahmins and Scheduled Castes. In the past six months, a number of Brahmin and Dalit leaders, including former MPs, former ministers and ex-MLAs, have joined the SP, vowing to work for the party’s victory in 2022 Assembly elections. Last week, former BSP minister Jai Narain Tewari had joined the SP. At a programme in Jaunpur on Thursday Akhilesh invited Om Prakash Dubey, locally known as Baba Dubey of his party, to sit next to him, while the sitting MLAs were seen standing behind him. The message was loud and clear --- the SP is desperately trying to make a respectable space for Brahmins. Akhilesh has been meeting powerful Brahmin leaders of the Congress, BSP and other parties and most of them have hinted at joining him at an appropriate time before the elections. Akhilesh, by visiting temples and seeking blessings of sadhus, has made it clear that he too needs the support of the Brahmin community. In order to further consolidate Akhilesh’s appeal among Brahmins, Santosh Pandey, senior party leader and former MLA, has announced to install a life-size statue of the Parashuram in Lucknow post panchayat elections. Pandey has been undertaking extensive tours of the state to mobilize Brahmins’ support for the SP. “The statue of Parashuram has already arrived in Lucknow and the programme would be finalised after obtaining a green signal from the SP national president,” Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhileshs-temple-run-an-attempt-to-woo-brahmin-dalit-voters/articleshow/81237362.cms||Subhash Mishra
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers get support at Ravidas events||Phagwara/Hoshiarpur: Farmer groups participated in shobha yatras (religious processions) on the birth anniversary of Guru Ravidas. The organizers of the shobha yatras at two places assured farm groups that they would make special efforts for more Dalit participation in the farmers’ protest on Delhi borders. Sanyukt Kisan Morcha had already announced to celebrate the anniversary at Singhu border and also appealed to the farmers back home to participate in the functions in their villages and towns in this connection. A few hundred members of BKU (Doaba) went to Guru Ravidas temple at Chak Hakim village on the outskirts of Phagwara, the starting point of the religious procession in which thousands of Ravidasia/Adi-dharmi community members participate every year, and served fruits and packed water to the participants at Sugar Mill chowk. In Hoshiarpur, leaders and members of Kandhi Kisan Sangharsh Committee participated in the religious procession. Jadish Lal Badhan, president of Guru Ravidas Nagar Kirtan Committee, honoured the leaders of the committee and said that this participation by the farmers was heartening and would further improve the social fabric between farmers (most of whom are Jat Sikhs) and Dalits. He said after the anniversary functions, they would also join the farmers at Delhi borders. Kandi Kisan Sangharash Committee leaders also participated in the religious procession at Odhra village near Dasuya. Sant Jaspal Singh, who played a key role in organizing the shobha yatra, said after anniversary functions, he would lead a jatha to particiapte in the farmers protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-get-support-at-ravidas-events/articleshow/81235842.cms||IP Singh
February 27, 2021||Aurangabad||A’nagar police file 1,400-pg chargesheet||must slug: REKHA JARE MURDER CASE Aurangabad: The Ahmednagar police on Friday filed a 1,400-page chargesheet naming six accused in the sensational murder of NCP activist Rekha Jare in Parner taluka of the district on November 30. Jare, who was the president of Yashaswini Mahila Brigade, was murdered by bike-borne men in the presence of her son Kunal, mother Sindhubai Waikar and friend Vijaymala Mane when they were returning to Ahmednagar from Pune in their car at night. Police authorities said that the special investigation team formed for probing of the case took extra efforts to ensure that the chargesheet in the case is filed within the stipulated period of 90 days so that the arrested accused do not get default bail. “We have filed the chargesheet in the lower court, which will commit it to the sessions court for trial. We have already arrested five accused, who are behind bars. One the suspects, a journalist with a newspaper, is absconding,” Ahmednagar superintendent of police Manoj Patil told TOI. Those arrested in the case are Dnyaneshwar alias Guddya Shinde (24) of Kadit Fatebad in Shrirampur, Aditya Cholke (25) of Teesgaon Phata in Rahata, Firoz Shaikh (25) of Sankrapur Ambi in Rahuri, Rishikesh alias Tamya PAwar (23) of Pravara Nagar in Rahata and Sagar Bhingardive (31) of Shastrinagar in Kedgaon, all from Ahmednagar district. The officer said that the Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court had already rejected the anticipatory bail plea of the absconding accused. “The scribe on the run has been declared absconding under section 299 of CrPC and our investigation in the case is still under way,” said Patil while stating that police will file a supplementary chargesheet after the accused is arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/anagar-police-file-1400-pg-chargesheet/articleshow/81233298.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||Pakistan’s Gujarat handler had hotline with Chandauli spy||LUCKNOW: A supplementary chargesheet was filed by National Investigation Agency (NIA) in a Lucknow court on Thursday against the Gujarat handler of Chandauli resident, Mohammad Rashid, who was charged with spying for Pakistan and receiving arms training in Karachi. Nabbed in September 30 last year, Rashid’s point man in Gujarat, Rajakbhai Kumbhar, would operate on instructions of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and was tracked down after Rashid spilled the beans on his whereabouts in NIA custody. Rashid was arrested from the east UP district of Chandauli by the anti-terrorist squad in January 19 last year and a chargesheet was filed seven months later. Investigators revealed Rajakbhai would transfer funds to Rashid, who twice visited Pakistan and met his overseas handlers and received training in ISI camps. NIA has charged Rajakbhai with criminal conspiracy, waging war against the nation and under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, 1967. UP ATS registered the first case in January 19 last year and the case was transferred to NIA on April 6, 2020. The chargesheet states Rajakbhai too visited Pakistan on legal documents and during his second visit, he touched base with ISI handler, Hamid, and joined the espionage network. Thereafter, he transferred funds to Rashid in lieu of sending classified information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pakistans-guj-handler-had-hotline-with-chandauli-spy/articleshow/81237371.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||‘Women 11 times more likely to not work after Covid job loss’||MUMBAI: Globally, the employment shock of Covid-19 has impacted women more than men and evidence on the trend continues to grow. A new working paper has found that women were seven times more likely to lose jobs during the national lockdown than men. Also, women were 11 times more likely to not return to work subsequently. The paper titled ‘Down and Out? The Gendered Impact of the Covid-19 Pandemic on India’s Labour Market’ is written by Azim Premji University’s senior research fellow Rosa Abraham, associate professor Amit Basole and assistant professor Surbhi Kesar. The researchers used CMIE-CPHS data to construct employment trajectories over the pandemic, from a panel of individuals covering three time periods: Pre-lockdown (December 2019-January 2020), lockdown (April-May 2020), and post-lockdown (August-September 2020). The lifting of lockdown restrictions was associated with a return to work but the recovery was more muted for women, the paper pointed out. Prior to the pandemic, about 70% of working age men were employed, according to the data. By August-September 2020, 88% of them remained employed or returned to work. By contrast, of the 10% of working age women who were employed before the pandemic, only 53% remained employed or returned to work by August-September 2020. This means half the pre-pandemic female workforce had lost jobs and were unable to return to work after the lockdown, the paper stated. Among workers who did return to employment after the lockdown, the paper found a large share of men moved to self-employment or daily wage work in agriculture, trade or construction. For women, there was limited movement into other employment arrangements or industries. “This suggests that typical ‘fallback’ options for employment do not exist for women. During such a shock, women are forced to exit the workforce whereas men negotiate across industries and employment arrangements,” the authors concluded. The paper found that daily wage and young workers, whether men or women, were more likely to face a job loss. Surprisingly, while education shielded male workers from job loss, highly educated female workers were more vulnerable to job loss, the paper found. This is possibly because men with higher education have access to relatively secure jobs. Education, though, had a surprisingly reverse effect for women. “It is possible that relatively more educated women are able to withdraw from the workforce in face of uncertain conditions such as the lockdown, while this option might not be available to less educated women,” the paper stated. Marriage had contrasting effects for men and women, with married women less likely to return to work and married men more likely to return to work, the paper said. Women from larger households were also less likely to return to work. “This could be a result of increased household responsibilities compelling women to remain at home,” the paper stated. Self-employment, although more precarious than salaried jobs, emerged as a clear fall-back option for male workers, according to the paper. Around 37% men in permanent salaried work, 37% daily wage workers and 33% temporary salaried workers moved into self-employment between January 2020 and August-September 2020. By contrast, only 2% of women who were in permanent salaried work moved to self-employment during this period. Similarly, only 10% women in temporary salaried and 21% in daily wage work moved into self-employment. “In the face of an overall decline in labour demand, gender norms that ensure scarce economic opportunities flow to men in preference to women, could constrain women’s re-entry into the labour market,” the paper stated. Such gender norms may also explain the relative lack of fallback options for women within the workforce, forcing them to move out entirely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/women-11-times-more-likely-to-not-work-after-covid-job-loss/articleshow/81233013.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
February 27, 2021||Nashik||Nashik admin all set to give vax to citizens in 2 categories||Nashik: The health authorities from Nashik said they had an indication of the number of people aged about 60 years and 45 years with co-morbid condition, who are to be vaccinated next, based on a survey carried out last year. However, registration of the beneficiaries would possibly reveal a higher number. District collector Suraj Mandhare said that the administration was gearing up to ensure the vaccination of senior citizens and other identified beneficiaries is carried out as per the government guidelines. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had registered about 74,500 people with co-morbid conditions, who are above 45 years of age, during the survey carried out under ‘My Family, My Responsibility’. During the same survey, about 83,000 people aged above 60 years were identified in Nashik city. NMC’s medical superintendent Bapusahen Nagargoje said, “These figures are not absolute as our health workers were not even allowed to enter some houses. Some did not reveal any information about the senior citizens or people with co-morbidity then. So a clear picture will emerge only after the registration.”Similar is the case in the rural areas of Nashik district, where the numbers of senior citizens was around 78,000 and those with co-morbid condition are around 93,000. The district collector said that they had enough trained personnel to administer the vaccine to the senior citizens and others identified by the government. “The district has 1,069 vaccinators, who have been trained for the job. With each vaccinator inoculating 100 persons per day, we can achieve the target of vaccinating one lakh people per day,” district collector Mandhare said. The officer also pointed out that the private medical centres will also be roped in for the vaccination programme but the picture would be clear after the government guidelines are issued. “The inoculators from the private and government hospitals have been registered and given proper training. It is likely that the private hospitals will also be roped in for the immunization process. But it all depends on what the government has decided,” said Nagargoje.324 fresh Covid cases in dist As many as 324 Covid-19 cases, including 258 from Nashik city, have been reported in the district in the last 24 hours ending on Thursday evening, taking the tally of positive cases to 1,21,801. Three patients succumbed to the infection. The death toll stands at 1,037 in the city and 2,098 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-admin-all-set-to-give-vax-to-citizens-in-2-categories/articleshow/81234464.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Goa||Fog in Goa disrupts flights, keeps passengers waiting||PANAJI: Poor visibility caused by foggy conditions affected flight operations at Goa International Airport, Dabolim, on Friday, with at least four flights being diverted and several others delayed. Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials said that visibility at the naval air base, which also operates as a civilian airport, fell well below the norm for airline pilots to land using the instrument landing system. The poor weather conditions in the state also led to cascading delays as several flights had to be rescheduled, thus creating a travel headache for many fliers. “The flights were diverted because visibility dropped to 1,000m in mist, and even lower to 800m in fog. Normal operations commenced at 8:15am. Rescheduling of diverted flights by Indigo is awaited,” said Goa Airport Director Gagan Malik. While foggy conditions and flight diversions are common during the monsoon and winter, it is less common in the month of February, said sources. “Due to bad weather in Goa, all departures and arrivals and their consequential flights may get affected,” said Spicejet as it alerted passengers to keep track of their flight status. IndiGo flight 6E178 from Bengaluru to Goa, which was scheduled to arrive at 7:45am, was diverted to Mangaluru airport. IndiGo flight 6E6331, which was expected to land at 7:30am, was also diverted to Mangaluru. Vistara flight UK861 from Mumbai to Goa, which usually arrives at 7:40am, had to return to Mumbai due to the poor visibility. Airline officials said that it took off from Mumbai again at 9:30am and landed at Goa airport at 10:20am. Several other flights that were scheduled to land in the morning were delayed by several hours. The poor weather conditions also led to cascading delays, with flights to Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Delhi and other destinations being rescheduled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fog-in-goa-disrupts-flights-keeps-passengers-waiting/articleshow/81237394.cms||Newton Sequeira
February 27, 2021||Pune||BJP says will stall session if Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod doesn’t quit||MUMBAI: BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar on Friday said the party will not allow the budget session of the Maharashtra legislature to run smoothly unless forest minister Sanjay Rathod steps down. The opposition party has been demanding the resignation of Rathod, a Shiv Sena leader from Yavatmal, since his name was linked to the death of a 23-year-old woman in Pune. Rathod has denied he had anything to do with the case. In a video message, Bhatkhalkar alleged that CM Uddhav Thackeray was “planting” stories of Rathod likely to resign before the session begins on March 1. “It is a shameless attempt to maintain image. Unless Rathod steps down or is removed from his post, BJP will not allow the budget session to run smoothly,” the MLA said. “The chief minister can remove Rathod from the cabinet any time, but he is trying to protect the minister by delaying it,” Bhatkhalkar further said. Earlier, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut had said whoever was guilty in the matter would not be spared. State minister Hasan Mushrif however asked the BJP to have patience and let the truth come out after a probe. Speaking to a news channel, the rural development minister and NCP leader said it won’t be right to punish someone before the matter is probed properly. The CM has already announced a probe in the matter and the state’s director general of police has also said a report in this regard will soon be submitted, Mushrif said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bjp-says-will-stall-session-if-sena-minister-doesnt-quit/articleshow/81239069.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Sonu Sood to restore Juhu building status to residential from hotel||MUMBAI: Following a rap from Bombay high court and after withdrawing his petition before Supreme Court, actor Sonu Sood has agreed to restore the “unauthorised” six-storey Shiv Sagar building in Juhu from a hotel to residential premises. Sood’s architects have submitted a proposal to BMC to restore the change of user of the Juhu building back to residential, which Sood had allegedly converted into a hotel without necessary permission from BMC. When contacted, Sood said he will follow all the rules. Paarth Architectural Consultants have submitted the revised plans to BMC’s building proposal (BP) department. “In continuation with the approval granted by then Municipal Commissioner Praveen Pardeshi on 07.02.2020 and in the interim period before submitting the proposal to the MCZMA for their NOC, on the request of Sonu Sood, the owners of the said premises, we are in the process of compiling necessary details for submitting revised plans to the BP department,” the consultants said in their recent letter to BMC. “Regularization of various elevation features and internal addition/alterations carried out in the existing 1st to 6th floors are now proposed for residential user,” the letter further stated. Sood’s architects said approvals for the use of open space, amalgamation and change of user from a shop to a restaurant on the ground floor, and the proposed stack parking and elevation features were cleared by Pardeshi in February 2020. The architects have sought five to six weeks’ time to get approvals from the BP department. “Sood’s architects have applied for restoration to the BP department. We will wait for their decision. We have already filed a police complaint seeking an FIR under MRTP Act,” said Vishwas Mote, assistant municipal commissioner, K-West Ward. Activist Ganesh Kusmulu who had filed a complaint with Lokayukta against Sood said the police must register an FIR.  HC had dismissed an appeal by Sood for interim relief against BMC’s notice and the subsequent complaint to the police seeking an FIR against him. Sood had filed an appeal against the dismissal of his plea by the city civil court on December 19, 2020, for protection from a civic demolition notice last October. The court said “illegality has been detected and crystallised” by a BMC officer and hence the notice was proper. Sood then moved SC but withdrew his petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sonu-sood-to-restore-juhu-bldg-status-to-residential-from-hotel/articleshow/81235266.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 27, 2021||Ahmedabad||Flights late||Ahmedabad: Flights to Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, Jaipur, Chennai, Chandigarh, Varanasi, Amritsar, Bagdogra, Kishangarh, Kolhapur, and Lucknow were cancelled from the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport in Ahmedabad on Thursday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/flights-late/articleshow/81235898.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||BJP says will stall session if Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod doesn’t quit||MUMBAI: BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar on Friday said the party will not allow the budget session of the Maharashtra legislature to run smoothly unless forest minister Sanjay Rathod steps down. The opposition party has been demanding the resignation of Rathod, a Shiv Sena leader from Yavatmal, since his name was linked to the death of a 23-year-old woman in Pune. Rathod has denied he had anything to do with the case. In a video message, Bhatkhalkar alleged that CM Uddhav Thackeray was “planting” stories of Rathod likely to resign before the session begins on March 1. “It is a shameless attempt to maintain image. Unless Rathod steps down or is removed from his post, BJP will not allow the budget session to run smoothly,” the MLA said. “The chief minister can remove Rathod from the cabinet any time, but he is trying to protect the minister by delaying it,” Bhatkhalkar further said. Earlier, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut had said whoever was guilty in the matter would not be spared. State minister Hasan Mushrif however asked the BJP to have patience and let the truth come out after a probe. Speaking to a news channel, the rural development minister and NCP leader said it won’t be right to punish someone before the matter is probed properly. The CM has already announced a probe in the matter and the state’s director general of police has also said a report in this regard will soon be submitted, Mushrif said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-says-will-stall-session-if-sena-minister-doesnt-quit/articleshow/81235870.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Kolhapur||1.24L identified for shots in Kolhapur dist||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur district administration is planning to vaccinate around 1.25 lakh senior citizens after the Centre launches the next phase of Covid vaccination on March 1. The Union ministry of health and family welfare has allowed the states to start vaccinating people above 60 years of age and those above 45 years with comorbidity. The Kolhapur district health administration had conducted a survey of people above 50 years of age a few months back. There are around 9.29 lakh people above 50 years in the district out of the total 41 lakh population. District health officer Yogesh Sale said , “The survey was conducted under Maha Ayush programme of the state government and it is the most recent and authentic data available with us. Though we are yet to get clear guidelines for vaccinating elderly citizens. The very high and high-risk category citizens needs to be protected first to reduce mortality rate,” he said. There are around 7,890 senior citizens with very high risk morbidity, 1.17 lakh with high risk or medium risk morbidity in the district. These include cancer patients, asthama patients, persons with renal and heart issues and rare diseases. The rest-8.04 lakh are low risk category senior citizens. Vaccination target missed District guardian minister Satej Patil had directed authorities to ensure 100% vaccination of frontline workers by Friday. As per the progressive report, so far around 64% of the frontline workers have received the jab. District collector Daulat Desai has asked department heads to get reasons in writing from the staff for failing to get vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/1-24l-identified-for-shots-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/81234483.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Lucknow||To know RSS, look at its body of work: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday thanked the RSS functionaries for their relentless service to mankind over a period of 96 years. He said, "If anybody wants to know about Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, he or she should look at the body of work of the organisation which served the society silently and without expecting anything in return.'' The CM added that the RSS never tried to impose its ideology on others. Yogi said the kind of service RSS has extended during the most trying times of Covid, signifies the philosophy and outlook of the organisation. The CM was addressing a function on the occasion of the release of "Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh: Swarnim Bharat ke Dishasootra", a book written by senior RSS functionary Sunil Ambedkar in Lucknow. CM Yogi said that this book would present a guiding direction to the country as the vision of India and the vision of RSS had always been the same. "Four years from now, RSS will be celebrating its centenary, an achievement for any organisation which has helped humanity without taking any government help and that too without seeking any limelight," he added. He said that it would be hard to imagine the overpowering feeling of nationality among the RSS which went down south to build Vivekanand memorial and up in the North to set up service camps for devotees of Amarnath. "Not only this, their passion for the grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya had been exemplary just as the six 'Vaicharik Kumbh', organised by the RSS, created religious and spiritual awareness among the people of the country and even abroad," he said while adding "it has been the routine for RSS to reach every part of the country which faces any calamity or crisis." He said, "Another remarkable feature of RSS is that it never tried to impose its ideology on others. It did not rejoice when admired and did not sulk when criticised." RSS's Sah Sarkaryavah Dattatreya Hosabale said: "Hindustan gets its identity from Hindu and Hindutva. And here Hindutva doesn't mean Hindu religion. It shouldn't be restricted to such a narrow definition. It's a way of life, just like RSS." "Hindutva is not communal as called by a few so-called seculars. Hindutva is not Hindu religion. Its Hinduness. Hindu religion is just one part of it. Hindutva is a culture. Its extensive," he said. "Sangh is beyond one book, one statement, one opinion. It's collective. Also it's not one organisation in a society but an organization of a society. It's a lifestyle, a vision, a movement. One needs to have emotions, feelings to know Sangh as it is a unique system," he said, adding "People born here are Hindus. Hindu is desh ke DNA ka naam hai," Hosabale said. "This intellectual circus started after Independence which debated on Hindutva. Terms like minority and majority were coined. A name has a lot in it. Name contains history. Reason why Prayagraj makes sense and not Allahabad," he added. Author and senior RSS functionary, Sunil Ambedkar said, "For the past few years I was getting the feeling that there is a lot of curiosity about India, its religion, culture and history. People in the world want to know about it." With new technologies that have come, the younger and newer generation of people are getting lot of information about the whole world and they tend to compare. "Kuch samay aisa bhi tha ki jo jisne bola woh chalta raha (whatever people said about India it was accepted)," he said. But then efforts made by RSS created awareness in society and a new generation started realising that, so far, they have been told a lot of things which were not right and complete. There was a curiosity in this generation of people to know more. In the last 10-12 years, in my interaction with Indians studying and settling abroad I have realized they wanted to participate. "They asked me what they could do for the country. They wanted to know more about Sangh, draw motivation from it and be part of it." At the same time, there are people who, for varied reasons, doubt 'ki sangh badh jayega toh kya karega (what will Sangh do if it grows) "Sangh samaj ka sangathan majboot karega, Samaj ko niyantrit nahin sashakt karega (Sangh will strengthen society and not control it)."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/to-know-rss-look-at-its-body-of-work-cm/articleshow/81237413.cms||Neha Shukla
February 27, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Baguiati to get new SBSTC bus terminal||KOLKATA: The SBSTC is planning to set up a new bus terminus at Baguiati on the northern fringes of the city. The PSU, with its office in Durgapur, has a fleet of around 890 buses and now it plans increased operations from Kolkata for which the new terminal point was chalked out at Baguiati. The new terminal, the construction cost of which has been pegged at Rs 2 crore, s likely to be operational by the end of 2021. The SBSTC is already running buses to different tourist spots in Bengal and now they have plans for plying buses to other states as well. Moreover, SBSTC is now giving AC buses on hire to private parties. A senior official said they have already started bus operations to Puri from Durgapur and that they are planning to run similar services from Kolkata and also connect to other states as well. Godala Kiran Kumar, MD of SBSTC, already held a meeting with the officials for the new terminal at Baguiati. The detailed project report is being planned. Moreover, there will be a parking lot for cars and two-wheelers at the terminal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/baguiati-to-get-new-sbstc-bus-terminal/articleshow/81235963.cms||Debasish Konar
February 27, 2021||Navi-mumbai||JNPT-hit kolis protest, block ships to port||NAVI MUMBAI: The Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) project-affected fishermen attempted to block movement of ships towards JNPT port by conducting a ‘Channel Bandh’ agitation in the high seas on Friday morning. They were protesting to see a resolution to their long pending issue of resettling 256 displaced families of the erstwhile Sheva village in Uran taluka. Suresh Koli, head of Hanuman Koliwada Village Reforms Committee, said, “Police swooped down on the transit camp of Sheva villagers in Hanuman Koliwada on Thursday night. They locked boats and moved women and elders to halls in JNPT township. But, some villagers managed to sail into the sea and carried out the agitation. The police tried to persuade the agitators to return to the shore, but they threatened to jump into the sea.” While koli claim that blocking the sea route had affected the movement of ships towards JNPT for around seven hours, JNPT spokesperson Ambika Singh said, “The agitation by fishermen in the sea did not affect the operations at JNPT port.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/jnpt-hit-kolis-protest-block-ships-to-port/articleshow/81235969.cms||George Mendonca
February 27, 2021||Goa||Disqualification pleas: Speaker reserves order||PANAJI: Goa legislative assembly speaker Rajesh Patnekar on Friday concluded the hearing in two disqualification petitions filed by Congress and Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) over their legislators defecting to BJP, and reserved the final orders in the plea. Patnekar heard the counsels for the rival politicians for nearly six hours to decide the fate of 10 former Congress MLAs and two former MGP legislators. He took up the cases after Congress approached the Supreme Court regarding the delayed hearing, which the speaker has blamed on the pandemic. The day-long proceedings in the speaker’s chamber centered around the validity of the merger of Congress and MGP into BJP, with lawyers citing precedents and documents to substantiate their claims. In the first half of the day, Patnekar heard the arguments filed by MGP, which continued till afternoon, and he later heard Congress lawyers. Speaking to reporters, Abhijit Gosawi, counsel for Goa state Congress president Girish Chodankar, said that they argued before the speaker that only 2/3 members agreed to the merger, but that there was no decision by the party, and thus there’s no question of a valid merger. MGP senior leader Ramkrishna Dhavalikar’s counsel, Dhaval Zaveri, said that former MGP MLAs have filed two applications, one for cross examination of the petitioner and other witnesses, and another for producing a resolution on record. Meanwhile, counsel for the 10 former Congress MLAs Nikhil Vaze said that they have filed an application for an extension of time. Vaze also said that they have requested the speaker to allow them to examine the merger resolution and witnesses. “Arguments were heard on the applications filed by Congress and the order has been reserved,” he said. Vaze said that they also argued on the main petition. “We have told the speaker that there would be prejudice if the hearing is conducted without bringing evidence (on record), and that it would be difficult (for the MLAs) to prove their point. We have requested him to consider this.” In May 2019, Dhavalikar filed a petition before the speaker seeking the disqualification of deputy CM Manohar Ajgaonkar and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar, who quit MGP to join BJP in March 2019. MGP challenged their claim that two-thirds of the MGP legislature party has merged with BJP. MGP had three MLAs in the 40-member house, now been reduced to one. Dhavalikar had said that the 10th schedule of the Constitution does not postulate such a merger by which members of the legislature party would meet at midnight and claim that a merger has taken place. On July 10 that year, 10 rebel Congress MLAs led by deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar joined BJP, claiming that the Congress legislature party had split. The other nine MLAs are Isidore Fernandes, Nilkanth Halarnkar, revenue minister Jennifer Monserrate, Antonio Fernandes, Francisco Silveira, Wilfred D’Sa, Clafasio Dias, Filipe Rodrigues and Atanasio Monserrate. In August 2019, Congress filed a disqualification petition against the 10 rebel MLAs, and sought that the they be restrained from attending assembly proceedings and holding constitutional posts till the case is decided by the speaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/disqualification-pleas-speaker-reserves-order/articleshow/81237433.cms||Murari Shetye
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Your ride to and from Delhi Metro stations will soon turn green||NEW DELHI: Your ride from the Delhi Metro station to your locality promises to be a comfortable, air-conditioned experience, apart from being environmentally friendly. From March, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation will start inducting low-floor, AC electric minibuses for its feeder services. “The plan is to induct 100 electric, air-conditioned, 24-seater buses on 10 routes covering 14 metro stations for boosting last mile connectivity,” a DMRC spokesperson said on Friday. “These buses will be run by two operators in the North and East clusters covering the routes and stations.” The spokesperson said that 50 e-buses will be operational by April-end, with 25 scheduled for induction next month. “The remaining 50 will be inducted gradually in a phased manner over the following few months,” he added. The low-floor minibuses are equipped with GPS devices, CCTVs and panic buttons, apart from a Passenger Information System. The first buses to be inducted will be deployed on five North Cluster routes and five East Cluster routes. In the North Cluster, the feeder buses will operate from Majlis Park station to Jagat Puri and Burari village, Jahangirpuri station to Bhalswa Block D, Azadpur station to Shalimar Bagh station and Shalimar Bagh station to Netaji Subhash Place station. In the East Cluster, feeder buses will run from Trilokpuri station to Mayur Vihar Phase-III, Mayur Vihar Phase-I station to Mandawali IP Extension, Anand Vihar station to Karkardooma station, Maujpur station to Gokulpuri station and Shastri Park station to Mother Dairy. The e-buses have been procured by cluster operators who will now run and maintain these vehicles. Sources said that the operators would also develop the bus depot infrastructure for repair and maintenance of buses on land or plots provided by DMRC. The depot for the East Cluster will be created at Shastri Park and the one for the North at Majlis Park. Even before the urban train service shut down operations during the national Covid lockdown, DMRC’s feeder bus services were rickety and the number of buses, at less than 200, were way short of demand. DMRC has been planning a major revamp of its feeder network to provide more efficient and comfortable last mile connectivity. More than two lakh passengers used Delhi Metro’s feeder services every day till a year ago. As part of its planned overhaul of the feeder bus services, DMRC had floated tenders two years ago to introduce air-conditioned feeder buses that would run on electricity and compressed natural gas. The earlier tenders, however, were discharged and DMRC re-floated the tenders, changing its plans to have an electric-only fleet of mini buses instead of a mixed fleet. The rail company is expected to receive assistance under the central government’s Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles-2 scheme. Though DMRC plans to eventually induct a total of 905 feeder buses to cater to the increasing demand for dependable and comfortable last mile connectivity in Delhi, it will initially induct 422, starting with the 100 e-buses it will have running by mid-2021. Apart from the North and East clusters where e-buses will first be deployed, the mini buses will also operate on 47 routes in the three clusters of West, South and Central. These routes have been approved by the State Transport Authority. The other proposed depots are planned to be located at Punjabi Bagh, Shadipur, Nangloi, INA Colony, Mohan Estate, Jhilmil, Kohat Enclave and Kashmere Gate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/your-ride-to-and-from-metro-stations-will-soon-turn-green/articleshow/81235972.cms||Sidharatha Roy
February 27, 2021||Goa||ACL spot at stake as Mumbai chase win against ATKMB||Mumbai City FC know exactly what they need to do to win the Indian Super League winners shield. They need a win against league leaders ATK Mohun Bagan, and their reward will be a place in the AFC Champions League group stage, next season. Since losing their opening game against NorthEast United FC, Mumbai have set the league on fire with a 12-match unbeaten run. They lost the hold of the top position after below par performances midway. Mumbai can reclaim that top spot at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Sunday. ATK Mohun Bagan are on 40 points after 19 matches and Mumbai can equal them on points with a win in the final round. Mumbai defeated ATKMB 1-0 in the first leg and a double over their opponents will help them finish on top of the league stages with a better head-to-head record. “This is a crucial game. This is a final and we need to play for a win. We need to manage this situation well because it’s not like the games we played before. It’s not about three points, it’s about to win a final and we need to win the game,” Mumbai coach Sergio Lobera told TOI in an online interaction on Saturday. The Spanish coach was instrumental in guiding FC Goa to the league winner’s shield last season before being sacked by the club with three games left. Lobera now has a second chance. “I think this is a game that everyone wants to play. It’s going to be an amazing game. We play to make our dreams come true. We need to enjoy it because games this are not a lot in our careers. We know we can achieve something important for our club,” said Lobera. With Sandesh Jhingan and Tiri at the back, ATKMB have conceded only 13 goals and have the best defensive record. But Mumbai have sounded a warning with a 6-1 win over Odisha FC in their previous game. They have scored the most goals (33) and will look up to forwards Adam Le Fondre and Bartholomew Ogbeche to strike when it matters the most. ATK Mohun Bagan need only a draw to seal a berth in Asia’s premier club competition. Coach Antonio Habas’ January signings Lenny Rodrigues and Brazilian Marcelinho have strengthened their squad considerably. “We have to prepare for a win and not a draw. This is the idea and the mentality,” said Habas, who has won the league twice. They will rely heavily on talisman Roy Krishna, currently leading the goal scoring charts with 14 strikes. Manvir Singh and David Williams can also pitch in, if Mumbai comes up with a plan to stop the top striker. Habas has a strong squad at his disposal with suspended defender Subhasish Bose the only absentee. Edu Garcia and Marcelinho have recovered from their injuries. “I think it will be a historic moment (to finish top) but we have to play the match as another game. We have to concentrate a lot because we have a rival very difficult in attacking,” said Habas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/acl-spot-at-stake-as-mumbai-chase-win-against-atkmb/articleshow/81250206.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||Snow cheers high hills, skips mid Himachal||Manali: While high hills of Himachal have been experiencing fresh snowfall since Friday morning, middle hills, including Shimla, Manali and Dalhousie, have missed snowfall again despite predictions to the contrary. Hills of Kullu, Mandi, Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur, Chamba, Kangra, Shimla and Sirmour are receiving light snow. Some villages in Lahaul valley also received fresh snow. Light snow was reported from upper reaches of Manali, Rohtang, Gulaba, Hamta and Atal Tunnel. However, middle hills were left out. Solang, towns of Shimla, Manali, Dalhousie and other popular destinations where old snow has melted did not receive fresh snow. Shimla meteorological department has issued multiple warnings related to rain and snowfall this week. There was a weather warning from February 23 to 26 and then from February 24 to March 1. The Western disturbances, which bring clouds to the Western Himalayas in the winter, has weakened. Despite the yellow alert for thunderstorm, hail and rain, most parts of the state did not receive rain. Some drizzle was reported at a few places. The snowfall has been too weak to produce the much sought after white blanket. “It snowed for a few minutes here and then weather cleared on Thursday. Sparse snow elated us on Friday but the spell did not last long. I am surprised to see that Lahaul valley is not covered with snow in February-end. This sight is rare. We expected good snowfall on Friday night and Saturday. Snowfall is our need as we depend on snow-fed streams for irrigation. We are not feeling the winter cold this season. Temperature will drop to normal only after good snowfall,” area resident Mohan Relingpa said. Temperature in the state continued to hover above normal. At minus 2.1 degrees Celsius, Keylong was the coldest in Himachal followed by Kalpa at 1.1 degree Celsius. Minimum temperature in Manali was recorded at 4.8 degrees Celsius. In Shimla, it was 11.1 degrees Celsius. Una in the foothills of the Himalayas recorded maximum temperature of 33.2 degrees Celsius, highest in the state. Following a wather department forecast, a large number of tourists thronged Manali on Friday to see snowfall. As Atal Tunnel is closed, they headed to Solang valley and other destinations which, they thought, had higher chances of snowfall. But the relatively warm weather came as a disappointment. With temperature rising gradually, chances of snowfall in the days to come are very less. The met office has predicted dry weather with sunny sky from Sunday onwards. Shimla Meteorological centre director Manmohan Singh said minimum and maximum temperature levels in the state are four to six degrees above normal. “There are chances of rain in the lower areas and snowfall in higher areas of the state in the next 24 hours. Weather will be generally dry from Sunday onwards,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/snow-cheers-high-hills-skips-mid-himachal/articleshow/81235930.cms||---
February 27, 2021||India||Climate actions of 74 countries, EU far off Paris goal: UN body||NEW DELHI: The United Nations body on climate change on Friday released an initial synthesis report on updated climate actions of various countries, pointing out that their collective plans so far do not put the world on a path to save it from disastrous consequences of global warming. The findings prompted UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to call it a “red alert” for the planet. The synthesis report, however, covers only the new or updated national climate action plans — called nationally determined contributions (NDCs) — of 75 members (74 countries and European Union) which submitted the updates by December 2020. It doesn’t include the top two polluters — China and the US — and fourth biggest emitter India which has maintained that its NDC, submitted in 2015, is quite ambitious and it has been moving fast to achieve its target. The synthesis report shows that the combined impact of the 75 NDCs puts countries on a path to achieve only 1% reduction in emissions by 2030 compared to 2010 levels as against the ideal target of 45% reduction for achieving the 1.5 degree C temperature rise goal. It, therefore, urged the nations to redouble their efforts and submit stronger, more ambitious NDCs in 2021 if they’re to achieve the Paris Agreement goal of limiting global temperature rise to 2 degree Celsius, ideally 1.5 degree Celsius, by the end of the century. Guterres said 2021 is a “make or break year” to confront the global climate emergency. The synthesis report is, however, an initial report. A second report will be issued ahead of the UN climate conference (COP26) scheduled to be held in Glasgow, UK in November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/climate-actions-of-74-countries-eu-far-off-paris-goal-un-body/articleshow/81238358.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||BMC lists defaulters as it meets only 45% of property tax target||MUMBAI: With barely a month left for BMC to meet its property tax target for the financial year, its assessment and collection department has listed top 100 defaulters in every ward from whom it plans to recover outstanding amounts. The target for the year was Rs4,500 crore but BMC has so far collected only Rs 2,200 crore (around 45%). Officials said the defaulters, mostly commercial establishments, owed the civic body Rs19,000 crore. “We have prepared a ward-wise list and will begin to take action in a descending manner if they do not pay up. Initially, we will focus on commercial establishments. Later, we will act against residential defaulters,” said Sangeeta Hasnale, assistant municipal commissioner (assessment & collection department), adding that in many cases attachment and water disconnection had begun. BMC plans to auction the properties it attaches after deciding their value. Attachments, auctions and disconnection of water supply was prolonged due to Covid-19 in this financial year, said civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal in his 2021-22 budget speech earlier this month. “We are working towards meeting our target set for the year, and apart from sending reminders for payment of property tax to citizens for the current year, action against defaulters will be taken in a phased manner,” said an official. For the civic body, property tax is the biggest source of revenue. Till 2017 octroi was the highest source of revenue, but it was replaced with Goods and Services Tax (GST). In 2020-21, the civic body had estimated it would collect Rs 6,768 crore as property taxes, but it was later revised to Rs4,500 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-lists-defaulters-as-it-meets-only-45-of-property-tax-target/articleshow/81237450.cms||Richa Pinto
February 27, 2021||Goa||Will present budget on March 24: Goa CM||PANAJI: CM Pramod Sawant on Friday told TOI that he would present the state budget on March 24, with the focus on making Goa self-sufficient. “The focus of the budget will be make Swayampurna Goa,” he said. TOI was first to report that Sawant would present the budget on the first or second day of the assembly session. Sawant has already launched the Swayampurna Goa scheme in 191 village panchayats and 14 municipalities, including the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP). Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday issued an order summoning a 12-day session of the state legislative assembly, from March 24 to April 12. Sawant, meanwhile, continues to hold pre-budget meetings with industries, associations, stakeholders and others to prepare his budget speech. Speaker Rajesh Patnekar is likely to call for a business advisory committee meeting in the coming weeks to finalise the schedule for thebudget session. The state legislative assembly has met for just seven days in 2020, and will have met for just 17 days in the current financial year. The opposition, particularly Congress, MGP and Goa Forward Party, have consistently demanded that a full-fledged session of 21 days needs to be convened so that the opposition gets enough time to raise issues concerning the people of Goa. Representatives of Credai, GSIA and the small and medium Goan hoteliers associations have met Sawant and presented their demands to be considered in the budget. During the budget session, the opposition will get time to speak specifically on the matters of particular departments during the presentation of demands. It did not get time during the winter session to corner the government on various issues — including the three linear projects at Mollem — as the business advisory committee had decided to allow only three calling attention motions.  The government also defeated a private member’s resolution to scrap the three projects atMollem. The state government will have to face issues like diversion of the Mhadei river, Covid management, the Tamnar transmission line,double-tracking of South Western Railway, widening of the national highway, coal-handling, and implementation of the amended MV Act, among other issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-will-present-budget-on-march-24/articleshow/81237444.cms||Murari Shetye
February 27, 2021||Shimla||Five Himachal Pradesh Congress MLAs suspended for ‘manhandling’ governor in assembly||SHIMLA: Following the alleged "manhandling" of Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya, the state assembly speaker on Friday suspended five Congress legislators, including the leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, for the entire Budget session till March 20. The Congress legislators, who were protesting near the Speaker’s chamber at the assembly complex , stopped the governor and also did not allow his vehicle to move for several minutes. The budget session started with Congress MLAs creating a ruckus inside the House during the governor’s address, which he somehow managed to get through and left, and the House was adjourned till Monday, 2pm. When the governor was having tea with the speaker, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, ministers and legislators in the Speaker’s chamber, Congress legislators again started protesting outside. As the governor was being escorted to his vehicle by the Speaker, CM and some ministers, Congress MLAs blocked his path, and did not heed the CM’s request to give way. This led to a few members from the BJP and Congress getting jostled. It was after much effort that the governor finally managed to get to his vehicle. After this, the CM held a meeting with the speaker and cabinet ministers in the speaker’s chamber. Unhappy over the development, Speaker Vipin Parmar, under Rule 346, decided to recall the House for the day. As the proceedings began, parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj termed the incident as shameful and demanded that action be taken against members responsible for the incident. He said that opposition has not attacked the governor, but the Constitution. He moved a resolution demanding suspension of leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and MLAs Harshabardhan Chauhan, Satpal Raizda, Sundar Singh and Vinay Singh for the entire session. Later, the House passed the resolution with voice vote and Speaker announced the suspension of the five MLAs for entire session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/5-hp-mlas-suspended-for-manhandling-guv/articleshow/81235948.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||Cong MLAs accuse governor of breaking norms by skipping complete address||Shimla: Opposition Congress, which is being accused of unruly behaviour with the governor during and after his address claimed that for the first time, the governor “ran away” from the House without reading the complete address document. Opposition leader Mukesh Agnihotri said the Congress wanted to read the complete address but the governor could not fulfill the demand as it was a “bundle of lies.” Interacting with media persons outside the Assembly, Agnihotri said the governor’s address failed to mention important issues like inflation, LPG and petrol prices, unemployment, corruption during Covid-19 pandemic and backdoor entries. “The governor failed to read the complete document as it was kachra (trash),” he said. Congress MLA Asha Kumari alleged that while no one from the opposition touched the governor, CM or ministers, the ministers and deputy speaker “pushed opposition legislators.” “We will hold a meeting to discuss why we were not allowed to speak to the governor,” she said. Congress MLA Rajinder Rana said the governor read only a few pages from the document and could not read the entire address, which shows that the government is puzzled. “The opposition exercised its democratic right to lodge a protest against the failure of the governor to read the complete address,” he claimed. Congress MLA Sukhvinder Sukhu alleged that selective suspension of five Congress MLAs, including leader of opposition, was an attempt by the BJP to divide the Congress. He alleged that pick and choose policy was adopted in “selecting” opposition members for suspension. “If the government was serious about taking action on the protest, then action should have been initiated against all Congress legislators but they selected only five,” he said. Sukhu maintained that Congress MLAs respect the governor and their protest was against the failure of state government. Congress MLA Harshvardhan Chauhan said party legislators never intended to hurt the governor or disrespect him. But when the governor started the address, after reading seven to eight pages, he immediately switched to the last page though there were many pages left and he should have read the complete address, he said. Chauhan alleged that not reading the complete address was against the norms. “We wanted to speak to the governor,” he said, adding that he had requested the speaker to allow them to speak to the governor but to no avail. He said suspension of five Congress MLAs will be discussed in the Congress Legislature Party meeting, after which the next course of action will be decided. From Monday, all those suspended will sit outside the Assembly to raise issues of public importance, he said. He alleged that the incident took place outside the House and the speaker had no right to suspend them as he could take action only if the incident took place inside the House. “We were not heard and the decision taken was one-sided,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-mlas-accuse-governor-of-breaking-norms-by-skipping-complete-address/articleshow/81235980.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Kolkata||New Mkt traders get cop assurance||Kolkata: The traders of New Market, SriRam Arcade, Firpo’s Market and Treasure Island heaved a sigh of relief on Day 3 of their agitation, after both police and civic authorities assured them of initiating action against encroachment of carriageways, pavements and car parking space in and around the heritage market. According to Ashok Gupta, the president of the Joint Traders’ Federation (JTF), the umbrella body of the traders in the Chowringhee belt after half-an-hour meeting with the DC (central) Rupesh Kumar the traders were satisfied as Kumar reportedly assured them of regular action against a section of hawkers who was encroaching carriageways and flouting hawking rules otherwise. “We were satisfied to hear a word of assurance from the top cop. Let us keep a watch on the encroachment and report it to the police,” Gupta said. The KMC brass has asked the solid waste management officials to keep a regular watch on the encroachment. “We have been asked to keep a regular watch on the encroachment of carriageways and parking lots which have been allotted to different cooperative agencies in and around New Market. We may need to seize dalas if any hawkers try to gobble up the space,” a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-mkt-traders-get-cop-assurance/articleshow/81235989.cms||Saikat Ray
February 27, 2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh first to launch e-Cabinet system: Governor||SHIMLA: Governor Bandaru Dattatreya while addressing the budget session of Himachal Pradesh Assembly on Friday, said the state government has launched the e-Cabinet system, which runs on e-Cabinet software, to conduct meetings of the council of ministers. This probably makes Himachal the first state in the country to implement an end to end e-Cabinet system. He said e-office is being implemented for smooth functioning of government offices and to reduce paper usage. At present, he said, e-office is being implemented in 55 departments, under which 2,474 officers and officials have been trained and 19,701 files have been processed. In the first phase, work of all branches of Himachal Pradesh secretariat will be shifted to the e-office platform on priority basis. In the second phase, all the directorates and thereafter, regional offices will be brought on the e-office platform. Dattatreya said the government has launched the e-Governance Track and Trace Project using Information Technology techniques for effective implementation of excise administration and to curb revenue evasion. As a result, significant revenue growth is expected. Revenue of about Rs 4,703 crore has been collected in the current financial year despite the impact of Covid-19, he said. According to the governor, the state government has notified time-bound availability of 228 public services under the ‘Public Service Guarantee Act, which covers 34 investor-friendly services under mission mode for ease of doing business. In addition, 65 services listed under state business reform action plan and district business reform action plan are also being notified under this Act. Due to these efforts, Himachal Pradesh has risen to rank 7 at the national level in ‘Ease of doing business index,” in which the state was ranked 16th in the previous year. He said the 40 megawatt ‘Renukaji Dam Project’ allotted to Himachal Pradesh Power Corporation by the Government of India has been declared as a project of National importance. Besides, investment clearance for the project has also been given by the Union ministry of water resources. To mitigate the power problem in Pangi Valley, the state government has given off-grid solar power plants of 250 watt per house each to 1,000 houses of people living below the poverty line. He said the government is striving to improve Heli connectivity in the state. At present, construction work of the heliport at Banredu, Sanjauli-Dhali by-pass in Shimla district has been completed and successful trial landing has been carried out. Heliports at Baddi in district Solan, Kangnidhar in district Mandi and Rampur in district Shimla are under construction. Also, 24 new helipads are being constructed in the state, he announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-first-to-launch-e-cabinet-system-governor/articleshow/81235987.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Beware of fake job offers abroad, warn cyber cops||MUMBAI: The state cyber police through its Twitter handle on Friday issued a warning to people looking for overseas jobs, asking them not to part with original documents like passport and identity cards as one may end up paying money to get it back or the documents could be misused to blackmail or could be sold to unscrupulous elements. The warning followed reports of fake overseas job advertisements. The cyber police said the new trend on employment websites is to tell people they have been selected for a job overseas although the official website of the company providing the employment does not show any vacancies. TOI has come across a jobseeker (a video editor from Kerala) who escaped after falling prey to such a fraud last month after he was offered a job with a media firm in Dubai and was told to send his education certificates, passport and other documents for verification. “Fraudster lure jobseekers with fake job offer letter of big overseas companies,” said state Cyber superintendent of Police Sanjay Shintre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/beware-of-fake-job-offers-abroad-warn-cyber-cops/articleshow/81236111.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Big task in e-push: How to manage battery waste||NEW DELHI: It may be environmentally useful to shift to electric mobility. But with estimates putting the lithium-ion battery waste generated by Delhi’s prospective electric bus fleet of 1,400 alone at 21,000 tonnes in six years, the state government will have to pay extra attention to finding a mechanism for their safe disposal. The estimate of the colossal battery waste generated is contained in a study conducted by the waste management NGO Chintan. Its report says, “If Delhi-NCR sees an influx of 1,400 electric buses between 2021 and 2022, then by the end of approximately seven years, there can be 1,400 used battery packs that either need to be recycled or put to second life uses.” Each battery will weigh around 1,500 kg. Unlike lead acid batteries, the lithium-ion battery used by electric vehicles is a single with multiple cells. Bharati Chaturvedi, director, Chintan, said, “It’s not good enough to say that a plan will gradually come up. We need to ensure there is a mechanism for their safe recycling and for their storage. Otherwise, switching to e-vehicles with poor battery management and handling will lessen the positive effects of such a switch.” In November 2018, Delhi government launched the Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy, 2020, aimed at reducing the city’s pollution levels by bringing down vehicle emissions and targeted a 25% registration of electric vehicles among all new vehicles by 2024. This policy incentivises the use of electric vehicles, including waiver of road tax and registration fees. “Based on the threats and potential threats of li-ion batteries, it is evident that there needs to be a more comprehensive policy and set of actions required,” the Chintan report notes. “To efficiently manage the battery waste from EVs, both their manufacturing and recovery from the vehicles need to be closely monitored and regulated.” The Chintan report says, “Diesel buses in Delhi on average each travel up to 250km a day. In a year, they can travel up to 91,250km. Estimating that the e-buses will travel a similar distance and capping its life at 5,80,000km based on Clay Stranger’s estimate, these buses can last 6-7 years. Therefore, at the end of six years, the expected li-ion battery waste is expected to be 21,000 tonnes (1,500kg per battery x 1,400).” A Friends of the Earth Europe report on lithium batteries has pointed out how extraction of lithium has significant environmental and social impacts, especially due to water pollution and depletion. “In addition, toxic chemicals are needed to process lithium. The release of such chemicals through leaching, spills or air emissions can harm communities, ecosystems and food production. Moreover, lithium extraction inevitably harms the soil and also causes air contamination,” that report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/big-task-in-e-push-how-to-manage-battery-waste/articleshow/81236036.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 27, 2021||Aurangabad||Lakhs of sr citizens in Marathwada to get jab||Aurangabad: Health authorities in Aurangabad and other parts of the region have started preparing for inoculating people above 60-years of age. Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s health officer Dr Neeta Padalkar told TOI, “As per an estimate, there are about 1.5 lakh people in the age group of 60 and above.” Health authorities said that till Friday evening, there were awaiting specific directives regarding the vaccination of the next category of beneficiaries. When contacted, deputy director of health Dr Swapnil Lale said that the health department already has data of people with comorbidity as well as people according to their age groups. “This data has been collected under the non-communicable diseases drive that has been underway for past few years,” he said, adding that the health department is ready to successfully run the Covid-19 vaccination drive even in remote areas having state-run basic health facilities. The Centre on Thursday said that the next round of vaccination would be available in government and private hospitals. While the vaccine would be given for free at government hospitals, those receiving it at the private hospitals will have to pay a fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/lakhs-of-sr-citizens-in-marathwada-to-get-jab/articleshow/81234502.cms||Mohammed Akhef
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Awareness drive on Pocso Act in 2 dists in March||Jaipur: The child commission has asked the police stations across the state to give details about the designated officials dealing with cases of crime against women following the abduction and rape of a five-year-old in Jhunjhunu recently. The child commission’s awareness campaign will be taken to Sawai Madhopur and Tonk next month to make the children aware about the POCSO act in a bid to make them report it in case they face a situation like this.The Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (RSCPCR) had taken cognisance of the rape and abduction of a five-year-old girl in Jhunjhunu and asked a report regarding the incident from the district police as well as the administration. The child was playing with her brother when the accused abducted her following which he raped her.Sangeeta Beniwal, chairperson, RCSPCR said, “The child is recovering and am in regular contact with the doctors. In the meantime, to ensure that such crimes do not happen in future, we have asked the police stations to send us the list of officials who are on child desk as well as form special teams to investigate these cases.”Meanwhile, the child commission’s awareness campaign will be taken to Tonk and Sawai Madhopur from March 1 to 3 after it was kickstarted in Nagaur on February 17. This campaign will be taken to Sikar, Kota, Ajmer, Udaipur, Jaisalmer and other districts as well.It will also consider why many children are unable to get access to education. The campaign called ‘Aayog Aapke Dwar’ will talk to children about good and bad touch as well.“After Nagaur, we held a meeting to discuss the various takeaways to find more ways to increase the scope of the campaign. During the interaction with the government school girls, we found that few of them did not have uniforms and though the government has decided to give free uniforms in the recent budget, we found that an additional thing in the campaign would be interaction with the NGOs working for children’s welfare,” added Beniwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/awareness-drive-on-pocso-act-in-2-dists-in-march/articleshow/81235994.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Court to hear petitions against non-renewal of liquor licences||Jaipur: A division bench of Rajasthan high court on Friday said that liquor licencees can individually approach the court before March 16 so that it can hear their cases against non-renewal of licences by the government.In the excise policy of 2019-20, the government had said that the licences would be valid for two years after renewal. Instead, the excise department made a new policy for 2021-22 where a new auction system was introduced.The bench comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Satish Kumar Sharma said that the bench will hear all the petitions and the verdict will be applicable to the petitioners only, not all the retail shops.Nilesh Mewara, president of Raj Liquor Welfare Society, said,“They had made several applications knowing that the licences would be for two years. Application money is not refunded in the event of not getting licences. But people took the risk. By not allowing them the renewal facility as promised in the policy is an injustice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/court-to-hear-petitions-against-non-renewal-of-liquor-licences/articleshow/81236004.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||BMC lists defaulters as it meets only 45% of property tax target||Mumbai: With barely a month left for BMC to meet its property tax target for the financial year, its assessment and collection department has listed top 100 defaulters in every ward from whom it plans to recover outstanding amounts. The target for the year was Rs4,500 crore but BMC has so far collected only Rs 2,200 crore (around 45%). Officials said the defaulters, mostly commercial establishments, owed the civic body Rs19,000 crore. “We have prepared a ward-wise list and will begin to take action in a descending manner if they do not pay up. Initially, we will focus on commercial establishments. Later, we will act against residential defaulters,” said Sangeeta Hasnale, assistant municipal commissioner (assessment & collection department), adding that in many cases attachment and water disconnection had begun. BMC plans to auction the properties it attaches after deciding their value. Attachments, auctions and disconnection of water supply was prolonged due to Covid-19 in this financial year, said civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal in his 2021-22 budget speech earlier this month. “We are working towards meeting our target set for the year, and apart from sending reminders for payment of property tax to citizens for the current year, action against defaulters will be taken in a phased manner,” said an official. For the civic body, property tax is the biggest source of revenue. Till 2017 octroi was the highest source of revenue, but it was replaced with Goods and Services Tax (GST). In 2020-21, the civic body had estimated it would collect Rs 6,768 crore as property taxes, but it was later revised to Rs4,500 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-lists-defaulters-as-it-meets-only-45-of-property-tax-target/articleshow/81237482.cms||Richa Pinto
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||Pak activists begin online campaign for reopening of Kartarpur corridor||Amritsar: A day after the India-Pakistan ceasefire agreement, the likeminded organizations and individuals in Pakistan have begun an online movement for the opening of Kartapur corridor, which had been closed for pilgrimage about a year back to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Talking to TOI, Babar Jalandhari, general secretary of Lahore-based NGO Punjabi Parchar, said, “The recent ceasefire agreement between India and Pakistan has encouraged us to begin a movement for the opening of Kartarpur corridor.” When both countries can agree to strictly observe all agreements on a ceasefire along the contentious Line of Control despite serious differences, then why both nations can’t resume the pilgrimage to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartapur Sahib, he added. Notably, the director generals of military operations of both countries have decided to observe ceasefire agreements on LoC and other sectors with effect from the intervening night of February 24/25. He said as suspension of unprovoked firing between two nations was aimed at peace, similarly resuming pilgrimage to Kartapur Sahib would also promote peace between two nations. Rana Umer, another social activist from Sheikhupura, said following the ceasefire agreement, the likeminded people here floated an idea of beginning a movement for the reopening of Kartapur Corridor using all available social media platforms. “These days, online medium is the best platform. We are hopeful of getting immense support from India and other countries as well for this pious initiative” said Rana. Notably, India had temporarily suspended Kartapur Sahib pilgrimage as well as its registration from March 16, 2020 as a precautionary measure to contain and control the spread of Covid-19. Nearly six months after Pakistan’s ministry of religious affairs and interfaith harmony, through a notification issued on October 2, decided to allow the Indian visitors to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur Sahib, from dawn to dusk as per the bilateral agreement of 2019 on Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib Corridor. However, disagreeing with Pakistan’s decision, India denied reciprocating the gesture stating that decision to re-open the Kartarpur corridor would be taken in accordance with the protocols relating Covid-19 and easing of restrictions. “Now the situation has changed, India has allowed gatherings at religious places, social and political functions, so it can allow devotees to cross over the border to fulfill their religious aspirations,” said Gurbir Singh, resident of Nankana Sahib. Babar said they had made a Facebook page, a Twitter handle and would extensively use all other platforms to urge the Indian government to re-open the Kartapur corridor. Box: Permission blues Following the denial of permission to Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC)-led Sikh jatha to travel to Pakistan to observe Saka Nankana Sahib on February 21, the Hindu jatha also feared denial of permission to travel across the border to celebrate the festival of Mahashivratri on March 11. “If coronavirus situation and security threat persist, the government could deny us the permission to travel to Pakistan,” said Shiv Partap Bajaj, president of Kendrya Sanatan Dharam Sabha while talking to TOI on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pak-activists-begin-online-campaign-for-reopening-of-kartarpur-corridor/articleshow/81236029.cms||Yudhvir Rana
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||HP CM to Cong on assembly row: Stay grounded, else people could bury you||Shimla: Congress MLAs’ unruly behaviour with Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya on the first day of the state assembly’s budget session on Friday, invited criticism and condemnation from assembly speaker, and BJP chief minister and MLAs. CM Jai Ram Thakur said the opposition should remain “grounded” or it would face the wrath of public. “Zameen mai rahiye, warna zameen me gaad dete hain log (stay grounded or else people will bury you under the ground),” he said, adding that an attempt had been made to damage the vehicle of governor and it was a planned attack. The incident happened with the governor near the speaker’s chamber at assembly complex here on Friday. The CM said there might have been incidents of vandalism in the legislative assembly of other states, but Himachal’s assembly had its dignity. He said shouting slogans against the governor in the legislative assembly and attempts to break his car were unbearable. He said he felt hurt by the incident. “What is the justification for sloganeering against the governor. Leader of opposition is not above the law,” he said, adding that required action should be taken in the incident. He described the incident as a reflection of the Congress leadership losing its ability to grapple with democratic systems. He said this was the position of Congress in the whole country and they had no leadership in the hill state. Condemning the act of opposition legislators, Thakur said the state assembly’s house had a glorious history, but the incident on Thursday had never happened before in the state. He said that in other state of country too, governors had never been treated in such a manner. “Opposition has tried to insult the governor and if they are not happy with government, they should tell us,” he said, adding that slogans were raised against the governor for the first time. “We don’t know why opposition is frustrated, as it crossed all limits in disrespecting governor,” he added. He accused leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri of laying his hands on ADC of governor. “Behaviour of some opposition leaders is not tolerable,” he said. BOxes Attack on Constituion: BJP mantri State parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj moved a resolution in the assembly to initiate action against Congress MLAs responsible for the incident. He said it was not an attack on governor, but attack on Constitution. He demanded strict action from speaker against those responsible for the incident. He said leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri had grabbed the neck of ADC to governor and some opposition legislators hit the shoulder and back of governor with the copy of governor’s address. He said opposition MLAs also punched the vehicle of governor. Bhardwaj had moved the resolution to suspend MLAs Agnihotri, Harshvardhan Chauhan, Satpal Raizada, Sunder Singh Thakur and Vinay Kumar till the conclusion of budget session. Forest minister Rakesh Pathania said the incident was shameful and alleged that opposition leaders used abusive language. He said this showed political bankruptcy. Keeping decorum collective job: Speaker Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar said he too was witness to the incident and felt hurt. He said keeping a decorum in the house was the collective responsibility of everyone. He said sensitivity that needed to be reflected in the leader of opposition was missing. After putting the resolution moved by Bhardwaj for voting, speaker announced the suspension of above the five MLAs for entire budget session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-cm-to-cong-on-assembly-row-stay-grounded-else-people-could-bury-you/articleshow/81236010.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Goa||House not to be in session on Maundy Thursday||PANAJI: The Goa legislative assembly on Friday issued a revised schedule for the budget session in which April 1 (Maundy Thursday) has been set aside as a non-working day for the House. The revision comes a day after chief minister Pramod Sawant, following criticism from the opposition, said the assembly would not function on holidays that coincide with the Holy Week observed by the Christian community during Lent. As per the revised schedule, the budget session will last for 13 days instead of the earlier 12. It will begin on March 24 and end on April 16. The House will not be in session on March 29, April 1, April 2, April 13 and April 14 as these dates coincide with a Saturday, Sunday or a public holiday. On Wednesday, opposition leader Digambar Kamat and Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai had expressed their disapproval over the budget session being convened from March 24 to April 12, which they said would coincide with the Holy Week and had Maundy Thursday as one of its working days. “Goa is known for communal harmony and respecting all religions. BJP must learn to respect all religions,” Kamat had said in a press note. Sardesai had termed the issue a “cunning and premeditated attempt” by the government to hurt Catholic sentiments and “endear itself to the BJP top brass”. Stating that it had become a habit for the opposition to criticise the government, Sawant told reporters that holidays would not be affected even on working days of the assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/house-not-to-be-in-session-on-maundy-thu/articleshow/81237453.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Search on for culprits who vandalised Ambedkar statue||Jaipur: Jhunjhunu police registered an FIR after a statue of social reformer Bhimrao Babasaheb Ambedkar was vandalized by unknown miscreants at Pilod village of Jhunjhunu district on Wednesday night. However, no one has been arrested yet, police said.“We got to know about it on Wednesday night and the statue was repaired the next morning. The village is located near the Haryana border,” said Jhunjhunu collector U D Khan.Jhunjhunu SP Manish Tripathi said teams have been formed to conduct searches and the culprits would be arrested soon. “The FIR has been lodged at Pilod police station in Surajgarh. The statue stood at an abandoned playground situated in the last village, Pilod, which is very close to the Highway that is heading towards Haryana. There’s hardly any human habitation in the nearby areas,” he said. According to police, the village has a mixed population.“Our team reached the spot after the locals registered a complaint. The search operation to arrest the criminals is on. We are on the job and very soon we’ll nab the criminals. It looks like some locals may have committed the crime,” Tripathi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/search-on-for-culprits-who-vandalised-ambedkar-statue/articleshow/81236017.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Bhopal||Complacency effect? 40% drop in sale of sanitisers in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Amid the rise in Covid cases, many citizens in the state capital have stopped using sanitisers. Around 40% drop in sale of sanitisers has been recorded in the past three months. Experts said that people should not be careless as the pandemic can be back with a vengeance. There has been a similar drop in the sale of surface disinfectants, sprays and other such products necessary to keep Covid-19 at bay. Such is the situation that the use of sanitisers have been limited to malls and a few offices only. “This is not a good sign. People have started thinking that with the arrival of vaccines, they will not need sanitisers,” said Vikas Pillai, a shop owner in Arera Colony. He added that his previous stock is yet to be sold. “I am not saying this to sell the product. By stopping to use sanitisers, people are inviting trouble,” said Pillai. In order to make sanitisers easily available, the government had even allowed grocery shops and others to sell it. “You will hardly see sanitisers in any shop except medical shops. This is enough to gauge that people have stopped using it,” said a shop owner, Nikhil Nema, in BHEL locality. While talking to the citizens, it was noticed that they have given a thumb down to sanitisers. “I am using a mask in such situations. I do not find any reason to use sanitisers. I can't carry this bottle everywhere,” said Ashish Singh, a banker. Some people have started using soap in place of sanitisers. “Either use soap or sanitiser. It is important to keep washing hands properly. I carry soap sticks with me and even put a soap cake in my car. Whenever I feel the need, I wash my hands with soap,” said Nishant Mishra, a government employee. Even the Bhopal Chemist Association had to issue a letter requesting people to keep using sanitisers and other disinfectants. “It is true that the sale has dropped drastically. I have written a letter to the medical shop owners to keep motivating people to use sanitisers and other related products,” said Lalit Jain, president, Bhopal Chemist Association. He added that people have the wrong perception that Covid has started losing its intensity. “We have seen in the past few days that the cases are on the rise. In such a situation, we need to be very careful,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/complacency-effect-40-drop-in-sale-of-sanitisers/articleshow/81236025.cms||Ramendra Singh
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Son gets back Rs 50,000 lost by dad in e-fraud 7 months after his death||MUMBAI: Seven months after his 78-year-old father died, dejected and disturbed after losing Rs49,999 in an online credit card fraud, an Andheri-based entrepreneur was in for a pleasant surprise when he found the sum credited to his bank account on Wednesday. He then found out that the persistent efforts of Mumbai police had paid off and the money had been recovered. Investigating officer Khalil Shaikh, attached with Amboli police station, had pursued the case and got the banks to freeze the accounts that the fraudster is suspected to have operated from Sikkim to park the money. The incident occurred in December 2019 when Satpal Jaggi, a retired bank manager, got a call from a person identifying himself as a bank telecaller. He told the senior citizen his credit card would get blocked since he had not updated the KYC details. “My father panicked and revealed his card and bank details after the fraudster said he would help update the KYC. Immediately after he had shared the information, the fraudster siphoned off Rs49,999, followed by another Rs9,999,” said Deeppak Jaggi. He said his 23-year-old son got suspicious on noticing his grandfather share confidential bank details over the phone and he managed to block a third fraudulent transaction. Deeppak says his father slipped into a depression after he lost the money, and passed away in July 2020. “Assistant inspector Shaikh called me after getting to know about my father’s demise and promised to recover his hard-earned money. He rigorously followed up the case,” Deeppak told TOI on Friday. He has decided to contribute Rs10,000 of the recovered sum to needy students. The entrepreneur also put up a post on Facebook applauding the Mumbai police and assistant inspector Shaikh. Senior inspector Someshwar Kamte too praised the investigating officer. “The case is still under probe and we are trying to track the fraudster,” said Kamte. Police are also trying to recover the remaining Rs9,999.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/son-gets-back-rs-50k-lost-by-dad-in-e-fraud-7-months-after-his-death/articleshow/81236075.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: No nod for new fitness centres for vehicles||JAIPUR: The state transport minister taking a firm stance against his own department has stopped setting up of new fitness test centres for vehicles in the state till further notice. This has been done as due to the privatisation of the fitness centres, they were being approved indiscriminately and there is lack of uniformity in the districts. A policy is to be framed which will outline the parameters according to which these centres will be approved. Pratap singh Khachariyawas, state transport minister, said, “We are going to come up with a policy for setting up the fitness centres for the vehicles and no new ones will be approved till the police is formed. The existing ones will continue to operate.” According to sources, the minister was perturbed about the fitness centres and the rampant manner in which they had been approved. “The transport department in a bid to earn revenue had approved the application for the fitness centres without following any guidelines. For 1,000-1,500 vehicles, there is to be one centre but while in few districts like Churu, Jhunjhunu and others, there are multiple of them, in other places like Jhalawar, Baran there are negligible. To control corruption, the transport minister has stopped the processing of files which essentially means that the transport department officials have been deprived of the authority to approve them till the policy is formalised”, said a source. To set up a fitness centre which is used for testing if the vehicles are fit to be on the roads, an investment of approximately Rs 2 crore is required and an official said, “In the previous government it was decided to let the private operators set up the fitness centres which continued till now but now a certain kind of uniformity is required as many fitness centres are set up in areas where there is not much of traffic which makes having them there futile.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-nod-for-new-fitness-centres-for-vehicles/articleshow/81236028.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Bhopal||332 new cases take MP tally past 2.61L||Bhopal: With 332 new Covid-19 cases reported in the state on Friday, the tally of Covid-19 patients reached 2,61,013. Apart from the fresh cases, three deaths were also reported in the state on Friday. With this, the Covid death toll in MP reached 3,862. On Friday, new cases were reported from 40 of the 52 districts of the state. Districts where no new cases were reported on Friday include Shahdol, Dewas, Raisen, Katni, Chhatarpur, Seoni, Guna, Bhind, Umaria, Tikamgarh, Niwari and Agar Malwa. Fresh cases were reported in double figures from 5 districts. The highest numbers of cases were reported from Indore where 96 people tested positive, followed by Bhopal where 58 tested positive and 18 patients were found in each of Jabalpur and Gwalior districts. On the brighter side, 246 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these new people recovering from Covid-19, the total recoveries in the state reached 2,54,633. A total 16,070 samples were tested on Friday, of which 332 tested positive. Thus, the positivity rate—which is the number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Friday stood at 2.0 per cent. As on February 26, there were 2,518 active cases in the state. However, though cases are increasing in the state again, still there are at least two districts — Bhind and Niwari — where there are zero active cases of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/332-new-cases-take-mp-tally-past-2-61l/articleshow/81236072.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Trichy||Trial run of rope car facility atop Ayyarmalai begins||Trichy: The trial run of the rope car facility at Ayyarmalai for Rathinagireeswar temple built at an estimated cost of Rs 6.17 crore began on Friday after the facility was inaugurated by the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami through video conferencing from Chennai.The facility at the Chola-era temple under the Hindu religious and charitable endowment (HR & CE) department was scheduled to be opened on Saturday, but the event was advanced to Friday so that it can be inaugurated before the assembly election dates were declared.The rope car can take 120 devotees to the hilltop temple in an hour. There will be a total eight box cabins with a seating capacity of two each—four going up and four coming down. Considered to be one of the 275 sacred Saivite temples, Rathinagireeswar temple is located at a height of 1,178 foot in Kulithalai of Karur district. Devotees need to climb 1,017 steps to reach the temple on the hilltop.After the successful trial, the facility will be thrown open for devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trial-run-of-rope-car-facility-atop-ayyarmalai-begins/articleshow/81237486.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Bhopal||Covid norms go for a toss at public places despite surge in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Even as provisions for observance of Covid-19 protocol are more or less still in place at different places — offices, banks, shops, restaurants, hotels, religious places, malls, in the absence of proper enforcement and slackness setting in among people towards coronavirus guidelines, they are either not being used or used only when insisted on, either by the visitor or the shopkeeper or the staff in an office, bank or restaurant. Shops — particularly dealing in grocery or medicines — where there is more crowd, had insulated themselves from the customers by putting a rope around the counter so as to not allow customers to come in. Also outside, there were circles for customers to stand in a queue to get their order, but all that is now gone. “It was done under instructions from the district administration. The administration, itself, stopped enforcing the norms ahead of the festival season as crowds started turning up in the market and people were themselves not bothered, so the precautions that were being taken after the lockdown started disappearing,” said a shop owner at Ravishankar Market in five no. stop. Hair salons opened considerably late in Bhopal despite the Centre allowing their operations. Salons were very particular in sanitising the chair, use throw-away towels, barber using his mask while cutting hair or shaving and sanitising the scissors and blades too, at least in upmarket localities, have given up most of it until and unless a customer insists, which very few of them do. “Throw-away towels were costing a lot. The rates of shaving and haircut had almost doubled due to this and expenses on sanitisers. So long as people were scared, they were ready to shell out extra money, but now, they don’t. So, we still have all those provisions, but use it only when asked to by a customer,” said a hairdressing shop owner in Shahpura. Roadside vendors were never so particular about wearing masks, but they allowed it to be on their face, may be tied to chin or hanging from the ear because they felt that customers may object to their not wearing masks or may avoid coming to their shop, if they are not wearing a mask But, now when customers themselves are not wearing masks, they, too, have got rid of it. “We still keep a mask, but seldom does anyone asks us to wear a mask before taking out stuff ordered by them. Police and BMC staff are also absent from the scene. I was never comfortable in a mask, now I keep it in my pocket but rarely wear it,” said Lakhan, a fruit vendor in Trilanga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-norms-go-for-a-toss-at-public-places-despite-surge/articleshow/81236046.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
February 27, 2021||Trichy||Bull which terrorised tamers dies of snake bite in Tamil Nadu||PUDUKOTTAI: Since 2019 when he made his jallikattu debut sending shivers down the spine of bull tamers, Ravanan was much feared and revered. But on Friday, the eleven-year-old Pudukottai bull’s run ended in a eucalyptus plantation in Gandharvakottai where he was found lifeless, bitten by a snake. Popularly known as sub-inspector Anuradha’s bull, Ravanan belonged to Malaimadu breed of Theni district. “It is very rare to find a bull remaining in the arena for close to 10 minutes and charge at the tamers ferociously. He did it every time,” said Sasi Kumar, one of his caretakers. “Bull tamers were so scared that they would climb over the metal railing in the running area when the announcement of his entry was made,” he said. Ravanan took part in four jallikattu events this year where he went untamed. Ravanan’s owner P Anuradha, a weightlifting champion and sub inspector of police in Pudukottai district, said she was offered up to Rs 30 lakh for him after he stole the show in the 2019 jallikattu events in Madurai. Terming the bull as her lucky charm, she said, “Ravanan gave us an identity and made us popular world over. We decided not to sell him till his death. I never imagined that the end would come so soon,” she told TOI from Haryana where she has gone for Olympics selection event. She said the bull was gifted to her by a mutual friend after her triumph at the Commonwealth games in 2019. “My brother wanted to raise bulls, but we could not afford it until a few years ago. Ravanan’s arrival was unexpected and we never thought that we would become so popular because of him,” she said. The bull was on the run for the last few days after a jallikattu event at Murattu Solagampatti. Caretakers could not catch hold of him after the event and he ran into a eucalyptus plantation near the jallikattu venue. “After several days of hide and seek, he was found dead in the early hours on Friday,” said Marimuthu, Anuradha’s brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bull-which-terrorised-tamers-dies-of-snake-bite/articleshow/81237473.cms||Sampath Kumar
February 27, 2021||Pune||Plant worker held for bid to extort Rs 5L from owner||Pune: An employee of an industrial plant at Nighoje in Khed taluka was arrested and four others, including a local journalist, were booked on the charge of attempting to extort Rs5 lakh from the company owner. Police said suspect Pravin Thakare (38) of Nighoje had availed a loan of Rs3lakh from the company for constructing a house. He had given a cheque of the same amount to the company against the loan, police said. When Thakare did not return the amount, the cheque was deposited in the bank, and it bounced. “Following which a case against Thakare was filed in court,” said an officer from Mahalunge Chowkey. Furious over this, Thakare, along the with a local journalist and three others from a social organisation, entered the company premises. “They started recording a video of the plant and also asked the plant manager details about functioning of the company,” the officer said. To settle the matter, the journalist was contacted through a contractor of the company. “At that time the journalist told him that the company should write off the loan of Rs 3lakh and give Rs5lakh to Thakare to arrive at a settlement,”he said. The journalist also threatened that if the money was not paid, they would damage the company with the help of some Mathadi organisation and shut it down,” the officer said. After receiving the complaint, a police team, led by assistant inspector Dattatreya Gulig, arrested Thakare on Thursday. “Search is on for other suspects,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plant-worker-held-for-bid-to-extort-rs-5l-from-owner/articleshow/81234586.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||Wellness centres for cops to come up in all districts, commissionerates||Chandigarh: Punjab Police has decided to establish health and wellness centres for the police force in all 22 districts of the state, including three commissionerates of police. These centres would also come up in all the armed police and police training units. The centres will have facilities like indoor gym, outdoor gym, space for meditation and yoga, physiotherapy and counselling room to focus on the health and wellness of cops. DGP Dinkar Gupta said job pressure and stressful working conditions of police lead to fatigue, trauma and stress, which could further cause serious health issues. In the first phase, an amount of Rs 2.97 crore from the welfare head of the budget has already been provided to 15 districts, including commissionerate of police at Ludhiana as well as at Amritsar, to establish the centres, the DGP said. He said a majority of these centres at commissionerate of police at Amritsar and districts Patiala, Tarn Taran, Mansa and Pathankot are almost ready and expected to get functional by mid-March, while construction work at the remaining centres is under process. In the second phase, funds will be disbursed among the remaining districts, armed police and police training centres to establish such centres. An amount of Rs 2 lakh annually has been earmarked for each district from the next financial year under the head welfare of police personnel to conduct health and wellness programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wellness-centres-for-cops-to-come-up-in-all-districts-commissionerates/articleshow/81236049.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Govt to invite partners to train poor for employment generation||Jaipur: Secretary, labour and employment, and chairman RSLDC Neeraj K Pawan on Friday informed that training partners will be invited through the website and newspapers from Saturday (February 27) to ensure employment generation, self-reliance and providing skill training to the poor under the three new schemes — ‘Saksham’, ‘Samarth’ and ‘Raj Quick’ — launched by the state government.Pawan said this while delivering a speech at the inaugural session of the 4th edition of Rajasthan Skills Summit on Friday. It was organized by FICCI Rajasthan State Council in association with Rajasthan Skill and Livelihoods Development Corporation (RSLDC).The scheme ‘Saksham’ aims at making an individual self-reliant and a job creator. ‘Samarth’ is a scheme that aims to offer a basket of skills for the downtrodden and those who belong to the marginalized section of the society like transgender, beggars, etc. ‘Raj Quick’ is based on employment generation. It ensures that those who get skilled are also given a job opportunity to work for a minimum period of three months.These schemes have already been launched by CM Ashok Gehlot. The session was moderated by head of FICCI Rajasthan State Council Atul Sharma.BoxJaipur: Six IAS officer trainees of Rajasthan cadre (batch 2020), posted as assistant collectors and executive magistrates (under training), have been posted in the districts and they will proceed for training as per the directions of the director general, HCM-RIPA. The trainee officers are Pratibha Verma (Jaipur), Gunjan Singh (Sikar), Dheeraj Kumar Singh (Karauli), Siddharth Palanichamy S (Bikaner), Sohan Lal (Jodhpur), Mridul Singh (Nagaur).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-invite-partners-to-train-poor-for-employment-generation/articleshow/81236073.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Curbed dissent with iron fist, claims BJP||Jaipur: The state BJP leaders claimed to have curbed dissent with an iron fist in the party, arising out of a letter shot by 20 MLAs alleging not being allowed to raise issues in the assembly. Most of the MLAs who signed the letter are considered to be from former CM Vasundhara Raje camp, which has further escalated the matter to the central leadership. The letter sparked a major issue when the leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria and BJP state president Satish Poonia called out the conduct of the MLAs, forcing majority of them to either express regret or ignorance on the content of the letter. BJP state in-charge Arun Singh, who downplayed the issue before the media on February 23, called out these MLAs at MNIT one by one till late in the evening. “He expressed his displeasure over the issue and warned them of not using such a medium next to raise their issues,” said a source. Singh had advised the state leaders to address their issues by allowing them to speak in the assembly, which yielded results as four of the 20 MLAs spoke in the assembly on Thursday. Pratap Singh Singhvi, MLA Chabbra, who was one of the signatories in the letter, said, “I have addressed my grievances to our party in-charge Arun Singh. He has assured of all assistance. The matter is over now.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/curbed-dissent-with-iron-fist-claims-bjp/articleshow/81236068.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Food dept directs to inquire about huge gap in wheat lifted from godowns and delivered||Jaipur: The food and civil supplies department secretary Naveen Jain has directed the supplies officers of all the districts to conduct an inquiry to find out the reason for the huge gap and discrepancies in delivery of wheat at the fair price shops (FPS) even after lifting the foodgrains from the FCI godowns for the month of March.It has been observed that despite lifting 1.49 lakh metric tonnes of wheat from the FCI godowns, 44,428 metric tonnes of wheat have not reached the fair price shops (FPS) yet.Jain directed the DSOs of Banswara, Alwar, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Ganganagar, Pali, Bharatpur, Churu and Udaipur to examine the quantity that has not been received by the dealers and investigate the matter by enquiring about the time when the last truck had departed from the godowns lifting the foodgrains. “Action should be taken against those who are involved in this and are responsible for the delay, be it the transporters or the civil supplies managers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/food-dept-directs-to-inquire-about-huge-gap-in-wheat-lifted-from-godowns-and-delivered/articleshow/81236033.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||For BJP, 2021 is just the semi-final||Thiruvananthapuram: BJP state president K Surendran’s statement that BJP needs just 35-40 seats to form a government in the state might seem preposterous, but it certainly reflects the confidence the party has in shaping its fortunes in the largely bipolar state politics. Surendran might have made the claim to wind up CPM and Congress leaders vying with each other to prove who loathes the saffron party the most. However, the manner in which the BJP state unit is approaching the assembly election and the stellar support the central leadership is according to Kerala is unmistakable proof of the party’s growing interest in the state. For BJP, the 2021 assembly election is a virtual semi-final. Its real target is the 2026 election. It’s not concerned about the impact its political growth would have on either LDF or UDF. Even if it means a second term for the Pinarayi Vijayan government. The party, say sources, expects to increase its vote share to 20% from 16% in 2016 and win at least three or four seats this time. “BJP has emerged as a third force and winning enough seats to form a government is just a matter of time. It could happen sooner or later,” party spokesperson B Gopalakrishnan asid. It was following instructions from the central leadership that BJP started recruiting reputed personalities into the party. Leaders expect more such persons to join the party by the time Surendran’s ‘Vijaya Yatra’ concludes in Thiruvananthapuram on March 7. The party would not mind offering any of the coveted seats for persons like E Sreedharan as part of building a non-corrupt and development-friendly image.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/for-bjp-2021-is-just-the-semi-final/articleshow/81234645.cms||B S Anilkumar
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||HP doc who made rabies treatment affordable makes it to WHO panel||Shimla: State epidemiologist at the Himachal Pradesh State Institute of Health and Family Welfare, Dr Omesh Kumar Bharti, who was conferred the Padma Shri for his path-breaking research in rabies, has now been included in the World Health Organisation (WHO) panel of experts for strategic plan for control and prevention of snakebite envenoming. A communication by the department for the control of neglected tropical diseases of WHO, Geneva to Bharti said, “Your expertise and knowledge are highly valuable to WHO as it operationalises and rolls out the strategic plan and from time to time, we may request your technical support and assistance for projects.” Bharti, 53, said it is a great honour for him to be simultaneously working on snakebite management along with Rabies. Part of national consultations on snakebite management, Bharti is co-principal investigator in the Rs 7 crore project sanctioned by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for the first-ever study to ascertain snakebite incidence in India. The project involves screening of 12 crore population for snakebite cases in eight states, including Himachal Pradesh. “In a separate study, we are conducting a survey to ascertain snake species in Himachal Pradesh in association with a team headed by Dr Anita Malhotra, molecular ecologist and evolutionary geneticist from Bangor University in North Wales, UK, with requisite permission from the state forest department over the last three years,” he said. The larger objective of the study, which involves catching snakes, taking traces of venom and DNA samples before releasing them in the same habitat, is to gauge the efficacy of available anti-snake venom in snakebite cases region-wise,” he said. Bharti’s research paper on life-saving intervention, wherein snakebite victims were administered anti-snake venom in 108 emergency ambulance on the way to hospital in Himachal Pradesh, was referenced in WHO guidelines on snakebite management in 2016. The intervention had promoted six other states and UTs in the country to follow the pattern. Out of the estimated one lakh deaths due to snakebite across the globe annually, nearly half occur in India. Bharti’s research to treat patients of rabid dog bites reduced the cost of dog bite treatment from Rs 35,000 to Rs 350. His cost, time and life-saving treatment protocol for rabies prophylaxis was recommended by the WHO in 2018. Revised guidelines of WHO on rabies prophylaxis referenced Bharti’s research work that he carried out at the Intra Dermal Anti-Rabies Clinic and Research Centre of the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya (DDU) Hospital in Shimla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-doc-who-made-rabies-treatment-affordable-makes-it-to-who-panel/articleshow/81236108.cms||Anand Bodh
February 27, 2021||Trichy||Delta farmers protest drawing water from Mettur for Sarabanga irrigation project||Trichy: The inauguration of the Sarabanga lift irrigation project from Mettur dam that will benefit farmers in some parts of Salem has sparked fresh protests among farmers in the delta region here on Friday. As chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami opened the Rs 565 crore project, a group of farmers owing allegiance to Tamilaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam led by general secretary PR Pandian staged a black flag protest in the paddy field in Kottur in Tiruvarur district. While the state government maintained that the project was being implemented by utilizing surplus water from Mettur dam and will benefit over 4,000 acres in Edappadi, Sangagiri, Omalur and Mettur, the farmers accused the chief minister of pushing the project to garner votes.Pandian told reporters that the water was drawn by breaking the Mettur dam instead of drawing surplus water. “If you implement the project with surplus water, we won’t opposed it. But he broke the dam and took it to an area with an eye on election. Will opposition parties remain mute spectators to the issue which will affect 18 lakh acres and five crore people in the delta region,” he said. Stating that no government was vested with the authority of breaking a dam, he demanded a case be registered against the chief minister by the government for violating the law. “While all the dams across the Cauvery River in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are under the control of the Cauvery water management authority (CWMA), the chief minister violated the rule,” he said. He also recalled that then chief minister J Jayalalithaa had cancelled the permission given to the implementation of the Sarabanga lift irrigation project taking into consideration our appeal in 2015. Pandian also made it clear that the protest against the project will go on until the courts and the opposition parties intervene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/delta-farmers-protest-drawing-water-from-mettur-for-sarabanga-irrigation-project/articleshow/81237513.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Trichy||Over 30K farmers got Rs 12cr Burevi relief||Trichy: The district administration listed out the quantum of compensation provided to the crops damaged by Burevi cyclone and untimely rains, Friday. Speaking at the farmers’ monthly grievance day meet, collector S Sivarasu said the continuous rainfall caused damage to 10,681 hectares of agriculture crops including paddy in Trichy district. As many as 30,655 farmers received Rs 12 crore as compensation for crop loss in their bank accounts, said the collector, adding that the process was onto release the rest of the Rs 2,000 crore compensation to 3,775 farmers. The district administration also assessed the damage to horticulture crops on 1,420 hectares and provided Rs 2.5 crore as compensation to 2,267 farmers. The process is underway to compensate the remaining farmers. For crops damaged in the Burevi cyclone, 4,702 farmers were compensated Rs 3.8 crore for crop loss on 3,459 hectares. Crop loans amounting to Rs 318.7 crore to 41,251 farmers, out of Rs 400 crore earmarked for 2020-21, the collector said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-30k-farmers-got-rs-12cr-burevi-relief/articleshow/81237518.cms||Gokul Rajendran
February 27, 2021||Chandigarh||Turn Bassi Pathana jail into gurdwara, demands Bir Devinder||Chandigarh: Punjab assembly former deputy speaker Bir Devinder Singh met SGPC president Jagir Kaur on Thursday evening to demand the establishment of a gurdwara at the ancient jail in Bassi Pathana where, it is believed, Guru Teg Bahadur was lodged for close to four months. He made a case for the state government handing over possession of the jail to SGPC for the construction of a ‘Gurdwara Nauvi Patshahi’ at the site of the jail. He presented references cited by historians about the journeys of Guru Teg Bahadur. “All historians have maintained that Guru Teg Bahadur along with his disciples was arrested from Malikpur Rangran village, near Pargana of Ghanaola, by the then daroga (in-charge) of the police post in Ropar. Guru Teg Bahadur along with his followers was kept in custody at Bassi Pathana for almost four months,” he said. “There is an old gurdwara in the memory of Guru Teg Bahadur, adjacent to the ancient jail which stands testimony and validates the historical facts,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/turn-bassi-pathana-jail-into-gurdwara-demands-bir-devinder/articleshow/81236078.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Pune||High fuel rates may boost EVs: Piaggio CMD||Pune: Italian two- and three-wheeler manufacturer Piaggio’s CMD has said high fuel prices may help e-mobility offerings acquire a significant portion of the total demand in the auto sector in the next decade. “Because of India’s plan for e-mobility till 2030, electric vehicles may form up to 20-30% of the total demand in the auto sector by then...And as we see now, the high price of petrol and diesel may drive growth in the e-mobility sector as well,” Diego Graffi, told TOI. this week, Graffi launched Piaggio’s latest three-wheeler offering in the e-mobility space as a part of its commercial vehicles bouquet, titled the Ace E-City FX and Ace E-Extra FX. Piaggio claimed that its passenger offering, E-City FX, was the most profitable three-wheeler with more trips and more earnings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/high-fuel-rates-may-boost-evs-piaggio-cmd/articleshow/81236088.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||NDPS court: Can’t assume innocence of NCP minister’s kin||MUMBAI: In a detailed order rejecting the bail plea of Sameer Khan, son-in-law of NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra’s minority affairs and skill development minister Nawab Malik, a special court did not accept the defence argument against the reliability of his confessional statement. The defence had cited a recent Supreme Court ruling which said a confession made before a Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer was not admissible evidence. “Entertaining other grounds raised in the bail plea would be a premature exercise. The investigation is midway and at this stage it is not possible to enter into the findings as to innocence of the applicant (Khan),” the court said. Last week, the special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court had rejected 39-year-old Khan’s bail plea. The detailed order copy was made available on Friday. He was arrested last month. Rejecting his plea, the court said, “The nature of contraband being illicit drug and in view of the serious objection raised by the prosecution, this court is convinced there are no grounds to assume the applicant (Khan) did not commit the offence or that he will not commit similar offence while on bail...”, the court said. The court said the investigating agency was still collecting details of phone records and bank transactions between Khan and Karan Sajnani, an accused from whom “huge quantities of contraband was allegedly recovered”. The court said the record indicates “objectionable chat” between the two, which was deleted but retrieved during investigation. “The contention of prosecution is there is agreement between the applicant (Khan) and accused No. 3 (Sajnani) of starting a business,” the court said. It said the nature of business as well as connection between the two was still under the scanner. Khan was booked under the NDPS Act for financing, illicit trafficking and harbouring an offender. Maximum punishment is 20 years RI and a fine of up to Rs 2 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ndps-court-cant-assume-innocence-of-ncp-mins-kin/articleshow/81237523.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 27, 2021||Bhopal||Friday bandh was a success, mainmarkets remained closed: CAIT||Bhopal: The city markets remained closed for the better part of the day on Friday after a bandh call given by the Confederation of All India Traders(CAIT). Unlike other bandhs called by political parties, this bandh called by the traders themselves was far more successful. More than 8 crore traders and their 40000 organisations went ahead with countrywide bandh to press for their demands to highlight and remove the discrepancies in the e -commerce companies’ trade. The bandh also highlighted the absence of any policy to curb several corrupt practices of the e-commerce trade, said the office-bearers of CAIT, requesting anonymity. CAIT’s office-bearers in Bhopal claimed that GST has brought back the inspector raj, where action can now be initiated without any hearing. “The GST council can amend its rules more than 1185 times since the inception of the new tax law, but no opportunity is given to the traders to revise their returns even once”, lamented Sunil Jain, state joint secretary of CAIT in Bhopal. “For a small mistake, there are provisions for huge penalties,” he added. “This issue is not only connected with the Centre but also with state governments since the finance minister of each state is the member of GST council. So, we have to pressurise both the governments”, Jain said. Vivek Sahu, spokesman of the CAIT in Bhopal said, “About Rs 700 crore business loss is incurred in Bhopal alone. All the business establishments under Bhopal Kirana Vyapari Mahasangh, Ghorra Nakkas Vyapari Mahasangh, BHEL Vyapari Mahasangh etc observed bandh”. Bandh was very effective in main markets including New Market and Hamidia Road market. He said, several markets were closed completely till afternoon. Our CAIT sources, however, claimed that several business establishments of CAIT office-bearers were found open in the state, including the state capital. But Sahu claimed, “The bandh was more or less successful.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/friday-bandh-was-a-success-mainmarkets-remained-closed-cait/articleshow/81236099.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot government pushing Rajasthan towards financial emergency, says Satish Poonia||Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia opens up on the state Budget and infighting within his party in an interview with Shoeb Khan. Why did you term the state Budget as cut, copy and paste?The series of schemes announced by CM Ashok Gehlot in the Budget has either been announced or have already been implemented by the Modi government. Have a look at the Union budgets of the NDA government and their existing schemes; you will know why I have termed it ‘cut, copy and paste’. They have renamed the existing Union government schemes, be it universal healthcare or Jal Jivan Mission in the state. The irony is that the state has received Rs 40,000 crore from the Union government for social welfare schemes which finds no mention in the Budget. They yet again promised 50,000 jobs, but there is no white paper on the 1.25 lakh jobs promised by them in their first two budgets. The CM has presented a Budget of hope and aspiration. Do you find it difficult to counter it this time?The budgetary documents have many promises, but there’s no clarity on how they will fund these schemes. The state is heading towards a financial emergency due to the gross mismanagement by them. Their own estimates say that the state is under a debt of Rs 1.16 lakh crore. Going by the trend, they will add another Rs 60,000 crore to 70,000 crore debt in the financial year 2021-22. The financial mismanagement will cost each and every citizen dearly if they don’t stop. He has propagated false hope. Your party leaders have been calling the Budget eyeing ‘mid-term polls’. Do you agree with them? The fear of instability due to their internal rift is clearly reflected in the Budget. The populist schemes announced by them while ignoring the financial mess is due to the lack of confidence that they will complete five years. By announcing sops for bypolls, they have already conceded defeat. How do you view the camaraderie between CM Ashok Gehlot and former CM Vasundhara Raje? Gehlot is a seasoned politician and doesn’t leave any opportunity to drive a wedge and looks for an opportunity in every adversity. But BJP workers know it very well and will not fall for such gimmick. Gehlot can’t go beyond making a headline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-govt-pushing-raj-towards-financial-emergency-says-poonia/articleshow/81236105.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nashik||Corporator protests over nullah encroachments||Nashik: Shiv Sena corporator and standing committee member Kalpana Pande on Friday staged a sit-in agitation in the meeting hall of the civic panel seeking removal of encroachments over the nullah in her ward in Cidco division and construction of a protection wall to stop rainwater from getting into the houses in the area. During the meeting of the standing committee on Friday, Pande called out the Nashik Municpal Corporation (NMC) for its negligence in removing the encroachments in Cidco division despite raising the issue several times in previous meetings. She also expressed concerns about the civic administration not paying heed to her plea of constructing a protection wall on the nullah to prevent the flood water from entering the houses during monsoon. City engineer Sanjay Ghuge said the works could not be carried out due to lack of funds. Chairperson of the standing committee Ganesh Gite directed the officials to look into the matter and sort it out immediately. However, Pande was not satisfied with the directive of the civic panel chief. She staged a sit-in in the meeting hall and sought that funds be approved for the construction of a protection wall along the nullah in her ward. Pande finally called off the sit-in agigation two hours later after additional municipal commissioner Suresh Khade and Ghuge assured her that they would hold a meeting with the civic chief to make an additional provision in the budget for the construction of the protection wall under essential works.. Civic panel head to talk to municipal chief about curbs on new projects Chairperson of the standing committee Ganesh Gite on Friday said he would talk to municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav about the curbs on the new projects. Fearing that the rise in Covid-19 cases may again lead toa drop in revenue collecton in the next fiscal, the civic chief has issued a circular directing HODs to hold new projects of less importance for which provisions have been made in the budget of the current and next financial year. Standing committee member Sudhakar Badgujar opposed the decision of the civic chief and said the development works approved by the standing committee should not be stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/corporator-protests-over-nullah-encroachments/articleshow/81234640.cms||Tushar Pawar
February 27, 2021||Bhopal||Quality education must for atmanirbhar MP, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Friday that vocational education will be imparted to students from class 6th under the new education policy. Quality education is a must to create an "atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh", he said. Addressing students in a virtual programme organised at Mantralaya to transfer the amount of scholarship to school students under integrated scholarship scheme, Chouhan said that CM Rise schools will be opened in the radius of 20 to 25 Kilometer in the state, which will be equipped with labs, libraries, sports ground and enough teachers. The chief minister transferred Rs 326.25 crore in the accounts of 13.80 lakh students from class 9th to 12th from across the state through a single click. Chouhan further said that knowledge, skills and qualities of a good citizen are acquired through education and cumulative knowledge of generations is imbibed by the students through education. He said the students should work hard with a resolve to achieve success in life. He also commended teachers for giving online lessons to students during difficult times of Covid-19. The chief minister also interacted with some students from different parts of the state during the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/quality-edu-must-for-atmanirbhar-mp-says-chouhan/articleshow/81236124.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Actor sedition: Bombay HC seeks lower court records||MUMBAI: The Bombay HC on Friday sought records and proceedings of the complaint filed before a Bandra magistrate ag-ainst actress Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel by a film casting director over her alleged inflammatory tweets. The police had registered a sedition case against them. A bench of Justices S S Sh-inde and Manish Pitale sought the records after Ranaut’s lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee alleged a ‘discrepency’ and argued that the complaint filed under CrPc Section 156(3) doesn’t contain a “proper complaint made to the DCP”. The HC adjourned the matter to March 22, and continued its interim relief against arrest for the duo till then. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actor-sedition-hc-seeks-lower-court-records/articleshow/81236141.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Dehradun||No additional trains or buses for Magh Purnima bathing festival today, random Covid testing at borders||Haridwar: In view of the Covid-19 situation, the Haridwar district administration has decided that no additional trains or buses will be run for the Magh Purnima bathing festival on Saturday. To ensure better crowd management, the police will divert traffic from the Narsan border. Vehicles will only be allowed via Laksar. Also, heavy vehicles will not be permitted to enter the district on Saturday. Sanjay Gunjyal, IG, Kumbh Mela, told TOI, “The Mela police team, including paramilitary forces have been deployed and we will coordinate with the district administration and the police for effective crowd management.” Meanwhile, the district administration has also deployed health teams for Covid-19 testing and thermal screening of the pilgrims. DM Haridwar C Ravishankar told TOI, “Covid-19 tests will be conducted at the borders. All pilgrims coming from Maharashtra, Kerala and other high-load Covid-19 states will be tested. We have deployed 75 health workers for thermal screening and 40 teams for Covid testing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-additional-trains-or-buses-for-magh-purnima-bathing-festival-today-random-covid-testing-at-borders/articleshow/81233479.cms||MS Nawaz
February 27, 2021||Trichy||Facemask sales dip by 75% in Trichy||Trichy: The sale of facemasks and sanitizers has taken a huge fall in February compared to the demand till a couple of months ago when Covid-19 cases were higher. Both pharmacies and standalone stalls that sell facemasks have reported a sharp decline in sales since the penalization drive to ensure adherence to Covid-19 safety norms in public places has taken a backseat. Tamil Nadu Chemists and Druggists Association also concurred that sales of facemask are down by more than 75%. The trend is said to be common across 40,000 pharmacies in the state, all affiliated with the association. “The demand for hand sanitiser is totally down by more than 90%. We discussed the drop in sales in our recent state-level meeting at Namakkal,” said K Manoharan, president of the association. From selling 100 facemasks daily, pharmacies reported it has come down to 10-20 per day. Even the standalone stalls have reported a decline in sales. “Compared to December 2020, many of us have stopped its sales and migrated to other business,” said V Ashwin, a facemask seller at TVS tollgate. The sellers also reported a change in the pattern of sales. They said that until the lockdown was severe, people were selecting the facemask by giving weightage to the protection level. In the past few weeks, the preference has changed with people opting to buy low-cost facemasks. Trichy Corporation sources said that they have withheld the penalization drive. “Since cases are not surfacing in alarming numbers, we are not extensively carrying out the penalization drive. People must wear facemask and follow self-hygiene for their safety,” an official source with the corporation said. With summer around the corner, official sources said that patronage for facemask may drop further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/facemask-sales-dip-by-75-in-trichy/articleshow/81237520.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 27, 2021||Jaipur||With farmers’ rallies, Cong to launch bypoll campaign today||Jaipur: The state Congress would launch its election campaign for the upcoming assembly bypolls by holding two farmers’ rallies in Bikaner and Chittorgarh districts on Saturday.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot would be addressing the two rallies, which have been planned at strategic locations near the four constituencies, anticipating that the bypoll dates could be announced anytime soon and the model code of conduct may come into force.Bypolls are due on four assembly seats — Sujangarh in Churu, Sahara in Bhilwara, Vallabhnagar in Udaipur and Rajsamand —because of the demise of sitting MLAs Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal, Kailash Chandra Trivedi, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and Kiran Maheshwari last year. Maheshwari was a BJP MLA, while the rest three belonged to Congress.The ruling party would be aiming to win all four seats since it currently rests on a thin majority of 104 MLAs in the 200-seat house. Support of Independent MLAs kept the Gehlot-government intact despite a revolt led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot last July. The opposition BJP has been claiming that internal strife in the state Congress was still alive and would lead to midterm polls this year.Pilot had so far been addressing farmer rallies separately organised by Congress MLAs close to him. Even as he appears to be at loggerheads with Gehlot once again over a delayed Cabinet reshuffle and expansion, the state Congress has invited Pilot to share dais with the chief minister at the two farmers’ rallies on Saturday. Sahara and Rajsamand have a good presence of Gujjars, the community to which Pilot belongs. Among the four deceased MLAs, Shaktawat (Vallabnagar) and Meghwal (Sujangarh) were Pilot supporters.AICC general secretary Ajay Maken, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas and other senior Congress leaders too would address the two rallies, the first of which will be held around midday at Pilanio-ki-Dhani near Sri Dungargarh in Bikaner district. The rally site is close to Sujangarh in neighbouring Churu where the bypoll is due. Similarly, the second rally would be held around 3pm at Chittorgarh’s Matrikundiya, which is close to Rajsamand, Vallabnagar and Sahara that would be going to bypolls. The rally sites were selected to avoid violation of election’s model code of conduct, as the CM and ministers would be attending these. Gehlot would be going to New Delhi after addressing the rally at Matrikundiya on Saturday and return to Jaipur on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-farmers-rallies-cong-to-launch-bypoll-campaign-today/articleshow/81236177.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||GoAir, Air Asia among four to shift domestic flights to T1||MUMBAI: GoAir, Star Air, Air Asia and Trujet will move their domestic flights to Terminal 1 of the Mumbai airport from March 10, said Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) on Friday. Apart from these airlines, IndiGo too will move some of its domestic flights to the Parle terminal. After domestic flights resumed post-lockdown last year, all flights were operated out of Terminal 2 (T2) in Sahar. “The airport will ensure that measures such as stringent screening of passengers and personnel, regular sanitization and disinfection, mandatory compliance of wearing face masks and other necessary PPE will be implemented at T1,” MIAL said, adding that the terminal will also promote social distancing through measures such as re-arrangement of seating, installation of plexi-glass to minimize face-to-face interactions amongst others at the terminal. Hand sanitizers have been strategically placed through the premise, it said, adding that for food and beverages and other purchases at the terminal, contactless payment facilities are available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/goair-air-asia-among-four-to-shift-domestic-flights-to-t1/articleshow/81237530.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nashik||30 invitees at wedding without masks costs resort owner Rs 30k||Nashik: An owner of a resort was slapped with a fine of Rs 30,000 as 30 invitees to a wedding ceremony that was being held at the establishment on Friday night were found without masks. Usually, those who are caught in public places in the district without a mask are slapped a fine of Rs 1,000. Deepak Patil, assistant police inspector of Igatpuri police station, said the violations came to the fore during a raid jointly conducted by the gram panchayat in Igatpuri taluka, officials of the revenue department and the Igatpuri police at the resort. The raid was conducted to check if all the Covid safety norms issued by the government were being followed at the wedding ceremony. While the fine will be collected by the revenue department, police are booking the violators under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC.Over the past few days, over 700 people have been booked under section 188 of the IPC. “The action has been been intensified given the negligence and the scant respect among citizens for the norms,” said superintendent of rural police Sachin Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/30-invitees-at-wedding-without-masks-costs-resort-owner-rs-30k/articleshow/81234652.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 27, 2021||Trichy||TNSCT stir: Passengers allege fleecing by pvt bus operators||Trichy: With a majority of the government buses not plying on Friday also, people relied on private mofussil and city buses in the region for their commute. Although complaints on fleecing in private buses have surfaced, operators are denying the claims.TNSTC Trichy claimed that around 60% of the buses were operated on Friday, while protesting TNSTC workers said that the claims of the officials were untrue. The protesting workers claimed that even Anna Thozhir Sangam, the trade union affiliated to ruling AIADMK, said that more than 80% of the TNSTC fleets did not leave the depots. The protesting workers demanding revision in wages and disbursal of retirement benefits withheld for workers retired in recent years had staged a demonstration in front of TNSTC Cantonment depot. In Trichy city, since an adequate number of private city buses were in operation, the absence of government buses hardly made a difference. However, the absence of TNSTC buses operating between districts made an impact during peak hours with people rushing to find seats in private buses to Thanjavur and Pudukkottai. “We had hired drivers with heavy vehicle driving license to operate buses and some of our drivers also reported for work. Compared to Thursday, the operation of our buses improved,” an official with TNSTC Trichy said.The absence of private inter-district buses also pushed people and workers to travel in cargo carriers. “The demand for private carriers was poor since people seemed to have postponed their travel plans due to the stir by TNSTC workers. To our knowledge, none of the private operators fleeced the public,” said D R Dharmarajan, secretary, Federation of bus operators association of Tamil Nadu. Complaints have surfaced on social media about overcharging on private buses connecting Mannargudi and Kumbakonam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tnsct-stir-passengers-allege-fleecing-by-pvt-bus-operators/articleshow/81237526.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Pune||Duo snatch techie’s smartphone||Pune: Two men riding a motorcycle on Thursday evening snatched a smartphone from a senior employee of a multinational software company while he was out on a walk near his housing complex in Hinjewadi Phase-III. The man filed a complaint application with the Hinjewadi police the same night. “Till Friday evening, my complaint was not registered. I have also filed an online complaint,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-snatch-techies-smartphone/articleshow/81234650.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Bhopal||Congress failed to deliver on its promises, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh assembly on Friday witnessed heated exchanges between the ruling BJP MLAs and opposition Congress MLAs during the chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's reply to the Motion of Thanks to Governor's speech. The House, after a long time, also watched a strong argument between Leader of Opposition Kamal Nath and the chief minister over a range of issues. Launching a scathing attack on the opposition Congress, Chouhan said the very first promise made by the previous Congress government to waive off the farm loans proved false, but the old party blamed BJP and him for their failure. He said BJP government will not only take action against mafia but also ensure good health, welfare and safety of the public. "The LoP said, in 2018 the public had cleared the trash. But the poll results were not one-sided. We got 41.1% votes against Congress' 41%. But when I found that we were trailing behind in the number game, I decided to resign and vacate the chief minister's house. I could have entered in wheeling and dealing to be in power at that time, but I reached Raj Bhawan in the morning and resigned," said Chouhan. "Whatever vote percent Congress achieved was only due to the promise of farm loan waiver but the party failed to fulfill the promise. We also deposited Rs 18,455 crore in public accounts under various welfare schemes. The previous Congress government did not deposit Rs 2,200 crore as premium of the crop insurance and also paid Rs 3100 crore to the farmers as relief, Rs 100 crore of horticulture crops, provided Rs 880 crore to cooperative banks and paid Rs 5,474 crore to 78 lakh farmers under PM Samman Nidhi scheme," Chouhan further said. He also blamed the previous Kamal Nath government for stopping the Sambal scheme and scrapping welfare schemes for meritorious students and Panchparmeshwar Yojana meant for the development of the rural areas. Referring to Kamal Nath's allegations on highlighting Prime Minister Modi several times in the Governor's address, Chouhan said, "Modi is being discussed in the entire world. Under his able leadership, the country is moving towards a powerful and prosperous India. The way he dealt with Covid crisis is being acclaimed all over the world." "We are working on the roadmap of ‘Atma Nirbhar MP'. It aims at providing basic facilities to the public. We are encouraging the private sector to generate jobs. We have received an investment of Rs 3 lakh crore and are developing a network of industries in the state. During Covid crisis, 17 new industries were being set up and we are encouraging small entrepreneurs under the ‘Start Your Business in 30 Days', scheme. We are also forming an export promotion council," said Chouhan "When the BJP government was formed, we managed to pay the dues of farmers and crop insurance which the Congress never did," said Chouhan adding, "The CM had no time to meet his cabinet colleagues. His government fell only because his MLAs quit the party. All these MLAs later joined the BJP," he said. Kamal Nath also lobbed questions over fuel price hike and rejected the allegations over irregularities during transfers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/congress-failed-to-deliver-on-its-promises-says-shivraj/articleshow/81236160.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Indore||Congress failed to deliver on its promises, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh assembly on Friday witnessed heated exchanges between the ruling BJP MLAs and opposition Congress MLAs during the chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's reply to the Motion of Thanks to Governor's speech. The House, after a long time, also watched a strong argument between Leader of Opposition Kamal Nath and the chief minister over a range of issues. Launching a scathing attack on the opposition Congress, Chouhan said the very first promise made by the previous Congress government to waive off the farm loans proved false, but the old party blamed BJP and him for their failure. He said BJP government will not only take action against mafia but also ensure good health, welfare and safety of the public. "The LoP said, in 2018 the public had cleared the trash. But the poll results were not one-sided. We got 41.1% votes against Congress' 41%. But when I found that we were trailing behind in the number game, I decided to resign and vacate the chief minister's house. I could have entered in wheeling and dealing to be in power at that time, but I reached Raj Bhawan in the morning and resigned," said Chouhan. "Whatever vote percent Congress achieved was only due to the promise of farm loan waiver but the party failed to fulfill the promise. We also deposited Rs 18,455 crore in public accounts under various welfare schemes. The previous Congress government did not deposit Rs 2,200 crore as premium of the crop insurance and also paid Rs 3100 crore to the farmers as relief, Rs 100 crore of horticulture crops, provided Rs 880 crore to cooperative banks and paid Rs 5,474 crore to 78 lakh farmers under PM Samman Nidhi scheme," Chouhan further said. He also blamed the previous Kamal Nath government for stopping the Sambal scheme and scrapping welfare schemes for meritorious students and Panchparmeshwar Yojana meant for the development of the rural areas. Referring to Kamal Nath's allegations on highlighting Prime Minister Modi several times in the Governor's address, Chouhan said, "Modi is being discussed in the entire world. Under his able leadership, the country is moving towards a powerful and prosperous India. The way he dealt with Covid crisis is being acclaimed all over the world." "We are working on the roadmap of ‘Atma Nirbhar MP'. It aims at providing basic facilities to the public. We are encouraging the private sector to generate jobs. We have received an investment of Rs 3 lakh crore and are developing a network of industries in the state. During Covid crisis, 17 new industries were being set up and we are encouraging small entrepreneurs under the ‘Start Your Business in 30 Days', scheme. We are also forming an export promotion council," said Chouhan "When the BJP government was formed, we managed to pay the dues of farmers and crop insurance which the Congress never did," said Chouhan adding, "The CM had no time to meet his cabinet colleagues. His government fell only because his MLAs quit the party. All these MLAs later joined the BJP," he said. Kamal Nath also lobbed questions over fuel price hike and rejected the allegations over irregularities during transfers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/congress-failed-to-deliver-on-its-promises-says-shivraj/articleshow/81240656.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Trichy||Disability no hindrance for this 15-yr-old girl to set new record||Ariyalur: A 15-year-old deaf and mute girl from the district has entered the Indian Book of Records for cultivating paddy seedlings on fertile land with Karakam (pot) balanced on her head for about an hour. Her parents said that she attempted the feat to emphasise the importance of agriculture and traditional folk art for the next generation.P Krishnaveni, a Class X girl studying at the Helen Keller special school near Jayankondam in Ariyalur district, is deaf and mute since birth. Her mother, Mala Pandian, a teacher at the special school, said that the girl started learning Karakattam since childhood and has been practising sans music and was performing in school level competitions. Recently, Krishnaveni and her family members had attempted a record by encouraging Krishnaveni to plant rice saplings by transplantation method in Periya Thirukkonam village. With a metal pot balanced on her head without any straps attached, Krishnaveni planted the paddy saplings for about an hour.“We recorded the event as it happened and sent the footage without any editing for the Indian Book of Records. After several rounds of scrutiny including verification through calls, she was inducted in the book of records for planting paddy with Karakam,” said Mala Pandian. Indian Book of Records has claimed to be the custodian of Indian records since 2006. The girl through sign language communicated that she made the record attempt to familiarise Karakattam and to prove that disability is no hindrance to achieving anything. “We will encourage her to find a place in the Guinness book of records as well,” Mala added. The girl was also felicitated by district collector D Rathna for bringing laurels to the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/disability-no-hindrance-for-this-15-yr-old-girl-to-set-new-record/articleshow/81237525.cms||Deepak Karthik
February 27, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Season’s minimum temperature at high of 15.2°C||NEW DELHI: The night temperature has started to rise in Delhi, as the highest minimum of the season at 15.2 degrees Celsius— three notches above normal— was recorded on Friday. The maximum was 33 degrees Celsius — seven degrees above normal — at Safdarjung, city’s base station. With a maximum temperature at 34.8 degrees Celsius and minimum at 19 degrees, Sports Complex station in east Delhi continued to record the highest temperatures, stated India Meteorological Department (IMD). The mercury level crossed the 34-mark at Pitampura, too, as the maximum was 34.1 degrees, while the minimum also remained high at 19 degrees Celsius. A Met official said the temperatures continued to rise as only one western disturbance had affected the plains, while no significant rain or snowfall activity had been recorded, leading to cloudless conditions over the region. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, IMD, and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Due to clear sky and sunlight, the day temperature has been warm.” The Met department has predicted strong winds of 20-30 kmph during the day on Saturday, which would not let the temperatures rise significantly and may start to decline from Sunday. Though the night temperature may go up to 16 degrees Celsius on Saturday, the maximum is likely to hover around 33 degrees Celsius. However, it is likely to dip to 31 degrees on Sunday and 29 degrees on March 2. The temperature is likely to rise again from March 3. The air quality index (AQI) on Friday was 229 in the “poor”. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research said, “A further increase in wind speed, temperature, and boundary layer is forecast for Saturday, and it is likely to influence AQI positively. AQI is forecast to remain within the ‘poor’ category in the next two days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/seasons-min-temp-at-high-of-15-2c/articleshow/81236226.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Rear Admiral takes charge||MUMBAI: Rear Admiral B Sivakumar took over as Admiral Superintendent of Naval Dockyard, Mumbai from Rear Admiral Rajaram Swaminathan on February 24. He was commissioned on July 1, 1987 and is a Post Graduate from IIT-Chennai. He is an alumnus of National Defence Academy, College of Defence Management and National Defence College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rear-admiral-takes-charge/articleshow/81236195.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: Congress, other parties to hold ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’||BHOPAL: Senior Congress leader, Digvijaya Singh, on Friday announced that his party in association with other non-BJP political parties and 26 farmers' organisations of the state will hold "Kisan Mahapanchayat" at several places in Madhya Pradesh from March 4 to March 6. The mahapanchayats will be "apolitical" and participants will only carry the national flag, he said. Singh said that he has talked to party state president, Kamal Nath and representatives of other non-BJP political parties and 26 farmers' organisations and they have all agreed to participate in the mahapanchayat. He commended the farmers carrying out agitation against agri laws at Delhi and said their agitation was a "satyagraha" and said they have shown tremendous resilience and patience and despite being branded as "Khalistani, Pakistani and naxalites" they have remained peaceful. On January 26 incident, he said it appeared to be a "sponsored-violence" as a mob can't get into Red Fort, a highly-secure area just like that but added that a probe should be conducted to ascertain how it happened. Singh said more than 200 farmers have died during the agitation but it has not deterred the farmers from continuing the agitation in a peaceful manner. He said that the BJP also describes the farmers' agitation as "Congress-sponsored" but it should also answer why it is being supported by Akali Dal too, which is their old ally. Referring to three agri laws, he said they have been "drafted" by the corporates and they are against the interests of the farmers and in the proposed mahapanchayats, they would drive home the message to farmers of the state. He said that Shanti Kumar committee's recommendations were aimed at abolishing the system of MSP and PDS, which the three agri laws also aims to do besides promoting contract farming. He suggested that the Union government had no business to legislate on the agriculture sector as it is a state subject and each state has its own Mandi law including MP. Singh said that in the USA, similar laws were enacted 80 years ago and they were further strengthened by former US president Ronald Reagan and it wiped out small farmers from the US and farming was taken over by the corporates. Talking about proposed Kisan Mahapanchayats, he said that the first panchayat would be organised at Delapur in Ratlam district on March 4 from where farmers' agitation had begun during the erstwhile BJP government, which later spread to more areas and there was police firing on farmers in Mandsaur. The same day, another mahapanchayat will be held in Dhar district. On March 5, mahapnchayats will be organised at Badnagar and Shajpur and Shyampur in Sehore and Berasia in Bhopal on March 6. More mahapanchayats will take place in course of time, he said. He said kisan mahapanchayats in MP are not aimed at denting the farmers' agitation in any manner but are an attempt to reach out to farmers of the state in solidarity with their cause. Singh further said that there will be no podium at the mahapnchayats venues, speakers will address the participants from a tractor-trolley and everyone will sit with each other on the ground. There will be no felicitation, garlanding and "ramdhun" will be played in the beginning of the mahapanchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/cong-other-parties-to-hold-kisan-mahapanchayat/articleshow/81240603.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Congress, other parties to hold ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’||BHOPAL: Senior Congress leader, Digvijaya Singh, on Friday announced that his party in association with other non-BJP political parties and 26 farmers' organisations of the state will hold "Kisan Mahapanchayat" at several places in Madhya Pradesh from March 4 to March 6. The mahapanchayats will be "apolitical" and participants will only carry the national flag, he said. Singh said that he has talked to party state president, Kamal Nath and representatives of other non-BJP political parties and 26 farmers' organisations and they have all agreed to participate in the mahapanchayat. He commended the farmers carrying out agitation against agri laws at Delhi and said their agitation was a "satyagraha" and said they have shown tremendous resilience and patience and despite being branded as "Khalistani, Pakistani and naxalites" they have remained peaceful. On January 26 incident, he said it appeared to be a "sponsored-violence" as a mob can't get into Red Fort, a highly-secure area just like that but added that a probe should be conducted to ascertain how it happened. Singh said more than 200 farmers have died during the agitation but it has not deterred the farmers from continuing the agitation in a peaceful manner. He said that the BJP also describes the farmers' agitation as "Congress-sponsored" but it should also answer why it is being supported by Akali Dal too, which is their old ally. Referring to three agri laws, he said they have been "drafted" by the corporates and they are against the interests of the farmers and in the proposed mahapanchayats, they would drive home the message to farmers of the state. He said that Shanti Kumar committee's recommendations were aimed at abolishing the system of MSP and PDS, which the three agri laws also aims to do besides promoting contract farming. He suggested that the Union government had no business to legislate on the agriculture sector as it is a state subject and each state has its own Mandi law including MP. Singh said that in the USA, similar laws were enacted 80 years ago and they were further strengthened by former US president Ronald Reagan and it wiped out small farmers from the US and farming was taken over by the corporates. Talking about proposed Kisan Mahapanchayats, he said that the first panchayat would be organised at Delapur in Ratlam district on March 4 from where farmers' agitation had begun during the erstwhile BJP government, which later spread to more areas and there was police firing on farmers in Mandsaur. The same day, another mahapanchayat will be held in Dhar district. On March 5, mahapnchayats will be organised at Badnagar and Shajpur and Shyampur in Sehore and Berasia in Bhopal on March 6. More mahapanchayats will take place in course of time, he said. He said kisan mahapanchayats in MP are not aimed at denting the farmers' agitation in any manner but are an attempt to reach out to farmers of the state in solidarity with their cause. Singh further said that there will be no podium at the mahapnchayats venues, speakers will address the participants from a tractor-trolley and everyone will sit with each other on the ground. There will be no felicitation, garlanding and "ramdhun" will be played in the beginning of the mahapanchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-other-parties-to-hold-kisan-mahapanchayat/articleshow/81236179.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala assembly elections: LDF eyes a '1977', UDF has task cut out||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The last time Kerala voted an incumbent government back to power was in 1977 when the front led by Indian National Congress and CPI was re-elected after the lifting of Emergency. The Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left Democratic Front government is aiming to do just, thereby breaking the streak of Kerala alternating between political fronts every five years. Working to the advantage of the government, which assumed office by winning 91 out of 140 seats in 2016, is the visible absence of an anti-incumbency wave. This is something new to Kerala, where the sentiment of rejecting incumbents has been a decisive factor in all recent polls. LDF’s thumping win in the local-body polls last December has added to the confidence of its leadership. “In the last five years infrastructure development projects worth Rs 63,000 crore have been initiated in the state, aided by KIIFB. Completion of projects such as LNG pipeline and national highway stretches is there for all to see. Let people analyze them and give their verdict,” Vijayan told a massive rally that marked the conclusion of the ‘Vikasana Munnetta Yatra’, here, on Friday evening. He termed the achievements of his government as a victory of the people of Kerala and reminded them of how the state stood united to fight crises like the floods of 2018 and 2019 and Covid-19. Vijayan also criticized the opposition UDF for finding fault with all the good initiatives launched by his government. The United Democratic Front, led by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, played a key role in kicking up the dust on several controversies involving either political leaders or officials close to Vijayan. Many of the allegations, however, have failed to make headway. The case involving gold smuggling through diplomatic channels was one such issue on which UDF and BJP tried to corner Vijayan. With his former principal secretary arrested and additional private secretary interrogated in the case, the CM initially appeared to be on a sticky wicket. But, with NIA, ED and Customs failing to crack the case even after seven months, it has accorded LDF the opportunity to reinforce its accusation that the NDA government at the Centre was misusing agencies to tarnish its image. Higher education minister K T Jaleel, who was interrogated by multiple agencies in the case, was also not named in any of the charge sheets. Congress going all outWith defeat in the upcoming election not an option, Congress’ national leadership has taken over the reins of the party’s state unit. The defeat in last year’s local-body polls was followed by intense brainstorming, and the party is now poised to field an army of youngsters and professionals. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy was brought back to lead the front as the party didn’t want to leave anything to chance. Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi will be spending more time campaigning in the state. More recent controversies, such as widespread ‘backdoor appointments’ in government service and signing of an MoU with a US-based firm for deep-sea fishing, are issues the UDF hopes to cash in on during the campaign. “We are fully prepared. UDF and Congress stand united in this fight. We are sure Kerala will stand together to unseat this corrupt government,” said Chennithala. BJP staying groundedBJP, which has only one seat in the current assembly, isn’t expecting any miracles. With eminent personalities like E Sreedharan joining its fold, the party expects to increase its tally by winning five-10 seats. State president K Surendran, who is now leading the ‘Vijay Yatra’, said on Thursday that the target of the party is to win 40 seats. The steep hike in fuel prices and eroding confidence of minorities will be real obstacles in BJP’s quest to increase its vote share from around 15%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ldf-eyes-a-1977-udf-has-task-cut-out/articleshow/81234696.cms||B Sreejan
February 27, 2021||Rajkot||Son, mother bludgeon father to death||Rajkot: The bitter domestic quarrels between a husband-wife duo over the last few years ended on a bloody note after the woman and her teenage son bludgeoned the man to death in a village near Junagadh late on Thursday night. The victim Deepak Kudecha's wife Vijaya and 19-year-old son Jayesh rained blows of wooden stick and shovel on him after the usual verbal altercation that broke out between the couple at their farm on the outskirts of Kelana village. Vijaya is Deepak's second wife while Jayesh is her son from the first marriage. She also has two daughters from the first marriage, one of whom is married. The younger daughter ,a minor, has also been named in the complaint lodged by Deepak's mother Hemi (65) but she has not been booked for murder. According to police officials, Deepak had a farm but he seldom lookd after it and it was handled by Vijaya and Jayesh. "He often got drunk and picked up quarrels with the family. Once he had also thrown all three of them out of the house, but a compromise was struck and he brought them back," said Pradeepsinh Jadeja, deputy superintendent of police, Junagadh After Deepak died on the spot due to heavy blood loss, Vijaya, Jayesh and her daughter came to her in-laws' house in Kelana. Vijaya tried to conceal the crime saying that Deepak had fallen in the house and suffered severe injuries, Jayesh confessed that they had killed him in a fit of rage after the altercation. Villagers then called the police who took the complaint of Deepak's mother Hemi. She has a small shop in the village. It was Deepak's second marriage too. He and Vijaya had got married around 12 years ago, but did not have children. Police have detained Vijaya and Jayesh who will be arrested formally after the Covid test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/son-mother-bludgeon-father-to-death/articleshow/81234732.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Vadodara||Soon, baby hippo ‘Bhim’ to splash in waters near SoU||Vadodara: Soon, you may spot a 250-kg hippopotamus splashing in the waters near the Statue of Unity (SoU). The Sardar Patel Zoological Park has decided to bring in a 15-month old baby hippopotamus to the jungle safari. A special enclosure will be made for the baby hippo named ‘Bhim’. Dr Rajiv Gupta, managing director, Sardar Sarovar Nigam Ltd (SSNL) recently tweeted about ‘Bhim’ and thanked the Prime Minister’s office for the gift. Sources in the park said that the hippo is being brought from Sakkarbaug Zoo in Junagadh. “It will take some time to complete work on the enclosure. The baby hippo will be brought in once the enclosure is ready,” sources added. Apart from the hippo, plans are also afoot to bring in sloth bears, wolfs and ghariyal (fish-eating crocodile). The park authorities have been adding new animals and birds for a year to attract tourists. The jungle safari is home to lions, tigers, leopards, rhinos and bison apart from capuchin monkeys, squirrel monkey, iguana and exotic birds. The sprawling park has 350 exotic animals and birds while the total count is over 1,200. The park authorities have also planned to make a crocodile park that will also be home to the rescued reptiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/soon-baby-hippo-bhim-to-splash-in-waters-near-sou/articleshow/81234271.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchi: RMC to launch ‘no cars on Saturdays’ campaign next month||RANCHI: In a bid to encourage people to cycle and reduce air pollution, the Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) has decided to go for a ‘no cars on Saturdays’ campaign from next month. The civic body held a meeting in this regard on Thursday where it was decided that the campaign will be launched at Morhabadi Ground on March 13. RMC commissioner Mukesh Kumar has appealed to everyone to cycle to work at least once a week. “From March 13 onwards, majority of RMC employees will try to come to office on cycles.” Ranchi Smart City Corporation Limited’s (RSCCL) general manager Rakesh Kumar Nandkuliyar, who also attended the meeting, assured that most of the RSCCL employees will commute on bicycles from March 13. During the RMC meeting it was decided that the city must be made cyclist-friendly. “A cycle stand will be constructed near the RMC building, parking spots within the civic body’s command area will be earmarked for cycles free of cost. Moreover, the road along Dhurwa dam will be declared as a ‘no-vehicle zone’. We will also cover up the potholes in as many as areas as possible,” Kumar said. He urged government as well as private sector employees to cooperate in realising the dream of motor vehicle-free streets where cyclists can ride smoothly. The RMC campaign will be in compliance with the “India Cycle for Change Challenge” and “Street for People” programmes. “We will organise similar programmes in the coming days,” Kumar said. The meeting was also attended by deputy municipal commissioner Jyoti Kumar Singh, smart city jansampark officer Amit Kumar, cycle mayor Kanishk Poddar, cycle specialist Shialesh Kumar and smart city manager Kishan Kumar, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rmc-to-launch-no-cars-on-saturdays-campaign-next-month/articleshow/81233644.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Hosps under Ayushman part of vax drive||RANCHI: The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday directed the state health department to prep up government and private hospitals empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat- Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) as session sites for administering the Covid-19 vaccine to citizens above 60 years of age and those above 45 years with co-morbidities during the third phase of inoculation beginning from March 1. Health officials, who attended Friday’s virtual meeting, were also asked to encourage self-registration of the beneficiaries. As per Jharkhand government’s database, nearly 62.97 lakh people, who are above 60, are eligible for taking the jab. Likewise, the state government estimates that there are 3.21 lakh people between 45-59 years of age, who have various comorbidities such as asthma, thyroid, cardiac diseases, diabetes and cancer. This age group comprises roughly 10.4% of the state’s entire population. An official, who attended the meeting, preferring anonymity said, “Besides hospitals empanelled under AB-PMJAY, CGHS (Central Government Health Scheme) hospitals and those which are empanelled for state-run health insurance schemes will also be used as session sites.” The official added that beneficiaries interested to get themselves inoculated will have to register themselves with the Co-Win portal. Senior citizens will have to carry identity cards as their proof of age while those with comorbid conditions will have to furnish medical papers to support their claims. While the next phase of vaccination will be voluntary, the health department is likely to create a database of senior citizens from the state electoral roll, department’s sources said. While senior officials said a detailed guideline is yet to be issued for phase-III of the vaccination drive, the Union government hinted that the beneficiaries will get the jabs at government hospitals for free. “There can be a token amount, which may be called user-fee, which will be levied at private healthcare facilities,” another official said. Dr Ajit Prasad, the state nodal officer for vaccination, said, “The directives which were issued to us were relayed to the respective district administrations.” The vaccination drive of health workers and frontline workers will remain stalled on Saturday and Sunday as the Co-Win portal will undergo changes to remove teething problems ahead of the third phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hosps-under-ayushman-part-of-vax-drive/articleshow/81233520.cms||Dhritiman Ray
February 27, 2021||Ranchi||Kangaroo court decided to get Gumla family killed over witchcraft suspicion: Cops||GUMLA: Gripped with superstition, eight villagers in connivance with nearly 70 other residents of Buruhatu Pahar Amtoli of Gumla district had murdered the five members of a family, including a five-year-old child, on Tuesday, police said on Friday after the arrest of eight of the accused. On Thursday, police had stayed tight-lipped about the motive of crime, citing pending protocols, but had hinted the family was killed on suspicion of practicing witchcraft. Throwing light on the incident, Gumla SP Hrudeep P Janaradhanan said, “In the last few months, a couple of people had died in the village and the Topno family was accused of practicing witchcraft on them. On Tuesday morning, eight of the main conspirators huddled with 70 others from the village and a kangaroo court was set up at a football ground which decided to eliminate the elderly couple — Nikodin Topno (70) and his wife Josefina (55).” He further said, “The accused and other villagers gathered at the same football ground at night and from there, reached the couple’s house where they first killed Nikodin and Josefina with axes and other sharp weapons and then turned towards the couple’s son Vincent (35), his wife Silvanti (30) and their son Albin (5), who were present at the house, as a precaution so that they do not inform police.” Those arrested were identified as Sunil Topno (30), Philip Topno (55), Soma Topno (25), Phirangi Topno (45), Salim Topno (25), Amrit Topno (30), Sawan Topno (34) and Daniel Topno (40). Barring Daniel, who is a resident of neighbouring Buruhatu Badkatoli village, the rest hail from the Buruhatu Pahar Amtoli hamlet. “Interestingly, Amrit is Nikodin’s nephew and had accompanied police for the post-mortem of the bodies on Wednesday. All the eight have been sent to jail,” Janaradhanan said. The SP said the special investigation team (SIT), led by Basia sub-divisional police officer Deepak Kumar, found four blood-stained axes, two hand adzes, the blood-stained slippers of Soma Topno and the blood-stained trousers of Dilip Topno. “While the accused were booked for murder, possession of weapons and other sections of the IPC, the village dwellers, who took part in the meeting, have been booked under Section 107 of the IPC,” Deo Pratap Pradhan, the officer in-charge of the Kamdara police station told TOI. Meanwhile, BJP’s state president Deepak Prakash criticised chief minister Hemant Soren after his Thursday visit to the village. He demanded Anjali Topno, the lone survivor of the family, to be looked after by the state government. “Three days have passed and not one minister of the state, neither the MLAs from the ruling dispensation have visited the village. The CM should have gone there himself,” Prakash said. “JMM, which claims to be the messiah of the tribal people, is not sensitive towards them. Adivasis are being attacked and this government is insensitive towards the crimes,” Prakash said. Sharpening his attack on Hemant, Prakash said, “The CM was not aware of the killings even after hours had passed. What sort of information system does he have? The criminals plotted the killings in the hamlet and met again after executing the gruesome act, but police didn’t even get a whiff of it. What kind of a state are we living in?” Prakash questioned. The Rajya Sabha MP also claimed that his party functionaries, workers and supporters will soon orchestrate state-wide protests and hit the streets if the Hemant government does not act swiftly to curb crimes and lawlessness in the state. (With inputs from Dhritiman Ray in Ranchi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/kangaroo-court-decided-to-get-gumla-family-killed-over-witchcraft-suspicion-cops/articleshow/81233961.cms||K A Gupta
February 27, 2021||Ranchi||No date yet for Madhupur poll; BJP, JMM left stumped||Ranchi: Both JMM and BJP camps were in for a surprise on Friday as the Election Commission did not announce the bye-poll date for Madhupur assembly constituency. The constituency, which was won by JMM veteran Haji Hussain Ansari in the 2019 assembly polls, fell vacant in October last year when the lawmaker died of cardiac arrest after recovering from Covid-19. As per Constitutional mandate, a new legislator needs to get elected from the seat by April this year. Ansari, a cabinet minister, was replaced by his eldest son Hafizul Hassan as the minister of minority affairs. Hassan was sworn in on February 6, but has to get elected. “We were waiting for the announcement. It was surprising. But we hope that the EC will announce the date in the coming days,” JMM general secretary Vinod Pandey told TOI. BJP, which lost the seat to JMM in 2019, also hoped the date would be announced. “Usually, bye-polls are announced along with assembly polls. So going by the trend, we were hopeful that the date will be announced,” BJP spokesperson Pradeep Sinha said. “We urge the EC to announce the dates at the earliest,” he added. Notably, the bye-polls to the Dumka and Bermo assembly constituencies were delayed due to Covid-19. However, the EC conducted the bye-polls to the two seats in November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-date-yet-for-madhupur-poll-bjp-jmm-left-stumped/articleshow/81234107.cms||Dhritiman Ray
February 27, 2021||Ranchi||8 minors get bail in Jharkhand CM convoy attack case||RANCHI: The Juvenile Justice Board on Friday allowed bail to eight minor boys who were detained in connection to the attack on the chief minister’s pilot car in the Kishoreganj area of Ranchi on January 4. Notably, an angry mob had attacked the police vehicle running ahead of the CM’s cavalcade at Kishoreganj Chowk while staging a protest against rising cases of rape in the state. A traffic police official was injured in the incident. The police had arrested around three dozen persons in this connection. Lawyer Kirti Narayan said the board allowed the bail after imposing a fine of Rs 500 on each of the boys. He said, “I pleaded that the minors have been lodged in the observation home since January 6. I said the minors were caught after their names surfaced during inquiry. There is no video footage so far to establish their presence.” The boys, all of them from Chutia area, are studying in various schools of the city. It may be stated here that eight persons had already secured bail from the court of additional judicial commissioner on February 11 in a case related to the attack on the pilot car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/8-minors-get-bail-in-jharkhand-cm-convoy-attack-case/articleshow/81234020.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: CRPF jawan shoots self in Gumla district||GUMLA: A CRPF constable killed himself with an AKM rifle at Banari in Bishunpur block of Gumla district on Thursday night. Sompal Singh Nagar (39), a native of Chhuchai village under Mavana police station in Meerut district of Uttar Pradesh, was posted in the CRPF’s B company of the 158th battalion since September last year. CRPF’s officers said Nagar had returned from leave on February 2. On Thursday, he did his duty as usual, played volleyball with his colleagues and attended a birthday party of a jawan. After returning to his barracks around 9:40pm, he shot himself with the rifle of another jawan. Nagar is survived by his wife and two children. Gumla SDPO Manish Chandra Lal visited Banari CRPF camp to probe the incident. On Friday, Nagar’s body was sent to Gumla sadar hospital for autopsy, fingerprint sampling, gun powder trace detection and Covid-19 test. The body was then handed over to the CRPF, which then sent his body to the family for the last rites. “The reason for him committing suicide is being investigated,” Gumla SP Hrudeep P Janardhanan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/crpf-jawan-shoots-self-in-gumla-dist/articleshow/81234069.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ranchi||Now licence must for food shops, eateries in Bokaro||Bokaro: All food traders in the district have been asked by the district administration to get their registrations done and obtain a licence as mandated in the Indian Food Safety and Standards Act of 2006. Sub divisional officer Shashi Prakash Singh said: “Retailers, wholesalers, distributors, manufacturers, hotels, restaurants, slaughterhouses, fish shops, egg shops, vegetable shops, fruit shops and drug stores, among others, have to obtain licences. Camps will be organized in various areas of the district between March 1-4 to create awareness among the sellers.” Besides sellers and eateries, canteen operators in government offices and private office spaces will also have to obtain licences, failing which they will face action, Singh added. “Doing business without licence or registration is a punishable offence by law and there is a provision of six-month imprisonment and a fine of Rs 5 lakh for the offenders,” the SDO said. For the FSSAI licence, businessmen who have a turnover of more than Rs 12 lakh annually will have to pay between Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 every year and traders earning less than Rs 12 lakhs must pay Rs 100, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/now-licence-must-for-food-shops-eateries-in-bokaro/articleshow/81233666.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Ahmedabad||PM’s privatization mantra can help Gujarat govt get rid of Rs 3 lakh crore debt||GANDHINAGAR: According to the Gujarat government’s revised estimate for 2019-20, it paid Rs 20,365 crore on public debt. The interest burden has been increasing annually by almost 9.89%. If the state government follows Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s advice on privatization, considerable or total debt payment is possible and recurring spending of over Rs 20,000 crore will be saved annually. Over the past five years, the Gujarat government paid Rs 86,131 crore as interest on its massive public debt. According to the budget estimate, the Gujarat government’s public debt is Rs 2,96,268 crore (the revised estimate may produce a bigger figure). Every year, the CAG pulls up the Gujarat government for poor return on investment in PSUs and for the burden on the public exchequer. The market valuation of the state’s key listed PSUs is about Rs 70,000 crore and asset value is considered between Rs 1.5 lakh crore and Rs 3 lakh crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pms-privatization-mantra-can-help-gog-get-rid-of-rs-3l-cr-debt/articleshow/81236208.cms||Kapil Dave
February 27, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 68 new cases, Ranchi alone accounts for 34||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported 68 new Covid-19 infections on Friday while 43 people recovered from the virus, the state health department said in its bulletin. Ranchi reported 34 new infections while East Singhbhum reported 20. Dhanbad reported five new cases and Deoghar reported three. Gumla reported two new cases. Sahibganj, Khunti, Latehar and Giridih reported one new case each, the bulletin said. The state’s cumulative caseload rose to 1,19,683 while the number of recoveries touched 1,18,284. There were 492 active cases in the state while the death toll stood at 1,087. As many as 476 healthcare workers and 3,134 frontline workers took their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Friday. Whereas 4,202 health workers took their second dose. As on Friday evening, Jharkhand’s cumulative coverage of the first dose of vaccine was 78%. A total of 3,04,194 health and frontline workers had taken the jabs till Friday against the total registered figure of 3,91,793. Likewise, the cumulative coverage of the second dose was 73%, with 23,513 out of the total targeted 32,226 beneficiaries (who got their first vaccines on January 29) having taken their jabs so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-records-68-new-cases-ranchi-alone-accounts-for-34/articleshow/81234368.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: On 1st day of Budget session, govt hailed for ‘focusing on tribal welfare’||RANCHI: Governor Droupadi Murmu on Friday hailed the Hemant Soren-led coalition government for realizing the concept of welfare state. Addressing members of the Jharkhand assembly on the first day of the Budget session, Murmu highlighted the schemes and programmes taken up by the government focusing on welfare of tribals, poor and marginalized. She said the year 2021 would be a year of appointments and employment as the state government has already started giving jobs to people. The Governor’s address was not disrupted by the opposition and the house business was conducted smoothly except for a symbolic disruption by BJP MLAs once to highlight the mass killing of five persons of a family in Gumla. Manish Jaiswal of BJP sought government’s attention to the matter. In her 45-minute speech, Murmu highlighted welfare measures of the government. She said 326 administrative officials have been appointed by the JPSC while another 100 people were appointed as civil judge under judicial services. “Sports officers were also appointed, one in each district, indicating that 2021 is going to be a year of appointments,” she said. Mentioning the Mukhyamantri Rozgar Srijan Yojna, she said that a loan of up to Rs.25 lakh with grant of 40% or Rs 5 lakh (whichever is less) is available for setting up small businesses. “Taking care of poor labourers, the state has created a record of sorts by revising the target of job creation under MNREGA from eight crore man-days to 11.5 crore man-days, of which 10.11 crore have already been generated,” she said. Congratulating the government for its role in mitigating the challenges during the lockdown, Murmu said around 15 lakh families are still being provided with 5kg rice every month at Re 1 per kg that under the Jharkhand state food security scheme. “This is over and above the initiatives that the state took to provide meals to thousands of migrant labourers and those stranded in the state through the CM Daal Bhaat Yojana and special Didi kitchens set up during the pandemic,” she said. The Governor also highlighted the government’s focus on improving the standard of education, for which 80 upgraded schools, to be conducted on CBSE syllabus, are being set up. “A total of 325 leader schools at the block level and 4,091 model schools at the panchayat level are being opened in the state, utilizing the expertise of government and private players,” she said. Murmu praised the government for focusing on tribal welfare by introducing the concept of online revenue collection from traditional village heads like Manki, Munda and Manjhi. “Our government has also started returning land that was taken by mining companies but never put to use to the original owners. A total of 56.88-acre land has been returned to 26 land owners in Barkagaon circle,” she said. She also hailed the scheme to give scholarship to ten tribal students for pursuing higher education in universities of London. Admitting that the revenue collection target of Rs 17,379.54 crore is yet to be met, Murmu said the state has been able to collect Rs 11,689 crore through SGST, GST compensation and VAT collection by the end of January this year. “The government is doing its best to improve revenue collection and add more options for revenue generation — introducing tax on minor forest produce and levying Covid Cess being a few in that direction,” she said. Murmu also sought cooperation of the members in approving the budget for the financial year 2021-22 and fruitful use of the month-long session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/on-1st-day-of-budget-session-govt-hailed-for-focusing-on-tribal-welfare/articleshow/81233980.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
February 27, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand Police on toes as opium harvesting season approaches||RANCHI: As the harvesting season of poppy approaches, Jharkhand Police are busy carrying out massive destruction drives of the banned crop. In addition to this, the cops have launched a massive crackdown on opium traders who are mostly part of inter-state gangs. On Thursday, Khunti Police seized opium from a trader whose brother is in jail in Uttar Pradesh for the same crime. Similarly, Ranchi Police have initiated steps for bringing an accused from Rajasthan for interrogation and trial. Despite several preventive measures taken by the law enforcement authorities, poppy cultivation, according to police sources, is rampant across several districts as farmers earn four times the profit in growing poppy than in growing other crops like paddy. A mere kilogram of raw opium costs around Rs 50,000/kg. The sowing of poppy crop begins in September while the harvesting takes place mid-March. The crops are generally grown on fields located beside rivers and in deep forests in order to avoid detection. Farmers mostly grow this crop in Chatra, Ranchi and Khunti districts. Vast tracts of land in Chatra, which was once considered as the hub of poppy cultivation, are under opium cultivation. Chatra SP Rishab Jha said, “Operations against the cultivators are underway and so far, over five hundred acres of land under opium cultivation have been destroyed. We are also planning to distribute handbills in villages to discourage people from cultivating the crop.” In Khunti district and in Namkum, Bundu and Tamar blocks of Ranchi there is unbridled cultivation of the crop, though, according to the police, the coverage is slightly less than previous years. With the consumption of opium within the state being minimal, almost the entire produce is purchased by inter-state gangs who sell the products in western Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi and Punjab. Police said that the inter-state gangs usually take help from local miscreants for transporting the poppy products. Traders sometimes also come to Jharkhand on their own vehicles to make the purchase. Police are generally on the lookout for vehicles bearing registration numbers of other states. Khunti SP Ashutosh Shekhar said, “The inter-state agents become active during the sowing and the harvesting seasons in order to promote cultivation and purchase the harvested products respectively. Police have been trying to gather information about the gangs involved in the crime by interrogating people arrested with the products.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-police-on-toes-as-opium-harvesting-season-approaches/articleshow/81233529.cms||Sanjay Sahay
February 27, 2021||Gurgaon||19 Covid cases, condominium sealed in Sector 67 in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: Ireo Victory Valley, an upscale condominium in Sector 67, was declared a containment zone on Thursday after 19 residents tested positive for Covid-19. The residents appeared to have caught the infection after attending a party hosted at a fine-dining restaurant, though officials said they were not certain about it. This is after two months that such a cluster containment exercise has been undertaken at a housing society in the city and harks back to the months of 2020 when the pandemic was spreading rapidly. It also underlined the dangers of relaxing one's guard amid fears of an imminent spike in cases because of more such super-spreader events. According to residents, around seven people contracted the infection after a group of 22-25 — most of them elderly people —attended a birthday party on February 7. As many as 12 residents tested positive later. “There are 19 active cases in the condominium as of now. They tested positive on different dates. We cannot confirm the source of infection, even though we carried out contact tracing of those who tested positive initially. The party was hosted on February 7 and the first case was detected on February 19,” chief medical officer (CMO) Virender Yadav said. More than 700 samples have been collected so far in the society by the health department. “Residents have been asked to follow Covid protocols strictly. We are conducting contact-tracing and testing. More than 350 samples were collected on Friday. Those who tested positive will be asked to go into quarantine. The threat of Covid-19 is not over yet. People will have to maintain social distancing and wear masks properly,” he added. Several residents pointed out that lack of social distancing has led to a spike in cases in the society. There are more than 800 flats in the society, of which 500 are occupied as of now. Most of the cases are from four towers. “After the authorities lifted curbs implemented during the lockdown, people started socialising without taking adequate safety measures. Some of the residents might have got infected from the party, and they shared the same lift with other residents and staffers. Now, 22 floors have been sealed here. If there is any emergency, we are not fully equipped to handle this kind of crisis,” said Shweta Jaswal, a resident. “Of the four lifts, only one or two are functional in many towers. Residents are forced to share those, and no social distancing norm is maintained in lifts,” another resident said. A district administration official said, “All necessary measures have been implemented to curb the virus spread. The movement of people in a containment zone is restricted. The curbs will be lifted after a tentative period of 14 days if no new case is reported,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/19-covid-cases-condo-sealed-in-sector-67/articleshow/81237605.cms||Akanksha Gupta
February 27, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: New units at leather park may bring Rs 1,500 crore in investments||AMARAVATI: The proposed leather park in Krishnapatnam Special Economic Zone has received tremendous response from investors with 440 firms expressing intent to set up units. The new industrial units are expected to bring in investments to the tune of Rs 1,500 crore and massive employment opportunities for local youth. Interestingly, 50 per cent of the bids were filed by entrepreneurs from the SCs. The leather cluster--the Krishnapatnam International Leather Complex Private Limited (KILCPL)-- is taking wings nearly seven years after it was cleared by the Centre in 2014. Sustained efforts made by minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy who is holding the charge of industries portfolio, have helped the dreams of the locals in realising the mega leather park. The state government set up a Special Purpose vehicle (SPV), Krishnapatnam International Leather Complex Pvt. Ltd (KILCPL), as a joint venture of Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) and Leather Industries Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (LIDCAP). The leather park will be spread over an area of 537 acres near the seacoast. “KILCPL will have the capacity to process about 300 tonnes of hides and skins a day, which, annually, equals 10 per cent of the total capacity in India at present. It will have about 25 tanning units and 21 leather processing units,” said P Rathnakar, CEO of KILCPL. He said that the park would provide direct employment to nearly 18,000 locals and indirect employment to another 13,000. He said that EOI called by them had received good response from the industrialists. He said that they have decided to organise a study tour for the locals to clear their apprehensions about damage to the local environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/new-units-at-leather-park-may-bring-rs-1500-cr-in-investments/articleshow/81233622.cms||Samdani MN
February 27, 2021||Vijayawada||Municipal elections: AP HC dismisses petitions seeking fresh notification||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Friday dismissed a batch of petitions seeking directions to the state election commision to issue fresh notification for municipal elections. Any interim orders at this stage would result in postponement of elections, the court said, adding that as the election process cannot be postponed once it is initiated, it is not inclined to interfere at this stage and dismissed all interlocutory applications. More than 20 petitions were filed seeking fresh notification on various grounds. Some petitioners said their right to contest is being curtailed because of resumption of election process from where it was stopped in March 2020, as they attained the age of eligibility to contest the polls in the meantime. Others argued that they were not allowed to file nominations by force and should be given another chance to contest. The state government and the SEC argued that the elections were postponed because of Covid-19 pandemic and the decision was upheld by the Supreme Court. The apex court also said in its judgment that there should be a post-decisional consultation with the state government to restart the election process. Justice D V S S Somayajulu said the Supreme Court said in its judgment that it is not inclined to interfere in the decision taken by the SEC. He further noted that the SEC is sitting on a repository of powers and courts should not interfere in the election process. On the other hand, rule 7 of AP Municipalities Act clearly states that the SEC has the powers to alter the election program in case of a court order or with a valid reason. As the elections were postponed with a valid reason, the SEC has the powers to alter the election program and to restart the stalled process. Justice Somayajulu further observed that though the petitioners argued that they have attained the age of eligibility to contest the election, they did not provide any details to prove the same. In the absence of any valid proofs it cannot be said that their right to contest was taken away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/municipal-elections-hc-dismisses-petitions-seeking-fresh-notification/articleshow/81233630.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 27, 2021||Vijayawada||E-watch application: Andhra Pradesh SEC yet to clear APTS concerns||VIJAYAWADA: The state government on Friday informed the high court that Andhra Pradesh Technology Services (APTS) has not received satisfactory answers from the state  commission over its e-watch application. Government pleader C Sumon told the court that APTS had raised 24 queries on various security aspects of the e-watch app but so far it has received only six answers from the SEC. The court had earlier directed SEC to not use the e-watch app after PILs were moved challenging the app’s use. As the application did not get security clearance from APTS, the nodal agency that gives security certificates to software applications used by any government agency, the high court had asked SEC not to use the app. On Friday, when the matter came up for hearing before the bench headed by Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice K Lalitha, Sumon said APTS was still waiting for a reply from the SEC to its remaining 18 queries. The high court, while extending the interim orders barring the application’s use till it is cleared by APTS, posted the matter for further hearing to March 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/e-watch-sec-yet-to-clear-apts-concerns/articleshow/81233641.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Left to contest over 20 wards in GVMC polls||VISAKHAPATNAM: CPI and CPM will face Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) elections without an alliance. “We have been fighting for the rights of slumdwellers and the poor and will contest over 20 wards. We are expecting good results,” said Dr B Ganga Rao, a CPM leader.  In the previous council CPM had only two corporators (B Eswaramma and K Vimala) and the party hopes the number will increase to five. Similarly, CPI is planning to contest in 10 wards. “In the previous council, we had only one member (AJ Stalin, corporator). We are chalking out plans to show our presence,” said J V Satyanarayana Murthy, CPI leader. They said local body elections are necessary for decentralized and grassroots development as people can bring their issues to the notice of their corporators, which would help speedy redressal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/left-to-contest-over-20-wards-in-gvmc-polls/articleshow/81233652.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Fight between principal, lecturer at college in East Godavari||RAJAHMUNDRY: The principal of Dr BR Ambedkar Gurukul Junior College came to blows with a part-time lecturer in front of their students outside the classroom at Kothuru in East Godavari district on Thursday. Later, both lodged complaints with the Anaparthi police. According to sources, Kosuri Srinivasa Rao, the principal of the college had a rift with Poosala Venkateswara Rao, a part-time lecturer at the college for eight years. On Thursday, the two broke into a quarrel in front of their students. As the situation heated up, the two started beating each other. Both sustained injuries and were taken to the hospital by their students and colleagues. Tension prevailed in the college following the incident. DCO of APSWREIS, Muralikrishna told TOI that both the principal and the lecturer have been sent on leave for a week. The lecturer, Poosala Venkateswara Rao, has lodged an SC/ST atrocities case against the principal. Anaparti SI Ali Khan is investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fight-between-principal-lecturer-at-college-in-eg/articleshow/81233669.cms||Samson Raj
February 27, 2021||Goa||‘Goa must give thrust to cashew cultivation’||PANAJI: The total amount of cashew nut imported by India is higher than that exported, but efforts can be made under Atmanirbhar Bharat to propel cashew cultivation and export, said director, directorate of cashew nut and cocoa development, Venkatesh Hubballi. He said that the country spent nearly Rs 8,800 crore to import raw nuts to India in the financial year 2019-20. This is as opposed to Rs 3,800 crore revenue generated from the export of cashew. In Goa, cashew cultivation is secondary with only about 25,000 tonne of production. He said if farmers can take up intensive cultivation, then it can be increased to about 37,000 to 40,000 tonne. “The best is to remove the old plantation and replant it with a high-yielding variety,” he said. “We therefore need to bring people together to increase the area under cashew cultivation, go for quality development and become self-reliant,” Hubballi said, while speaking at the national conference on cashew development in India held in Panaji on Friday. He said that of the total agri-export, cashew generates 0.03% of revenue to the GDP. There is a lot of demand for cashew nut in the domestic market, too. Last year, India processed 17 lakh tonne of cashew nut, of which only 33% was exported. The rest 67% was consumed domestically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-must-give-thrust-to-cashew-cultivation/articleshow/81236714.cms||Nida Sayed
February 27, 2021||Vijayawada||Man held for murder of 3-months pregnant wife in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A man was arrested on Thursday for murdering his pregnant wife in Ullagallu village under Prakasam’s Mundlamuru mandal. Addressing reporters on Friday, Darshi DSP Prakash Rao said the offence took place on February 21. Police found Shailaja, who was three-months-pregnant, dead under suspicious circumstances in a cow shed. The preliminary post-mortem report showed injuries on her body and indications of asphyxiation. Further inquiry revealed that Shailaja’s husband Srinivasa Rao, along with his father, had committed the crime. The DSP said Srinivas Rao had reported that his wife had died by suicide in his call to the police. “The discrepancies in his statement and the post-mortem report were clear,” the DSP said. Police said that Srinivas Rao had been suspecting his wife’s fidelity and harassing her for many months. They said that on February 16, village elders tried to solve the issue and had advocated for the couple to stay together but just days later, Shailaja was found dead. Police said that Srinivas Rao had confessed to killing Shailaja by stepping on her neck and tried to portray it as a suicide. Police also arrested his father for being an accomplice and trying to cover up the incident. Police said that Srinivas Rao had confessed to killing Shailaja by stepping on her neck and tried to portray it as a suicide||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-held-for-murder-of-3-months-pregnant-wife/articleshow/81233680.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Goa||Farmer sprouts nut, ups shelf life||PANAJI: After losing his job due to the pandemic, Kerala-based Brijith Krishna ventured into an innovative style of growing cashew. He has extended the germinability of cashew nut from 90 days to 360 days making it possible for the crop to sprout throughout the year without using any chemicals and increasing the shelf life of the otherwise highly perishable nut. Krishna shared his success story at the national conference on cashew development held in Panaji on Friday. After lockdown, he was left with three quintals of unsold cashew nut grown in his homestead. Unable to sell them, he converted them into sprouts (germinated cashew nut cotyledons) since their nutritious value is high, thus increasing the product’s commercial value. “These can be used in curries as well as salads besides serving as a nutrition supplement,” he said. During the monsoon, harvest loss was a major concern for cashew farmers since buyers rejecting damp crop leads to poor revenue. Krishna said that plucking the moist nuts and allowing them to sprout can ensure returns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/farmer-sprouts-nut-ups-shelf-life/articleshow/81236895.cms||---
February 27, 2021||India||Tamil Nadu: No Amma, no Kalaignar. It’s EPS vs Stalin||CHENNAI: The stage is set in Tamil Nadu for a do-or-die battle between AIADMK member and outgoing CM Edappadi K Palaniswami (better known as EPS) and DMK president M K Stalin. For the first two years of his tenure, it was life on tenterhooks for EPS as AMMK functionary T T V Dhinakaran unleashed sustained attacks, pulling the rug from under the chief minister’s feet by wooing AIADMK MLAs. Stalin’s decision to wait till the EPS government crumbled under its own weight aided the CM by good measure. Finally, it took a mini general election to the assembly in 2019 for him to stabilise his government.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); EPS, since then, has graduated in the art of managing political brinkmanship. With a slew of populist schemes — like doling out cash to people during the coronavirus pandemic, granting Rs 1,715-crore compensation for farmers affected by natural calamities, and a farm loan waiver of Rs 12,110 crore — EPS has earned some pan-Tamil Nadu acceptance of late. He has sought to appease the government employees and teachers, numbering more than 12 lakh, by extending their retirement age to 60. And finally, to appease ally PMK, he announced an internal reservation of 10.5% for Vanniyars. The AIADMK front is all set to put up a tough fight with the DMK front. The DMK front, on the other hand, is a formidable force and has proven its strength by winning 38 out of the 39 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 elections. None of the allies, be it Congress, CPI, CPM, MDMK, VCK, IUML or the Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi, is posing a threat to the Dravidian major, at least outwardly. Many of them have even resigned to the fact that their candidates would have to contest on DMK’s rising sun symbol. With a series of outreach programmes, Stalin has been interacting with the electorate across the state for last several months. However, peaking too early into the campaign could make the alliance complacent, just as it happened in 2016. The western Gounder belt, which routed DMK in the 2016 assembly elections, continues to pose major challenges to the DMK front as AIADMK has transformed into a Gounder-dominated party after J Jayalalithaa’s demise. The southern districts, with considerable presence of minorities, both Christians and Muslims, pose a challenge for the AIADMK front. The presence of BJP in the grouping could impact AIADMK’s prospects there. To add to its worries, V K Sasikala and her Thevar community could split pro-AIADMK votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tamil-nadu-no-amma-no-kalaignar-its-eps-vs-stalin/articleshow/81240899.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Visakhapatnam||96 new Covid cases in Andhra Pradesh, one death||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 96 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,89,681. The toll increased to 7,169 as one more patient succumbed to the novel coronavirus disease in Chittoor district. Altogether 71 patients were declared cured. There are currently 635 active cases with the 8,81,877 cumulative recoveries and 7,169 fatalities. Chittoor reported 22 new infections on Friday, followed by Guntur (17). Prakasam district has not recorded any new cases. The remaining 10 districts reported single-digit case numbers. Andhra Pradesh tested 34,778 Covid-19 samples on Friday and detected the 96 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.3%. The overall positivity rate stood at 6.4%. The Covid-19 vaccination programme, which was launched on January 16, would soon be extended to people aged 60 and above, and those within the age bracket of 45 to 59 years with co-morbidities. A major shift in the vaccination procedure in this phase would be that the registered people, including the healthcare workers and frontline staff who have been missed out or left out of the present phase of vaccination, can select vaccination centres of their choice. Secondly, the private sector hospitals will be involved as vaccination centres to expand the daily vaccination capacities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/96-new-covid-cases-in-ap-one-death/articleshow/81233685.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Vadodara||Two caught with Rs 39L cash in Vadodara||Vadodara: Two persons were caught with Rs 39 lakh cash in Fatehgunj area on Thursday night. As the duo - Aryan Patel (18) and Anklesh Patel (35) - could not give satisfactory answers regarding the cash, suspicion was strong that it may have something to do with the taluka panchayat polls scheduled February 28. They was travelling on a two-wheeler and intercepted near Fatehgunj circle at around 8pm. When cops checked the vehicle, they found a bag full of cash. Police said Aryan’s father Dharmendra runs a fabrication unit. “Dharmendra had given the money to his son for sending it to his sister. He told us that they had sold their land two years ago and reserved a portion of the money to her. They were on way to Waghodia Road to hand over the money,” said V R Kher, Fatehgunj police inspector. When asked if there was any political motive, Kher said, “We checked their background and as of now we have learnt that the money was for their personal use. We have written to the election commission, income tax and GST department for conducting inquiry into it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-caught-with-rs-39l-cash-in-vadodara/articleshow/81234311.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Visakhapatnam||How Old Town got left out in Vizag’s development race||VISAKHAPATNAM: The old city, known as One Town area, is where the city of Vizag was founded. The English set up their settlement in Visakhapatnam (then called ‘Vizagapatnam’) as early as 1682. While the city has expanded by around 40 kilometres along its radius over the years, the old city seems to have fallen out of favour. When TOI visited the area on Friday, ahead of the municipal polls, a cursory glance at the by-lanes revealed damaged roads, decayed drains, narrow and dingy streets, open sewers and coal dust pollution. The area between Jagadamba Junction and Old Post Office still possess an old-world charm. Hundreds of small shops selling jewellery line the streets dotted with historic structures, schools and churches. When the central business district started moving northwards with the construction of the RTC complex in the 1980s and the emergence of new residential areas such as MVP Colony, the then heart of the city, Old Town, stagnated.  M Satyanarayana runs a grocery store in Poorna Market. Ruminating on the state of his area, Satyanarayana says that the space has lost much of its charm. “Authorities should come up with a comprehensive plan and vision for development of the area. Lack of greenery and coal dust pollution have made things worse. The new generation is gradually shifting to other parts of the city,” he added. When TOI visited several colonies in the area on Friday, locals complained of shrinking roads. They also said that the proposal to notify Old Town area as a heritage zone has not seen any progress. Several locals complained of respiratory ailments caused by coal dust pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dingy-streets-open-sewers-blemish-charm-how-old-town-got-left-out-in-citys-development-race/articleshow/81233703.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 27, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Kith and kin of many leaders in municipal poll fray||VISAKHAPATNAM: The kith and kin of many leaders, including from the ruling YSRC and the opposition TDP, would be testing their political fortune in the ensuing municipal elections in the state. Tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao’s daughter Lakshmi Priyanka, Gajuwaka MLA Tippala Nagireddy’s elder son Vamsi and younger daughter-in-law Emily Jwala will be contesting the GVMC elections, while former minister Chintakayala Ayyanna Patrudu has fielded his wife Padmavathi and younger son Rajesh in Narsipatnam. Priyanka, who is also a qualified doctor, is currently the general secretary of Avanti Educational Institutions group. She would be contesting from ward number 6 in the 98-ward Greater Visakha Municipal Corporation. The ward comes under her father’s Bheemili constituency. “She campaigned for her father in the 2009 elections in Bheemili and also in the 2019 elections from the same constituency. She has a service-oriented nature and loves to serve people,” her husband Sravan Kumar told TOI. Priyanka has visited the ward four times already. She is also involved in various charity works and helped many people during the Covid-19 pandemic. Nagireddy’s younger son’s wife Emily Jwala would be contesting for the second time in GVMC elections. She was a corporator in the 2007-12 civic body, representing Congress at the time. She will be contesting from ward 75. The MLA’s elder son Vamsi Reddy is contesting from ward 74. Former minister Ayyanna Patrudu, if one counts out his two defeats including the one in 2019, has ruled Narsipatnam since 1983. His brother Ch Sanyasipatrudu’s wife Anita was the first chairman of the Narsipatnam civic body. But differences later developed between the brothers before the 2019 general elections. Sanyasipatrudu later joined the ruling YSRC along with several counsellors. This time, Ayyanna Patrudu has fielded his wife Padmavathi from ward 24 and younger son Rajesh, who would be making his political plunge, from ward 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/kith-and-kin-of-many-leaders-in-municipal-poll-fray/articleshow/81233724.cms||Siva G
February 27, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Retaining wall falls on four-year-old||Visakhapatnam: A four-year-old boy died on the spot after a retaining wall of Anganwadi centre fell on him at N Kotturu village under Rolugunta police station limits in Vizag district on Friday. The deceased was identified as D Sai Dixit. The boy was playing alone near the Aganwadi centre when the wall, constructed around five years ago, suddenly collapsed. He died on the spot. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/retaining-wall-falls-on-four-year-old/articleshow/81233747.cms||---
February 27, 2021||India||In Puducherry, deflated Cong up against energised oppn||PUDUCHERRY: Stung by the loss of office in Puducherry just before elections were announced, Congress has little time to regroup before the April 6 vote. In 2016, Congress emerged the single largest party, winning 15 seats and forming the government with the support of DMK (2) and an Independent. But it failed to keep its MLAs together, accusing BJP of using the Raj Nivas and nominated MLAs to topple an elected government. Now, it’s up against an opposition that has been energised by the disarray in Congress ranks and the recent visit of PM Modi. Several political observers said the opposition parties — AINRC, AIADMK and BJP — look strong on paper but will have to work hard to overthrow Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-puducherry-deflated-cong-up-against-energised-oppn/articleshow/81238402.cms||Bosco Dominique
February 27, 2021||Goa||Verem’s Naval war college sees change of guard||Panaji: Former chief of the Directorate of Naval Intelligence at Naval Headquarters, Rear Admiral S Venkat Raman assumed command of the prestigious Naval War College of the Indian Navy, at Verem, on Friday. Raman took over from Rear Admiral Sanjay Jasjit Singh. The Naval War College conducts training for senior officers, including foreign participants, on defence planning, strategic and operational subjects, with a view to promote a culture of strategic and operational thinking, the Navy said in a statement. Rear Admiral Venkat Raman, is an alumnus of the National Defence Academy Khadakvasla and was commissioned into the service on January 1, 1990. The Rear Admiral is a specialist in communications and electronic warfare and has held various appointments onboard front-line warships of the Indian Navy. His sea tenures include command of the stealth frigate Tabar. He has completed several post graduate study programmes, including Masters in Defence and Strategic Studies in addition to a Masters in Management Studies from the College of Defence Management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/verems-naval-war-college-sees-change-of-guard/articleshow/81237026.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Goa||Goa: Liquor worth Rs 8 lakh hidden with fish seized at border||PONDA: For the second time this month, a team of state excise officials foiled a bid to smuggle liquor worth Rs 8 lakh out of Goa. Excise officials said the consignment was hidden under fish crates. There was even a crate of rotting fish placed in the vehicle to throw officials at the check post off track. The excise department team intercepted the vehicle while it was attempting to cross the state border via the Mollem checkpost on the Goa-Karnataka state border. When officials at the checkpost instructed the vehicle driver to open the carrier section, the driver abandoned the truck and ran away, excise inspector Rohit Dessai said. “We were lucky enough to have been able to inspect the liquor-laden truck. The driver would have given us the slip if had not gotten scared when we asked him to open the insulated container,” the officer said, adding that such vehicles carrying contraband usually speed across the border checkpost. The checkpost does not have any gate or barricade to stop vehicles. Desai said the vehicle raised suspicion as fish normally travels through Pollem, Karwar route and no such vehicle crosses from Mollem. The seized stock consists of 685 cases of Honey Grade Brandy. These include 350 cases of 750ml bottles, each case carrying 12 bottlesand 335 cases of 180ml brandy bottles with 48 bottles in each case. Altogether the cost of the seized goods is Rs 8,29,680, the excise inspector said. The driver of the vehicle took advantage of the darkness and ran away towards the forest area. The team has also seized the vehicle. The team includes Dessai, sub-inspector Mohandas Govekar, and guards Madhu Naik, Dilkush Velip, Ashok Parwar, Ritesh B Toraskar and Datta Gaonkar. Similar incidents occurred twice before, on December 10, 2020 and February 3, 2021, wherein the excise officials had foiled a bid to smuggle liquor worth Rs 2.7 lakh and Rs 5.5 lakh, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/liquor-worth-rs-8l-hidden-with-fish-seized-at-border/articleshow/81237069.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Goa||Betalbatim locals want coastal plan scrapped||Colva: Why did the government make us spend money, time and energy in making the village plan if it had planned not to consider the same while preparing the coastal zone management plan (CZMP) for the village, questioned Betalbatim sarpanch Constancio Miranda. During the emergency meeting convened on Friday to discuss the plan, residents of Betalbatim village were shocked to find that their suggestions and the plan were not even cited in the draft CZMP plan submitted by the government to the panchayat. Miranda said that these plans will determine the survival of the local communities and the future generations. “The detailed and accurate plans made by the villagers after strenuous efforts have been ignored by the government,” he said. The features of the CRZ such as the traditional footpaths that are critical for the local economies, fresh water bodies, sand dunes, structures of the local communities, shacks and religious structures, were accurately demarcated on the village plans. These are either incorrectly marked or missing in the draft CZMP plans. After detailed discussions, the residents of Betalbatim resolved to demand scrapping of the draft plan by the government and adopt the one submitted by people in 2019. Meanwhile, the villagers of Chinchinim at a special gram sabha too have rejected the draft plan and demanded that it be scrapped for similar reasons as that of the Betalbatim villagers. They pointed out to discrepancies in buffer zones, marking of port limits, and hardships it would cause to the fishing community.  Another local said that every time the government submits its plans for scrutiny, it comes with new twists and turns.  Betalbatim locals found that their suggestions and the plan were not even cited in the draft CZMP plan submitted by the government to the panchayat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/betalbatim-locals-want-coastal-plan-scrapped/articleshow/81237097.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Goa||Fog envelops parts of Goa||PANAJI: Parts of the state experienced fog on Friday morning with many areas witnessing decreased visibility as a result. Panaji and the surrounding areas were enveloped in a thick blanket of fog. Motorists on the Mandovi bridge had a tough time as visibility was very poor. “The thick blanket of fog made us go very slow as we couldn’t see from a distance”, a motorist said. Fog tends to occur when the atmosphere has enough moisture at the lower level and clear conditions remain in the night without any significant wind speed, the India meteorological department (IMD) said. “On Thursday night seaside winds were there even after 12am, for two to three hours more, which increased the lower level humidity and since there are no weather systems to create clouds, skies remained clear,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. When the sky remains clear, the temperature falls at night, enough for fog to occur. However, a drastic fall in temperatures is not expected. “The westerlies from the sea are bringing moisture. When humidity is high, significant fall is less likely. Winter will end on February 28. Yet, from February 28 onwards we can expect a slight fall,” he said. Categorised as radiational fog, it forms only during winter, and can have repercussions if it combines with smoke as it creates smog, said meteorologist and former chief scientist at the National Institute of Oceanography, M R Ramesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fog-envelops-parts-of-goa/articleshow/81237117.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Goa||Panchayat secy exam tomorrow||Panaji: The written exam for the posts of secretaries of village panchayat is scheduled on February 28 from 10am to 11:30am at the Government Polytechnic and Don Bosco high school in Panaji, St Michael high school, Taleigao, Rosary high school, Mushtifund high school and KR Hedgewar at Cujira, Bambolim. A government press release stated that call letters have been sent to the candidates and those who have not received the letters should collect it from the office of the directorate of panchayat, Panaji on February 27 between 10am to 1pm and from 2:30pm to 5pm by showing the acknowledgement proof of their online application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panchayat-secy-exam-tomorrow/articleshow/81237125.cms||---
February 27, 2021||India||Assembly polls: Congress caught by surprise, must hasten deals on seats||NEW DELHI: The EC’s announcement of poll dates caught Congress and its allies by surprise, with functionaries saying that inconclusive deals on seat-sharing that were being taken without due urgency will now have to be sealed soon. Congress and DMK were expecting the poll schedule for five states, including TN and Puducherry, to be announced in the first week of March, possibly based on the last election’s timetable which was reiterated by PM Modi at a public rally this week. The partners held the first round of talks in Chennai on Thursday in which Congress put forth its demand while the latter found the tally inflated. They decided to discuss the possibilities within their parties and hold further deliberations early next month. Read AlsoCongress-Left combine fights for pan-Bengal relevanceFor Left and Congress, key players in Bengal politics a decade ago, the assembly polls are a battle for survival.Well-placed sources said the allies believed they could take some more time to hammer out the deal as the schedule was expected at least a week later. “Now, there is no grace time and we have to expedite the process. Let’s see how soon we can,” a party manager said. The same holds true for Assam where Congress has formed a ‘grand alliance’ with minor parties as well as in Bengal where it has struck a deal with the Left but where negotiations with the new outfit launched by the cleric of Furfura Shareef shrine has delayed matters. In TN, Congress has sought more than 41 seats it contested in 2016 but DMK appears reluctant. Read AlsoAssembly elections 2021: 4 states, 1 UT, 18 crore voters - The race beginsThe election commission on Friday announced that voting for five assembly elections will begin on March 27, with West Bengal set to hold eight-phase polls and Assam three. Counting will be held on May 2. In 2016, BJP had won only 64 of the 824 seats in the fray. It has little to lose this time. ForCongress is hopeful it will secure a “self-respecting number” since DMK will not want to rock the boat in an election that looks good but can be tricky in view of the absence of a mass leader like M Karunanidhi. Sources said the fall of the Puducherry government has resolved matters for Congress there. The local DMK brass, which was talking about going it alone and also sniping at former CM V Narayanasamy, has been working with Congress since the crisis started for the now fallen Congress government. It is only in Kerala that alliance and seat-sharing appear more or less sorted as the two fronts led by Congress and CPM have been in existence for years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-caught-by-surprise-must-hasten-deals-on-seats/articleshow/81238412.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
February 27, 2021||Goa||Goa: Covid cases touch 100 again after 3 weeks, infections up 40%||PANAJI: After more than three weeks of staying below the 100-mark, new Covid infections rose by 40% on Friday with 100 new cases. The positivity rate climbed to 5.5% and three deaths were reported over the past 24 hours. An 89-year-old from Mapusa with comorbidities passed away with bilateral Covid pneumonia after three weeks of admission at the GMC, Bambolim. A woman aged 72 from Agasaim developed severe bilateral Covid pneumonia after five days in hospital. An 81-year-old man from Mormugaoalso developed bilateral Covid pneumonia and passed away due to septic shock after almost two weeks at the GMC. Active cases that breached the 500-mark on Thursday are now inching towards 600 with 587 active infections reported. Another 27 persons were hospitalised and 46 opted for home isolation.  The state’s recovery rate fell to 97.5%, with 41 having recovered over the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cases-touch-100-again-after-3-wks-infections-up-40/articleshow/81237149.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Vadodara||Cops tweak trending memes to increase reach||Vadodara: Moving over the conventional modes of spreading awareness on crucial issues, the Vadodara police have now turned to memes to reach out to net-savvy youngsters. The city police have begun posting humorous memes on traffic as well as social issues on its social media accounts. On Wednesday, the city police posted a meme using the tag line ‘ye ham hain, aur ye hamaari pawri ho rahi hain’ that has been trending on Twitter since last couple of weeks. “We want to reach out to youngsters who now seldom read or watch the news. Most of them are on social media and spend a lot of time online not just for studies but for social life as well as business. So, we thought that the best way to reach them and spread our message is through social media,” said Shamsher Singh, city police commissioner. One of the first memes shared by the police is on women’s safety. Posted on its Twitter account, the meme reads ‘ye hum hain, ye hamari savaari hain, aur yahaan patrol pawri hori hai’. The meme has photos of a cop, a police motorbike and several policemen riding their bikes. Another meme shared by the cops under the same theme has a photo of police lock up too with tag line ‘ladki ko chheda to aapki pawri havalat mein’ (if you harass a girl, then you will party behind the bars). The police said that such memes are not just used to spread awareness among youngsters but also serves as a warning to the offenders. “These memes would go viral and reach a lot of netizens, especially the youngsters who are our target audience. They have to understand that breaking laws is punishable and cops won’t spare any offender,” Singh told TOI. Singh, who is an avid social media user, said that they are planning to post a number of memes in the coming days. “We will focus on women’s safety and traffic issues that are important issues in the city. Also, our focus will be on drug abuse awareness to save young lives,” Singh added. The police have roped in a team of professionals who are keeping a tab on the social media and helping them in making humorous memes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-tweak-trending-memes-to-increase-reach/articleshow/81234331.cms||Tushar Tere
February 27, 2021||Goa||Goa cops get special training to up investigation skills||PANAJI: Goa police along with the bureau of police research and development (BPR&D), Delhi, conducted training in women safety and crimes against women for its investigating officers. Talking about the training, which Goa police took up on priority, crime branch superintendent of police (SP) Shobhit Saksena told TOI that it was conducted in two batches, from February 14 to February 26, for a duration of five days per batch. Fifty investigating officers of the police sub-inspector (PSI) rank were trained in latest investigating techniques and laws pertaining to crimes against women. “In this training, experts were invited as resource persons, which included experts in the forensics, medical, cyber and legal fields. The objective of this training organised under the leadership of the Goa DGP and under direct supervision of SP crime was to train the officers of Goa Police to ensure swift and effective investigation of crimes against women,” Saksena said. He said that officers were taught cutting edge techniques to detect any crime, whether cyber or physical. It is felt that such trainings will ensure better and more scientific investigations resulting in higher convictions in cases of crimes against women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-get-special-training-to-up-investigation-skills/articleshow/81237183.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||Remove nylon manja from trees, wires: HC||Nagpur: Expressing concern over nylon manja entangled on tree branches and electric wires which pose danger to birds and animals, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court directed the civic body to immediately remove those strings. The HC further asked Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials to seek help of NGOs and local residents in the task and submit a detailed report within two weeks. While hearing a suo motu PIL based on TOI and other media reports on deaths of 23-year-old engineering student Pranay Thakre and 22-year-old Saurabh Patankar this year after their throats were slit by the deadly strings on roads, amicus curiae Deven Chauhan pointed out that manja continues to be on trees and electric polls after Sankranti festival and is big threat to birds and humans. In the last hearing, the Maharashtra government informed HC that it had banned sale and purchase of nylon manja in the state as per National Green Tribunal (NGT) directives. An affidavit filed by environment and climate change department principal secretary Manisha Patankar-Mhaiskar informed that steps in this regard were immediately taken after NGT’s orders of January 21 last year. HC grants relief to jail SP Nagpur: After Central Jail superintendent Anup Kumre tendered an unconditional apology to the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday, the judges absolved him from contempt charges. They, however, directed to mention the case details in his service book for not complying with HC orders. The HC had directed its registry to register a suo motu contempt plea against him after Kumre failed to properly explain the reason for not releasing accused Ravishekhar Londekar from jail despite clear orders. Firdos Mirza acted as amicus curiae in the case. After CBI arrested Londekar, his relatives had knocked HC’s doors through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar assisted by Saurabh Bhende for his release. The HC then ordered accused’s release on bail on furnishing a PR bond of Rs50,000 and one solvent surety of Rs20,000. However, Kumre and other jail officials didn’t release him citing prison manual rules that no prisoner can be released after 5pm. They also told his relatives to bring the sessions court order in the case. ‘KP ground to be developed by Oct 31’ Nagpur: The NMC has informed the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court that it would complete most of the work for beautification and maintenance of Kasturchand Park by October 31. In an affidavit, NMC heritage conservation committee’s secretary Harshal Gedam informed that PWD will complete structural audit of ‘chhatri’ and its restoration and development works of the ground would be executed as per curator’s report before the deadline. The decisions in this regard were taken after a meeting of the task force on February 23. The affidavit was filed in response to a suo motu PIL (No 45/2017) regarding gross misuse of historic place due to negligence of district administration, who often rent it out for commercial activities, where Shreerang Bhandarkar was appointed as amicus curiae.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/remove-nylon-manja-from-trees-wires-hc/articleshow/81235252.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 27, 2021||Goa||Women’s helpline logs most calls on domestic violence||PANAJI: Half the calls made to the universal helpline for women 181 have come from victims of domestic violence. Another large chunk were from women in depression and under stress. Others were victims of sexual harassment, cyber crime, blackmail, adolescent issues, mental illness, suicidal tendencies and poverty. The 24-hour helpline, an initiative of the government to ensure safety and security of women not only provides counselling through trained counsellors, but also a rescue service for women in distress, GVK EMRI deputy manager Shrinivas Deshpande said. The team refers and coordinates with various agencies, including the police, women help centres, hospitals, ambulance services, legal departments and NGOs. “All calls are scrutinised and transferred to the department concerned such as 108 for any physical abuse or counselling, or 100 for any police related case,” he said. “In case any woman cannot be consoled over the phone or requires immediate rescue, our special rescue vehicle goes to the scene. We also provide the women in distress with immediate police help, ambulance services and shelter home according to their needs,” he added. Women are also provided with free legal guidance on request. “In case of any medical emergencies related to violence on women, medical assistance (108 ambulance) is provided. If the woman is pushed out of her house, they are then shifted to the temporary shelter home till she gets a permanent place to reside. In case of mental illness, the woman is shifted to the Institute of Psychiatry and Human Behaviour (IPHB) with the consent of family members,” he said. Counselling is either done over the phone or in person. In a few circumstances, women in distress have visited the counsellors in person to resolve their problems. “In case of emergencies, our counsellors have visited the distressed women’s house and provided the required services at their doorstep,” he said. Women are also provided with information about government schemes related to them. “The aim of the helpline is to rescue and protect women against crime, harassment, abuse or exploitation and reduce the crime rate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/womens-helpline-logs-most-calls-on-domestic-violence/articleshow/81237200.cms||Lisa Monteiro
February 27, 2021||Mumbai||Covid surge spreads to 28 of Maharashtra's 36 districts||MUMBAI: Covid-19 cases have spread to more districts in the state over the past week. Active cases in 28 of the 36 districts in Maharashtra have seen a surge in the last two weeks, up from 21 districts about 10 days ago. Health department data shows active cases continue to go up in newly emerging hotspots in the Vidarbha like Amravati, Akola, Buldhana, Yavatmal and Nagpur, but districts in Marathwada like Latur, Hingoli, Parbhani and Nanded are also adding large numbers. With Vidarbha as the epicentre of the February surge, Nagpur (9,141) district has the second highest active cases after Pune (12,577). Amravati’s weekly positivity rate highest in state at 41.5%Nagpur has even pushed Mumbai (7,899) to the third place and Thane district to the fourth (7,276). Amravati, with 6,740 active cases, is at the fifth spot. Active cases in these five districts account for nearly 65% of total active cases in the state. The incidence in Nagpur is particularly high for its population of 5 million when compared to Mumbai, which has a population of nearly 13 million. Read Also8,333 new coronavirus cases in Maharashtra, 48 fatalitiesMaharashtra reported more than 8,000 new cases of Covid-19 for the third day in a row on Friday besides 48 fatalities, a health department official said.The data also shows that between February 15 and 21, the highest weekly growth rate in cases was reported by Amravati (19.4%). Akola’s weekly growth rate was 10.5% and Buldhana reported a growth rate of 6.1%. All these districts are from Vidarbha. However, the weekly positivity rate of Amravati continues to be highest at 41.5% even as Akola reported a 30.8% positivity rate. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, an advisor to the state government, said it is expected that the virus would gradually spread to newer pockets. “At some places, the spread would be faster, while in others it would be gradual,” he said. Read AlsoCovid-19: Surge in cases across Maharashtra continues but fatalities lowerFor the second day in a row, the state on Thursday reported over 8,000 cases and the city added over 1,000. Maharashtra reported 8702 cases and 56 fatalities, taking its total caseload to 21,29,821 and death toll to 51,993. Mumbai reported 1,145 cases on Thursday, a day after reporting 1,167 cases,According to Dr Salunkhe, areas that border the districts currently reporting higher cases should closely guard their population. “For instance, Marathwada should be on guard given its proximity to districts of Vidarbha. Even places neighbouring Pune and Nashik should up their vigilance,” he added. He said whether or not we labelled the surge as a second wave, the rise in cases could continue for the next month or two. Read AlsoCovid-19: You’ll now have option to walk in, register &amp; get vaccinatedAs the vaccination drive against Covid-19 is set for a big ramp up from March 1, expanding coverage beyond healthcare and frontline workers, the Centre said the vaccine could be accessed through three routes — advance self-registration, on-site registration and facilitated cohorts. At a meeting withAbout Amravati’s situation, civil surgeon Dr Shyam-Sundar Nikam said the district continues to see over 700-750 new cases every day, but deaths are between 5-8 per day. “There are newer pockets emerging within the corporation areas, but not so much in rural areas of the district. While there is a lockdown, it is not as stringent as the one we had in March last year, so we continue to see the spread,” he said. The district authorities said despite the surge, over 400 of the 1,400 beds are vacant. A state official said within Marathwada, Aurangabad has seen a jump in active cases. From February 1, when there were 347 cases, the number increased to 2,052 on Friday. “Every district has been asked to boost testing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-surge-spreads-to-28-of-maharashtras-36-districts/articleshow/81238430.cms||Sumitra Debroy
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||Non-essential shops, hotels to remain shut in dist on weekend||Nagpur: All markets and offices will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday and unless there is any emergency or essential work, people should not venture out of their homes, said district guardian minister Nitin Raut on Friday ahead of implementation of the weekend curbs announced earlier. He said essential services have been excluded. Nagpur district is seeing a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases for the last three weeks and the authorities had announced various curbs earlier in the week to break the chain of infections. “Though new strains of novel coronavirus have been detected at many places in the country, no mutation was observed in samples collected in Nagpur district,” said Raut. Raut, while taking review of Covid-19 situation in the district, reiterated that there will be no full lockdown. “There will be no restriction on movement of people on roads and at public places on Saturday and Sunday,” he said and added that there will be no restriction on people coming to the district from other parts of Vidarbha or states. At the same time, the minister urged all to stay at home if there is no emergency or essential work. “Libraries and reading rooms will be closed along with educational institutions, weekly markets and swimming pools till March 7. Emergency, essential services, shops, gyms, walking tracks and gardens will remain open. Strict action will be taken against violators,” he said. The district is reporting over 1,000 Covid cases per day, yet the minister said asymptomatic patients will continue to remain in home isolation. “Symptomatic patients should get admitted to hospitals. There are a sufficient number of beds — 1,769 with oxygen supply, 684 in ICU and 263 with ventilators — in the district. Enough beds have been made available at Covid care centres for those not having home isolation facility,” he said. Stating that Covid cases are on the rise in Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, MP etc, Raut said Nagpur district is doing over 10,000 tests a day, which is a threefold increase. “Over 11,000 tests per day are being done in Mumbai. Patients in home isolation are being stamped. We have also launched ‘I am Responsible’ campaign. Testing of superspreaders, hawkers etc has started. Situation is under control and the administration is on its toes. Now, people need to cooperate and follow Covid-19 guidelines to check the rise in cases,” he said. The minister said students should avoid stepping outside home on weekends. “I have directed the education department to spread awareness among students about the pandemic and importance of restrictions. The education minister has supported closure of educational institutions till March 7,” he said. On decision of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh to allow entry to people from Maharashtra only if they are carrying RT-PCR negative report, Raut said he cannot comment on it. “I can speak only for our state and district,” he said. Following various types of queries from people, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and collector Ravindra Thakare have issued orders stating that restaurants, hotels, sports events, swimming pools, cinema, theatre halls etc will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday. “Only stand-alone kirana shops will be allowed to open. Even bakeries will have to remain closed,” said the civic chief. Radhakrishnan said, “All religious places can remain open. Only religious, cultural, sports and political programmes are not allowed till March 7.” Shops, especially those selling liquor, that will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday were jam-packed on Friday as customers rushed to replenish their quota. As TOI went around the city, almost every wine shop counter was thronged by costumers and there was little scope for physical distancing. One of shops near Ravi Nagar was full of buyers jammed behind a grill gate. Such scenes were common elsewhere too. Rajeev Jaiswal, secretary of Nagpur Wineshop Holders Association, admitted that there was rush at the counters. “Attempts were made to ensure distancing as other measures were also followed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/non-essential-shops-hotels-to-remain-shut-in-dist-on-weekend/articleshow/81235274.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||Shift schools, offices to Concor land in Maharashtra: NHAI to C Rly||NAGPUR: Amid rising protest against the inter-modal station (IMS) project at Ajni, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has submitted a fresh proposal to Central Railway stating that schools, residential quarters, offices and other buildings will be rehabilitated at another site to save trees. Environment activists however feel that despite this, the project will cause irreversible environmental damage. TOI recently reported about NHAI’s decision of revising the plan, which was recently announced by Nitin Gadkari, union minister for road transport and highways at a press meet held in the city. For phase-1 of the project, 44.5 acres have been handed over to the Railway Land Development Authority (RLDA). In NHAI's new proposal, Central Railway has ben asked to provide its Concor depot land at Ajni. “The depot is being shifted at Khapri. Our suggestion is to shift the utilities including schools, quarters and other offices at CONCOR land which is adjacent to the Ajni site. By doing this, we aim to reduce the number of trees to be felled by half,” NHAI officials said. As reported by TOI earlier, NHAI along with Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s garden department carried a joint survey of the project site. The garden department has submitted the survey report to NHAI according to which 6,900 trees will be felled in about 54 acres of the land for the first phase of the project. In its two applications, NHAI had sought permission to cut 1,940 trees for phase-1. According to garden superintendent Amol Chorpagar, NHAI will now have to submit fresh application if they want to fell trees. As per sources, the utilities were supposed to come up at a land opposite proposed IMS site, where over 3,000 trees were to be felled. “These trees can be saved if Central Railway agrees to give Concor land,” they added. Railway sources confirmed that a proposal from NHAI has been received. “We have multi-disciplinary departments and we need to work out feasibility of the project. We have asked NHAI to submit a detailed presentation which will be submitted to our headquarters in Mumbai,” they said. A meeting between NHAI and central railway is expected to take place on March 1 to discuss the proposal. According to environment activists, shifting the utilities won’t suffice. “Coming up of IMS at Ajni will still lead to massive loss of green cover and biodiversity habitat, apart from traffic congestion and pollution. IMS should be shifted at Khapri and the green belt of Ajni should be developed as a biodiversity park and heritage site,” said environment activist Jaydeep Das. Meanwhile, Friday was the last day for submitting tenders for preparing DPR for IMS. “As a DPR is being made now, new consultants should be appointed. Also, a proper environment impact assessment of the project should be done,” added Das. NHAI NEW PROPOSALS * Rlys shift schools, quarters and other offices to Concor land at Ajni * Hope to save half of 6900 trees slated to be cut * Meeting to iron out issues on March 1 NMC VIEW * Fresh application must to cut trees * First proposal had listed only 1,940 trees GREEN VOICE * Shift IMS to Khapri * Develop Ajni land as bio-diversity park and heritage site||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shift-schools-offices-to-concor-land-nhai-to-c-rly/articleshow/81235293.cms||Manka Behl
February 27, 2021||Nagpur||Elections for Nagpur Municipal Corporation subjective committees on March 1||NAGPUR: Elections for appointment of chairman and deputy chairman of various subjective committees of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will be held on March 1 through videoconferencing. The date of filing nomination forms for both the posts will be February 26. With a clear majority in the 151-member house, the Bharatiya Janata Party is expected to hold all posts of chairman and deputy chairman in nine subject committees, including health, education, women and child welfare committee and sports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/elections-for-nmc-subjective-committees-on-march-1/articleshow/81235361.cms||---
February 27, 2021||India||Achhe Din: It’s Raining Sops Again||CHENNAI/PUDUCHERRY/KOLKATA/GUWAHATI: Increase in wages of daily wage labourers to waiving of jewel loans availed by farmers and making fuel cheaper, many governments in states going to polls – which were announced by the Election Commission on Friday – announced sops ahead of the declaration to woo voters. In Tamil Nadu, CM Edappadi K Palaniswami stepped up his game plan to cash in on populist schemes and made a slew of announcements on waiver of loans. On Friday, he announced in the assembly that jewel loans up to six sovereigns availed by farmers in co-operative banks would be waived. Loans availed by women self-help groups (SHGs) through co-operative banks would also be waived. “It will benefit one lakh SHGs that have around 15 lakh members,” he said. Political observers said the move aimed to take the wind out of the principal opposition party’s sail as its leader M K Stalin had promised that he would waive jewel loans and loans availed by SHGs if he formed the government. Hours before the announcement of dates for West Bengal assembly polls, CM Mamata Banerjee on Friday said her government has increased the daily wages of labourers working under the state’s Urban Employment Scheme. She said unskilled workers would get a daily wage of Rs 202 per day, up from Rs 144, while that for semi-skilled labourers was raised to Rs 303 from Rs 172. Under the job scheme, the government introduced a new category for skilled workers who will get a daily wage of Rs 404, said Banerjee. In Puducherry, lieutenant governor (additional charge) Tamilisai Soundararajan announced a 2% cut on valueadded tax (VAT) imposed on petrol and diesel in the Union territory. The price of petrol and diesel will drop by Re 1.4 per litre with the revision. VAT on petrol and diesel was hiked in August last year to mobilise funds to fight Covid-19. The revision will cost the government an exchequer Rs 71 crore per year. Recently, Tamilisai ordered provision of three eggs per week through the 855 Anganwadi centres to children aged six months to six years. The Assam government too had recently slashed tax on diesel and petrol. It had also removed the 25% Covid cess on liquor, making it cheaper in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/achhe-din-its-raining-sops-again/articleshow/81238432.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Meerut||Noida woman abducted from Ghaziabad on NH-24, gang-raped||MEERUT: A 30-year-old woman, who is a resident of Noida, was allegedly abducted by three suspects in an autorickshaw, forcibly taken to a desolate spot and gang-raped. An FIR has been registered at Pilkhuwa police station in Hapur district. According to police, the woman works at a store in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram and was returning home from work on Wednesday night when the crime was committed. “The woman used to take two autorickshaws — one from Indirapuram to Lal Kuan and another to reach her home in Noida after work. According to her complaint, the crime happened on Wednesday night around 9pm when she took an autorickshaw from Lal Kuan in Ghaziabad,” Hapur superintendent of police Neeraj Kumar Jadaun said. According to sources, the woman had initially approached Masuri police station in Ghaziabad on Wednesday night with her complaint. She was later directed to Pilkhuwa in the neighbouring Hapur district where an FIR was registered on Thursday morning. “Our control room received an alert about the crime around 3am on Thursday from our counterparts at Masuri police station in Ghaziabad. We immediately registered an FIR and sent the woman for medical examination,” Hapur additional superintendent of police Sarvesh Mishra said. Meanwhile, a team led by Hapur SP and ASP visited the crime spot and an investigation in the case began. “Efforts are being made to work out the case at the earliest,” the Hapur SP said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/noida-woman-abducted-from-ghaziabad-on-nh-24-gang-raped/articleshow/81238439.cms||Piyush.Rai
February 27, 2021||Noida||Noida woman abducted from Ghaziabad on NH-24, gang-raped||MEERUT: A 30-year-old woman, who is a resident of Noida, was allegedly abducted by three suspects in an autorickshaw, forcibly taken to a desolate spot and gang-raped. An FIR has been registered at Pilkhuwa police station in Hapur district. According to police, the woman works at a store in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram and was returning home from work on Wednesday night when the crime was committed. “The woman used to take two autorickshaws — one from Indirapuram to Lal Kuan and another to reach her home in Noida after work. According to her complaint, the crime happened on Wednesday night around 9pm when she took an autorickshaw from Lal Kuan in Ghaziabad,” Hapur superintendent of police Neeraj Kumar Jadaun said. According to sources, the woman had initially approached Masuri police station in Ghaziabad on Wednesday night with her complaint. She was later directed to Pilkhuwa in the neighbouring Hapur district where an FIR was registered on Thursday morning. “Our control room received an alert about the crime around 3am on Thursday from our counterparts at Masuri police station in Ghaziabad. We immediately registered an FIR and sent the woman for medical examination,” Hapur additional superintendent of police Sarvesh Mishra said. Meanwhile, a team led by Hapur SP and ASP visited the crime spot and an investigation in the case began. “Efforts are being made to work out the case at the earliest,” the Hapur SP said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-woman-abducted-from-ghaziabad-on-nh-24-gang-raped/articleshow/81238440.cms||Piyush.Rai
February 27, 2021||Ghaziabad||Noida woman abducted from Ghaziabad on NH-24, gang-raped||MEERUT: A 30-year-old woman, who is a resident of Noida, was allegedly abducted by three suspects in an autorickshaw, forcibly taken to a desolate spot and gang-raped. An FIR has been registered at Pilkhuwa police station in Hapur district. According to police, the woman works at a store in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram and was returning home from work on Wednesday night when the crime was committed. “The woman used to take two autorickshaws — one from Indirapuram to Lal Kuan and another to reach her home in Noida after work. According to her complaint, the crime happened on Wednesday night around 9pm when she took an autorickshaw from Lal Kuan in Ghaziabad,” Hapur superintendent of police Neeraj Kumar Jadaun said. According to sources, the woman had initially approached Masuri police station in Ghaziabad on Wednesday night with her complaint. She was later directed to Pilkhuwa in the neighbouring Hapur district where an FIR was registered on Thursday morning. “Our control room received an alert about the crime around 3am on Thursday from our counterparts at Masuri police station in Ghaziabad. We immediately registered an FIR and sent the woman for medical examination,” Hapur additional superintendent of police Sarvesh Mishra said. Meanwhile, a team led by Hapur SP and ASP visited the crime spot and an investigation in the case began. “Efforts are being made to work out the case at the earliest,” the Hapur SP said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/noida-woman-abducted-from-ghaziabad-on-nh-24-gang-raped/articleshow/81238442.cms||Piyush.Rai
February 27, 2021||India||Ties will remain affected unless there is peace on border: Jaishankar to Wang||NEW DELHI: India has told China in unambiguous terms that the bilateral ties will continue to be deeply affected if there is no peace on the border with foreign minister S Jaishankar conveying the point to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in a 75-minute phone conversation on Thursday. The discussion made it evident that India is not prepared to resume “business as usual”, isolating border friction from the larger relationship even as India and China for the first time agreed to set up a hotline between the two foreign ministers. India believes the hotline will help to address emerging problems in the relationship much faster. India has linked the overall ties with peace and tranquillity on the border, a stance that came about after Chinese aggression on the Line of Actual Control last year. China continues to believe the boundary dispute should be “in its proper place” and not impact the larger ties. “It was necessary to disengage at all friction points in order to contemplate de-escalation of forces in this sector. That alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquillity and provide conditions for progress of our bilateral ties,” the official Indian account of the conversation said. The official readout of the MEA on the Jaishankar-Wang conversation said, “Both sides had always agreed that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas was an essential basis for development of bilateral relations. A prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of either side. It was, therefore, necessary that the two sides should work towards early resolution of remaining issues.” The Chinese official statement said, “India and China should handle the boundary question properly to prevent the bilateral ties from sinking into a negative cycle. That the two countries have boundary disputes is an objective fact, which should be taken seriously, it is not the whole of ChinaIndia relations, and it should be put at a proper place in the overall bilateral relations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ties-will-remain-affected-unless-there-is-peace-on-border-jaishankar-to-wang/articleshow/81238451.cms||Indrani Bagchi
February 27, 2021||India||India sees over 16.5k Covid cases for third straight day||India recorded more than 16,500 fresh Covid-19 cases for the third straight day on Friday amid a continuing surge in infections in several states. There were 114 deaths from the virus across the country. The Covid-19 toll has stayed above 100 for four days running, the highest number of consecutive 100-plus daily fatalities in February. India logged 16,581 new cases on Friday, around the same as Thursday’s count of 16,605. For the third day in a row, Maharashtra reported over 8,000 cases. At 8,333, Friday’s tally in the state was slightly lower than the previous day’s number (8,702). Kerala reported 3,671 new cases. Despite the slight fall in Maharashtra’s numbers, India’s case count remained the same as many other states reported a surge in infections. Cases continued to spiral in Punjab with 628 fresh cases, highest in 78 days and the first time the tally has crossed 600 in the last 75 days. Karnataka logged 571 cases on Friday, the highest since January 24. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the most number of fresh cases at 368. Gujarat reported 460 fresh infections. Tamil Nadu, where infections had been decreasing till last week, reported 481 cases on Friday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-sees-over-16-5k-covid-cases-for-third-straight-day/articleshow/81238471.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Hyderabad||Centre’s stand is regressive, it’s crushing our hopes: Hyderabad’s LGBTQIA+ community||The queer community in the city feels that the centre's approach can damage a lot of positive change that happened after the Sec 377 verdict. Sandy Kushary, a member of the LGBTQ community in Hyderabad, says, “There was a drastic change after the Section 377 verdict. Suddenly there was hope of a future for us and people were much more confident about coming out in the open with their real identity. Now this sort of language is crushing people’s hopes again. It is discriminatory and basically says that we don’t belong in regular society.” He adds, “Section 377 decriminalised consensual sex between same-sex couples. So they’re basically saying now that we can have sex but cannot marry each other? I don’t understand this. On one hand, there is talk about Indian culture and on the other hand, they’re saying we can’t marry but can have sexual relations. The hypocrisy is nauseating.” Urging people from all walks of life to speak up for the rights of the LGBTQ community, drag artiste Patruni Chidananda Sastry says, “I cannot believe that people who are involved in making polices are being this irrational about the basic gender rights of a human being. We expect our fellow citizens to stand with us in this as it’s a threat to the existence of entire community.” Harrish, a city-based Equal Rights activist, adds, “This idea of criminalizing same-sex marriage comes from a basic lack of awareness about basic human rights. It is unfortunate that not a single parliamentarian has opposed the centre’s stand and are instead playing petty politics on this issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centres-stand-is-regressive-its-crushing-our-hopes-hyderabads-lgbtqia-community/articleshow/81234647.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal to vote in 8 phases over one month||KOLKATA: The model code of conduct kicked in on Friday in Bengal with the Election Commission announcing a month-long, eight-phase assembly poll schedule for the state beginning March 27 and ending April 29. Among the other states and UT for which elections were announced, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will have single-phase elections but Assam will vote over three days. Counting for all will be held on May 2. The 2016 assembly elections in Bengal were held in six phases while the 2019 Lok Sabha polls were conducted in seven. In a first, Kolkata will vote over two days — the seven south Kolkata seats on April 26 and the seven in north Kolkata on April 29. Areas adjoining the city will vote on other dates: Jadavpur on April 10 and Salt Lake-Rajarhat-New Town on April 17. In a clear north-south divide, almost all south Bengal districts except Birbhum will vote in multiple phases, while all north Bengal districts except Malda will vote in a single day. South Bengal is considered a Trinamool stronghold. The notification of the first phase of elections in Jangalmahal and parts of West and East Midnapore on March 27 will be released as early as Tuesday. Explaining the rationale behind the protracted Bengal poll schedule, chief election commissioner Sunil Arora said, “These decisions are based on several local factors, including movement of forces. For example, two expenditure observers are being sent to Tamil Nadu while two police observers are being sent to Bengal.” Two retired officers who had supervised the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Bengal — former Bihar CEO Ajay Nayak and retired IPS officer Vivek Dubey — will be returning to the state in their old roles as special observer and special police observer. Another retired IPS officer, Mrinal Kanti Das, will be the second special police observer while B Murli Kumar, an ex-IRS officer, will be the special expenditure observer. The state’s nodal officer for law and order will work closely with the central nodal officer for Bengal to decide on the logistics, the CEC said. Arora had a word of praise for Nayak and Dubey. Nayak had a run-in with Trinamool ahead of the LS polls when he said law-and-order in Bengal was like Bihar’s. Dubey was sent to Bengal to replace K K Sharma, against whom the ruling party had complained. Bengal chief electoral officer, Aariz Aftab, said “a bulk of the 125 CAPF companies” for pre-poll deployment had already reached the state. Of the 294 seats going to polls, 68 are reserved for Scheduled Castes and 16 for Scheduled Tribes. The Covid situation will also see a 31.6% rise in polling stations to 1,01,916 from the 77,413 in 2016 polls. Watch West Bengal assembly election: Polling in 8 phases between March 27-April 29||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-to-vote-in-8-phases-over-1-month/articleshow/81237736.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Surat||After Surat win, AAP sets eyes on 2022 assembly poll||Surat: After the astounding victory of its 27 candidates in Surat, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has set its eyes on a bigger electoral challenge in Gujarat - the 2022 assembly elections. “Give us five years. You will forget 25 years of BJP rule. AAP is a party of young blood,” Kejriwal said at an impressive roadshow he led in the Diamond City to express gratitude to people who overwhelmingly voted for the party in the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) election. AAP wiped out the Congress completely from SMC. Kejriwal said the victory has left BJP petrified, not by AAP, but by the people who have discovered a new alternative in Gujarat politics. "You contested the election in Gujarat and Surat which are BJP bastions You fought the polls without any resources and this is a remarkable victory. People were tired of BJP, but never had any alternative,” he said. "It's not that BJP is doing a commendable work, but the party has been winning because Congress is hands in glove with them. There was no one to question BJP,” he told the candidates. Explaining the ‘winning formula,’ Kejriwal said the victories in Delhi - from 28 to 67 seats - was a result of reducing people’s electricity bills, free water, eradicating corruption and focussing on health and education. Thousands joined the seven km road show that started from Patidar-dominated Varachha Mini Bazaar at 3pm and culminated at Sarthana jakat naka where Kejriwal addressed a public gathering near Takshashila Arcade. This is the same building where 22 students were charred to death in a massive fire in May 2019. Slamming the BJP government over education and jobs, Kejriwal said, “After completing schooling, students in Gujarat have to run from pillar to post to get admission in colleges. Upon graduating, they again run around in search of jobs.” “Now, stop begging for jobs from the state government. Join politics, enter the state assembly and become job givers,” he said. He also called upon people living in the rural areas vote for AAP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/after-surat-win-aap-sets-eyes-on-2022-assembly-poll/articleshow/81234434.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Vadodara||Lockdown infused fresh air in critically polluted clusters||Vadodara: Air quality had significantly improved in two-most critically polluted industrial clusters of Gujarat – Ankleshwar and Vapi – during Covid-19 induced lockdown. A study done by a team of researchers from M S University, Goa University and Canada-based McGill University has revealed this. The researchers have used pollutant data of 2019 and 2020 compiled by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The paper has been published in Nature’s prestigious journal - Scientific Reports. “We had compared the pollutant data of the period between March 25 to June 15, 2019 and the corresponding period in 2020 when the lockdown was imposed,” said Ritwik Nigam from the School of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences, Goa University. “Due to the lockdown measures, industrial activities, manufacturing, power and transport sectors had almost come to a halt. The pollution levels in the atmosphere, which was burdened by the alarming anthropogenic activities, had come as a respite to the environment,” said Nigam.The lead author was part of the research team that included Kanvi Pandya from MSU, Alvarinho Luis from National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research, Goa, Raja Sengupta from McGill University and Kotha Mahender from Goa University. “We found gradual to rapid reduction in concentrations of particulate matters - PM10 and PM2.5 – due to restrictions on construction activities, lesser road traffic movement and curb on industrial combustion activities,” he said. “Similarly, there was significant reduction in carbon monoxide levels, a pollutant which results due to incomplete burning of fossil fuels. And there was significant reduction in sulphur dioxide, a pollutant which spreads due to burning of coal, petrol and diesel, fossil fuels,” the paper states. The researchers observed that there was a drastic reduction in nitrous oxide by 80 %. “There was more than 91% reduction in Vapi and 80 % in Ankleshwar in NO2 levels while the improvement in air quality index was over 50%,” said Nigam.But after phase one of unlock in June last year, the concentration of pollutants started increasing as industrial activities and transportation resumed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lockdown-infused-fresh-air-in-critically-polluted-clusters/articleshow/81234374.cms||Prashant Rupera
February 27, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal CM: Are BJP's 'Big 2' deciding election dates in Bengal?||KOLKATA: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Friday asked whether the two BJP biggies, PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, were deciding Bengal’s poll dates. Banerjee, responding to the Election Commission decision to have an eight-phase polling in Bengal, urged the EC to consider the state “as its own” and not look at it “through the BJP’s eyes”. “Aat phase-e khela hobe (The match is on in eight phases),” the Bengal CM said, alluding to the Trinamool’s “Khela hobe (The match is on)” battle cry. “I congratulate the EC for announcing election dates. We will do what we have been asked to. But several questions come to mind. Bihar had 240 seats; polls were held in three phases. Assam polls will be held in three phases. Tamil Nadu has 234 seats, elections will be held in one phase. But Bengal’s 294 seats will have polls in eight phases. Who will benefit from this? Couldn’t the decision have been more rational?” she asked at the Trinamool office working out of her Kalighat home. “The EC is an important constitutional authority. Where will people go if even it does not do justice to states?” “Has this been done at Modi’s and Shah’s request so that they can visit states whenever it suits them,” Banerjee said. She said: “They (Modi and Shah) will have 23 days to play in Bengal after the elections in Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala.” “Kintu hariye bhoot kore debo (But we will thrash you in the polls). I would like to tell you something as Bengal’s daughter: I know Bengal better than most people,” she said. “This... I have heard from my BJP sources... that whatever the party decides, whatever its requisition is... I am really sorry and shocked. I welcome the EC’s decision but I would like to ask why half the districts will vote on one day,” the Bengal CM said, explaining that it would make force mobilisation more difficult. “West Midnapore, Bankura and East Midnapore will vote in parts on March 27. They are now dividing elections in even one district as if it were part-1 and part-2 examinations of undergraduate courses. Polls will be held in three phases in South 24 Parganas, where we have a strong base,” she added. “You have now started dividing districts. You are dividing the nation,” she said. Banerjee also referred to the EC’s choice of poll observers. “Vivek Dubey was sent during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and we know what he did, all the drama. The same man is again deputed as an election observer,” she said. She then appealed to the EC to stop the “inflow of money into Bengal’s districts”. “Neither the Union home minister nor the PM can misuse central agencies in a state election. It will be a big blunder if they do that. We will not be alone in 2024, everyone will come together,” she added. Watch Mamata Banerjee: Are poll dates in West Bengal as per suggestions of Modi, Shah?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cm-are-bjp-big-2-deciding-election-dates-in-bengal/articleshow/81237768.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ranchi||Kerosene blasts: Kin of dead get Rs 4 lakh each||HAZARIBAG: Deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand on Friday said the kin of those who died of injuries sustained in the blasts caused by adulterated kerosene were paid their financial compensations on Thursday. As many as four persons, two women and two children, had died in two different hamlets under the Sadar block earlier this month. Anand said for each deceased, an amount of Rs 4 lakh was given to the family members as per the provisions of the state disaster management department. Meanwhile, he added that of the 32 samples of kerosene collected from different households, 12 have been found to be unfit for use. The samples were sent to the Indian Oil’s laboratory in Ranchi for quality test. “The test could not reveal what substance was mixed with the kerosene, which caused lanterns to explode immediately after being lit,” the DC said. Among the deceased were Savita Thakur and her son Ayush Kumar of Amnari village. The other two were Devanti Devi (70) and a two-year-old daughter of Kedar Ram, residents of Parari village under Sarauni panchayat. Earlier, an FIR was lodged against the suppliers, a Hazaribag-based company, for supplying adulterated kerosene to 38 PDS dealers, who in turn sold the oil to NFSA beneficiaries at a subsidised rate. Meanwhile, farmers of the Sadar block alleged that several PDS dealers engage in corrupt practices and sell kerosene meant for NFSA beneficiaries to auto and bus owners after mixing chemicals. When pointed out about the allegations, the DC said the allegations will be probed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/kerosene-blasts-kin-of-dead-get-rs-4-lakh-each/articleshow/81234002.cms||---
February 27, 2021||Ranchi||ED files prosecution compliant against 3 TPC members||Ranchi: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a prosecution complaint before the PMLA special court in Ranchi against three Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC) extremists and their respective firms. The accused include Binod Kumar Ganjhu and his firm Bhogta Constructions, Pradeep Ram and his firm Pradeep Traders and Bindeshwar Ganjhu alias Bindu Ganjhu and his firm Maa Gange Coal Trading Pvt Ltd. Investigation by the ED has revealed that these extremists collected levy from transporters in the Magadh Amrapali coal block area under the banner of TPC in Chatra and Hazaribag districts. They acquired assets to the tune of Rs 4.92 crores by indulging in money laundering of the levy amount. These assets consisted of three immovable properties in the Hazaribag district and various movable properties in the form of vehicles, bank balances and cash. Notably, the ED had initiated investigations under the PMLA on the basis of an FIR filed at the Tandwa police station in January 2016 in Chatra district. The case was also investigated by the National Investigation Agency, which has filed two chargesheets against Binod Kumar Ganjhu and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ed-files-prosecution-compliant-against-3-tpc-members/articleshow/81234018.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 27, 2021||Kolkata||CID arrests bomb-maker, aide in Nimtita blast case||Kolkata/Berhampore: The CID on Friday arrested two persons, including a bomb-maker, in connection with the February 17 Nimtita railway station blast in Murshidabad that left state minister Jakir Hossain and 20 others injured. Sahidul Islam, alias Chemical Sahidul (25), and Abu Samad (37) were formally taken into custody two days after TOI reported about detentions in the case. A native of Aurangabad, around 6km from Nimtita, Sahidul — who currently lives in Jharkhand — is believed to have put together the explosive device that went off around 10pm that night when MoS (labour) and TMC MLA Hossain was waiting on platform two to catch a train. Samad too is a local — from Raghunathpur in Suti, Murshidabad. Both have been booked under Section 3 of the Explosive Substances Act, 1908, and other sections of the IPC, including attempt to murder, a CID officer said on Friday. “The two were produced before Lalbagh ACJM and taken into police remand,” the officer added. The CID, which has been conducting raids across the state, has already questioned 24 people in the case. Sources in the department said the two accused were seen by several witnesses loitering on the platform and its adjoining area for a long time that day and thereby raising suspicions. They were even seen photographing and filming the area. “The arrest followed necessary verifications,” said an officer. Sleuths refused to be drawn into the motive right away. “This is a conspiracy and we need to investigate the case in detail. We have a couple of reasons as to why they got involved. We need to question the accused and pursue some more technical leads before making a comment,” said a senior officer. A CID source conceded that establishing the motive was of prime importance. “We are probing possible angles. The minister had taken steps to stop smuggling in the area. We are also ascertaining if he had political opponents,” the source said. Police said the suspects were grilled based on statements of multiple eyewitnesses, videos shot on the spot and what platform hawkers told the probe team. “A few inputs from locals have been valuable,” said a source. The STF has been carefully analysing call dump of the area. Sources said videos of the incident — caught on camera via Facebook live — was also being studied. “Statements of station officials will be recorded,” said a source. The CID refused to comment on speculations that capacitors and bike batteries had been recovered from the spot. Neither confirmed theories that “timers” were used in the blast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cid-arrests-bomb-maker-aide-in-nimtita-blast-case/articleshow/81237762.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
