February 28, 2021||India||‘Indo-Pak ceasefire will have no bearing on counter-terrorism ops in J&K’||JAMMU: The Army’s northern commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi on Saturday said the agreement between India and Pakistan to adhere to the ceasefire pact along the Line of Control (LoC) would not affect counter-terrorism operations in Jammu and Kashmir. Addressing the investiture ceremony at the Northern Command headquarters in Udhampur, Lt Gen Joshi said, “Recently, the Director Generals of Military Operations (DGMOs) of India and Pakistan announced an agreement to uphold ceasefire along the LoC from February 24 and 25 midnight… this will have no bearing on the counter-terrorism operations and we will maintain our alertness.” He said 2020 was historic in many ways for the Army, which demonstrated its mettle in eastern Ladakh by its grit, determination, self-confidence, bravery and steadfastness. Without naming China and Pakistan, Lt Gen Joshi said that the Army has maintained its domination on its borders with the neighbouring countries and is maintaining peace in the hinterland. “Whenever anyone has dared to attack the integrity of the nation, the Army always stood like a shield against such attempts to spread disturbance and will continue to do so in the future. Whenever anyone raises an evil eye on our country, the Indian Army has replied strongly,” he said. Lt Gen Joshi said the overall security situation in Kashmir saw a great improvement in the previous year as there has been a considerable reduction in terror-related incidents, stone-pelting activities and protests as a result of tireless efforts of the security forces and the people of Jammu and Kashmir. He added that during the Covid-19 crisis, the Army played a key role as doctors, nursing staff, ambulance and medical corps staff worked round-the-clock without caring for their lives to fight the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indo-pak-ceasefire-will-have-no-bearing-on-counter-terrorism-ops-in-jk/articleshow/81249753.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
February 28, 2021||India||Govt doesn’t like youth asking questions: Nodeep Kaur||Nodeep Kaur won’t be silenced. Less than 24 hours after walking out of Karnal jail on bail, the 23-year-old on Saturday went straight to the hub of the farmers’ agitation at Delhi’s Singhu border, where she said she will remain stationed to back the protest against the new farming laws as well as seek justice for fellow activist Shiv Kumar. The youth, she said, was asking questions and the government did not like it. “The government is especially targeting the youth, saying they are spreading violence through protests… However, it’s only the youth who can fight against wrong,” she told TOI in the context of her incarceration and the arrest in a different case of 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi, who too got bail earlier in the week. “It is important for people like me to stand up and fight for the rights of people who have put so much faith in us,” Nodeep added. Excerpts: Q. How did you become involved in the January 12 clash in Kundli (Sonipat) that led to your arrest?We had gathered outside a factory to protest and demand the release of wages of some workers when personnel of the private security agency appointed by the industrial association started beating us up and fired shots in the air. In retaliation, workers also started beating up the guards. Police arrived later but the scuffle continued. While no action was taken against the security agency, I was arrested. (Nodeep was charged, among other sections, with extortion and attempt to murder). Q. Police and industry representatives have accused you of extortion. How do you respond to that?People have only heard one side of the story. We also have videos from workers who were present at the protest, which could not be released so far. I will now release these videos so that people can see what the truth is. Q Your arrest received global attention after the tweet by Meena Harris (US vice-president Kamala Harris’s niece). When did you become aware of it?Since I wasn’t able to speak to my family for a while, I did not know about the kind of support I had received. I found out from my sister about Meena Harris’s tweet. While I knew friends and family would be supporting me and fighting for me, I did not know the movement had grown so much. The tweet made all that possible. I was beaten up by police at the protest site after male cops arrested me. I was then taken to a desolate spot and thrashed there as well. They took me to Sonipat police station and abused me for being a Dalit and beat me up again. While I was beaten on my private parts, I wasn’t sexually assaulted. After I was moved to Karnal women’s jail, I was not thrashed anymore. Q. Are you aware of Disha Ravi’s case?The government wants to trample the voice of the youth because only they can bring about change in any country. The youth is very powerful in this country. If the youth steps back, the government will be able to implement the new (farming) laws. Q. Your sister Rajveer had earlier told us you would never be too far from a cause, something you picked up from your mother? Not just my mother, I take inspiration from Rajveer, who has been continuously fighting for the oppressed, as well. I also take inspiration from Bhagat Singh, who gave his life for the country at the age of 23. At that time, he was described as a terrorist. But today, we owe our freedom to people like Bhagat Singh. Hence, it is important that we continue to fight irrespective of the opposition we face. Q. Where does Nodeep Kaur go from here? Will you get back to studies?I will continue to fight for workers and help them get their due. I wanted to study but when I now look at people with multiple degrees struggling with unemployment, I feel I am better off fighting for people using the faith people have put in me. I will continue to support the farmers’ agitation and do whatever I can to convince the government to take the three laws back. Watch I was beaten up by cops at protest site in Kundli: Nodeep Kaur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-doesnt-like-youth-asking-questions-nodeep-kaur/articleshow/81250524.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
February 28, 2021||India||Covid vaccine price to be capped at Rs 250 per dose at private hospitals||PUNE/NEW DELHI: Private hospitals can charge up to Rs 250 for a dose of Covid vaccine, including the hospital’s user fee of around Rs 100, during the next phase of vaccination starting March 1 which will cover a large population above 60 years and those above 45 with specific co-morbidities. As per the Centre's letter to states and UTs, private hospitals will recover Rs 150 per person per dose as cost of vaccine and vaccination centres can charge up to Rs 100 per dose per person to account for logistics, storage and vaccinators, official sources told TOI.  null "This arrangement will remain effective till further orders," an official said. States can use hospitals empanelled in their healthcare plans apart from those under Ayushman Bharat and CGHS. The final price is better than what was paid by the government for the first round. The Centre had paid Rs 200 per dose for Serum Institute of India’s Covishield and around Rs 295 per dose for Covaxin by Bharat Biotech. At government sites, vaccination would be free of cost. The next phase of vaccination, scheduled to be rolled out from Monday, would cover an estimated 27 crore people in the country though the initial group is about 10 crore people. "States will receive the vaccine doses from the Centre and give them to private hospitals. They would have to pay the government Rs 150 per dose upfront,'' Maharashtra health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said, adding that the private hospitals would have to deposit the amount in the bank account created by the National Health Authority. With the government keen to speed up the vaccination process for the third phase, the involvement of the private health sector would play a key role in it. For this, adequate training would be imparted to private sector healthcare workers. Ayushman Bharat, Maharashtra, CEO Sudhakar Shinde said private hospitals empanelled under the state government’s Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana would be able to start vaccination from the coming week. Initially, only Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, will be supplied to private hospitals primarily because of its large-scale availability as compared to Covaxin, a source said. It took several rounds of negotiations between the government, vaccine manufacturers and private hospitals to arrive at the final price for vaccination at private facilities. Around 10,000 private hospitals empanelled under Ayushman Bharat, more than 600 hospitals under the Central Government Health Scheme and other private hospitals empanelled under state governments' health insurance schemes can participate as vaccination centres. Vaccines will be administered free of cost at more than 10,000 government hospitals, including health facilities of public sector units. The government aims to hold up to 50,000 daily sessions of vaccination as it aims to cover 30 crore "priority" population, including health and frontline workers who were targeted in the first phase, 27 crore people based on age-appropriateness and associated disease burden that can increase the risk of death from Covid-19. Private facilities will be mapped with the nearest cold-chain points to ensure a seamless flow of vaccines. Meanwhile, the health ministry also identified 20 underlying conditions that will qualify people in the 45–59 age group for inoculation. As per the list, those hospitalised with heart failure in past one year, those having diabetes for over 10 years or with complications, people diagnosed with solid cancer since July last year, lymphoma, blood cancer or myeloma, those with HIV and acid attack survivors with involvement of the respiratory system will be eligible to receive the vaccine. Apart from this, various heart diseases, transplant patients and people with severe disabilities have also been included in the list of co-morbidities. A one-page certificate signed by a registered medical practitioner will have to be uploaded on Co-Win by the beneficiary while self-registering or a hard copy can be carried while visiting the vaccination centre. The details of the exercise were shared by health secretary Rajesh Bhushan with state health secretaries and state mission directors of the National Health Mission on Saturday. The officials discussed how private hospitals will be provided usernames and passwords to facilitate the effective use of Co-Win 2.0, the upgraded version of the Centre's digital platform to manage the vaccination programme. Watch Govt caps Covid vaccine price at Rs 250 per dose at private hospitals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-vax-price-to-be-capped-at-r250/dose-at-private-hospitals/articleshow/81250696.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 28, 2021||India||Registration for next round of Covid vaccination likely to start Monday||NEW DELHI: Registration for the next round of vaccinations against Covid-19 is likely to start from Monday morning, enabling people to schedule their vaccinations on the same day, sources said. “Co-Win as well as other IT applications and platforms will go live from Monday morning around 10 am. People will be required to just fill in a few details and upload the identification proof and publish. It is a matter of a few minutes and can be done on the same day,” a senior official told TOI. The process of registration for beneficiaries can be done through three routes: advance self-registration, on site registration and facilitated cohort one. While the vaccination will be free at government centres, those opting for private hospitals will have to pay to schedule an appointment. While all beneficiaries will have to upload an identification document like Aadhaar Card or voters’ ID, those between 45-59 years age will also have to upload a certificate from a registered doctor to self register or a hard copy can be carried to the Centre. Apart from Co-Win, several other IT applications like Aarogya Setu and Common Service Centres will be activated for registration. The health ministry is likely to make an official announcement regarding this on Sunday, he added. People above 60 years of age and those between 45 and 59 years with specified co-morbidities will be eligible for vaccination in this round. So far, only health and front-line workers were being inoculated. Till Friday, a total of 1.42 crore doses were administered.However, vaccination sessions have been suspended for Saturday and Sunday for transitioning of the Co-Win digital platform from Co-Win 1.0 to Co-Win 2.0. Similar to the first phase, all beneficiaries would be captured on Co-Win 2.0 platform and would be issued digital QR Code based provisional (on receiving the first dose) and final (on receiving second dose) certificates. Watch Govt caps Covid vaccine price at Rs 250 per dose at private hospitals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/registration-for-next-round-of-covid-vaccination-likely-to-start-monday/articleshow/81250876.cms||Sushmi Dey
February 28, 2021||World||Biden calls Saudi Prince’s plot against Khashoggi ‘outrageous’||President Joe Biden called it “outrageous” that Saudi Arabia Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman signed off on the killing of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi. Biden said in an interview with Univision News that he had told Saudi King Salman this week “that the rules are changing” in the kingdom’s relationship with the US and that “we’re going to be announcing significant changes today and on Monday.” The Biden administration on Friday released a partially redacted report the Trump administration had withheld from the public revealing that the US intelligence committee believed the crown prince was responsible for Khashoggi’s October 2018 murder inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. “We assess that Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman approved an operation in Istanbul, Turkey, to capture or kill Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi,” the report concluded. “We immediately, when I got in, filed the report, read it, got it, and released it today,” Biden said. “And it is outrageous what happened.” Kingdom ‘Rejects’ Finding The report builds on classified intelligence from the CIA and other agencies after Khashoggi’s murder. “The government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia completely rejects the negative, false and unacceptable assessment in the report pertaining to the Kingdom’s leadership, and notes that the report contained inaccurate information and conclusions,” the Saudi foreign ministry said in a statement. The decision to release the report, compiled by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, reflects the Biden administration’s determination to recalibrate relations with Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, over its human rights record. Prince Mohammed has denied involvement in the killing, while saying he accepts symbolic responsibility as the country’s de facto ruler. Saudi officials have said the murder was carried out by rogue agents who’ve since been prosecuted. Although the four-page declassified version of the report didn’t disclose any direct evidence or the US intelligence methods that were used in reaching its conclusion, it said the team that killed Khashoggi included seven members of the crown prince’s “elite personal protective detail” who wouldn’t have taken part without his approval. “The Crown Prince viewed Khashoggi as a threat to the Kingdom and broadly supported using violent measures if necessary to silence him,” the report said. “Although Saudi officials had pre-planned an unspecified operation against Khashoggi we do not know how far in advance Saudi officials decided to harm him.” The report said it had “high confidence” about the 21 people who were involved in the killing on the prince’s behalf. The Saudi foreign ministry said in its statement that “this was an abhorrent crime and a flagrant violation of the Kingdom’s laws and values” by “a group of individuals that have transgressed all pertinent regulations and authorities of the agencies where they were employed. The relevant authorities in the Kingdom took all possible measures within our legal system to ensure that these individuals were properly investigated, and to ensure that justice was served.” It said “the partnership between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United States of America is a robust and enduring partnership.” In advance of the report’s publication, Biden held a call Thursday with King Salman. Biden discussed regional security and the renewed US and United Nations effort to end the war in Yemen. He also “affirmed the importance the United States places on universal human rights and the rule of law,” the White House said in a statement. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki declined to say Friday whether Biden raised Khashoggi’s death directly or told the king that the report would be released. At least for now, there is no indication that the US plans to sanction the crown prince. That’s in keeping with a broader assessment that he’s destined to be the kingdom’s ruler for years to come and punishing him now would risk alienating a country that, for all its flaws, remains a crucial ally. That left some Democratic lawmakers dissatisfied. “There should be personal consequences for MBS -- he should suffer sanctions, including financial, travel and legal -- and the Saudi government should suffer grave consequences as long as he remains in the government,” Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, said in a statement, using a common abbreviation for the crown prince’s name. ‘Khashoggi Ban’ After the report was released, Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced sanctions against 76 Saudi individuals under what he called a new “Khashoggi Ban” policy. Under that authority, the US says it will single out anyone who, acting for a foreign government, engages in “counter-dissident activities” beyond that country’s borders. “While the United States remains invested in its relationship with Saudi Arabia, President Biden has made clear that partnership must reflect US values,” Blinken said. “To that end, we have made absolutely clear that extraterritorial threats and assaults by Saudi Arabia against activists, dissidents, and journalists must end.” State Department spokesman Ned Price had told reporters Thursday that the US was looking at other ways to punish the perpetrators of Khashoggi’s killing. Among the options may be cutting back arms sales to Saudi Arabia, he said without elaborating. “I expect that we will be in a position before long to speak to steps to promote accountability going forward for this horrific crime,” Price told reporters in Washington. Democrats in Congress cheered the release of the report, saying that it was the first step toward revamping the US relationship with Saudi Arabia. “The Biden administration will need to follow this attribution of responsibility with serious repercussions against all of the responsible parties it has identified, and also reassess our relationship with Saudi Arabia,” Representative Adam Schiff, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said in a statement. “The administration should take further steps to diminish the United States’ reliance on Riyadh and reinforce that our partnership with the Kingdom is a not a blank check.” Economic Powerhouse Saudi authorities didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on Biden’s decision to release the report, or the prospect of the US imposing sanctions on one of its closest and most important Middle East allies. Saudi Arabia dominates the Gulf Arab region geographically, is its economic powerhouse, and has for decades been a political heavyweight in regional affairs. Goods and services trade between the US and Saudi Arabia amounted to almost $39 billion in 2019, with American exports totaling about $24 billion and imports reaching nearly $15 billion, according to US government figures. That made Saudi Arabia the US’s 27th-largest goods trading partner but one of the biggest customers for American arms. The decision to release the report reflects a return, under Biden, to routine diplomatic channels and traditional US pressure over human rights, even on allies. Trump put Saudi Arabia at the center of his Middle East strategy, making it his first foreign visit. He later abandoned the 2015 nuclear deal with a common enemy, Iran, and reimposed sanctions on Tehran. Trump dismissed concerns about whether the crown prince approved the Khashoggi killing -- “Maybe he did, maybe he didn’t,” he said -- citing the economic rewards of selling arms to the Saudis. His secretary of state, Michael Pompeo, said the US had “no direct evidence” linking the prince to the murder, while Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner maintained a close working relationship with him. In contrast, within his first few days in office, Biden put on hold major weapons sales to the kingdom pending review, and announced an end to US support for offensive actions in Yemen, where he wants to wrap up a Saudi-led military intervention that’s contributed to the world’s worst humanitarian crisis. In an overt rebuke, he’s also downgraded relations with Prince Mohammed, who runs the day-to-day affairs of the kingdom and typically liaises directly with foreign leaders. Instead, Biden has called King Salman his official counterpart. Biden will have to navigate the relationship with Saudi Arabia carefully, however, as he seeks to re-engage Iran and persuade it to resume compliance with the nuclear accord. Signaling that being tougher on Saudi Arabia won’t mean he’s soft on Iran, the administration ordered airstrikes overnight on Iranian-backed militias in Syria that it blames for rocket attacks on US forces in neighboring Iraq. In recent days, Saudi newspapers and commentators have emphasized the kingdom’s close relationship with the US Abdullah Al Tayer, a former Saudi official, said last week on Twitter that any attempt to “target” the king or the crown prince was targeting “the nation and its citizens in their present and their future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-calls-saudi-princes-plot-against-khashoggi-outrageous/articleshow/81251104.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||Congress getting weaker by the day: ‘G-23’ leaders||DELHI/JAMMU: The Congress ‘G-23’ bloc of dissenting leaders said at a public rally in Jammu on Saturday the party was weakening by the day and it was their endeavour to strengthen it in national interest. This marked their first collective bid to raise grievances outside the party and position themselves for the coming organisational elections. With no fig leaf to dismiss the rebel motivations, Congress spokesman Abhishek Singhvi bluntly told the dissenters, who include Kapil Sibal, Anand Sharma, Raj Babbar, Manish Tewari, they better campaign in the election-bound states as this would better reflect their concerns. The party, however, dismissed as “irrelevant” queries about disciplinary action against the rebels, though the Congress brass was the un-named object of criticism. With former leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad at the centre of a felicitation ceremony in Jammu to mark his return home after retirement from the House, key members of the rebel bloc praised his political skills and lamented Congress had let him retire from Parliament. They demanded he be used in the organisational affairs. Also present were RS MP Vivek Tankha and Haryana strongman Bhupinder Hooda. Interestingly, given the purported occasion, the official J&K Congress had also welcomed Azad on Friday. However, the stress of the rebels, especially Sibal and Sharma, that Congress is on a slide demonstrated that the G-23 has not given up its aggression after the CWC last month decided that internal polls — a key demand of the grouping — will be held in June. The decision to go public suggested that they are playing for the next round when the party would decide on the nature of internal polls to be held. The Azad-led bloc has demanded that besides Congress president, polls should be held for CWC as well as the CEC and the Central Parliamentary Board be revived, while the leadership appears ready only for polls for Congress presidency and CWC. Sibal said, “It is an occasion to speak the truth and the truth is we can all see that Congress is getting weak … that is why we have gathered here ... we have to strengthen the party together.” Repeating that Congress had “weakened”, Sharma said, “Our voice is for the betterment of the party. It should be strengthened everywhere once again. The new generation should connect (to the party).” He lamented, “We have seen good days of Congress. We do not want to see it weakening as we become older.” The other focus was the demand that Azad be used in organisational affairs. Sibal, Sharma and Tewari said Azad knew Congress like few do and that they were sad that he was “freed” from Parliament and “we are with Azad”. The regret over Congress weakening and Azad’s retirement sounded like a jibe at the leadership. As Azad said Congress respected Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh — “all regions, religions, castes” — there appeared a censure of Rahul Gandhi’s recent controversial remark about north-south India. Watch ‘Congress is getting weak’: Kapil Sibal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-getting-weaker-by-the-day-g-23-leaders/articleshow/81251218.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
February 28, 2021||India||EC okays replacement of top cop in West Bengal||NEW DELHI: Effecting an important change in the West Bengal police brass after the announcement of assembly polls, the Election Commission on Saturday approved the replacement of ADG & IGP (law and order) and state nodal police officer Jawed Shamim with Jag Mohan, serving as DG (fire services) in the state, “with immediate effect in the interest of public service”. As per sources, the decision to appoint Jag Mohan, an ADG-rank IPS officer, as ADG & IGP (law and order) and state nodal police officer was taken based on the unanimous recommendation of three special observers posted by th EC in West Bengal – special general observer Ajay Nayak and special police observers Vivek Dubey and Mrinal Kanti Das. The special observers, along with senior officials of the poll panel, agreed that Shamim was not suitable for holding the crucial post of state nodal police officer. The state nodal police officer is critical to drawing up the election security and deployment plan for any poll-going state, and is part of the three-member panel directed by the EC to jointly decide the election security plan and ensure randomisation of state police and central para-military personnel. Sources said Shamim was appointed as the state nodal police officer prior to announcement of polls, though an EC functionary said the West Bengal government should have ideally taken prior approval of the commission even though the model code of conduct was yet to come into force. With the model code now officially empowering the EC to review transfer and postings of administration and police officials connected with the poll process and with the special observers unanimously recommending that Jawed Shamim be replaced, the commission decided to pick another ADG-level officer assessed as more suited for discharge of duties as the state nodal police officer. Accordingly, Jag Mohan was approved for appointment as ADG & IGP (Law and Order) and state nodal police officer for the upcoming poll in West Bengal. The EC decision is said to have been guided by BJP and CPM’s complaints about the alleged lack of impartiality on part of West Bengal police officials during 2019 Lok Sabha poll. CPM, in a letter written to the EC on January 21, 2021, alleged that central forces deployed in West Bengal in 2019 general election “were not utilised properly and kept idle instead of controlling the hooliganism during the poll process”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-okays-replacement-of-top-cop-in-west-bengal/articleshow/81251242.cms||Bharti Jain
February 28, 2021||India||Key Assam ally dumps BJP, joins Congress bloc||GUWAHATI: After being the key alliance partner in the BJP-led Assam government for the last five years, the Hagrama Mohilary-led Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) joined the Congress-led grand alliance on Saturday in an attempt to oust the saffron party from Dispur. BPF, which has been winning all the 12 seats in Bodoland since 2006 — that year, the Front saved the then minority Congress government — was dumped by BJP in the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) polls held in December last year. “To work for Peace, Unity and Development BPF has decided to join hands with MAHAJATH in the forthcoming Assam Assembly Election. We shall no longer maintain friendship or alliance with BJP,” Hagrama, who was chief administrator of BTC for the last 17 years, said on Twitter. BPF had joined hands with BJP in 2016 after dumping Congress, which had been its partner in office from 2011. BJP on the other hand finished short of a simple majority last time and banked on BPF and AGP to form its government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/key-assam-ally-dumps-bjp-joins-congress-bloc/articleshow/81251284.cms||Rokibuz Zaman
February 28, 2021||Hubballi||Karnataka: Advocate hacked with machete in Hospet court||BALLARI: An advocate was hacked to death with a machete in the Hospet court on Saturday, sparking panic and tension among lawyers and litigants on the premises. The killer, a relative of the victim, was nabbed by police instantly. Tarihalli Venkatesh, 48, was attacked by 22-year-old Tarihalli Manoj over a property dispute but other aspects are being investigated, police said. Killer-relative, advocate had property dispute: PoliceThe attacker lived in the same neighbourhood as Venkatesh, Myasageri, and there were differences between the two, they said. Venkatesh is survived by his wife and four children. Around 11.30am on Saturday, Venkatesh was sitting with his colleagues when Manoj rode a bike to the court and barged in. As the others watched stunned, he pulled out a machete and struck Venkatesh repeatedly in the head and neck, killing him instantly. “Police personnel nabbed the accused as he tried to escape from the spot,” said Srinivas Meti, CPI of Hospet police station. He said initial investigation showed Manoj is a relative of the deceased and a property dispute is believed to be the main reason for the murder. “We are still investigating all angles to ascertain the exact reason,” he added. A case has been registered at Hospet police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/advocate-hacked-with-machete-in-hospet-court/articleshow/81251301.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||Onus on India to better ties, says Imran Khan||ISLAMABAD/NEW DELHI: Days after the LoC ceasefire agreement, seen by some as the first real sign of thaw in ties since the Pathankot terror attack, Pakistan PM Imran Khan, while welcoming the cessation of hostilities, said the onus was on India to create an enabling environment for further progress in the bilateral relationship. Khan’s statement is in complete contrast to India’s long-held position that it’s Pakistan’s responsibility to create right conditions for engagement by reining in terror groups active on its soil. Significantly, Pakistan army also chose the day to release a new video of Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman in which the IAF pilot is seen saying that he believed there was “no reason” for Pakistan and India to continue with hostilities and called for peace between the two neighbours. Delhi refrained from responding to Khan’s remarks, though sources in Delhi said Pakistan must take verifiable and irreversible action against cross-border terrorism if it really wanted to see progress in the relationship. The Indian government had said after the military joint statement this week that its position on “key issues” remained unchanged. Khan also said in a tweet that India must take necessary steps to meet the “long-standing demand and right of the Kashmiri people to self-determination according to UNSC resolutions”. His comments are the latest in a series of assertions that the Kashmir issue can and should be resolved through dialogue. India, however, has so far seen it as just grandstanding meant to deflect attention from the fact that the key issue of cross-border terrorism remained unaddressed. There was no response from India to the Abhinandan video, which was released two years after the aerial clashes between Pakistan and India in Jammu and Kashmir. The video seemed to be part of the same interview which was aired two years ago shortly after Abhinandan’s capture in Pakistan-controlled Kashmir. Some Indian TV channel reports suggested that the video had been edited at several points. The IAF officer is seen saying in the video that war happened between countries when “there is no peace”. “I do not know what we should do to achieve peace but I only know that there should be peace,” the wing commander said. He also spoke about Kashmir saying that neither he nor the Pakistanis know “what is happening to a Kashmiri”. “We must think with calm heads,” the pilot said. “I saw both countries when I was coming down on a parachute, and I could not differentiate between the two countries from above,” the Indian pilot said, adding that that both countries are “beautiful”. “When I fell down I did not know whether I was in Pakistan or my own country India. To me, both countries looked the same, the people looked the same as well,” he said. “I was badly injured when I ejected from my aircraft and once I landed I was not able to move. After landing, I tried finding out which country I was in,” the IAF pilot said. “When it looked to me that I was not in my country, I tried running,” the Indian pilot said and added that a “charged” crowd tried to capture him as well but he was saved by the Pakistan army. “Within that moment, two soldiers of the Pakistan army came and captured me. One captain of the Pakistan army came and he saved me from these people.” The Indian pilot said that after his capture, he was taken by the Pakistani captain to his unit, where he was given first aid. “After that, I was taken to the hospital where I was examined and more aid was given to me,” the pilot recalled. Following the events, the wing commander remarked that he found the Pakistan army to be a “very fine”, “professional” and “chivalrous” force. “I’m very impressed by the chivalry displayed by the Pakistani army,” he said in the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/onus-on-india-to-better-ties-says-imran-khan/articleshow/81251351.cms||---
February 28, 2021||World||Onus on India to better ties, says Imran Khan||ISLAMABAD/NEW DELHI: Days after the LoC ceasefire agreement, seen by some as the first real sign of thaw in ties since the Pathankot terror attack, Pakistan PM Imran Khan, while welcoming the cessation of hostilities, said the onus was on India to create an enabling environment for further progress in the bilateral relationship. Khan’s statement is in complete contrast to India’s long-held position that it’s Pakistan’s responsibility to create right conditions for engagement by reining in terror groups active on its soil. Significantly, Pakistan army also chose the day to release a new video of Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman in which the IAF pilot is seen saying that he believed there was “no reason” for Pakistan and India to continue with hostilities and called for peace between the two neighbours. Delhi refrained from responding to Khan’s remarks, though sources in Delhi said Pakistan must take verifiable and irreversible action against cross-border terrorism if it really wanted to see progress in the relationship. The Indian government had said after the military joint statement this week that its position on “key issues” remained unchanged. Khan also said in a tweet that India must take necessary steps to meet the “long-standing demand and right of the Kashmiri people to self-determination according to UNSC resolutions”. His comments are the latest in a series of assertions that the Kashmir issue can and should be resolved through dialogue. India, however, has so far seen it as just grandstanding meant to deflect attention from the fact that the key issue of cross-border terrorism remained unaddressed. There was no response from India to the Abhinandan video, which was released two years after the aerial clashes between Pakistan and India in Jammu and Kashmir. The video seemed to be part of the same interview which was aired two years ago shortly after Abhinandan’s capture in Pakistan-controlled Kashmir. Some Indian TV channel reports suggested that the video had been edited at several points. The IAF officer is seen saying in the video that war happened between countries when “there is no peace”. “I do not know what we should do to achieve peace but I only know that there should be peace,” the wing commander said. He also spoke about Kashmir saying that neither he nor the Pakistanis know “what is happening to a Kashmiri”. “We must think with calm heads,” the pilot said. “I saw both countries when I was coming down on a parachute, and I could not differentiate between the two countries from above,” the Indian pilot said, adding that that both countries are “beautiful”. “When I fell down I did not know whether I was in Pakistan or my own country India. To me, both countries looked the same, the people looked the same as well,” he said. “I was badly injured when I ejected from my aircraft and once I landed I was not able to move. After landing, I tried finding out which country I was in,” the IAF pilot said. “When it looked to me that I was not in my country, I tried running,” the Indian pilot said and added that a “charged” crowd tried to capture him as well but he was saved by the Pakistan army. “Within that moment, two soldiers of the Pakistan army came and captured me. One captain of the Pakistan army came and he saved me from these people.” The Indian pilot said that after his capture, he was taken by the Pakistani captain to his unit, where he was given first aid. “After that, I was taken to the hospital where I was examined and more aid was given to me,” the pilot recalled. Following the events, the wing commander remarked that he found the Pakistan army to be a “very fine”, “professional” and “chivalrous” force. “I’m very impressed by the chivalry displayed by the Pakistani army,” he said in the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/onus-on-india-to-better-ties-says-imran-khan/articleshow/81251352.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||Sarathkumar meets Kamal Haasan amid talks of formation of third front||CHENNAI: Amid talks about a third front, All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi leader R Sarathkumar called on Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan on Saturday. Sarathkumar said he met Kamal to explore the possibility of good people and likeminded people getting together. "I heard his views. MNM office-bearers will discuss with us how to take it forward. After that, we expect a good decision," he said. On severing ties with the AIADMK, Sarathkumar said there was no invite for alliance talks from the ruling party. "We were part of the AIADMK alliance for the last 10 years. There was no invite for an alliance talk. Now, we have decided to move on," he said. When asked whether TTV Dhinakaran's AMMK would join the third front, he was evasive in his reply. "People with similar views need to join hands to contest elections. If it happens, we will let you know," Sarathkumar said. Kamal told reporters that his doors were open. "Clouds are forming and it will rain soon," he said about the possibility of more parties joining the fold to fight the assembly elections together. Speaking about the election schedule, he said, "We thought there were lots of days for the polls. But as per the schedule announced by the Election Commission, there are only 36 days left for the elections. Fortunately, MNM started preparations early." The party formed a six-member committee headed by Kamal Haasan to interview the candidates who have filed applications seeking seats. Kamal would start the campaign on March 3. Veteran politician Pazha Karuppaiah and social activist Senthil Arumugam of Satta Panchayat joined MNM on Saturday and Kamal said they would contest in the upcoming elections. Asked about his wheelchair comment, which has irked the followers of former CM M Karunanidhi, Kamal said he was not referring to Karunanidhi doing politics sitting on a wheelchair. Kamal said he was talking about his own future plans and sought to explain that he meant he did not have enough time for a long tenure in politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sarathkumar-meets-kamal-haasan-amid-talks-of-formation-of-third-front/articleshow/81251680.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||Amit Shah’s Chennai visit: BJP leaders confident of clinching seat-sharing talk for TN polls||CHENNAI: After sealing a poll pact with the PMK on Saturday, the AIADMK is keen to wrap up seat sharing talks with other allies too. As home minister Amit Shah’s arrival in Chennai on Saturday night was delayed, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam are expected to meet him on Sunday morning for quick discussions on seat sharing on Sunday morning before the senior BJP leader hits the campaign trail in the Union territory of Puducherry and Villupuram in Tamil Nadu. The AIADMK leadership is expected to clinch the deal in the presence of Shah, sources said. “The announcement on the number of seats will be made public soon. After the EPS-OPS meeting with Shah, the rest are mere formalities (seat-sharing with other allies),” said a source in the party. Shah’s arrival in Chennai was pushed to 12.30 am on Sunday and hence EPS and OPS would meet him around 8 am on Sunday, added the source. BJP state president L Murugan, however, refused to divulge the number of seats that they sought. “We are sure that a good number of BJP representatives will step into the Tamil Nadu assembly. Our aim is double-digit,” he said and refused to elaborate further. The party’s core committee has prepared a list of 60 favourable constituencies, mostly in Coimbatore and neighbouring districts, and strengthened the booth level committees. “We have shared the list of constituencies where we will have a bright opportunity to win. It has been discussed and deliberated upon at various levels. Now, we are awaiting our national leaders (Shah and J P Nadda) to finalise the seats,” said a core committee member. Earlier in the day, the BJP’s national general secretary C T Ravi along with Union ministers G Kishan Reddy and V K Singh, who were the election in-charge, besides state president L Murugan called on the CM and the deputy CM at their respective camp offices. Sources in the national party said they have commenced seat-sharing talks keeping 60 seats in mind. The party has identified the favorable constituencies long ago and started strengthening the booth level committees. “We are hoping that the seat-sharing talk ends on a happy note before our leader (Shah) returns to Delhi. The AIADMK leaders (EPS and OPS) will most likely meet him tomorrow to discuss the number of seats,” said another senior leader. On Sunday, Shah would hold a series of meetings with senior leaders, core-committee members, and assembly constituencies’ in-charges of Puducherry before the public rally in Karaikal. Similarly, he would meet office bears and hold meetings with election in-charges and core committee of TN unit after the public rally in Villupuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amit-shahs-chennai-visit-bjp-leaders-confident-of-clinching-seat-sharing-talk-for-tn-polls/articleshow/81251696.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
February 28, 2021||India||BJP pitches law against ‘love jihad’ as poll plank||PALAKKAD: A law against “love jihad” will be one of BJP’s election planks in Kerala, state party president K Surendran said on Saturday while pushing the Pinarayi Vijayan government to bring a legislation against forced or clandestine conversion in the name of marriage like some states have already done. Surendran said that the Christian community in Kerala was now more worried about the practice as they were reportedly being targeted, and had sought strin-gent action against it. BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh had earlier brought in religious freedom laws to stop conversions through marriage or by any other fraudulent means. Surendran also said that the practice of love jihad was more prevalent in Kerala than in Uttar Pradesh. tnn & agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-pitches-law-against-love-jihad-as-poll-plank/articleshow/81251700.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||CAG writes to Bengal, says Amphan info blacked out||NEW DELHI: In an unusual move, the Comptroller and Auditor General has written a strongly-worded letter to the Bengal chief secretary on Friday saying that state authorities have not been cooperating with its audit teams and have refused to share any information related to the audit of cyclone Amphan relief and rehabilitation expenditure. While the Centre has allocated more than Rs 2,700 crore towards Amphan relief, the state government had announced release of Rs 6,800 crore for rehabilitation of the displaced people. “As on date, no information has been made available to the audit teams… The original timeframe (within three months) provided by the Calcutta High Court is already almost over. However, CAG has not been able to start the full-fledged audit,” sources said. The CAG letter comes weeks after BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh had accused CM Mamata Banerjee and her party cadre of “looting” Rs 1,000 crore released by the Centre for the relief of the Amphan displaced. Large-scale irregularities have been reported in the state where Rs 2 lakh each was to be given to the kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to injured besides a package for rebuilding of houses. After the opposition attack accusing Trinamool cadres of cornering the relief packages, Banerjee had called for an inquiry last year and later told the media that the government had received 40,000 complaints from people who had not received the relief money. However, she had assured that most of them were later included in the list prepared by the district authorities. In its letter to the chief secretary, the CAG has reminded that for the last three months its principal accountant general has been seeking information from state authorities to complete the audit but “needful information have not been provided”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cag-writes-to-bengal-says-amphan-info-blacked-out/articleshow/81251707.cms||Pradeep Thakur
February 28, 2021||India||LS ‘poll cash’ row: 3 IPS officers handed chargesheets in MP||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government has issued chargesheets to three IPS officers of ADG rank and a state police officer, seeking explanation on a Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) report it had received from the Election Commission. The poll panel had sought action against these officers for their alleged role in ‘unaccounted’ flow of cash during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. They have been asked to submit their replies within 15 days. One of the officers has decided to challenge the chargesheet in court, say sources. According to sources, there is a difference of opinion on this issue between the chief minister’s office and the home department. “Home department wants an FIR, but CMO wants more evidence,” said an officer at Mantralaya. The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) has already registered a preliminary enquiry, according to the Election Commission’s direction. The 904-page report hints at the role of many individuals in the “widespread and well-organised racket of collection and transaction of unaccounted cash of about Rs 281 crore in MP during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls”. EOW had been communicating with the income tax department for more evidence and documents to corroborate the CBDT report, but have not received anything yet, sources say. The tumult over CBDT’s report has created a divide within the state BJP. While one faction is pressing for immediate FIRs against those named, the other seeks a formal inquiry first, alluding to the hawala scandal in which the Supreme Court ruled that entries in loose sheets are irrelevant and inadmissible as evidence under section 34 of Indian Evidence Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ls-poll-cash-row-3-ips-officers-handed-chargesheets-in-mp/articleshow/81251709.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||New laws spare Punjab farmers of jail: Piyush Goyal||SHIMLA: Pointing out that the existing farm laws in Punjab have the provision to send a farmer to jail, Union minister for commerce and industries Piyush Goyal said the Centre, with its new agri-reform laws, has scrapped them to ensure that no farmer is jailed or fined. He asserted that the new laws are intended to serve the interest of farmers, so they must study their provisions. While interacting with reporters in Shimla on Saturday, Goyal said some people, for political reasons or due to some other forces pressuring them, have mislead “a small section of farmers” on the new laws. Goyal said under the new laws, farmers are entitled to scrap their contracts to sell their crop elsewhere if they get better price and no fine would be imposed for that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-laws-spare-punjab-farmers-of-jail-piyush-goyal/articleshow/81251715.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||Vacancies reduce minorities panel to a one-man body||NEW DELHI: Without a chairman since May last year, the seven-member National Commission for Minorities is currently functioning with just one member, vice chairman Atif Rasheed, who has been holding the fort since November. The post of NCM chairman fell vacant in May after the tenure of Ghayorul Hasan Rizvi ended. Asked about the absence of a full-time chairman and five posts of members being vacant, minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the “matter was under process”. The NCM chief is appointed from names recommended by the minority affairs ministry and requires the approval of the PMO. As per law, the NCM is supposed to have a chairperson, vice-chairperson and five members. All seven members are nominated by the central government from among people of eminence, ability and integrity. Each member holds office for three years. After the NCM chairman completed his tenure in May, the then Sikh member and vice-chairman Manjit Singh Rai and member Atif Rasheed were the only two left. In November, Rai’s tenure came to an end and Rasheed was appointed vice chairman. Speaking to TOI, Rasheed said earlier, hearings on complaints were held once a month where each member would participate. Since he was all by himself now, to prevent backlog, the frequency of hearings had been increased to once every few days. He also visited five states to review schemes since November. Normally, each member is assigned a certain number of states for better supervision of complaints and concerns related to minorities at the district level. Also members also hold hearings into complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vacancies-reduce-minorities-panel-to-a-one-man-body/articleshow/81251724.cms||Ambika Pandit
February 28, 2021||India||Babus asked to go through Modi’s speeches, prepare action-taken reports||NEW DELHI: Officers across several ministries have got a fresh task which is to go through all the Independence Day speeches of Prime Minister Modi since 2014 and note down his mentions about the respective department or issues relating to particular entities. They have been asked to prepare actions taken on those issues. Some ministries have even issued directions to different departments to go through all Mann Ki Baat — the monthly radio address of the PM since 2014 — and list the references he has made to issues relating to the particular departments. In this case also, they have been asked to prepare the details of actions taken so far on such issues. “There has been strict monitoring across the ministries and departments. Since the PM’s addresses to the nation from Red Fort or in Mann ki Baat are assurances to the people, it is felt that every department must take necessary steps. Monitoring of all issues and development have been the hallmark of this government,” said an official. He added that every secretary of each department receives the full audio recording of Mann ki Baat a day after it’s broadcast and hence none can give any excuse for not going through them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/babus-asked-to-go-through-modis-speeches-prepare-action-taken-reports/articleshow/81251730.cms||Dipak K Dash
February 28, 2021||India||Politicians of all hues make beeline for Ravidas temple||VARANASI: A procession of political heavyweights of different hues wound its way to Shir Goverdhanpur in UP’s Varanasi district on the 644th birth anniversary of Sant Ravidas on Saturday, reinforcing the pull and power of the mystic poet-seer who is revered across states, especially in the Dalit community. Union oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav were among the prominent faces that paid obeisance at the shrine dedicated to the saint in his birthplace. The celebrations had been toned down in keeping with Covid protocols, but that neither deterred political functionaries, nor the common followers, from thronging the place. Union minister Pradhan was among the first to reach the temple with a group of BJP colleagues. He sat at the feet of the Shri Guru Ravidas Janmasthal Charitable Trust’s chairman and head of the All India Ravidasiya Dharm, Sant Niranjan Das. “I delivered the message of PM Modi to Sant Niranjan Das after seeking his blessings. The PM’s work and efforts for making India self-reliant are inspired by Sant Ravidas,” Pradhan said. Priyanka and Akhilesh more or less followed the routine, offering prayers at the temple, meeting Sant Niranjan Das and partaking of prasad at the langar. Priyanka said the philosophy of Sant Ravidas was to love, live together peacefully and serve each other as one’s dharma. There is no place for discrimination on the basis of caste and community in his teachings, she said. Akhilesh said his party had pledged to carry forward the legacy of Sant Ravidas, whom he described as a great social reformer, revolutionary and independent thinker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/politicians-of-all-hues-make-beeline-for-ravidas-temple/articleshow/81251734.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||Centre renews bid to get Unesco heritage site tag for Santiniketan||KOLKATA: The Union culture ministry is mounting a renewed campaign to secure the status of Unesco World Heritage Site for Santiniketan, 11 years after the first attempt to get this recognition for Rabindranath Tagore’s cultural ark in the run-up to his 150th birth anniversary in 2010. A fresh dossier prepared by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) with the help of Visva-Bharati University has already been submitted to Unesco. An ASI team, led by its director general Vidya Vidyanathan, had camped at the university in January to prepare the report, findi-ng answers to the questions that were raised the last time. External heritage conservation experts were roped in to assist the ASI. “The team worked with our faculty and Tagore experts from Rabindra Bhavan to prepare the report. We are happy that the application has been revived,” a senior Visva-Bharati official said. The ASI team surveyed the “original” parts of the university, including the Kanch Mandir Upsana Griha, Santiniketan Bari (the first building that housed Debendranath Tagore and his family after Bhubandanga was bought by him), Uttarayan complex, Kala Bhavana, Sangeet Bhavana and all other structures built by Tagore as part of his dream university. The team also scanned thousands of documents and videographed paintings, sculptures and artwork by Tagore and Bengal School stalwarts like Nandalal Bose, Ramkinker Baij and Benode Bihari. The original application in 2010 had been pushed to the “tentative” list after a technical evaluation of the site by the International Council on Monuments and Sites. It was then pointed out that development pressure on the campus had tampered with the site’s heritage value.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-renews-bid-to-get-unesco-heritage-site-tag-for-santiniketan/articleshow/81251735.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 28, 2021||India||Canada to buy 2 million doses of SII vaccine||NEW DELHI: After Canada approved AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine, 500,000 doses of the same vaccine manufactured in India will arrive in Canada on Wednesday. Canadian authorities have also entered into a commercial agreement with Serum Institute of India for supply of 2 million doses of the same, said government officials. Canadian PM Justin Trudeau expressed appreciation for India’s support and partnership in ensuring speedy delivery of the vaccines. “I want to express my appreciation for the support and partnership of the Indian government in fighting Covid-19, in helping secure these does for Canadians,” said Trudeau. The delivery will take place within 3 weeks of the conversation that took place between Trudeau and PM Narendra Modi on the issue of vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/canada-to-buy-2-million-doses-of-sii-vaccine/articleshow/81251739.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||Maintain strict vigil, Centre tells states as cases rise again||NEW DELHI: Amid rising number of Covid-19 cases in several states, the Centre on Saturday asked states to maintain rigorous vigil, follow effective surveillance strategies in respect of potential super spreading events and deal firmly with violations of Covid appropriate behaviour or norms. Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba held a high level review meeting with eight states witnessing an upswing in cases and senior officials from the Centre. States including Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Telangana and Jammu & Kashmir have been reporting a high active caseload or an increasing trend in new cases in the last week. While Maharashtra has shown the highest rise in active cases in the last two weeks, it also continues to report the highest daily new cases followed by Kerala.The Centre advised the states to not lower their guard, enforce Covid appropriate behaviour and deal firmly with violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maintain-strict-vigil-centre-tells-states-as-cases-rise-again/articleshow/81251771.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Visakhapatnam||New ENC chief AB Singh to take charge on March 1||Visakhapatnam: Vice-Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh will assume charge as the new Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief (FOC-in-C) of Eastern Naval Command (ENC), Visakhapatnam on March 1. He will take over from Vice-Admiral Atul Kumar Jain who will move to New Delhi as the Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman Chiefs of Staff Committee. An alumnus of National Defence Academy (NDA), Pune and Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, Vice-Admiral AB Singh was commissioned into the Indian Navy in 1983. He will assume command of the ENC at a ceremonial parade which will take place at the Naval Base on Monday. The parade will comprise ceremonial guard and platoons of naval personnel from various ships, submarines, and other establishments within of the ENC. It will be attended by all flag officers and commanding officers of ships, submarines and naval establishments. Elsewhere, Commodore M Goverdhan Raju took over as Naval Officer-in-Charge (Andhra Pradesh) from Commodore Sanjiv Issar at a ceremonial parade at the naval base on Friday. Commodore Raju is an alumnus of Sainik School, Korukonda and the NDA. He was commissioned into the Indian Navy in July 1989 and is a specialist in navigation and direction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/new-enc-chief-ab-singh-to-take-charge-on-march-1/articleshow/81248575.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Patna||Father-son duo among four die in two road accidents in Bihar||PATNA/BANKA: At least four people were killed in two road accidents in Vaishali and Banka districts on Saturday. Two people were crushed to death by a speeding truck coming from opposite direction on the busy Mahatma Gandhi Setu under the Ganga Bridge police station area in Vaishali district. The accident took place when the victims were on way to Hajipur from Patna on a motorbike. The driver of the truck lost balance over his vehicle and hit their two-wheeler. The deceased were identified as Avinash Kumar (28) and Ramkrishna Mahto (38), both residents of Patna City. The victims’ relatives told police that the two, employees of a private company, had gone to Hajipur for official work. The incident led to traffic jaam for about an hour. Hajipur Sadar sub-divisional police officer Raghav Dayal said the bodies were sent to the Hajipur Sadar Hospital for postmortem. The truck was seized from the spot. The driver, however, managed to escape. In Banka, a father-son duo was crushed to death by a truck near Bhera Mor under the Barahat police station area on the Bhagalpur-Hansdiha state highway. The deceased were identified as Parsadi Singh (60) and Binod Singh (35), residents of Barakola village under the Poraiyahaat police station area in Godda district of Jharkhand. The incident occurred around 9am. “Binod lost control over his motorbike on seeing the speeding truck coming from the opposite direction. The two fell on the road and came under the wheels of the truck,” sources said. A huge crowd gathered at the spot after the accident and staged a demonstration. They were demanding that speed of commercial and other vehicles be checked and caution marks put at the black spots on the roads. SHO of Barahat police station Shanker said the family members of the deceased have been contacted and the bodies will be handed over to them. “The truck and the motorcycle have been recovered,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/father-son-duo-among-four-die-in-two-road-accidents-in-bihar/articleshow/81248732.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Patna||State records 45 fresh Covid cases||PATNA: While several states are witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, the situation in Bihar is under control. Only 45 new positive cases were registered on Saturday, against 31,655 samples tested. The state’s Covid tally has now increased to 2,62,509. However, there were just 402 active cases in the state on Saturday. State health department special secretary Manoj Kumar said though a slight surge in percentage was witnessed in few places earlier, it was not much numerically. “These were sporadic types,” Manoj said when asked that three districts – Aurangabad, Nawada and Purnia – were recording slight surge in Covid numbers. Kumar added no new Covid strain has been detected in Bihar. “No decision has so far been taken regarding separate screening of people coming from Maharashtra, southern parts of the country, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh,” he said. As per the State Health Society, one official death was recorded in the state on Saturday and the victim was from Bhagalpur. With this, the state’s Covid toll has touched 1,541. Vaccination was not carried out on Saturday as Co-WIN portal was upgraded into Co-WIN 2.0. Till Friday, 5,59,372 beneficiaries had taken their first dose, including 3,99,813 healthcare workers and 1,59,559 frontline workers. Apart from them, 79,212 healthcare workers have taken their second dose. Kumar said the deadline for first dose vaccination of frontline workers has been extended till March 6. He added of the 2,33,880 doses sent by the Centre, 6,64,650 have been used. “For vaccination of priority groups (senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbidities), the Centre will send equipment for additional 700 chains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-records-45-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/81248676.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 28, 2021||Patna||RJD plans large-scale membership drive across J’khand||Ranchi: The Lalu Prasad-led RJD is trying to expand its vote base and strengthen its organisational structure in Jharkhand with its state in-charge and former Union minister Jaiprakash Narayan Yadav saying the party will soon take up a massive membership drive. Yadav, who is on a three-day visit to the state, said he would attend district-level meetings of his party in Dhanbad and Deoghar. Speaking to media persons at the state guest house here, Yadav said his focus is on reviewing the status of the party and take measures to improve it. He said RJD aims to build its organisation from the booth to the district level across the state. He said, “So far, reports from many districts on the party’s organisational strength were not satisfactory and instructions have been issued to improve them. However, there are regions like Palamu and Kodema where the party is going strong.” Yadav said a review of the membership drive and ways to increase its mass base will also be undertaken at the upcoming party meetings. He further said the party would raise issues its workers are facing in the Koyalanchal (Dhanbad) meeting to win over their support and redressal of local problems as well as burning issues in the state. On the mahagathbandhan government in which RJD is a part, Yadav said it is performing well under the leadership of chief minister Hemant Soren. Recently, a delegation of the party met Soren at his official residence and congratulated him for the work done during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, the state RJD leadership had said they want the party to perform better in future elections and play a vital role in the formation and running of the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-plans-large-scale-membership-drive-across-jkhand/articleshow/81248760.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Vadodara||Cases rise marginally in Vadodara||Vadodara: The fears of Covid-19 raising its head in the city seem to have come true. There has been a steady, if not alarming, rise in the number of coronavirus cases. Data compiled by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) for the city and district reveals that there has been a minor rise in the number of cases reported since February 25. The number of new cases that used to be around 42 till February 24 has remained around 45 later. The officer on special duty for Covid-19 and education secretary Vinod Rao said that the rise was very marginal. “Hospitalisation has increased only marginally by about 100 persons in the last 10 days,” Rao said. Sources, however, said that the situation will have to be monitored for about a week more. “It will become clear only by then whether this is a temporary rise or the next wave,” said an official. After Diwali festivities, the city had seen a significant rise in cases, but these started going down again after the spike for a few days as strict measures were adopted by the state government. While 45new cases were reported on Saturday in the city and district, the number of discharges stood at 49. It is the healthy discharge rate that has ensured that the number of active cases remained under control. Out of the 575 active cases on Saturday, 73 were on oxygen and 29 were on BIPAP machines or ventilators. The remaining cases were stable and most of them were home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cases-rise-marginally-in-vadodara/articleshow/81249398.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Rajkot||Bizman convicted in cheque bounce case||Rajkot: A Jasdan-based businessman who deals in drilling machines has been sentenced to a simple imprisonment for a year for returning a loan of Rs 10 lakh through cheque despite not having sufficient balance in his bank account. The court of additional chief judicial magistrate of Jasdan P N Navin, besides ordering imprisonment for the convict Haresh Aagola, has also asked him to pay the loan amount of Rs 10 lakh to the lender Manish Thakar or face further imprisonment for six months. As per the case details, Aagola had borrowed money from Thakar, who owns a petrol pump, and when he was asked to return the money, Aagola gave a cheque dated January 1, 2016. When Thakar deposited the cheque, it was returned by the bank. When Thakar asked Aagola, the former was assured that the cheque would be honoured when deposited again. Thakar deposited the cheque again but was returned due to insufficient funds. Thakar then sent a legal notice to Aagola yet the payment was not made, and a trial followed. During the trial, the evidence submitted against Aagola were upheld by the court in convicting him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bizman-convicted-in-cheque-bounce-case/articleshow/81249611.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Patna||Vaccine registration for elderly in Bihar from tomorrow||PATNA: The online registration for Covid vaccination of those above 60 or those above 45 years with comorbidities on Co-WIN 2.0 will begin on Monday. Beneficiaries will get the vaccine shot after 24 hours at the earliest. However, those who select private health centres for vaccination will have to pay Rs 250 for each dose. Briefing media persons regarding the vaccination, the Bihar Health Society executive director, Manoj Kumar, said the dry run scheduled for Saturday could not be done as the Co-WIN 2.0 site was not made operational by the Centre till evening. Health department officials expect the dry run to be carried out on Sunday after the new version of the Co-Win site goes live. Giving details of the registration process on Co-Win 2.0, Kumar said one mobile number would be enough to register four members of one family. He was replying to a query on the process for elderly persons who may not have a mobile phone. Kumar urged beneficiaries to produce Adhar as the primary identity card, only in special cases other government recognized ID cards would be accepted. If a beneficiary is registering online, he or she will receive an OTP for registration on the portal after which they can select the nearest site and convenient time slot for vaccination. Those who face difficulty in online registration can go for on-spot registration. As per the Centre's guideline, those who completed 60 years on January 1, 2022, can avail of the vaccination facility. For those above 45 with comorbidity, they will have to provide a certificate from a registered doctor detailing their illness. The central government has sent a list of 20 health issues, which would be considered valid, and a certificate for which would have to be provided at the session site. In the first fifteen days, nearly 750 session sites, including 50 private ones, will be used for the innoculation of this priority group. Kumar said they would keep increasing the number of session sites with time and experience, which will go up to 1,500 by mid-April. He further said private hospitals registered under Ayushman Bharat or empanelled under central government health schemes have been allowed, and initially, 50 of them will be used for vaccination. These hospitals will have to pay Rs 150 to the government for each dose and they will charge Rs 250, including Rs 100 for registration. In case any private hospital is caught black marketing these vaccines, they would be struck off from the empanelled list and action will be taken against them. Anyone, including healthcare workers or frontline workers taking vaccines in private hospitals from March 1, will have to pay. Officials said even if the first dose was given for free of cost at a private hospital, the beneficiaries would be charged for the second dose. They can go to government session sites if they wish to avail themselves of free vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vax-registration-for-elderly-in-state-from-tomorrow/articleshow/81248658.cms||Sheezan Nezami
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||Semester exams to be held online: NUJS||KOLKATA: The West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences (NUJS) has decided not to re-open in a hurry and told hold its semester exams online. The decision has been communicated to all students. A few meetings were held by the vice-chancellor with the faculty members this week before the final decision was taken. The meetings were prodded by the resolution taken by the Consortium of National Law Universities on February 22 that a blanket decision for re-opening cannot be taken for law schools and each has to take its own decision. The executive committee meeting of the NUJS was held on Saturday to finalize future academic plans. The faculty members have informed NUJS VC Nirmal Kanti Chakraborty that the syllabus for the first semester has been completed in the online mode and revisions were on for a smooth transition to the online mode of examinations that start for all the five academic years on March 27. The online examinations will go on for a month. On-campus classes might resume in May for the fresh semester. “We will avoid re-opening now because we have shared toilets, shared accommodation and shared mess arrangements for food. The chances of infection is high. Moreover, many of our faculty also have co-morbidity. Since the teaching-learning is progressing smoothly in the online mode, we have decided against re-opening now,” said VC Chakraborty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/semester-exams-to-be-held-online-nujs/articleshow/81249380.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||4,000 more vaccine sites across West Bengal from Monday||KOLKATA: The state health department will add around 4,000 more vaccination sites across the state to facilitate inoculation of those above 60 years and those between 45 and 59 with co-morbidities. “The number of vaccination sites in the state will be scaled up to 5,000 from March 1, including the ones in the private sector. We will have enough sites, manpower and the capacity for this phase of vaccination. But it will all depend on availability of vaccines, the demand and how Co-WIN 2.0 works,” said state director of health services Ajay Chakraborty. Currently, Bengal has a little over 1,100 vaccination sites from where frontline workers and polling officials are being vaccinated. So far, the state has received 34.9 lakh doses of vaccine (Covishield and Covaxin), out of which 11.2 doses have been utilised. “We will add two more sites to the existing four. But we might start vaccinating the 60 plus and those above 45 with co-morbidity from only one site on Monday,” said an official at RG Kar Medical College and Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4000-more-vaccine-sites-from-monday/articleshow/81249308.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
February 28, 2021||Vijayawada||Ward volunteers not allowed poll duty, says SEC||VIJAYAWADA: State Election Commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar on Saturday said that ward volunteers will not be involved in election duties. Speaking to the media in Vijayawada, Ramesh Kumar said that voter slips will be distributed by municipal authorities and ward volunteers shall not be used in any form for election duties. The decision was taken following complaints from some political parties. Ramesh Kumar further said that the model code of conduct issued by the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) for assembly elections in five states will be implemented for municipal areas as well. He added that candidates are advised to not take up door-to-door campaigns with more than five persons in group. He said that the election process will take place in a fair and transparent manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ward-volunteers-not-allowed-poll-duty-says-sec/articleshow/81248582.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Patna||Bihar: CJI Bobde bats for pre-litigation mediation and AI||PATNA: Chief Justice of India SA Bobde on Saturday advocated for the introduction of pre-litigation mediation in civil and criminal matters in India. CJI Bobde was speaking after inaugurating the Centenary Building of Patna high court. “Litigation is fine, and making provisions for litigation is also fine, but it is time we resort to pre-litigation mediation,” the CJI said. He added, “Pre-litigation mediation is a way of solving problems in both civil and criminal cases, which arises from the same dispute. When that is done it makes a big difference not only to the feeling among litigants but also on pendency (of cases).” “I have been discussing this with the Union law minister. The only thing lacking with pre-litigation mediation is a law for the agreement on it. That is the essence of pre-litigation mediation,” the CJI said referring to Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad sitting on the dais with other dignitaries. CM Nitish Kumar, Supreme court Justices Navin Sinha, Indira Banerjee and Hemant Gupta, Patna high court Chief Justice Sanjay Karol with brother judge Shivaji Pandey were present during the programme. CJI Bobde further said heavy investment has been made in the utilization of technology to improve the efficiency of various processes involved in justice delivery systems such as video conferencing and artificial intelligence (AI). CJI also said AI is likely to change the face of the judiciary. He said decision-making would remain with judges but AI would result in a change in the speed with which inputs are obtained. “The system of AI which is about to be introduced, in no way is going to take away the discretion of judges in deciding a case but it is only the access of ease of information which will change,” he said while clearing apprehensions over AI. He urged Chief Justice Karol to ask CM that the state government allocates an additional budget for AI in Patna high court. He said the appearance of lawyers from across the country and even abroad via video conferencing has created "problems" and it can’t be brushed under the carpet. CJI Bobde also said inequality has been created amid lawyers due to virtual hearing as everyone does not have the required infrastructure for virtual hearings. “It must be removed by providing common facilities for such lawyers,” he said. “In time to come, less infrastructure for court buildings would be required as record rooms and other things might not be needed due to digitization,” he said in the backdrop of the newly inaugurated modern ‘Centenary Building’ of the Patna high court built at a cost of Rs 203 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cji-bobde-bats-for-pre-litigation-mediation-ai/articleshow/81249375.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Patna||Syed Shahnawaz Hussain meets his teacher, seeks blessing||PATNA: State industries department minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain met his schoolteacher at the latter’s house in Supaul district on Friday and sought his blessing. Shahnawaz called on his teacher, Kalicharan Mishra, during his maiden visit to his native district Supaul after being inducted into the Nitish Kumar cabinet. He sought his teacher’s blessing to discharge his official duty well and also come to the expectations of people of the state. Shahnawaz had passed his Matriculation examination from Willson High School at Supaul, which was later renamed as Supaul High School. Mishra, who is in his early 80s, turned emotional on seeing his disciple. For a while, he could not believe that it was the same Shahnawaz whom he used to teach at the school decades ago. As a true follower of ‘guru-shishya’ tradition, Shahnawaz touched the feet of his teacher. An overwhelmed Mishra said, “It is a privilege to be a teacher of such a student who is scaling new heights of success. May God bless him and his family,” Mishra said, adding he is hopeful of his student’s success. Born in a simple Muslim family, Shahnawaz pursued initial education at his native village in Supaul district. His father late Nasir Hussain was a schoolteacher and mother Nasima Khatoon a homemaker. Shahnawaz got diploma in electronics engineering from ITI, Pusa, Delhi before jumping into active politics after being inspired by BJP stalwart and former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Though he made his debut in politics by contesting elections from Kishanganj parliamentary constituency in 1994, he lost to RJD heavyweight Md Taslimuddin. However, in the mid-term election two years later, he was elected as a member of the Lok Sabha from the same constituency. He was later inducted into the Vajpayee government as minister of state for food processing industries, sports and youth affairs. He was the youngest minister in the Vajpayee cabinet. Later he served different Union ministries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shahnawaz-meets-his-teacher-seeks-blessing/articleshow/81249570.cms||Ramashankar
February 28, 2021||Goa||Goa: Centre diverts 120 hectares of biodiversity hotspot at Mollem for rail project||MARGAO: The Centre has sounded a devastating blow to the Mollem ecosystem as it approved the diversion of 140 hectares of forest for South Western Railways’ double-tracking project. What has raised the hackles of environmentalists and nature lovers is that around 120 hectares — almost 85% — lies within the Bhagwan Mahavir National Park, and this move is likely to drastically impact the biodiversity hotspot of Mollem in the ecologically-fragile Western Ghats. The in-principle approval, issued by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC), paves the way for diversion of 120.9ha of the biodiversity hotspot that lies within the Bhagwan Mahavir National Park and Mollem Sanctuary for the Castlerock to Collem stretch, while another 1.9ha and 15.6ha of forest land has been cleared for the Collem to Margao section. In a series of reports, TOI has highlighted that biodiversity and wildlife experts believe that the three Centre-sponsored infrastructure projects — the Panaji-Belagavi NH expansion and the Tamnar power transmission project, apart from the double-tracking — have the potential to exacerbate Goa’s water woes turning it into a parched state, while posing a mighty threat to the endemism and the flora and fauna of the region. The Mollem forests also constitute the catchment areas for the Khandepar, the main source of raw water for the Opa water treatment plant supplying potable water to Tiswadi and Ponda. Over the past few months, the movement to save Mollem has spread across the state, with artists, engineers, architects, environmentalists and other professionals mobilising support at various protests. In fact, the groundswell of support grew so large, BJP in November had asked CM Pramod Sawant to go slow on the projects lest the party’s image takes a beating ahead of the 2022 assembly polls. However, after BJP decisively won the zilla panchayat polls earlier this year, Sawant pledged to go ahead with the projects. Deputy inspector general of forests (central), M K Shambhu, in a letter issued to principal secretary (forests) of the Goa government, said that the clearance for diversion of forest land under wildlife & eco-tourism (North) and North Goa forest division, has been granted in favour of (South Western Railway) Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd “after careful examination of the proposal of the state government and on the basis of the approval of the regional empowered committee”. Significantly, the MoEFCC has stipulated that in order “to address the apprehensions of the people as well as to prevent spillage of ore, coal, etc, all the rakes of the freight trains shall have a spill proof/sealed cover, which is presently absent.” Chief minister Pramod Sawant had earlier written to railways minister Piyush Goyal suggesting that all railway rakes have “hard top covering and sealing” so as to take care of the spillage of coal onto the railway tracks “owing to torn unsecured tarpaulin covers”. TOI had earlier pointed out that Sawant’s proposal was being considered seriously by Indian Railways. Among the conditions laid out, the MoEFCC has stipulated that the trees to be felled be restricted to a minimum in the diverted forest land, and that the trees should be felled under the “strict supervision” of the state forest department. MoEFCC has also stipulated that compensatory afforestation (CA) shall be raised over double the extent of degraded forest land within three years from the date of Stage-l clearance, and maintained thereafter by the state forest department. “…At least 1,000 plants per hectare shall be planted over identified degraded forest land within three years of grant of final approval. If it is not possible to plant so many saplings in the area identified for CA, the balance saplings will be planted in any other forests as per prescriptions of approved working plan with provision for ten years on subsequent maintenance,” the letter states. MoEFFC has further mandated that mitigation measures as proposed by centre for ecological sciences, Indian Institute of Science (CES, IISc), Bengaluru, must be implemented along the Caranzol to Collem stretch of the railway track for safe passage of animals. Other important conditions include suitable soil moisture conservation works either side of the track on vulnerable stretches, and no damage to be caused to the flora and fauna of the adjoining area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-diverts-120ha-of-biodiversity-hotspot-at-mollem-for-rail-project/articleshow/81251515.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: KMC mops up Rs 431 crore in waiver scheme since October 1||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation on Saturday collected record revenue from the city’s property owners availing the special interest waiver scheme on unpaid property tax. According to a KMC revenue department official, while the civic body had collected Rs 400 crore revenue under the special scheme since October 1 last year, Rs 31 crore was collected on Saturday. The city’s property owners on Saturday made a beeline for the KMC treasury counters to avail of the special waiver scheme and clear their tax dues. The KMC had introduced a 100% interest waiver on unpaid property tax last October. The deadline for payment for the scheme was extended till February 28. As the deadline drove hundreds to queue up in front of the KMC treasury counters across the city, the civic brass on Thursday decided to keep open the counters by extending business hours to 6pm till Sunday. According to sources in the KMC revenue department, the civic body’s treasury counters — including the one located at the headquarters — fetched Rs 31 crore from property tax payers on Saturday. “We were overwhelmed with the response of the property tax payers who didn’t want to miss the opportunity of availing the scheme. We had given a special instruction to officials manning our treasury counters not to refuse any applicant who had queued up to pay their dues,” said a KMC revenue department official. Of the Rs 31 crore collected across the city, Rs 13 crore came from south Kolkata, Rs 11 crore from north Kolkata and rest from the added areas. According to a KMC assessment department senior official, hopes rose after a record collection on Saturday and they expect to collect a similar amount on Sunday also. “We will keep all our treasury counters open till 6pm tomorrow. Senior officials of the assessment department will attend their offices at the headquarters to assist property owners who may come with some kind of difficulties,” the civic official said. According to a KMC official, the revenue collected will be spent on clearing dues of contractors engaged in keeping the city’s essential services intact. However, an assessment department official said the civic body had prepared a list of habitual and big defaulters who have not applied for the interest waiver scheme. “After the deadline expires, we will send notices to these habitual defaulters and, if they fail to respond, we will be forced to take legal action,” the official said. The waiver scheme had first been introduced in 2003 when Subrata Mukherjee was mayor. Then, only 50% waiver had been provided on the interest that had accrued on property tax dues. The scheme was aimed at mopping up revenue for infrastructure development. The scheme had been popular and funds that were raised were utilized in augmenting water supply and modernizing the drainage system. When Sovan Chatterjee took over as mayor in 2010, he, too, introduced the scheme twice. But they did not elicit much response from property owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-mops-up-rs-431cr-in-waiver-scheme-since-oct-1/articleshow/81249348.cms||Saikat Ray
February 28, 2021||Jaipur||JMRC proposes eco-friendly Metro Neo project on BRTS corridor||JAIPUR: At a time when the state government plans to raze allegedly under-utilised and accident-prone Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) corridor, the Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC) has coined an idea to run low-cost Metro Neo service in the corridor. The officials believe, this new mode of Mass Rapid Transit System can provide a safe, eco-friendly, comfortable and reliable transportation alternative to the city, without disturbing the existing infrastructure. A source said, “This cheaper alternative to conventional metro rail has become the new buzzword for cities across India, including Delhi and Mumbai. After a recent traffic survey in the city, there is a finding that Metro Neo service could easily replace buses in the 7.3-metre wide existing corridor.” An official explained Metro Neo, which is more like an electric trolleybus, costs Rs 71 crore per km. “Metro Neo corridor is a rail-guided urban transport system with rubber-tyred electric coaches powered by an overhead traction system running on elevated or at-grade sections. Its coaches are made of stainless steel or aluminium, and are slightly lighter and smaller than conventional metro rakes,” he said. Many town planners and engineers also believe that removal Rs 500-crore infrastructure will have negligible impact and the corridor should be put to effective use. A senior official of Jaipur Development Authority (JDA), on condition of anonymity, said, “The capacity of two lanes is 1,200 PCUs (passenger car units). When number of cars exceed the road capacity (volume to capacity more than 1), a high-capacity transport system is required, including BRTS, Metro etc. The state government can consider the proposal or make bus service effective after establishing proper monitoring system,” he added. Many opined that the Metro Neo project could prove feasible if it’s run on entire BRTS network. Till date, JDA has constructed 7km on north-south corridor (Sikar Road) against the sanctioned 26km. Similarly, against the sanctioned 13km, only 8km has been constructed on east-west corridor. The project could easily provide swift passage between Khatipura Mod and the airport. It could also turn into an easy mode of commute between Sikar Road and Railway Station. “The estimated speed will be approx 30 kmph as it has to stop at junctions. It could carry over 1.80 lakh commuters initially, which are buses passengers. Moreover, the state could take Centre’s assistance in funding the project,” says a JMRC source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmrc-proposes-eco-friendly-metro-neo-project-on-brts-corridor/articleshow/81249233.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Patna||‘‘Jumbo returns to Jharkhand’||PATNA: An elephant, which killed four people in Nawada on Thursday, returned to the forests in Jharkhand via Gaya on Saturday evening, officials said. Villages in Gaya on the border of Bihar and Jharkhand were, however, on alert and people told not to venture out at night. An official of the forest department in Patna told TOI that the elephant was spotted at a place in Barachatti block in Gaya during the early morning hours on Saturday. “It was merely 5-6km away from the Jharkhand border. A team of trackers from Bankura in West Bengal pushed the jumbo further inside the forests in Jharkhand,” he added. After entering Nawada from Jharkhand, the jumbo had killed four people on Thursday. The first three people were senior citizens (60 years or above) who had encountered the elephant in agricultural fields. The fourth was a 10-year-old boy. Another forest department official in Nawada claimed that quick response and tranquillizing teams as well as specialized jumbo chasers from Bankura had been trailing the elephant for the last three days in two districts. “The elephant is likely to search for the herd from which it got separated,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jumbo-returns-to-jharkhand/articleshow/81248747.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Patna||JJB allows minor accused of ‘abduction’ to take care of his 17-year-old wife, infant||BIHARSHARIF: The Nalanda Juvenile Justice Board principal judge Manvendra Mishra on Friday absolved a minor boy from the charges of abduction of a minor girl and allowed him to take care of her and their four-month-old child at his parents' home. Justice Mishra stated, "The act of the minor boy was punishable in law but, he is acquitted in the larger interest of the lives of three minors- the boy himself, his minor wife and their four-month-old baby.” He also ruled that the order was an exception and cannot be used to take advantage of in a crime involving the abduction of a minor at his court. The court also ruled that the life of the girl, who is 17, might be endangered and she might be a victim of honour killing at her father's place as he bluntly said he severed every relation with his daughter after she eloped with her lover. Explaining the case, additional public prosecutor Rajesh Pathak said a case of abduction of a 16-year-old-girl by a 17-year-old-boy and his parents and two sisters was lodged at Noorsarai police station by the father of the victim in April 2019. The investigating officer in the case removed the names of the boy's parents and his sisters as their involvement in the crime was not proved. The case was then referred to the Nalanda JJB court. Pathak further said the minor girl appeared at the JJB court on August 23, 2019, and claimed that she had run away with her lover on her own and they got married. Pathak said the minor boy, too, appeared at the court the same day from the Nalanda reformatory home for boys. Pathak said since the father of the minor girl refused to take her, the JJB court ruled that the accused boy, who is now an adult, can take care of his wife and their four-month-old baby. The court also directed the parents of the boy to fulfil all the basic needs of their daughter-in-law and grandchild. The court also directed the Bal Kalyan police officer at Noorsarai to submit a report of the well being of the minor girl and her child every six months for two years. JJB members Dharmendra Kumar and Usha Kumari also consented to the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jjb-allows-minor-accused-of-abduction-to-take-care-of-his-17-year-old-wife-infant/articleshow/81248771.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Patna||‘Vikas Diwas’ on March 1||PATNA: The JD(U) has planned to celebrate CM Nitish Kumar’s 70th birthday on March 1 by observing ‘Vikas Diwas’ in the state. Besides cutting a 70-pound cake at the party’s headquarters in the here, all party functionaries — from booth president to national president — will gather at their respective polling booths and wish for good health and long life of Nitish, one of the founders of the party. On the occasion, the party’s senior functionaries would hold discussion with local people about various development works executed by Nitish as the CM in the last 16 years. The party workers would also take a pledge to make Bihar a ‘developed state’ under the leadership of Nitish Kumar. “I will observe Vikas Diwas at my polling booth at Mustafapur village in Nalanda district. All party workers should be present at their respective polling booths on March 1 and wish for long life of Nitishji,” JD(U) national president R C P Singh said. Earlier in the day, Singh held a meeting with JD(U)’s all organisational incharges at the party office here and asked them to be present at their respective polling booths on March 1. “Party’s all district presidents, block presidents, booth presidents, Lok Sabha Kshetra Prabhari, Vidhan Sabha kshetra Prabhari and other senior functionaries have been asked to remain present at their respective polling booths on March 1,” JD(U) state general secretary Anil Kumar said. Anil said he himself would remain present at his polling station at Sotichak village under Fatuha block of Patna district. Anil added JD(U) women cell has planned to cut a 70-pound cake on the occasion. “The JD(U) medical cell will organise a free health check-up camp at the party office. The party’s youth and student wings will begin a campaign to inform the new generation about the development works done by Nitish,” Anil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vikas-diwas-on-march-1/articleshow/81249400.cms||Madan Kumar
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||‘Case against BJP woman’s spouse, but not MVA min’||Mumbai: The BJP women’s wing held protests on Saturday in the city, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Nashik, Sindhudurg, Aurangabad and other parts of the state demanding the resignation of forest minister Sanjay Rathod and a case against him following a woman’s death in Pune a few days ago. The party said it would not back off from its demand even as it criticised the MVA government for trying to suppress the voice of its vice-president, Chitra Wagh, who has been spearheading the agitation. The police have filed a case of corruption against Wagh’s husband for assets disproportionate to his known source of income. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant countered the allegation saying the investigation was launched in 2016 when the BJP was in government and the delay in filing the case was on account of the pandemic and the lockdown. Wagh quit the NCP and joined the BJP on the eve of the assembly election in 2019. The BJP has been demanding inquiry in the alleged suicide of Puja Chavan, a Tik Tok star. After Chavan’s death, Rathod’s name was dragged into the controversy on social media. Chavan died after falling from a building in Hadapsar on February 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/case-against-bjp-womans-spouse-but-not-mva-min/articleshow/81250372.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Patna||Body of dismissed CRPF jawan found||ARA: The Bhojpur police found the body of one Umesh Kumar Singh, a dismissed CRPF jawan, at Bampali under the Gajrajganj police outpost on Friday night. A resident of Masadh village under the Udwantnagar police station area, the 35-year-old had been missing since February 24. He used to live in a rented house at Sankatmochan Nagar under the Nawada police station area in Ara. His wife Puja Kumari filed a complaint on Friday alleging that Umesh had been kidnapped as ransom was being demanded from her. Bhojpur SP Har Kishore Rai told this newspaper on Saturday that Umesh, who was dismissed from the CRPF a few years ago, had received four gunshots. “Police interrogated one of his friends and came to know that Umesh and his brother-in-law Guddu were involved in an illicit liquor trade. The two had a dispute over a sum of Rs 4 lakh as a result of which Guddu murdered him on February 24,” the SP added. Guddu has been arrested and is being interrogated for more information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/body-of-dismissed-crpf-jawan-found/articleshow/81248790.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Patna||Universities in Bihar to issue degrees with digital signatures||PATNA: Universities in Bihar will now issue degrees and certificates bearing digital signatures of the vice-chancellors (VCs) concerned. An order to this effect was issued by governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan on Friday. The step has been taken to make sure that students get their degrees and certificates on time. The degrees will be digitally signed by the VCs and certificates, including the marksheets, by the controller of examinations. Ever since universities came into being in the state, VCs would manually sign on the original degrees. With the growing number of students, they had to sign more than one lakh degrees every year. This issue was raised recently by L N Mithila University (LNMU) VC Surendra Pratap Singh in a letter written to the chancellor’s secretariat. The matter was discussed at a meeting of the university advisory committee held about a month back. The committee endorsed LNMU VC’s suggestion and recommended the use of digital signature on degrees. In fact, the Digital India mission of the Prime Minister lays stress on issuance of all certificates, degrees and marksheets in computerized mode with digital signatures of the competent authority. With gradual implementation of university management information system, universities are supposed to keep a record of their students and perform all activities, from inviting applications for admissions to providing original certificates, in online mode. “Universities in various other states have already started issuing degrees with digital signatures,” the LNMU VC said. Munger University VC R K Verma said with the use of digital signatures, the VCs would indulge in other useful activities and work for their university’s development. “Besides, the students will get their degrees on time,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/universities-to-issue-degrees-with-digital-signatures/articleshow/81248639.cms||B K Mishra
February 28, 2021||Patna||Assam election: RJD likely to join Congress-led alliance||PATNA: Bihar’s main opposition party, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), is likely to join the Congress-led alliance of opposition parties in Assam with the sole aim to unseat the BJP and its allies from power in the northeastern state. Assam goes to the polls in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6. RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who is camping in Guwahati, held second round of talks with the Congress leaders and first round of talk with Badruddin Ajmal of All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) on Saturday in a bid to make a stronger ‘grand alliance’ against the saffron party and its allies in Assam. “Tejashwi had a very cordial meeting with the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee president Ripun Bora on Friday. Today, he held talks with Badruddin Ajmal of AIUDF to work out an amicable seat-sharing formula among the opposition parties in Assam,” RJD’s national general secretary Shyam Rajak, who is also in Guwahati, told TOI over phone. Rajak and another senior RJD leader, Abdul Bari Siddiqui, are camping in Guwahati and holding talks with the like-minded parties for the last three days. Tejashwi, on the other hand, had reached Guwahati on Friday to formalise seat-sharing with the Congress-led alliance. Tejashwi visited Kamakhya temple on Saturday before holding talks with Ajmal and senior leaders of the RJD’s Assam unit. “Congress has been our natural ally for several years. The RJD contested many polls with Congress in Bihar and our party is still an ally of the UPA at the Centre. We want to help the opposition parties, which oppose the BJP in Assam. Hence, we held talks with the Congress and Badruddin Ajmal. Decisions about the alliance or the number of seats the RJD will contest will be taken very soon,” Tejashwi told reporters in Guwahati. “Sizeable number of Hindi and Bhojpuri-speaking people reside in Assam. They form around 5% of Assam’s population. Most of them have roots in Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Moreover, people working in Assam’s tea gardens have roots in Bihar, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. The RJD will try to unite them and support the anti-BJP forces in Assam,” a senior RJD leader accompanying Tejashwi told TOI over phone. Sources in the RJD said the party has identified 11 assembly seats having sizeable number of Hindi and Bhojpuri-speaking population to contest in Assam. “The party will come down to even five or four seats if an amicable seat-sharing formula is worked out with the Congress-led alliance,” another RJD leader said. Rajak said, the RJD would contest assembly polls in Assam by highlighting the burning issues like CAA and NRC. The party would also raise issues of flood, recent increase in prices of petroleum products and unemployment, he said. Bihar’s ruling party, JD(U), has decided to contest the Assam polls on its own. “The party has so far identified 35 potential seats in Assam where it would field its candidates. The final decision will be taken by our national leaders,” JD(U)’s Assam unit convener Samsul Alam told TOI on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/assam-election-rjd-likely-to-join-congress-led-alliance/articleshow/81249525.cms||Madan Kumar
February 28, 2021||Patna||Patna witnesses third highest temperature in February in ten years||PATNA: The residents of Patna have already started feeling the heat of March. The city’s temperature, which stood at 33 degrees Celsius on Saturday, was February’s third highest maximum in the decade. The two other times when the maximum temperature was even higher were February 21, 2017 (34.2 degrees C) and February 29 (33.3 degrees C). According to the forecast of the Patna Meteorological Centre, the maximum temperature across the state is likely to hover around 33 degrees C till March 2. South Bihar, as usual, will remain hotter with the temperature likely to touch the 35 degrees C-mark in several districts. Nights are also warmer than expected. The city’s minimum temperature was recorded at 18 degrees C on Saturday, which was four notches above normal. Experts claim that prolonged dry weather during the period of the departure of winter season along with clear skies for the last 20 days has led to the northward movement in mercury column. A Patna Meteorological Centre official, Amit Sinha, told TOI on Saturday that the maximum temperature was four to five notches above normal at most places in Bihar. “Normally such temperature levels are recorded in the month of March. But the reason behind such a high temperature in February is the absence of any western disturbance since February 7. The sky remained clear allowing solar rays to reach the earth’s surface directly,” he added. Western disturbances are low-pressure areas or extratropical storms originating from the Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea, which cause snow and winter rainfall in the northwestern Indian subcontinent. This also leads to a plunge in temperature in northern plains, including Bihar. Meanwhile, although the Met officials are waiting for a seasonal outlook based on long-range observations, they conceded that the onset of summer would be warmer than expected. The weather may not be discomforting yet, but most people in the city have started switching on their fans. Those driving cars are also using air- conditioners in the afternoon. “The weather usually starts getting warmer from Saraswati Puja, but this heat is a bit abnormal. If this trend continues, the temperature may reach the 40 degrees C-mark by Holi,” said Malay Kumar, a resident of Gola Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-witnesses-3rd-highest-temp-in-february-in-10-years/articleshow/81248713.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Vijayawada||Mobile towers in AP compliant with radiation standards||VIJAYAWADA: Mobile towers in the state are safe and free from radiation, the department of telecommunications (DoT) said on Saturday. The department had conducted electromagnetic field (EMF) tests for 3,755 towers and base transceiver units (BTUs) across the state from July 2020 to February 2021, said DoT deputy director general A Robert J Ravi. The deputy director general said that concerns have also been raised that continuous exposure to EMF radiation emanating from telecom towers causes harmful thermal and non-thermal health effects, which led the DoT to take up random tests. Ravi further said that all towers, after the tests, were found to be safe and there was no radiation emanating from any tower. He added that tests were conducted in Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam, Chittoor, Kadapa, West Godavari, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts. The teams from the DoT conducted tests on towers of all telecom service providers (TSPs), including the towers owned and operated by BSNL, the deputy director general said. He added that the radiation from towers in Andhra Pradesh is far better than the standards adopted by a number of developed countries, such as the USA, Canada, Japan and Australia. He also said that radiation limits prescribed for mobile phones used in India are similar to those in other developed countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mobile-towers-in-ap-compliant-with-radiation-standards/articleshow/81248543.cms||Gopi Dara
February 28, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Burnt body of youth found||VIJAYAWADA: An unidentified burnt body of a youth was found in a dump yard at Edlapadu of Chilakaluripet mandal in Guntur district on Saturday. According to Chilakaluripet police, they received information from a passerby about a dead body inside a gunny bag at a dump yard along the side of Boyapalem-Vankayalapadu highway. Upon reaching the spot, police identified that it could be a case of murder as they found other injuries on the body. The body was shifted to Guntur Government General Hospital for postmortem. Police said 50% of the body is completely burnt. Further examination of the scene led to the discovery of a pair of slippers and a leather belt suspected to belong to the victim. Police said local CCTV footage will be inspected. A case has been registered under section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/burnt-body-of-youth-found/articleshow/81248535.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown power tariff order confuses many||CHANDIGARH: Implementation of tariff orders issued during lockdown has triggered resentment and confusion among consumers across the state as it has reduced the subsidy given to them. According to a comparative study of two tariff orders, 2019-20 and 2020-21, the subsidy for electricity consumers has been reduced by Rs 300 per billing cycle for a domestic supply consumer. It is alleged that initially, electricity consumers used to get subsidy on 200 units per month for a billing cycle. This would result in a subsidy of Rs 437 per billing cycle. In 2019, the government announced zero tariff increase for the next two years. Based on ARR, a tariff plan approved by Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC), the subsidy had reduced to Rs 137. This came to light in the recent billing cycles, when consumers noticed the difference. Till February, electricity distribution companies submitted their annual revenue requirements (ARR) before HERC, which issues tariff orders for the next financial year by the last week of March. Due to lockdown, the proceedings had apparently came to a standstill. In June 2020, tariff slabs were notified. “As promised by the chief minister, the state did not increase electricity tariff at all for these two financial years. Hence, there is no impact on the electricity consumer,’’ said additional chief secretary (ACS) Power, P K Das. However, consumer bodies alleged back door increase. “All this has happened during lockdown. The increase would have embarrassed the government. Since there had been relaxation in billing as well during lockdown, distribution companies reduced subsidised units, which ultimately impacted the consumer. Technically, they are correct in saying that they did not increase tariff but fact is that consumer will certainly be burdened. This confusion stands even now,’’ said S K Nayyar, president, Citizen Welfare Association (CWA), an umbrella body of residents welfare associations in Panchkula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/power-tariff-order-issued-during-lockdown-confuses-consumers/articleshow/81250338.cms||Manvir Saini
February 28, 2021||Patna||Judiciary too plays role in controlling crime: Nitish||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday said while the government is responsible for establishing rule of law, the judiciary also plays an important role in controlling crime by delivering justice. The CM was addressing a function here to mark the inauguration of a new building of the Patna high court by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde. “Efforts were made by judges of Patna high court to conduct trials fast in districts under them. It resulted in large number of convictions. Subsequently, crime was controlled in the state. Speedy trial, therefore, should continue,” Nitish said. He added the government accepts the proposals sent by the high court. “I can assure all that the government will work in close coordination with the judiciary. Legislature can only enact laws. The judiciary, according to the Constitution, plays far more important role in controlling crime,” the CM added. The CM said 2,035 posts of subordinates and 1,033 of civil judges were created as per proposals. The CM urged CJI Bobde to visit Bihar whenever he gets a chance and see the developmental works done by the state government, including construction of Ashoka Convention Centre, Bapu Sabhagar and Bihar Museum. The CJI thanked Nitish for fulfilling requirements of Patna high court on priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/judiciary-too-plays-role-in-controlling-crime-nitish/articleshow/81249386.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Vaccination registration for co-morbid patients, seniors to start Monday||KOLKATA: The state government will provide Covid vaccines to private hospitals in the third phase, which begins Monday, for a price that the Centre has capped at Rs 250. The price includes Rs 100 as hospital user fee. Earlier in the day, a meeting was held at Nabanna on the modalities of the third phase rollout. The meeting was headed by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and joined online by private and government hospitals from across Bengal. Health secretary NS Nigam was also present. Recipients — the 60-plus population and those above 45 with co-morbidities — must register on the Co-WIN 2.0 app that will be available from Monday. A list of co-morbidities has been announced for the 45-plus recipients, which must be certified by a practising doctor and uploaded on the app. Each recipient must carry either Aadhaar card or PAN card as an age-proof. At government facilities, though, the vaccine will be free of cost and recipients can get registered on the spot. From Monday, private hospitals will join the vaccine drive. They have been asked to pay for the vaccine that must be procured from the state government sources — a practice which is being followed for phases I and II. “We are waiting to join the vaccination drive. The modalities of procuring the vials are being finalized. We will start the third phase immediately. We plan to add two more vaccination sites at our Dhakuria unit to the one each that we now have at Salt Lake and Mukundapur. We will extend our facilities to the maximum possible,” said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua. The registration process for private hospitals is simple. Once the Co-WIN 2.0 app is downloaded, the applicant will have to fill in a form and upload a ‘co-morbidity certificate’ in case he/she is between 45 and 59 years of age’. An OTP will be sent to the applicant, which will lead to a printable advisory note that must be carried to the vaccination site along with an age-proof. Four can get registered with a single mobile number and applicants can go to a private hospital of their choice irrespective of their place of residence. The list of co-morbidities announced includes heart failure, cancer, respiratory disease, coronary artery disease, kidney/liver/hematopoietic stem cell transfer and post-cardiac transplant, among other conditions. “Health department will formulate a strategy and SOP, taking into account ground realities. All procedural issues will be worked out by the state government in a day or two, as more clarity is achieved following discussion with the state government,” said the guidelines. It also mentioned that private hospitals that wish to join the exercise must apply mentioning their infrastructure. At least three rooms, trained vaccinators, presence of a medical officer, cold chain storage, a nodal officer, dedicated helpline number and emergency medical support are needed to qualify. “Phase 3 of the vaccination is indeed a very good move and we need to ramp it up at a brisk rate. It is a privilege for us to participate in this mission,” said RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) zonal director R Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vax-registration-for-co-morbid-patients-seniors-to-start-monday/articleshow/81249405.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Lack of clarity about RT-PCR reports leads to missed flights||KOLKATA: Scores of Kolkata-bound passengers from Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kochi missed their flights on Saturday for not carrying RT-PCR Covid negative reports that have been made mandatory by the state. The notification had been issued on Wednesday night in the wake of a surge in coronavirus cases in Maharashtra, Kerala and Telangana. People flying into Bengal from these four states will have to undergo a Covid-19 test within 72 hours before departure and furnish the negative report to board the flight. “We had sent texts to flyers from these four states that they would need to provide an RT-PCR report to board the flights. But still many had turned up without it. We have rescheduled most of them on dates by when they can get the tests done,” said an airline official in Kolkata. Airport officials said combining Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kochi, there were around 35 flights to Kolkata, all of which had multiple passengers who had to be stopped at the respective airports due to lack of test reports. There were no flights to Kolkata from Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur on Saturday, but passengers from these places will have to get RT-PCR reports before boarding from Monday. Flyers were confused, taking to social media to seek clarification. “We have flight from Bengaluru to Kolkata on 4th March. The airline and KIAL airport say no Covid report checking will be done at Bengaluru while the CCU airport contact says all checking has to be done during departure, not arrival. Kindly clarify. Does a 3-year-old child also need test?” asked Sumanta Roy, tagging Kolkata airport. The airport authorities posted multiple replies to clear the air. “Please note as per latest guidelines issued by state govt, RT-PCR negative report of test done within 72 hours before flight departure is mandatory for all passengers of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and Telangana coming to #KolkataAirport from noon of February 27, 2021. Checking of the report is to be done by the airline concerned at the departure airport. Also, state govt guidelines have not mentioned any exemption for infants,” AAI tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lack-of-clarity-about-rt-pcr-reports-leads-to-missed-flights/articleshow/81249355.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
February 28, 2021||Varanasi||Rajnath Singh attends adopted son’s wedding in UP||VARANASI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh attended the marriage ceremony of his adopted son Dr. Brijendra Singh and gave blessings to the newly-wed couple in Saidpur area of Ghazipur district on Saturday. The defence minister had adopted Brijendra in 2002 when he was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. Interestingly, most people were not aware about it before the marriage. Even the bride’s family was not aware about Brijendra’s relationship with the defence minister. Bride Preetika’s father Prem Chand is an employee of a rifle factory under the ministry of defence in West Bengal. Preetika did his post graduation and BEd from Kolkata University. While talking to reporters, the defence minister said that he had adopted two poor children when he was the chief minister. Brijendra is one of them, and he is working at a government hospital. To a query, he lauded the valour of the armed forces and said no one should doubt their capability and courage. “Every Indian is proud of the bravery of Indian armed forces. It is unfortunate that the opposition is raising questions even after the Chinese army moved back at the LAC,” said the defence minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/rajnath-attends-adopted-sons-wedding-in-saidpur/articleshow/81248921.cms||Binay Singh
February 28, 2021||Patna||Stop illicit liquor business: Congress to Bihar government||PATNA: Congress state incharge Bhakta Charan Das lashed out at the state government on Saturday over illegal liquor trade in Bihar and lawlessness. He said the government should take the responsibility and implement prohibition properly. Das was interacting with reporters on the last day of his second phase of ‘Kisan Andolan Yatra’ at Sadaquat Ashram here. Citing the example of murder of a police officer by liquor smuggler, Das said, “In initial phase, prohibition seemed to be beneficial and womenfolk also appreciated it. However, there is anarchy now. If the government has made a law, it should implement it,” he said. Das alleged law and order was also deteriorating in the state. “Living in Bihar has become difficult, but the JD(U) and BJP are busy only in saving the government,” he said. Das, who has so far covered 29 districts as part of his yatra, said the farmers and common people in Bihar have understood the negative aspects of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stop-illicit-liquor-biz-congress-to-bihar-govt/articleshow/81249460.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Vijayawada||Fertile delta land deteriorates as aquaculture expands||VIJAYAWADA: A study by Animal Equality indicates that fertile lands across the Krishna and Godavari delta region that are being converted into water bodies for fish and shrimp farming have shown an increasing degradation in quality. The study was conducted across the country between February 2019 to May 2020. In Andhra Pradesh, field work was conducted across Visakhapatnam, West Godavari and Krishna districts. According to government figures, in East Godavari alone, around 7,000 hectares of land is under brackish aquacultivation. However, experts believe the actual extent of cultivation may go up to 18,000 hectares. The study also points to a reduction in agricultural yield from the fertile delta region in the state due to prevailing aquaculture. “A typical one acre pond which is five-foot-deep would require over 6.05 million litres for a single filling. If rapid water replacement or flushing of the pond is to be practised, an additional 1.5 million litres per acre per year is needed,” the study reads. With the looming threat of climate change, the study goes on to state these rivers may dry up or change course in the near future and in such a scenario, the water table in the region would drastically fall, making aquaculture untenable. “The fish farms also accelerate the salinisation of the land and render them useless for cultivation for many decades,” the study warned. The report cites that an increase in aqua farming in Krishna and West Godavari in recent years has converted fertile lands into water bodies, resulting in increasing salination of the groundwater table. Government figures from the fisheries department indicate that there has been a three-fold increase in brackish water area from 2014 to 2017 from 20,000 to 56,094 hectares and if illegal cultivation is taken into account, this figure could increase up to one lakh hectares. The study further highlights “cruel and inhumane” methods in the fisheries sector, such as asphyxiation in air or ice, live chilling and gill-cutting without prior stunning. The report claims that antibiotics are fed to fish, shrimps and other aquatic species, resulting in health risks such as antimicrobial resistance and antibiotic resistance among consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fertile-delta-land-deteriorates-as-aquaculture-expands/articleshow/81248559.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
February 28, 2021||Patna||Take precautions against temperature surge, Covid-19: Doctors||PATNA: With many people falling sick due to a sudden rise in the city’s temperature, doctors have advised Patnaites to stay safe. Such a weather, they say, can worsen existing medical conditions, especially in children and elderly people. According to Paras HMRI regional director (east) Dr Talat Halim, Covid cases are also on the rise once again. “People should wear masks, use sanitisers and wash hands frequently,” he says. General physician Dr Diwakar Tejashwi also urges people to follow all Covid safety measures diligently. He adds, “Avoiding cold foods and drinks is a must because they can act as a catalyst and aggravate issues like runny nose, asthma attack, muscular pain, sinusitis, flu, and sore throat.” Meanwhile, people already struggling to cope with Covid-19 are more cautious in order to avoid the risk of catching any other infection. D K Arya, a resident of Hanuman Nagar, says, “I have sore throat for the past few days. It may be because of a sudden change in temperature, but as a precautionary measure, I will get a Covid test done.” A businessman, Brajesh Sinha, points out, “At a time when corona cases are increasing again, it is difficult to tell whether people are falling sick due to the changing temperature or Covid. It is, therefore, important to continue following Covid safety norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/take-precautions-against-temp-surge-covid-doctors/articleshow/81248697.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Vijayawada||Family attempts to end lives outside secretariat in Guntur||VIJAYAWADA: Tension prevailed after a family of four attempted to end their lives outside the secretariat in Velagapudi in Guntur district on Saturday. According to Thullur police, the incident happened in the morning at the car park. Police said the family got down from a vehicle, took out a petrol can and started dousing themselves, including their two children, in petrol. Security personnel at the secretariat rushed to the spot and tried to stop the suicide attempt. They immediately snatched the petrol can and took the family into custody and moved them to Thullur police station. Police said the suicide pact attempt was led by one Arigela Nagarjuna from Duttaluru village in Nellore district. Nagarjuna has alleged he was cheated of Rs 1 crore by Duttaluru mandal revenue officer (MRO) Chandrasekhar. In his grievance, Nagarjuna states that he paid Rs 1 crore as a bribe to Chandrasekhar on the promise that the MRO would register online his 33 acres of land. Nagarjuna also claimedthat Chandrasekhar took the amount but failed to fullfil the request. Police said they have referred the issue to the same MRO for rectification. They also said Nagarjuna’s grievance would be taken up with higher officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/family-attempts-to-end-lives-outside-secretariat/articleshow/81248531.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Patna||Bihar government procures 35 lakh tonnes of paddy from five lakh farmers||PATNA: The government has so far made record 35.59-lakh tonnes of kharif paddy procurement from nearly 5 lakh registered farmers through Primary Agriculture Credit Societies (PACS) during the 2020-21 season, as per the state cooperative department. The figure regarding actual production of kharif paddy this season would be available only in and around January next year. Paddy procured this season is roughly around 50% of the total production in the state. The percentage figure is based on actual production of kharif paddy during 2019-20, which was slightly over 69 lakh metric tonne, agriculture department sources said. Implicitly, most of the remaining 50% of kharif paddy produced in the 2021-22 season was sold to the traders in the open market outside the designated 6,470 PACS at distress prices, with a part of the total produce kept for the household consumption as rice. On the launch of paddy procurement drive on November 23 last year, the government maintained that the PACS would procure paddy from the farmers at the MSP rate of Rs 1,868 per quintal. On that count, the paddy sold in the open market was drastically below that rate. In fact, it was at around Rs 1,100-Rs 1,200 per quintal. While the two varieties of paddy cultivated in the state are kharif and ‘garma’, the amount of kharif paddy produced in 2019-20 was 69.53-lakh metric tonne compared to 68.02-lakh metric tonne in 2015-16. Obviously, the increase was marginal in the four kharif paddy seasons since 2015-16. The production of kharif paddy is likely to remain around 70 lakh metric tonne during the 2020-21 season, it is felt. The 35.59-lakh MT of paddy procured from the farmers would yield 23.85-lakh MT rice, which has to be routed through the public distribution system to ensure food security for the needy. While the government requires 33-lakh MT of rice, it will now have to purchase around 10-lakh MT of rice from outside the state through Food Corporation of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-procures-35l-tonnes-of-paddy-from-5l-farmers/articleshow/81248781.cms||Abhay Singh
February 28, 2021||India||2nd wave as seen abroad unlikely here: Projection||NEW DELHI: The current increase in Covid-19 infections may not lead to a second wave experienced by some nations as a mathematical model predicts cases ranging between 300,000 to 500,000 in the next 10 weeks. The model sees most cases in the first three weeks of March. It estimates over 57% of the population in India has already been exposed to Covid-19 virus. Though the scientists, working on this model, are waiting for confirmed data on recoveries, their preliminary findings indicate that India may get additional about 3-5 lakh of new confirmed cases by April. “The number is rising. So, we are naturally expecting a peak which will be there sometime in the middle of next month and then it’ll start coming down again. There won’t be a sharp peak which we had seen earlier. The peak will be a very small one,” Manindra Agrawal, deputy director at IIT Kanpur, told TOI on Saturday. Agrawal, who was involved with the national ‘super model’ initiative, said the infection among 57% of the population was “good enough” to avert a second wave kind of situation. In classical epidemiology, the phrase ‘herd immunity’ refers to the level of susceptible population at which the number of infections reaches its maximum. “We, however, need data of 10 more days to be able to properly do the approximation,” said Agrawal. The national ‘super model’ had in October predicted that the pandemic can be controlled by early 2021 with “minimal active symptomatic infections” in February, 2021. Agrawal said, “If you recall our presentation in October, we had predicted that it will be completely under control provided we continue to observe the same precautions (practices of masking, disinfecting, tracing, and quarantine).” “We had also shown an alternative scenario that if we stop observing precautions or if we do it half-way then what would happen. Very recently in February we are seeing further increase in contact rate,” said Agrawal in clear reference to a situation where Maharashtra has seen the rise after opening of local trains and Kerala has seen it due to further opening up and movement during recent festivals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2nd-wave-as-seen-abroad-unlikely-here-projection/articleshow/81251777.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Goa||Parrikar’s son, protege throw in their weight against Babush||PANAJI: Ahead of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) elections scheduled for March 20, a fierce turf war has broken out between Panaji MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate and former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s son Utpal and former MLA Sidharth Kuncalienkar. Monserrate was the first to get off the blocks with his panel of 30 candidates with full support from BJP. But with some of the aspiring candidates, who have been loyal to the party and Parrikar, losing out on the ticket, there is a growing murmur that Utpal and Kuncalienkar may support these contestants who are likely to stand as independents. “There are many aspiring candidates who have been denied ticket by Monserrate. They have approached me, and I have been meeting them,” Utpal told TOI. When asked specifically whether he will support some independent candidates in CCP elections, Utpal said: “I don’t want to say anything right now.” But Kuncalienkar, who lost the Panaji seat that Parrikar fiercely guarded for 25 years for BJP to Monserrate in the byelection, was more forthright. “They (chief minister Pramod Sawant and BJP state president Sadanand Tanavade) have clarified to me that the CCP elections are not fought on party lines or party panel. The party has told me that good people should get elected,” he said. As a citizen of Panaji, it is my right to support good candidates for my future and that of the city,” he said. Political observers said the underlying factor is that with Monserrate joining BJP, both Utpal and Kuncalienkar find themselves in wilderness. And with the party acquiescing to Monserrate’s demands and the assembly elections hardly a year away, BJP state unit may be sending a clear signal to both that the party may be willing to compromise on Parrikar’s legacy in Panaji. Interestingly, the heartburn seems to be more among the people who ditched BJP to support Monserrate during the byelection against Kuncalienkar and have now been denied a ticket to contest the CCP polls. Unhappy with the turn of events, these people have now grouped together and have Utpal and Kuncalienkar on their side. Sources said Utpal and Kuncalienkar may come out in the open against Monserrate once the entire process of filing nomination and withdrawal is over. “Both Utpal and Kuncalienkar are likely to campaign for those independent candidates and seek support for them,” another source said. BJP Mahila Morcha president Sheetal Dattaprasad Naik, other party members like Vaidehi Naik, Menino Da Cruz, Rekha Khande, Pundalik Dessai and husband-wife duo of Rupesh Harlarnkar and Aarti from Ribandar have been denied tickets by Monserrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parrikars-son-protege-throw-in-their-weight-against-babush/articleshow/81251235.cms||Murari Shetye
February 28, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: BJP national president JP Nadda to address party MPs, MLAs & workers on March 2||JAIPUR: BJP national president JP Nadda will address all his party MPs, MLAs, district presidents, district coordinators, municipal corporation mayor and deputy mayors on March 2. His schedule was finalised at a meeting between him and BJP state president Satish Poonia in Delhi on Saturday. Nadda will address them at BJP headquarters in Jaipur on the party’s future strategy in the state. The meeting is crucial for the party as the state is facing bypolls in March. “BJP chief would be giving a clear message to party workers that the entire party stands together amid rift between the factions of Poonia and former CM Vasundhara Raje,” said a source. He will meet the state leaders on bypolls in Sahara, Vallabhnagar, Rajsamand and Sujangarh. Nadda is taking a keen interest in the bypolls which is being termed as mid-term verdict on the ruling government. This is Nadda’s second meeting with state president Poonia who also raised the issue of parallel political activities by Raje. “It is learnt that Poonia had highlighted Raje’s religious yatra in Bharatpur on March 8,” said a source. Raje is starting a series of activities from March 8. She attended the core committee meeting on February 23 and the Budget session on 24. “For the first time, Nadda will be addressing all the leaders in person. He will deliver his address on the present political, social and financial scenario in the state and the country. Poonia also briefed him on the letter issued by 20 MLAs which sparked a major controversy in the party with the senior BJP leaders. “Poonia clarified that some MLAs signed the letter without knowing the content of it and only in good faith,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nadda-to-address-party-mps-mlas-workers-on-march-2/articleshow/81249263.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Pune||Pune: Eateries, vendors urge patrons to take parcels||PUNE: The footpath in front of Marz-o-rin and other eateries in Camp is often packed with patrons in the evenings. However, in view of new regulations to prevent the spread of Covid-19, a sign board has been put up warning customers not to eat on the roadside or they would be fined Rs500. “We have some seating area inside. Mostly groups of youngsters or families prefer to assemble together outside and eat. We discourage this as people have been fined for it. We tell all our customers not to to eat on the road outside our eatery, but it is not our responsibility if they still do it,” said a cashier at an ice cream parlour in Camp. While eateries have at least some space to offer their customers, street vendors are at a total loss. A momo stall owner on MG Road said, “I have been telling customers to take the parcel and eat at home. During the lockdown last year, street food vendors like me were banned. After many months, I could set up my stall again and I am worried that if customers flout social distancing and safety rules, we will be banned again.” Ashok Kadam, senior inspector of Cantonment police station, said, “Action has been taken against people not wearing a mask outside eateries and paan shops. In the last two days, 60 people have been fined Rs500 for flouting these rules.” According to additional municipal commissioner Suresh Jagtap, cooking is not allowed on the roadside, but there are no rules against selling food. “We have not been given any guidelines to ban street vendors as of now but it is imperative that they follow standard operating procedures and urge their customers to do so as well.” (With inputs from Asseem Shaikh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eateries-vendors-urge-patrons-to-take-parcels/articleshow/81250404.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Pune||Restaurants, malls & hotels report sizable drop in biz||Pune: The night-time restrictions imposed on restaurants and other outlets have wreaked havoc on the hospitality industry, which was only just beginning to recover from the financial setback caused by the coronavirus pandemic. Restaurants in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have reported losses to the tune of Rs5-7 crore since Sunday — when the restrictions were imposed — said sources from Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA). Hoteliers too said nearly 50-60% of the banquet bookings for weddings and other parties have been cancelled. Poona Hoteliers Association (PHA) said losses from banquet cancellations were likely to run into a couple of crores of rupees. “Around 50% of our customers come between 9pm and 1am on normal days. Now, many of those who would turn up at 10-10.30pm are not showing up,” Ganesh Shetty, president, PRAHA, said. The owner of a restaurant with three branches in the city said they saw a 20-30% drop in footfalls. “Customers are not turning up after 9.30-9.45pm. The family crowd too has dwindled in the evening — because of the 11pm deadline and Covid-19 fears,” he said. PHA President Sharan Shetty told TOI more than 50-60% of weddings and parties have been cancelled or indefinitely postponed. “Though the mall’s closing time is 10pm, night restrictions have already started affecting footfalls in the evenings — mostly for =food and beverages outlets,” Surjit Singh Rajpurohit, COO of Amanora Mall, siad. Swastik Sirsikar, founder-president of Association of Clubs in Pune said, “As per information from various clubs in Pune, there has been an almost 30% drop in footfalls at clubs in the past few days,” Sirsikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurants-malls-hotels-report-sizable-drop-in-biz/articleshow/81250387.cms||Neha Madaan
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Mini show: Five wards to go to polls today in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Over 2.4 lakh people will vote on Sunday in five municipal wards. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal campaigned for Aam Aadmi Party, while BJP had senior members like Bhupendra Yadav and North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari on the stump. With Congress also putting its weight behind its candidates, all parties are determined on a good show ahead of full municipal polls next year. The bypolls in Shalimar Bagh, Rohini-C, Trilokpuri, Kalyanpuri and Chauhan Bagar were necessitated by three sitting councillors being elected MLAs in February last year and the deaths of two incumbents. Four of the five seats were held by AAP and one by BJP. A total of 26 candidates are in the fray, including three from Bahujan Samaj Party and eight independents. The polling time is from 7.30am to 5.30pm, the last hour reserved for Covid-positive voters and those who register higher than normal body temperature during the screening at the 327 polling booths. Sandeep Mishra, secretary, Delhi State Election Commission, advised electors to wear masks and gloves. “Masks will be provided to those who come to the polling booths without them,” said Mishra. “The body temperature of the voters will be checked at all the booths, and Covid-appropriate behaviour will be enforced.” A pitched political battle peppered with allegations and counter-allegations marked the run-up to the byelections. While Kejriwal accused BJP of “putting the municipal corporations in a shambles”, BJP Rajya Sabha member Yadav claimed that “Kejriwal government’s way of functioning has stalled developmental activities in Delhi”. Congress’s Delhi in-charge, Shakti Singh Gohil, for his part, claimed that people were fed up with AAP and BJP and wanted Congress back. Delhi Congress chief Anil Kumar claimed the party would put up a spectacular performance in the five seats. The Shalimar Bagh ward of North Delhi Municipal Corporation fell vacant due to the death of the sitting councillor, Renu Jaju. Around 45,070 voters there will have the options of pressing the button on the EVM next to the names of Surbhi Jaju (BJP), Sunita Mishra (AAP) and Mamata (Congress), among others. The ward has a preponderance of Punjabi and trader communities. Jaju of BJP had won ward in 2017 polls with a margin of 3,367 votes. The second ward in the north corporation going to the polls is the Rohini C seat reserved for SC. The contenders there are Om Prakash (BSP), Memwati Barwala (Congress), Jai Prakash (BJP) and Ram Chander (AAP). The seat fell vacant when the sitting BSP councillor switched over to AAP and got elected as MLA in the 2020 assembly elections. In East Delhi, Trilokpuri, another SC reserved seat, will see Manoj Kumar (BSP), Om Prakash (BJP), Bal Kishan (Congress) and Vijay Kumar (AAP) vying for the ward, which mostly has JJ clusters and resettlement colonies. Traditionally a Congress stronghold, AAP candidate Rohit Mahrolia won in 2017 elections, but he vacated it after a victorious run in the 2020 assembly polls. Kalyanpuri and Chauhan Bagar wards are also likely to witness tough competitions. The elections are significant for all the three major parties. While AAP wants to oust BJP from power in the three corporations next year, BJP would like to retain power and Congress is desperate to make a comeback.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mini-show-5-wards-to-go-to-polls-today/articleshow/81250417.cms||Alok K N Mishra
February 28, 2021||Pune||Fertilizers gutted at PMC’s Katraj plant||Pune: A major fire gutted fertilizers stored in pits at the Pune Municipal Corporation’s fertilizer processing plant near the garbage depot in Katraj, around 5am on Saturday. The cause of the fire could not be established immediately. Three fire tenders and two water tankers from the Katraj, Kondhwa and Market Yard sub fire stations went to the spot and started dousing the fire after receiving information from the central fire brigade control room. PMC fire officer Subhash Jadhav told TOI, “The fire broke out in one of the pits filled with fertilizer. The blaze engulfed fertilizer stored in other pits, causing massive damage.” Jadhav said 25 firemen sprayed water on pits and gained control over the fire. The blaze also gutted several scrapped vehicles parked on the plant premises, he added. Sameer Dugane, PMC fertilizer processing plant director, told TOI, “Fertilizer generates heat, but we don’t know how the fire broke out because it had rained on Friday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fertilizers-gutted-at-pmcs-katraj-plant/articleshow/81250431.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Chennai||Trippy hippy happy holidays||CHENNAI: RV ready? You bet, says hotelier Steve Borgia, who will launch his motor homes mid-April. “I’ve been working on this for 40 years,” says the chairman and managing director of Indeco Leisure Hotels. “And it’s only now that it looks like caravan or recreational vehicle (RV) tourism finally has a chance to take off.” The hospitality and tourism industry, derailed by the pandemic, is trying every possible way to get back on track. And with fear of the virus still looming large, caravans, say industry insiders, may get the wheels turning. It was in November, when the lockdown rules eased, that Vinay Kota and family decided to take a three-day trip in a caravan down to Bheemeshwari in Karnataka. “I’ve always wanted to take my family on a road trip because I have seen so many photographs and videos of families in other countries going on holidays in their RVs. The pandemic, in a sense, gave me the opportunity to do just that,” says Vinay, who runs a jewellery store in Bengaluru. Earlier this month, Karuna Akurathi and her friends hired 'El Zorro' from the Trippy Wheels caravan company and trotted up to Chikmagalur. "It was comfortable and convenient. We had our privacy, didn't have to book hotel rooms. We stopped at waterfalls, we played card games as we travelled. It was a very different experience," says the 25-year-old who works with a software company in Bengaluru. Bengaluru-based Luxe Campers, from where Vinay hired his RV, launched during the pandemic with two campers and is planning to add self-drive caravans to its fleet. “Around 50% of our clients want to drive themselves,” says Sutiksha Ram, guest relations at Luxe Campers. While Borgia will launch his motor homes in Tamil Nadu, Chandrakanth R of the Goa-based Camper Trails will launch his caravans in October 2021. “Demand for motor homes has been picking up since November of last year. People like the idea of travelling in an environment where they can control the levels of sanitation and hygiene,” says Chandrakanth. The downside though, says M Arunachalam of Chennai-based Relax Caravans, is that infrastructure and government policies are not keeping pace with the caravan owner’s vision. “Roads are riddled with potholes and there are hardly any camping grounds. For instance for a camper van to go from TN to Karnataka it will cost a little over Rs 25,000 for a week,” says Arunachalam, who has been in the caravan business for 18 years. “Due to the pandemic, tourist bookings have declined. We get more bookings for seniors who want to travel to their hometowns but are nervous about taking a flight or for post-operative travel, where people want the comfort of their own private space,” he says. Some state governments though are taking the wheel in terms of promoting caravan tourism. Both the Karnataka government and the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation, for instance, have announced new policies that cover caravan and adventure tourism. The Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation is providing facilities for caravans to be parked at various tourist spots. Private players too are getting into creating caravan parks. Krishna Reddy of ‘Camping Ground’ in Mysore has a facility to park caravans and RVs. “We also provide facilities to discharge waste water, connect to electricity supply, refill on water and so on. We set this up in 2018 and get around 12 caravans driving through in a month,” says Reddy. Luxe Campers, which has tie-ups with Jungle Lodges, recently set up its own camp site in Sakhleshpur and is planning to set up more. “The camp sites run on solar power and have facilities to shower, eat, rest, and recharge the vehicle,” says Sutiksha. With campervans, says Borgia, the joy is in the journey. “Families can travel together without worry. They can take the elders along. They don’t have to leave their pets at home. Our motor homes are designed to be self-driven. So, there’s no one but the family and the road ahead. It’s a great way for the family to bond,” he says. “And it will help people truly discover the beauty of the country.” What are camper vans?They are fully equipped vehicles roughly the size of minibuses, and can accommodate from 4-8 people. Costs: While most campers pack in beds and a kitchenette, the larger ones come with restrooms. Prices can range from Rs 2,500 a day a person to more than Rs 20,000 a day per caravan. Some, like Chennai-based Relax Caravans, charge Rs 60 to Rs 75 a kilometer. The company Trippy Wheels in Bengaluru, with its 70s themed caravans, offers their RVs at Rs 4,000 a day but does not provide restroom facilities on board. At over Rs 20,000 Luxe Camper offers a more luxurious drive with every amenity on board including a fully stocked fridge and all meals served.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/trippy-hippy-happy-holidays/articleshow/81249290.cms||Kamini Mathai
February 28, 2021||Kolhapur||‘BJP won’t allow house to function’||Kolhapur: BJP state president Chandrakant Patil has warned that his party would not allow to state assembly to function if forest minister Sanjay Rathod did not resign. Talking to the media persons here, Patil said the BJP would not allow chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to speak in the House if he did not sack Rathod, whose name is being discussed in connection with the suicide case of Puja Chavan. “Why are Uddhav Thackeray and (Sharad) Pawar silent on the issue,” Patil asked, adding that six state ministers are facing serious allegations but no action has been taken against them. Patil demanded that NCP MP Supriya Sule and Shiv Sena MLC Neelam Gorhe should make their stand clear on the suicide case. Patil claimed that BJP leader Chitra Wagh’s husband was facing legal action because Chitra had raised her voice in the suicide case. “BJP workers would not succumb to this pressure,” he said. Patil said that BJP would take up issues like power bill waiver and corruption during Covid period. He also criticized the Thackeray government stating that it was not keen on reservation for Maratha community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bjp-wont-allow-house-to-function/articleshow/81248615.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Jaipur||Rs 90 crore GST evasion unearthed in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The central goods and services tax commissionerate Jaipur has officially confirmed to have arrested eight people in connection with evading tax to the tune of Rs 90 crore by releasing invoices worth Rs 3,300 crore. The evasion of GST is among the biggest in the state since the tax regime came into force in 2017. The operation was carried out against multiple non-existing, non-operating firms on February 22 and found that fake invoices of goods worth Rs 3,300 crore had been issued to evade tax of over Rs 90 crore. Officials had arrested seven people, including five proprietors - Rishi Raj Swami, Mahendra Mangal, Raj Kumar Sharma, Sunil Kumar and Lalit Goyal and two others - Arun Sharma and Harish Jain — in this connection on the same day while Keval Chand Jain was arrested February 25. “Several firms have been identified which are following the similar modus operandi and fraudulently issuing and receiving invoices for supply of goods,” said the official statement. Sharing the investigation details, the statement said that those arrested have admitted to their involvement in the creation of these non-existing firms for consideration. “A total of Rs 3,308 crore have been found to be issued without any supply of goods,” said the statement. The statement said that since November 2020, a special drive for apprehending firms and persons indulging in the generation of fake bills/invoices have been launched in which 11 people have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-90cr-gst-evasion-unearthed-in-city/articleshow/81249291.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Dehradun||Miffed with poor quality of roads in Haridwar, locals demand repair before Kumbh||HARIDWAR: Unhappy with the ‘dilapidated condition’ of city roads, Haridwar locals have asked the local administration to finish the repair works before the start of Kumbh Mela, starting on April 1. Also, the locals demand that a third party must conduct a test of the roads that were recently re-constructed and that its report must be made public. It is worth mentioning that several city roads were recently re-constructed in the wake of the Kumbh Mela. However, two roads recently caved in, raising concerns regarding the quality of works. “The quality of Kumbh works, especially the road related construction, is very poor. The surface of the road is breaking off in several places. This is the state when millions of pilgrims are expected to reach the place on the main bathing festivals. These substandard roads will hardly be able to hold the pressure. We have requested the government that a third party must conduct a test and its report be made public. If not, an inquiry should be set up,” Sunil Sethi, a local trader leader, told TOI. In a similar vein, Ram Kumar, employee leader, BHEL, told TOI, “The main road of the BHEL Township has been recently built with the Kumbh Mela budget but its quality is very poor. Anybody who lives in the BHEL area can tell that it is a waste of public money. Strict action should be taken in this matter.” However, the mela administration has claimed that roads are in good condition. Additional mela officer Harveer Singh told TOI, “The quality of Kumbh works is not being compromised. As far as the road cave-ins are concerned, there were other reasons behind the incidents.” Meanwhile, the district administration has formed a committee to look into the matter. DM Haridwar C Ravishankar told TOI, “We have set up a committee on this issue and have asked all departments to give a safety certificate. We will take action accordingly and send a report to the mela administration after completing the probe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/miffed-with-poor-quality-of-roads-in-haridwar-locals-demand-repair-before-kumbh/articleshow/81248616.cms||MS Nawaz
February 28, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand reports 81 new Covid cases, 1 death||DEHRADUN: With 81 new Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday, the coronavirus tally reached 96,949 in the state. One death was also reported in 24 hours which took the toll to 1,692. The active cases stood at 421 while the recovery rate stood at 96.38% with 29 recoveries reported in a day. Highest number of cases were reported from Doon (42), followed by Haridwar (29), Tehri Garhwal (5), Nainital (4) and US Nagar (1). The reports of 11,325 samples are pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-81-new-covid-cases-1-death/articleshow/81248628.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||Asiatic Society Book Bazar set to return||Kolkata: The Asiatic Society has been given permission to hold its popular Book Bazar. Last year, it could not be held because of the pandemic. This time the Society sought the permission of the ministry of culture to which it reports, to allow it to hold the sale of books at the beginning of March. Requests had been pouring into the Society for the sale from scholars who wait eagerly for this because very expensive publications are made available at half the price. The sale has been scheduled from March 2 to March 8 at the Society’s 236-year-old Vidyasagar Hall, where special arrangements have been made to maintain social distancing. “This time we have cleared up five times the space we used to organise the fair. We will have the fair not only on the ground floor like earlier but also the first floor seminar halls and passages,” said historian Ramkrishna Chatterjee, who is the publications secretary of the Society. Classics like Ain-i-Akbari will be given away at Rs 1,800 and Akbar Nama for Rs 1,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/asiatic-society-book-bazar-set-to-return/articleshow/81249306.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 28, 2021||Jaipur||Plying of electric buses on Jaipur-Delhi route delayed||JAIPUR: The electric buses which were supposed to start on the Jaipur-Delhi route earlier this month have been delayed though officials claim that they do have the infrastructure in place including charging point at Behror.  However, the ongoing farmers' protest has put brakes on the initiative. The state government had planned on plying 48 electric buses, the trial of which was held nearly two years ago but it is yet to become a reality. The buses will ply from Jaipur to Bikaner House in Delhi. Two years ago in April, the state transport department officials had taken a test ride of approximately 30km in an electric bus. According to officials, 50 electric buses have been approved by Centre’s Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles (FAME 2) scheme. Rajasthan, however, will not be purchasing these vehicles but tenders were floated to get them on rental basis. Pratapsingh Khachariyawas, state transport minister, said, "we are going to revive Bikaner House and since diesel vehicles have been stopped in Delhi, we are looking at electric buses which will soon run on the roads". "Essentially, the company which has taken the tender is responsible for taking care of the charging points and maintenance, etc.," said an official. These buses will run for about 4 billion km during their contract period and are expected to save nearly 1.2 billion litres of fuel cumulatively, which will result in avoidance of 2.6 million tonnes of CO2 emission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/plying-of-electric-buses-on-jaipur-delhi-route-delayed/articleshow/81249305.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Pune||Blaze destroys seized vehicles at police HQ||Pune: Around 50 vehicles, seized by police stations across the city, were gutted in a fire that broke out late on Saturday afternoon at a stone quarry located at the Shivajinagar police headquarters. Fire brigade personnel and policemen from Shivajinagar and Deccan Traffic division rushed to the spot. Two fire tenders were pressed into service to extinguish the fire. It took about 45 minutes for fire brigade personnel to douse the fire. Priyanka Narnaware, deputy commissioner of police (Zone I), said, “About 15 to 20 two-wheelers and about 20 four-wheelers, apart from a few three-wheelers and a heavy-duty earthmover, were gutted in the fire.” “ Prima facie, it is suspected that some spark in the battery of one of the vehicles triggered the fire,” Narnaware said. She said, “These vehicles were seized by the police in connection with various crimes and kept in the open area of the headquarters”. Vikram Goud, inspector, Shivajinagar police station, said, “We will prepare a detailed panchnama of these damaged vehicles and submit it in court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/blaze-destroys-seized-vehicles-at-police-hq/articleshow/81250435.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Pune||1,801 fined for no face covers||Pune: The police on Saturday fined 1,801 people across the district for not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms. Local bodies collected Rs6.65 lakh in fines; the Pune police penalized 820 persons and collected Rs48,800; the Pimpri Chinchwad police fined 159 and collected Rs79,500; and the rural police recovered Rs1.76 lakh from 882 people. Police also fined 33 businesses in rural areas, collecting over Rs18,000.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1801-fined-for-no-face-covers/articleshow/81250461.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Pune||Speeding tanker runs over biker||Pune: A 60-year-old man riding a motorcycle died after a speeding tanker rammed his vehicle on Friday afternoon. The accident occurred on a bridge on the Katraj-Kondhwa bypass around 2pm on Friday. The deceased — Pisoli resident Ramshiromani Mishra — was not wearing a helmet. The Bharati Vidyapeeth police have arrested the tanker’s driver, Anil Gopinath Rajpankhe (32) of Navi Mumbai. “Mishra was on his way home from Vadgaon Budruk, when Rajpankhe lost control of the vehicle and hit his motorcycle from behind,” policeman Mohan Deshmukh, investigating the incident, said on Saturday. Mishra fell from the bike and came under the truck’s wheels. He was taken to Sassoon hospital, where he was declared dead. The hospital stated in the advance postmortem report that Mishra died of multiple injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/speeding-tanker-runs-over-biker/articleshow/81250454.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||PVNR legacy looms large in high stake political battle||Hyderabad: The graduates MLC constituency elections are a fortnight away and focus is back on former prime minister, ‘Telangana bidda’ PV Narasimha Rao and his legacy. While the three main players -- TRS, BJP and Congress -- in the state political arena are going all out to stake a claim to PV’s legacy, what made the battle interesting is TRS supremo K Chandrasekhar Rao’s bid to appropriate PV’s legacy by fielding the latter’s daughter Surabhi Vani Devi from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituency for the March 14 polls. KCR came to power in 2014 on the plank of Telangana sentiment. In 2018, he invoked Telangana sentiment again to thwart the entry of then AP chief minister and TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu on the political turf of Telangana and won the election. Yet again, KCR is invoking Telangana sentiment by honouring PV, who KCR calls ‘Telangana bidda’ (child). But, what is prompting the leaders cutting across party lines to remember the veteran Congress leader and crown him as their own? With (Narendra) Modi government at the Centre deciding to construct a memorial for PV in Delhi, TRS government in the state organising year-long celebrations to mark PV’s 100th birth anniversary and Telangana assembly passing a resolution urging the Centre to confer Bharat Ratna on PV, Congress has little option but to fall in line and openly own PV as its tall leader and announce year-long centenary celebrations of the late leader. Former Kakatiya University professor B Sanjeeva Reddy says the attempts to usurp PV’s legacy are primarily aimed at making electoral gains. “The TRS and BJP have no love lost for PV and his legacy. It is not only to derive political mileage but also to further delegitimise the Congress party of PV’s legacy,” he said. Amid so much brouhaha on the attempts of the TRS to bolster its claims on the former PM’s legacy, it is a fact that PV was among the rare genre of leaders who rose to the position of the PM from a family other than Nehru-Gandhi lineage and from a non-Hindi speaking state. Right from ushering in land reforms in the state to steering India through the 1991 economic crisis, starting India’s Look East policy, reviving India’s nuclear programme to establishing diplomatic relations with Israel, completing a tenure with a minority government, defeating the 1994 United Nations resolution against India to handling effectively the insurgency in Punjab and taking a tough stand against terrorism in Kashmir, PV had indeed left an indelible impression on Indian polity. TRS MP and PVN Rao birth centenary celebrations committee chairman K Keshava Rao says modern India owes much to PV. “He is the pride of the nation and a jewel of Telangana. Unfortunately, he was one of the most underrated prime ministers this country has seen despite his great achievements,” he said. ‘Was like any other father' A reformer, educationist, scholar, conversant in several languages and a man known for his intellectual wisdom, PV was called the ‘Brihaspati’ (wiseman) of Andhra Pradesh. “He was absolutely simple like any other father at home. My father was a writer, poet and could speak several languages. His visitors included an elite group of artistes,” Vani Devi recalls. Political analysts said KCR had initially raised PV’s ‘humiliation’ by Gandhi family to corner the Congress, but now his choice of PV's daughter for the MLC seat is mainly to target Brahmin community votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvnr-legacy-looms-large-in-high-stake-political-battle/articleshow/81250503.cms||Roushan Ali
February 28, 2021||Pune||31-year-old arrested for hiding first marriage from second wife||Pune: The Yerawada police on Friday night arrested a 31-year-old man from Mundhwa for concealing information about his first marriage from his second wife since December 2018.A magisterial court on Saturday sent him in police custody remand till March 2. Yunus Shaikh, senior inspector, Yerawada police, said, “We have arrested the man for criminal breach of trust and cheating under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/31-year-old-arrested-for-hiding-first-marriage-from-second-wife/articleshow/81250474.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Varanasi||PM Narendra Modi: Make eco-friendly toys, boost share in global market||VARANASI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi exhorted toy manufacturers to make eco-friendly toys to increase the share of domestic industry in the global market and assured all possible assistance for the development and promotion of wooden toys made in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi. Inaugurating the four-day India Toy Fair 2021 through video conferencing on Saturday, PM Modi said, “We have to become ‘Aatmanirbhar’ in the toy sector and also cater to the global market.” India has a very small share in the $100 billion global toy market, and there is a need to change this situation, Modi said. “In the field of toys, India has tradition and technology, India has concepts and competence. We can take the world back towards eco-friendly toys,” the PM added. The PM also interacted with toy makers, including national award winner Rameshwar Singh of Kashmiriganj Khojwa area in Varanasi. “The PM stressed on the need to innovate and make toys keeping the changing taste of children in mind. He assured all help for the development and promotion of Varanasi’s wooden toys. He enquired about my work and if there were any innovations. I told him that I am making electronic wooden toys,” Singh told TOI. The PM also suggested making a ‘gudiya’ (doll) wearing a mask to spread Covid-19 awareness, Singh said. More than 1,000 exhibitors from across the country are taking part in the fair being held from February 27 to March 2. The toy artisans of Varanasi had reached the office of divisional commissioner to attend the virtual programme. Before interacting with Singh, the PM raised the slogan ‘Har Har Mahadev’. This fair is a platform to discuss design, innovation, technology, marketing and packaging and brings together all stakeholders to encourage dialogue for development of the industry, Modi added. The government and toy industry will discuss how India can be made the next global hub for manufacturing and sourcing of toys by attracting investments and promoting exports. Handicraft promotion officer Vishal Verma said 15 artisans from the Varanasi cluster are taking part in the toy fair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-make-eco-friendly-toys-boost-share-in-global-market/articleshow/81248937.cms||Binay Singh
February 28, 2021||Dehradun||Half-Merino, half-Rambouillet sheep kick up a storm in U’khand, SIT probe sought||Dehradun: Over a month after BJP’s Maneka Gandhi had alleged a “Rs 3,000 crore” scam in the Uttarakhand Sheep and Wool Development Board, the state’s animal husbandry minister Rekha Arya has sought an SIT probe into the case. But among the several charges of misappropriation of funds levelled against the board’s CEO Avinash Anand is one that it could have long-term ramifications for the gene pool of sheep reared in the state and wool trade from the cross-breeding of French Rambouillet and Australian Merino sheep. On Saturday, Anand told TOI, "The matter has reached a higher level, therefore, I cannot comment on it.” “The state already had Rambouillet sheep (from France). Without any scientific investigation, male Australia Merino sheep have been imported (under the National Livestock Mission). The two have now been cross-bred. How would these cross-bred sheep be categorised?” Arya wrote in a letter to chief secretary Om Prakash on Thursday. “The project involved a lot of money. The prestige of the state is at stake,” she added. The wool from Merino has a distinct crimp (waviness) and a long staple (cluster of fibres). Rambouillet wool, on the other hand, has more crimps per inch but a shorter staple. Both, however, are considered fine grade in the wool trade. But the wool from cross-bred sheep is called “half-blood”, is coarser and does not command the high value that fine grade does. So, the introduction of cross-bred sheep on Uttarakhand’s farms would mean two things — right now, the state will have at hand a variety of wool which won’t yield high-value trade and, over time, both breeds in the state could be under threat. But how is this a scam? Gandhi had earlier alleged that the introduction of Australian sheep into the state was meant to generate employment under the National Livestock Mission. Anand, she had added, was supposed to have bought young sheep for breeding but acquired older sheep instead “who were destined for slaughter, again with personal gratification from the seller.” Other charges against Anand include irregularities in the purchase of fodder for sheep and goats in Uttarkashi and Pithoragarh, appointment of officers on the board without creating new posts and a consultant who is paid Rs 2.5 lakh a month — “more than the salary of the chief secretary”, and acquiring property and luxury cars with money “appropriated” from a Rs 3,000-crore World Bank loan. The minister’s letter, meanwhile, comes nearly seven months after the Union minister of animal husbandry Giriraj Singh had flagged these allegations “by an anonymous well-wisher of the government.” Asked why it took so long to act on it, Arya’s official spokesperson Tushar Garg told TOI, “The communication may have reached late. The SIT probe has been ordered because the matter is related to several allegations, not just one.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/half-merino-half-rambouillet-sheep-kick-up-a-storm-in-ukhand-sit-probe-sought/articleshow/81248641.cms||Shivani Azad
February 28, 2021||Pune||Cops bust fake masala racket||Pune: The Sinhagad Road police raided a godown-cum-workshop in Vadgaon Budruk and seized spurious packets of a popular brand of chicken and mutton masala on Friday afternoon. Police registered a case of cheating and invoked the copyright act against the godown and workshop owner. The police said they would probe the case ansd arrest the workshop owner soon. According to a complaint, the suspect was manufacturing the masala and was packing it in plastic packets (similarly coloured) with the name and logo of the prominent company.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-bust-fake-masala-racket/articleshow/81250501.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kanpur||Kanpur: Hotel operator beaten to death in Cooperganj||KANPUR: A 32-year old hotel operator succumbed to his injuries after he was allegedly attacked with iron rod by a group of employees working in a neighbouring hotel in Cooperganj area under the limits of Collectorganj station on Friday night. Panic prevailed in the area following the incident. Police rushed to the spot but by then assailants managed to flee. The deceased was identified as Aman Bajpai, a resident of Naughara in Badshahi Naka area, who worked at Prince Hotel . He is survived by his wife Alpana and a four-year-old daughter. Lalit Verma, an employee of the hotel, also sustained critical injuries in the attack. The manager and the employees of the hotel alleged Aman had gone to the Ghantaghar area to purchase eggs on Friday night. “When he returned to the hotel, a group of employees of neighbouring Luxury-Inn Hotel entered into a scuffle with him over business rivalry. They later caught him and attacked him with iron rods and sticks after a quarrel,” said police. Aman fought back for some time, but fell unconscious due to bleeding. One other employee of his hotel too suffered critical injuries. They were taken to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital, where doctors declared Aman dead, while stated the condition of other employee to be stable. Following a complaint,a case under relevant sections including 302 (murder) of IPC was registered at Collectorganj police station. “As of now, plice have detained eight persons and their questioning is underway. Prima facie it appears that the murder was fallout of business rivalry. Searches have been intensified to arrest the accused named in the FIR,” SSP/DIG Preetinder Singh told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/hotel-operator-beaten-to-death-in-cooperganj/articleshow/81248975.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Pune||Autorickshaw driver kills spouse, hangs self in Pune||PUNE: An autorickshaw driver killed his wife with an axe and then hanged himself from the ceiling with a saree in their house at Mangdewadi, near Katraj, on Saturday morning. The Bharati Vidyapeeth police identified the deceased woman as Anita Tukaram Kore (32) and her husband as Tukaram Gangadhar Kore (40). Jagannath Kalaskar, senior police inspector, Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, said, “We found the autorickshaw driver hanging from the ceiling with a saree. An axe was found inside the house.” “Anita and Tukaram got married about nine years ago,” Kalaskar said. Tukaram’s first wife, Jagdevi, lodged a complaint with the police . “The deceased Anita and complainant Jagdevi are sisters. Jagdevi, too, stays in the same house. Police have registered a case of murder against Tukaram. Tukaram first killed his wife in a fit of rage following an argument and then hanged himself from the ceiling,” the senior police inspector said. According to Jagdevi, the couple used to fight regularly over the last few months. Tukaram suspected his wife of infidelity. “The incident came to light in the morning when Jagdevi woke up and went to the other room,” Kalaskar said. Tukaram was an autorickshaw driver, while Anita used to work as a housekeeping staff at a private hospital at Dhankawadi, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/autorickshaw-driver-kills-spouse-hangs-self/articleshow/81250496.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Pune||PhD scholar’s body found on Pashan hill||Pune: A PhD student (30) from the National Chemical Laboratory, Pashan, was found murdered on Pashan hill on Saturday morning. The Chatushrungi police said the student, Sudarshan (alias Balya) Baburao Pandit, was brutally assaulted with a heavy object and suffered injuries on his head and neck. They estimated the incident occurred during the night intervening Friday and Saturday. The unidentified assailants stripped the body and left it in a trench on the hill. Pandit, who lived in Sutarwadi, did go home on Friday night, police said. His cousin lodged a police complaint on Saturday. Morning walkers on the hill found Pandit’s body and called the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/phd-scholars-body-found-on-pashan-hill/articleshow/81250533.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Over 7 lakh take holy dip during Maghi Purnima snan at Sangam||PRAYAGRAJ: Lakhs of devotees, from different parts of the state and the country apart from locals, took a holy dip in the Sangam on the fifth and second last bathing festival of Maghi Purnima, on Saturday. The bathing which commenced at 2.53 pm on Friday continued till Saturday evening despite the auspicious time ending at 1.52pm on Saturday. Around 5 lakh devotees had taken the holy dip by around 12 noon and the numbers swelled to 6.5 lakh by 4pm. A total of 7 lakh devotees had taken a dip by 6pm, according to the mela administration. As the pilgrims took the dip in the holy waters, flower petals were also sprinkled on them from a helicopter on special instructions of the state government to mark the auspicious occasion. Prayagraj district magistrate Bhanu Chand Goswami accompanied by senior administrative and police officials including IG KP Singh, DIG Sarvshreshth Tripathi and SP Mela Rajiv Narayan Mishra monitored the proceedings of the bathing which passed off peacefully without any untoward incident. Elaborate security arrangements were also made in light of the snan. A bomb disposal squad and other teams carried out a checking drive at Sangam, pontoon bridges, parking places and different ghats. Dog squads were also pressed into service to spot suspicious persons and objects. The police personnel were under strict instructions to ensure the smooth movement of pilgrims in the mela area and their exit points. They were also directed to manage traffic in the city to avoid any snarls, informed IG KP Singh. The IG said a vigil was also kept on the mela area through CCTV and drone cameras. “Security personnel remained deployed at all strategic points in Mela area,” he added. As per Magh Mela officer, mela adhikari Vivek Chaturvedi, the bathing passed off smoothly and with each passing hour the count of devotees taking the holy dip swelled. Chaturvedi said with the end of Kalpwas, a large number of pilgrims started their journey back home on Saturday evening. Special arrangements were made by UPSRTC for ferrying the people leaving the mela after the bathing. Many of the seers and saints too started leaving the mela area with most already in preparations to head to Haridwar Kumbh set to kick-start with the bathing festival of Maha Shivratri on March 11. Given a large number of devotees returning home, the district administration had put into effect a 62-hour route diversion beginning from Friday morning onwards. The route diversion would end at 12 midnight on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/over-7-lakh-take-holy-dip-during-maghi-purnima-snan-at-sangam/articleshow/81248964.cms||Rajeev Mani
February 28, 2021||Varanasi||Union min, PGV, Akhilesh offer prayers at Seer Goverdhanpur||Varanasi: The 644th birth anniversary of Sant Ravidas on Saturday saw Union oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav visiting Seer Goverdhanpur to offer prayers to the saint. The celebrations had been toned down due to Covid protocol, but that did not deter political leaders from making a beeline to the temple at the birthplace of Sant Ravidas, who has a large following among dalits. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan was the first to reach Ravidas temple with BJP leaders to offer prayers. He also sat at the feet of Shri Guru Ravidas Janmasthal Charitable Trust’s chairman and head of All India Ravidasiya Dharm, Sant Niranjan Das, to seek his blessings. “I delivered the message of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Sant Niranjan Das after seeking his blessings. The PM’s work and efforts for making India self-reliant are inspired by Sant Ravidas,” Pradhan said. He also visited shoemaker Lal Bahadur’s shop in Andhrapul area and tweeted, “Highly skilled in his craft, Lal Bahadur ji from the Ravidas community has been handcrafting comfortable, high-quality & genuine leather footwear for the last 40 years.” Priyanka and Akhilesh also reached the Ravidas temple and offered prayers besides meeting Sant Niranjan Das and took prasad at langar. Priyanka said the philosophy of Sant Ravidas teaches us to love, live together and serve each other which is the real dharma. There is no discrimination on the basis of caste and community. “When the Covid crisis started and large-scale migration began with lockdown we opened community kitchens and got support from Ravidasia fraternity,” she added. In his address at Ravidas temple, Akhilesh said his party is pledged to carry forward the philosophy of Sant Ravidas who was a great social reformer, revolutionary and independent thinker who strongly opposed social evils. “The teachings of Sant Ravidas say serving humanity is the real dharma,” he added. Apart from politicians, thousands of followers of Sant Ravidas thronged the temple, offered prayers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/union-min-pgv-akhilesh-offer-prayers-at-seer-goverdhanpur/articleshow/81248952.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||Kol motorists score high in driving behaviour study||Kolkata: More drivers in Kolkata adhere to traffic rules than any other metro, a survey of driving behaviour by a leading automaker has revealed. According to the road safety survey carried out by Ford India, motorists in Kolkata have high awareness of traffic rules with over one in five displaying the characteristics of an ideal driver who is not just law abiding and self aware but also does not break rules unless there is an emergency or a ‘compulsion beyond control’. The city’s motorists scored higher than those in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad on several compliance factors. More motorists here park their vehicles on authorised parking lots only; use indicators while changing lanes; comply by traffic lights and use a dipper at night. The city with the next best scores on these driver behaviours was Chennai. City motorists also exercised more caution and scored high in maintaining safe distance from the vehicle ahead; are more careful when the car ahead has a ‘baby on board’ sign; drive on low beam in city roads; and are careful when opening the car door. On the compassion count, too, motorists in Kolkata scored high. They take care not to block another vehicle while parking; and readily help another motorist when he or she is stuck in the middle of the road. However, on a rainy day, a motorist in Chennai is more likely to extend help than a Kolkatan would. According to the survey, motorists here don’t honk near hospitals or schools and ensure that their vehicle is not emitting too much smoke. However, motorists in Kolkata are the ones to talk on the phone while driving. They also tend to drink and drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-motorists-score-high-in-driving-behaviour-study/articleshow/81249347.cms||Subhro Niyogi
February 28, 2021||Pune||Worker held with 2kg marijuana||Pune: The police nabbed a worker and seized 2kg marijuana, worth Rs50,000, from his possession during the wee hours of Saturday. The police have also seized a scooter, worth Rs50,000, from his possession. Tapas Ranjan Giri (32), a resident of Medankarwadi near Chakan, was riding the scooter when a police team intercepted his vehicle. The police checked the storage compartment in the scooter and found the marijuana. An officer from the Chakan police station said, “Giri works in a company in Chakan MIDC. He stays in the area on rent. He had packed the marijuana among leaves, flowers and some seeds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/worker-held-with-2kg-marijuana/articleshow/81250510.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Pune||Students, teachers want SPPU to announce exam timetable||PUNE: A group of students and teachers from the Savitribai Phule Pune University have opposed the demand made by another group to postpone the first-semester theory examinations and club them with the second semester. They want the university to maintain the regular semester pattern. The students also want the university to declare the timetable for the first-semester examination at the earliest so that they could prepare for them accordingly. “We do not want any change in the exam pattern as suggested by another group of students and teachers. Conducting the Semester I and II examinations together will put a lot of pressure on students, as the syllabus is vast for each semester. But, we want the university to declare the schedule at the earliest, so we can start preparing for the exams,” a law student said. The university had previously announced that its examinations would start from March 20 for theory papers, while practical examinations for the first semester would be conducted with the practical examinations for the second semester. Shamkant Deshmukh, senate member of the university, also said it would be in the best interest of the students if the examinations were held as per the regular schedule. “It will put a lot of pressure on students. Moreover, the semester-pattern helps students in clearing a subject in the second semester, if they fail it in the first one,” Deshmukh said. Mahesh Kakade, the director of examination and evaluation, did not respond to calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pupils-teachers-want-sppu-to-announce-exam-timetable/articleshow/81255363.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 28, 2021||Chennai||Madras University to reserve seat for transsexuals||CHENNAI: University of Madras has decided to reserve a seat for transsexuals in all departments from 2021-22. The seat will be over and above the allotted strength of each department. At its academic council meeting held on Saturday, the university also passed a resolution to reserve a seat for differently abled people, sportspersons, wards of ex-servicemen and Tamil students of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. This seat will also be supernumerary (over and above the sanctioned strength). Officials from the university said the Syndicate had already given its approval for the decision to reserve two seats in every department for these two categories. It is only a routine procedure to get the approval of academic council. At the meeting chaired by vice-chancellor S Gowri, the academic council also gave its permission to institute new diploma courses in management, marketing management, financial management, human resource management, systems management, logistics and supply chain management and hospital management to enhance the job opportunities of present undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) students. Present students can study these courses in distance or online mode while pursuing their UG and PG degrees. The academic council also gave its nod to institute two new PG degree programmes in online mode from next academic year. “It is only the first step in getting the approval for the courses. We have to apply to the UGC for getting approval. Then only we can offer these programmes from 2021-22,” an official said. The name Institute of Distance Education (IDE) has been changed into Institute of Distance and Online Education. The institute, which currently offers 35 UG and PG degree programmes in various disciplines, will from the 2021-22 academic year offer online degree programmes. The university also plans to offer certificate courses in Carnatic music, voice training, management and written Tamil. Further, the university and DTH, SWAYAM IIT-M have started preparing video lectures of ancient Tamil literary text ‘Tholkappiyam’. The videos of the lectures will be telecast on the Swayam Prabha channel. The council also adopted resolutions to change English courses names in first semester as Communicative English-I (part-II) and the professional English courses as English for Arts and Social Sciences - I, English for Commerce and Management-I, English for Physical Sciences - I, English for Life Sciences - I.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madras-univ-to-reserve-seat-for-transsexuals/articleshow/81249310.cms||A Ragu Raman
February 28, 2021||Pune||Fewer seats available for admission under RTE in Pune||PUNE: The number of schools registered under the Right to Education Act’s 25% reserved quota scheme has increased this year but the number of such seats available for admissions has decreased. In 2020-21, as many as 9,331 schools registered with a vacancy of 1,15,460 seats. However, this year, 9,431 schools have registered but the number of available seats has reduced to 96,801. The trend is similar in Pune district, where 972 schools with 16,949 vacancies were available in 2020-21 as compared to 985 schools and 14,741 seats this year. Admissions are slated to begin on March 3. Dattatray Jagtap, director of primary education in the state, said that the department too is looking into the reason for fewer seats despite higher school registrations. “There are reports that bigger schools have stayed away from registering under the scheme and we need to find out how and why this has happened. Secondly, some schools may have reduced their total strength this year due to Covid-19,” explained Jagtap. Jagtap further said that they are also investigating if some schools have registered their pre-primary classes, which have a lesser intake, instead of Std I, which usually has a higher intake. “School administrations feel that if they register the pre-primary classes, then they have to accommodate fewer students under RTE’s free education scheme and the same number would carry forward giving them more seats for admission of regular students in Std I,” added Jagtap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fewer-seats-available-for-admission-under-rte/articleshow/81250562.cms||Ardhra Nair
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||‘Centre’s social media rules are dictatorial’||Minister of State for IT, Satej Patil on Saturday opposed the central government's regulations for social media platforms and over-the-top players, terming them as ‘dictatorial’ and a ‘threat’ to democracy. Patil also said these regulations need to be opposed as they infringe the privacy of individualsand free speech given by the Constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centres-social-media-rules-are-dictatorial/articleshow/81250565.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Goa||A new hope for Goa’s bleached corals||PANAJI: A unique coral transplantation project to save corals in Goa’s marine biodiversity hotspot of Grande island offers a new lease of life to the reefs hit by the impact of prolonged global warming. The coral beds off Mormugao coast were severely bleached due to global warming between 2014 and 2017. With 28 species of corals and 100+ fish species, the islands are among very few dive sites on the west coast, where scuba diving and snorkelling are a major draw for tourists, greatly enhancing the state’s tourism profile. “The bleaching occurred since April, when sea temperatures increased drastically. The corals were healthy before that,” said Venkat Charloo, founder trustee of Coastal Impact, a voluntary organization involved in marine conservation, education and research. A study by NIO scholar Afreen Hussain had assessed 50% bleaching near the island during 2014-17. “The effect of warm temperatures was most severe in Porites corals and least in Foliose Turbinaria Mesenterina,” the report stated. Charloo said that a recent bleaching episode impacted almost 80% of all corals. The tragic loss prompted him to start transplantation of the corals for conservation, with the blessing of state forest department and funding from The Habitats Trust in January 2020. “Broken but still alive, coral fragments were cut and affixed on ceramic tiles with the help a special epoxy compound. The tiles were then cable-tied to metal frame beds” said Charloo, who headed the project. Of the two initial beds transplanted in May 2020, one was damaged by a strong surge due to the monsoon. The other site was found more suitable, and all subsequent transplantation was carried out at this spot. It was completed in December, 2020 but monitoring of the corals will take years. Microfragmentation technique — the method used for conservation — has proved effective and produced the fastest growth rates. “So far more than a million coral fragments have been transplanted worldwide,” Charloo said. The 192 fragments are being adopted by nature lovers and the funds will be used to transplant more fragments in 2021. Baban Ingole, a reputed fisheries scientist, said that the government should support such initiatives. “It is certainly required and appropriate, as it will help combat climate change and increase the coral coverage, providing additional habitat for fishes,” Ingole said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-new-hope-for-goas-bleached-corals/articleshow/81251694.cms||Paul Fernandes
February 28, 2021||Goa||Delta Corp readying Rs 150 crore vessel to replace Caravela||PANAJI: Delta Corp continues to bet big on Goa’s casino industry and plans to invest Rs 150 crore to build a new casino vessel which will be anchored in Mandovi by mid-2022. The vessel, being built by Waterways Shipyard, will replace the existing Deltin Caravela vessel, Delta Corp chief financial officer Hardik Dhebar said. Dhebar said that the Delta Group, which operates casinos under the Deltin brand, is finalising plans for the integrated resort at Pernem which will include electronic casinos, themed hotels, water parks and theatres. The resort will be developed on 100 acres of land close to the under construction airport at Mopa and is likely to take nearly five years to complete with Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,500 crore being invested into the project. The company’s plans prove that despite the pandemic and the criticism against casinos in Goa, the future remains bright for the land as well as off-shore casino industry. “We are trying to make the best of both worlds,” Dhebar said while referring to the firm’s investments into off-shore and on-shore assets. “We are going to invest in the hope that in the four to five years that it will take us to build the integrated electronic casino, the government will change the policy and the law and permit live gaming on-shore,” Dhebar said at an investor conference earlier this month. Delta Corp, through its subsidiary, Delta Pleasure Cruise Company has a 45% stake in Waterways Shipyard, where the new vessel is being built. Waterways Shipyard, which has yards in Udupi and at Chicalim, built Delta Corp’s first vessel the Royale, which is now known as the Deltin Jaqk. “We have three licences and one of our vessels is a very small boat called the Deltin Caravela, which is what we are looking to upgrade to a larger vessel. We started building that vessel some time ago and we believe that in the next 12-18 months, we should have a brand new vessel indigenously built in the river,” the CFO said. The firm, which is helmed by Jaydev Modi, believes that the new vessel will generate as much revenue as Deltin Jacq and Deltin Royale put together. The new vessel will be bigger than Deltin Royale and will meet the projected increase in casino patrons for the next four to five years. According to Dhebar, Delta Corp expects to recover the 150 crore in a year or less. The firm is also preparing the feasibility study for the integrated casino and resort project, while finalising the plans for the project. “We believe it is going to make us good money. We are looking at Rs 1,000 crore to 1,500 crore investment over the next five years, but Delta may not put in all the money. There will be strategic partners and other firms that Delta will bring in as partners in the retail, waterpark, entertainment sector. They will bring in the capital while Delta will focus on the gaming and 300-400 room hotel,” Dhebar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/delta-corp-readying-rs-150cr-vessel-to-replace-caravela/articleshow/81251658.cms||Newton Sequeira
February 28, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Family-run Sawantwadi toy factories struggle to survive in pandemic era||PUNE: For the indigenous toy makers of Sawantwadi, the last few years have brought incremental struggles as the markets have been flooding with China-made varieties of their speciality product. Now, the pandemic has made things ten-fold worse, said the community. “There was a time when Sawantwadi was known for wooden toys, but not anymore. Most shopkeepers here don’t even stock products that are locally made. They opt for the China-made variety as they are much cheaper and profit margins are higher. There is a misconception that the pandemic has slowed or decreased import of the products. Only about 10% toys, specially wooden fruits, are made here but the remaining 90%, consisting of toy cars, bikes, rattles and so on, come from China and are sourced at one-tenth of the cost of manufacturing it in our factories,” said Rajesh Chitari, who runs a family-owned business of manufacturing and selling the wooden toys. Since sales are at an all-time low, the Chitari family is now changing its business and venturing into the medical industry. “We are building a 22-bed hospital, which will be ready in a few months. Most of the toy factories here are family-run but the younger generation does not want to carry on the business since it is not as profitable. Customers don’t understand why locally made toys are more expensive than the China-made ones and bargain till we have to sell at a loss. To really help the toymaking community and save this heritage, there needs to be a change in the mindset of customers, they should be encouraged to buy locally-made products, he said. Ankita Kanekar, who has taken charge of her family business of manufacturing the toys, said, “The market was closed for a long time last year and, due to travel restrictions, we had no sales. Most of our customers stop at Sawantwadi on the way to Goa. Though travel had started, our sales were nowhere near what it used to be as big festivals, such as Christmas, were low key and music festivals were cancelled.” To bring some relief to the toymaking community, Kanekar believes a concession from the government on GST on paints would be quite helpful. “The colours we use have to be bought from Gujarat or Delhi. We have to use good quality, non-toxic paints as the toys are meant for children. A concession would go a long way for us family-run businesses to survive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/family-run-sawantwadi-toy-factories-struggle-to-survive-in-pandemic-era/articleshow/81250592.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Pune||PCB to seal properties of tax defaulters||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has decided to seal the properties of defaulters if they do not clear the property tax arrears before March 5. The board has already issued notices to over 250 people, most of whom are owners of hotels, garment shops among others, a PCB official said. Amit Kumar, PCB’s CEO, said, “We have already given them adequate time to respond. If they don’t make the full payment before March 5, we are going to seal their properties under the Cantonment Act, 2006. It will remain sealed till we get the dues.” The PCB is supposed to get Rs38 crore from 12,200 properties. It has recovered only Rs18 crore, so far, an official said. We are left with limited revenue sources and property tax is one of them,” Kumar said, adding that some of the owners have paid part of the taxes., but they anticipate 100% recovery from them. Traders and businessmen said the legal tussle between old tenants and owners is one of the reasons for tax pendency. “Arrears of some establishments are in a few crores and they are not in a position to pay because of lack of business in the last year due the pandemic. So, they have resorted to partial payment,” a trader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-to-seal-properties-of-tax-defaulters/articleshow/81250587.cms||Sandip Dighe
February 28, 2021||Bhopal||Gangs hire minors from Rajgarh to rob valuables from weddings in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Around half-a-dozen thefts at marriage functions being organised at gardens in the city have been reported in the past two months. In most of these theft cases, CCTV camera footage showed minors lifting bags carrying cash and valuables. Cops said that organised gangs from Rajgarh were behind these incidents. The gang is operational across the country and commits thefts at marriage functions. The kingpin of these gangs hires children from villages in Rajgarh on a contract by signing agreements with their parents for fixed remuneration during marriage season. They gate-crash marriage functions dressed as guests. In last two months, thefts were reported at marriage functions at gardens in Bilkhiria, Misrod, Koh-e-Fiza, and Nishatpura. In Misrod, CCTV footage showed a minor boy, aged around 10 years, lifting the bag of an Uttarakhand-based teacher, who was in city to attend the marriage of her younger sister. The fucntion was at a garden near Gyarah Meel on Hoshangabad Road in Misrod on February 16. The boy sneaked out with a suspicious youth along with the bag carrying diamond jewellery, three mobile phones, ATM cards and cash of Rs 50000. Next day, the boy was found suspiciously roaming around the rooms of the guests after which a woman spotted him and handed him over to marriage garden staff and later to Misrod police. The hotel owner told police that the boy was trying to sneak into the rooms. The room locks could easily be opened from inside. SHO Misrod Niranjan Sharma admitted that gangs specifically targeting marriage functions were active in the city. The gang comprises 4-5 members including men, women and children. They dress up like guests and gate-crash venues. The minors pretend to play near the stage, where the women and elderly guests are usually seated. They target guests, who are busy enjoying the wedding leaving their valuables unattended. The gang members leave one by one, so that no one suspects. SHO Sharma said that the gang leaders assure the parents in the contract that even if they fail in stealing, they would pay the remuneration. SHO Koh-e-Fiza Anil Bajpai said that a similar gang targeted three marriage functions in Koh-e-Fiza, Lalghati and Halalpur. A suspect was nabbed, but he did not reveal much during interrogation. He said that the gang works in an organised manner and as soon as they are caught their accomplices arrange for their bail and release. Both SHO Bajpai and SHO Sharma emphasised that these gangs hail from three villages under the Boda police station area of Rajgarh district. SHO Boda in Rajgarh Arjun Singh Mujalde said that three villages Kadiya Sansi, Gulkheri and Ulkhedi within are infamous across the country for gangs of minors targeting marriage functions. Every month, police from Maharashtra, Haryana, Gujarat, Rajasthan and others arrive at Boda police station to serve warrants in these villages. He said that people from a particular community, who hail from these villages, have a long history of being involved in such theft incidents. Even police cannot enter these villages, without heavy force, otherwise the villagers attack cops and pelt stones. ASP (Crime Branch) Gopal Singh Dhakad admitted that gangs from Rajgarh were targeting marriage functions in the city. He said that police were working on a detailed plan to bust the gangs soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gangs-hire-minors-from-rajgarh-to-lift-valuables-from-weddings-in-city/articleshow/81248672.cms||Sudeept Mishra
February 28, 2021||Pune||Luxury bus seized by Pune cops stolen||PUNE: The Wanowrie police have launched an investigation after an FIR was lodged on Friday night, stating thieves stole a luxury bus seized in a criminal trespassing case. The bus — with a jammer affixed on its tyre -- was stolen near Mahadji Shinde Chhatri on Wanowrie Road. Assistant inspector Bhagwan Kamble said on Saturday, “The 50-seater bus developed a technical snag and its driver parked it on a private property. Acting on a complaint by the property owner, we registered an FIR relating to trespassing against the driver and seized the bus.” Kamble said, “We then decided to tow the bus to the Wanowrie police station, but the towing operator was not available. We then affixed a jammer on the bus. But the bus was not found the next evening when night patrol visited the spot. The value of the bus is Rs15 lakh, while the jammer was worth Rs2,000.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/luxury-bus-seized-by-cops-stolen/articleshow/81250598.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Bareilly||Panchayat secretary arrested for harassing lady teacher, released on bail||Pilibhit: A panchayat secretary, Kamal Kishor, posted at Lalaurikhera block headquarters was booked late Friday night for allegedly harassing a woman teacher of a government primary school. Following a written complaint lodged by the teacher at Lalaurikhera police outpost of Jahanabad police station on Friday morning, the accused was arrested, but he was released soon on bail. The teacher alleged that the accused had managed to get her mobile number during his visits to the school office in connection with the implementation of a government scheme and started sending obscene messages to her. He would often pass derogatory remarks at her during his visit to the school, she alleged. The accused even burnt the school’s books on Friday after getting access to the office in a bid to frame her in a false case of destroying the school’s property, she alleged. Jahanabad police station SHO Harish Vardhan Singh said the accused was booked under sections 294 (utterance of obscene words), 354 (force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 427 (committing mischief and thereby causing loss or damage to the amount of fifty or over) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The SHO added that the accused was arrested, but he was soon released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/panchayat-secretary-arrested-for-harassing-lady-teacher-released-on-bail/articleshow/81248240.cms||Keshav Agarwal
February 28, 2021||Dehradun||AIIMS-Rishikesh treats heart patient under Atal Ayushman scheme, costliest operation so far||Dehradun: An elderly patient from Nainital underwent a heart surgery costing Rs 6 lakh which is the costliest surgery under the Atal Ayushman scheme in the state so far at AIIMS-Rishikesh. According to AIIMS authorities, Mohammad Haasim, 62, was suffering from heart issues since 2019. The doctors fixed a CRT-D device in his heart which will act like a special pacemaker in his body. “The patient was suffering from breathlessness for a long time. The investigation found that his heart functions were improper and even the size of his heart was increased. We decided to install a CRT-D device to save his life,” said Dr Varun Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aiims-rishikesh-treats-heart-patient-under-atal-ayushman-scheme-costliest-operation-so-far/articleshow/81248694.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Farm groups call for farmer-worker unity||Bathinda: With the mobilisation of farmers restarting towards borders of Delhi on completion of three months into protests, farm organisations observed Saturday as ‘Kisan Mazdoor Ekta Diwas’, remembering Guru Ravidas on his birth anniversary and freedom fighter Chandra Shekhar Azad on his 90th martyrdom day. Rich tributes were paid to both at protest sites from Punjab to Delhi borders. It is said Guru Ravidas taught removal of social divisions of caste and gender, and promoted unity in the pursuit of personal spiritual freedom, while Chandra Shekhar Azad sacrificed his life for the motherland at the age of 24 years. The day was observed at places across Punjab at toll plazas and outside railway stations. A nagar kirtan (religious procession) was taken out at Singhu border. Meanwhile, Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said its leaders were getting show-cause notices from commissioner of police for joining investigations. The morcha sent a response, stating that they had done no wrong. Fourteen more farmers were released on bail from jails on Saturday. In all, 78 arrested persons are out of jail as of now, said the morcha leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-groups-call-for-farmer-worker-unity/articleshow/81250630.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Bhopal||‘Hooch’ kills two in Madhya Pradesh's Chhatarpur||BHOPAL: In yet another incident of suspected liquor poisoning in Madhya Pradesh, two labourers from a village in Chhatarpur district bordering Uttar Pradesh died on Friday. After the duo fell ill with symptoms of blurred vision, they were rushed to a hospital in Mahoba, UP, where doctors suspected liquor poisoning. They died during treatment. A fortnight ago, four people had died after consuming hooch in Paretha village of Chhatarpur district. They had allegedly consumed liquor bought from Mahoba district of UP. The incident took place in Didawara village in Chhatarpur about 6 kms away from Mahoba. Dilip Karan Nayak, SHO of Jujharpur said, "We will wait for the post mortem report before making any comment. " Amidst MP government claims of campaign against mafia and tough action against bootleggers, the MP police had claimed that the hooch that killed four people in Paretha last fortnight was transported from Uttar Pradesh. They had consumed the liquor in a death feast “empty stomach,” police had said. Three hooch tragedies had been reported in Madhya Pradesh since October last year. “After the death of 14 people in Ujjain hooch tragedy, 28 more died in Morena earlier this year and now four deaths in Chhatarpur district,” a senior government official said, adding, “all this is happening when there is a demand for prohibition within a section of ruling BJP and campaigns are being carried out in the state.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/hooch-kills-two-in-chhatarpur/articleshow/81248688.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Women from Jind village set out for Tikri protest||JIND: Like the men, women of Haryana’s Jind district have also started heading towards Delhi borders on rotation basis to camp there and join the movement seeking repeal of the three farm laws. Several women from Danoda village of Haryana’s Jind district set out for Tikri border in tractor trolleys, carrying necessary articles such as flour, sugar, gas cylinders, mattresses and others. “I lost my two sons due to cardiac arrest recently. At the age of 67, I should be home to nurture my grandchildren but am forced to protest against the three agri laws imposed on us by the Narendra Modi-led BJP government, which deceived us after taking our votes. We have five acres of land and are committed to do anything to save the land from going into a few capitalist hands,” alleged Beda Devi, a resident of Dandoa village of Narwana town in Jind district. Shanti Devi (70), another protester, claimed, “We will play an equal role in the fight against the saffron party, which is trying to loot farmers’ land by introducing the three farm laws. Women have emerged as a major power and support for the farmers who have been protesting for a long time. We will not step down and be ready to sacrifice our lives if required as Modi’s attitude is very disheartening for farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/women-from-jind-village-set-out-for-tikri-protest/articleshow/81250663.cms||VIJENDER KUMAR
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Man’s appeal in clubbed family court order maintainable, says HC||Mumbai: Bombay HC held as maintainable, a husband’s appeal against a common judgment of a family court passed after clubbing of divorce proceedings and monetary and protective relief sought under Domestic Violence Act (DVA). The wife had raised preliminary objection to maintainability of the appeal before HC, arguing that parts relating to DVA need to be separately challenged under a criminal revision application. The family court had granted the wife divorce on grounds of cruelty, but held that she had proved acts of domestic violence by him and granted maintenance to her and their child. The court restrained the husband from interfering with custody of the child and over a flat, and said she was entitled to damages, as claimed in DV proceedings. HC said relief sought and granted under DVA was “civil’’ and no relief was sought or granted under Sections 31 (one-year jail for breach of protective order) or 33 (penalty of one year jail term for failure of duty by a protection officer). HC said while DVA was predominantly civil, sections 31 and 33 “create distinct offences’’, where power of quashing under criminal law could also kick in. “Rights created and remedies provided for in DVA are basically civil,’’ said HC. “Proceedings under DVA having subsumed (included) with proceedings of Special Marriage Act’’ by virtue of an earlier HC order to club them, the final orders by the family court can only be challenged by an appeal, said a bench of Justices R D Dhanuka and V G Bisht. HC on February 26 said relief canvassed and sought by the wife and granted by the family court in Pune in 2019, under Sec 19 to 22 of DVA “is predominantly civil sans character of criminality’’ and would “not attract any offence punishable under criminal law’’. The husband’s lawyers, Abhijit Sarwate and Ajinkya Udane, argued that once the family court passed a judgment it can only be challenged in an appeal before HC. They argued that the wife’s objections were to create multiplicity of proceeding and delays, when in fact HC in a transfer petition had clubbed them to avoid hardship. They argued that the principle of DVA under Sec 26 was to ensure relief sought under Sec 18 to 22 can be sought before a civil, family or criminal court. The husband said though an appeal was filed in September 2019, maintainability issue was raised by his wife only in December 2020. The woman, through counsel Sanjay Bhojwani, said he made no case for urgency for 8 months in his appeal. The HC applied the principles laid down by a 2018 full bench judgment that expounded on the DV Act and termed the maintainability objections, a “self-serving interpretation’’ and “myopic”. The full bench of the Bombay HC had earlier held that “nature of right violated’’ and the ‘relief provided’ decided “nature of proceeding,’’—whether it was civil or criminal. HC said the DV Act was a special Act enacted to provide effective enforcement of rights for women who are victims of violence within the family and also to “provide for a remedy under the Civil Law’’ by removing certain “deficiencies ‘’ in law. These rights include right to reside in a shared household and right from being dispossessed (section 19 of DV Act), right to get monetary reliefs and compensation (sections 20 and 22) and right to seek temporary custody of child (section 21) and right to seek interim and ex-parte orders in certain cases (section 23). The HC said “these rights are not found in classical criminal jurisdiction, which is about punishing the rule breaker by sentencing him with death or imprisonment, forfeiture of property or compensation to victim of crime.’’ The HC said, the notice first issued under section 12 of DV act in an application to a magistrate for relief by an aggrieved person, is “civil in nature.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-case-of-divorce-domestic-violence-hc-says-hubbys-plea-maintainable/articleshow/81250672.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 28, 2021||Lucknow||Fuel prices increased due to dip in supply: Oil min||Varanasi: Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan denied predicting when petrol and diesel prices will come down and said pressure is building on oil producing countries to increase production. “No one can predict the rise or fall in petroleum prices. After massive drop in demand during Covid-19 crisis, the oil producing countries had reduced production to 10-12 million barrels in May 2020 from 100 million earlier,” Pradhan said while talking to reporters at circuit house here on Saturday. “When demand started increasing they were asked to increase production and had assured to do so by February. They did not increase production leading to demand-supply imbalance and increase of price,” he added. LPG consumption increases massively in Europe during winter and falls after March-end following which prices are likely to dip, said Pradhan. The cascading effect on other sectors is natural, but the tax component is not being disturbed as the government has to spend Rs 35,000 crore on Covid vaccine and development spending has increased 32% this year. Being the third largest energy consumer country, all efforts are on to rein in oil prices, he said. “We are in talks with the US, Russia, Kuwait, Qatar and Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and are building pressure to increase oil production,” said Pradhan. The process for ensuring CNG availability across UP is on while LPG connections would be provided to the one crore families which did not get the benefit of Ujjwala scheme, he added. The piped natural gas (PNG) supply has started in 403 cities and will be available in over 500 cities in 2022-23. The pilot model of converting diesel boats into CNG-fueled boats has started in Varanasi with a target of 2,000 boats, said Pradhan, who also inspected the CNG station at Khidkiya Ghat for fueling boats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fuel-prices-increased-due-to-dip-in-supply-oil-min/articleshow/81248942.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: BJP MP Jangra, Yogeshwar Dutt face farmers’ ire||ROHTAK: BJP Rajya Sabha member Ram Chander Jagra and Olympian-turned BJP functionary Yogeshwar Dutt faced the ire of farm activists at Meham town on Saturday after they reached there for an event. Jagra and Dutt were scheduled to come to participate in the inauguration at a private school in Meham on Saturday. After finding out about their visit, a couple of farmers, led by Farmana village sarpanch Ashish Kumar, reached outside the venue and started raising slogans. The private school had arranged bouncers to prevent farmers from entering the premises. Moments later, police personnel also reached the spot to control the protesting farmers and keep them away from the venue. Dutt did not come, but the MP reached to participate in the event. The protesters raised slogans and showed black flags when he reached the spot. A protester who was trying to prevent the MP’s car from entering the venue had a narrow escape after it hit him in a bid to speed away from the spot. Later, Rohtak police registered a case under sections 147, 149, 186, 341 of IPC against 150-200 persons in connection with the protest. Protesters said they would oppose BJP leaders irrespective till the central government accepted their demand to roll back the three farm laws. Jangra said everyone had the right to protest, but not by troubling others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-mp-jangra-yogeshwar-dutt-face-farmers-ire/articleshow/81250653.cms||Sat Singh
February 28, 2021||India||Covid-19: India adds 16,000 cases, Kerala tally reaches 1m mark||India’s seven-day rolling average of new Covid-19 cases crossed the 15,000-mark for the first time in 41 days as the country continued to record more than 16,000 daily infections for the fourth straight day on Saturday. The seven-day rolling average was 15,047 on January 17, which started going down since and reached 11,430 on February 14. However, it has been steadily increasing since February 14 and reached 15,051 on Saturday. Live updates: Coronavirus pandemicThe recent surge in fresh infections was also reflected in daily rise in active cases which breached the 5,000-mark for the first time since November 25. Active cases rose by 5,369 on Saturday to reach 1,66,339. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageIndia recorded 16,785 new cases on Saturday, with Maharashtra accounting for half of them. Fresh casualties in the country continued to be in triple digits for the fifth consecutive day with 113 deaths reported on Saturday. Read AlsoWhy coronavirus cases in Maharashtra are risingNEW DELHI: The coronavirus cases are once again rising in the country, especially in Maharashtra where recently presence of a new strain of the virus was reported. Though the rate of growth is not as steep as it was during the peak of pandemic, nevertheless the cases have been steadily rising since Maharashtra reported 8,623 cases and 51 fatalities on Saturday. After adding over 1,000 cases for the last three days, Mumbai reported less than 1,000 on Saturday. Read AlsoCoronavirus rise in India localised to 6 states; Maharashtra biggest contributor to active casesNEW DELHI: Coronavirus cases in India have been increasing for the past several days, triggering speculations that the country might witness a second wave of the pandemic. The latest rise in cases is localised to six states that have contributed over 85% of the cases in the last 24 hours.Kerala continued to record the second highest daily cases and casualties in the country after Maharashtra. The state recorded 3,792 new cases and 18 deaths. Meanwhile, Kerala became the only state in the country after Maharashtra where more than one million patients have recovered from the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-adds-16000-cases-kerala-tally-reaches-1m-mark/articleshow/81251787.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Dehradun||International Women’s Day: Almora police launches online contest||Almora: To mark the International Women’s Day (March 8), the Almora police has announced a song, poetry and drama contest. The competition is open for all women from the district. Those who wish to enter the contest can upload their video on any of the three social media platforms — Facebook, Twitter and Instagram — and tag the district police. Pankaj Bhatt, SSP Almora, said, “The contest assumes significance as it is held in honour of women and also because the entries can be send in Hindi, Kumaoni, and Garhwali languages. Thus, it also promotes our local languages.” The contest has been named — Naari Ek, Roop Anek. The entries can be sent till March 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/international-womens-day-almora-police-launches-online-contest/articleshow/81248714.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Delhi||EDMC banks on safai feedback||NEW DELHI: Claiming to make all efforts to improve sanitation, East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) is counting on feedback it is getting from residents on the Centre’s Swachhata App. The reactions received through residents will play a major role in the overall score and ranking of the corporation in Swachh Survekshan 2021. “About 3.3 lakh citizens of east Delhi have given their feedback through the app. This is the highest for any corporation. Till February 20, south corporation received around 1.5 lakh suggestions and north got 90,000. The last date for giving feedback is March 31,” said an EDMC official. EDMC chief engineer Pradeep Khandelwal said the feedback was important under the new parameters specified for getting star ratings in Swachh Survekshan 2021. “Of the total score given for quality of people’s feedback, 80% is for their reaction to segregation and door-to-door garbage collection and the remaining 20% will be based upon the report of a third party survey of the area,” he said. EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain said various means of communication, including messages, door-to-door campaign and nukkad natak, have been adopted to ask people to regiter on the app and give their feedback. “We worked hard to improve the state of toilets, public places and waste collection. We hope that people will give genuine feedback for the 10 questions in the form,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/edmc-banks-on-safai-feedback/articleshow/81250689.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Min: Pb has provisions to jail farmers||Shimla: Claiming that existing farm laws in Punjab have the provision to send a farmer to jail, Union minister for commerce and industries Piyush Goyal said the Centre had scrapped such clauses with the new laws to ensure no farmer was sent to jail or fined. He said new laws were in farmers’ interest so they should study its provisions after which they would understand that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was their wellwisher and working for their welfare. Interacting with media in Shimla, Goyal said some, people for political reasons or due to some other force behind them, had “mislead a small section of farmers” on new farm laws. He said farmers were being mislead that under the new laws farmers would lose their land while the truth was that no one could touch their land under these laws as so many provisions had been made to protect their interests. He said under new farm laws a farmer whenever wanted could scrap a contract to sell his crop elsewhere if he was getting better price and there would be no fine for this. He said while keeping the old arrangements intact, new farm laws provided newer opportunities and markets to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/min-pb-has-provisions-to-jail-farmers/articleshow/81250669.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Dehradun||Farmers gear up for Tikait’s proposed rally in Rudrapur on March 1||RUDRAPUR: The farmers of the Terai region — also known as rice bowl of Uttarakhand — are gearing up for the rally proposed on March 1, against the Centre’s agri reform laws, in Rudrapur. Expecting more than 40,000 farmers to be present in the rally, the farmers have changed the rally venue from Gandhi Park to the ground in front of the Food Corporation of India warehouses at Kichha bypass in the city. Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait will be the keynote speaker at the rally and other prominent farmer leaders are also expected to be present on the occasion. Talking to TOI, Tejender Singh Virk, president of the Terai Kisan Mahasabha (TKM), said they have been holding meetings for the success of the rally for the past 15 days. “As many as 200 volunteers of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) visited the towns and the villages of the Terai region to garner support for the rally and also spread awareness against the three draconian agri reform laws. Political parties other than the BJP have also extended their support to the rally,” added Virk. In a similar vein, Karm Singh Padda, state president of the BKU, said, “Locals started calling this ground Modi Maidan after the Prime Minister's rally here in 2017. After our rally, they will start calling it the Kisan Maidan. Our rally will record a massive turnout. Farmer leaders Darshan Pal and Gurnam Singh Chaduni will also address the rally.” He added that farmers of the country are being persecuted for the sake of a few industrialists. Meanwhile, former Congress minister, Tilak Raj Behar, said that the workers of the Kisan Congress will also join the rally in large numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farmers-gear-up-for-tikaits-proposed-rally-in-rudrapur-on-march-1/articleshow/81248718.cms||Aakash Ahuja
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Don’t raze hostels run by dead MP’s trust till appeal heard: HC||Mumbai: In a relief to a trust headed by Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar who died by suicide last Monday, Bombay high court has directed no coercive action be taken pending hearing of its appeal against demolition of its unauthorised constructions in Sayli, Silvassa. “The manner in which all this started has other undertones to it. The chairman of the trust is the local MP who recently died by suicide in Mumbai,” a bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Madhav Jamdar was told last Friday by advocates Girish Godbole and Akshay Shinde for Swargeeya Sanjibhai Rupjibhai Memorial Trust. The trust sought a stay on the final January 28, 2021, demolition notice issued by the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Planning and Development Authority’s executive engineer under Section 52 (removal of unauthorised development) of Goa, Daman and Diu Town and Country Planning Act, 1974. The petition said its appeal against the final notice is pending before the Town and Country Planning Board, which has not scheduled a hearing and it “strongly apprehends” the executive engineer may implement the demolition notice. The trust said it runs educational institutions and to accommodate students from the all India quota, it purchased five lands in Sayli. In 2008, “urgently on a priority basis”, it constructed hostels as well as residential quarters for the principal. After almost 12 years, the planning authority issued five notices on September 21, 2020. In November 2020, HC had directed the authority to hear the trust and granted it temporary relief from demolition. The petition said at the January 5, 2021, hearing, the trust told the planning authority that as its applications for permission for non-agricultural use and sale of the lands is pending before revenue authorities, the demolition proceedings should be deferred until they are decided. To its “utter shock and surprise” the final notice was issued, the petition added. Godbole said while the trust admits the construction was without permission, Development Control Rules were followed and its application for regularisation is pending. “It all started with a direction from PMO (Prime Minister’s Office),” said Godbole. He said the five notices are “similar” and refer to an August 30, 2019, communication from the PMO that had received complaints about illegal constructions by the trust and called upon the Dadra and Nagar Haveli administrator to look into them. “We don’t want them to come and demolish the buildings. There are 150 students in each hostel,” said Godbole. When asked by the judges whether Section 52 provides for an “automatic stay” on an appeal against demolition, the Centre’s advocate, Hiten Venegavkar, affirmed it. The judges then directed that pending hearing of the trust’s appeal (by the board), no coercive action shall be taken against the constructions. If an adverse order is passed, it shall not be implemented for two weeks thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dont-raze-hostels-run-by-dead-mps-trust-till-appeal-heard-hc/articleshow/81249378.cms||Rosy Sequeira
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||VCs who quit were ‘under pressure to award tenders’||Mumbai: After the vice-chancellors of two state universities resigned on Friday, governor B S Koshyari gave additional charge to two VCs: to E Vayuandan, head of Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University, for Jalgaon; and to Aniruddha Pandit, VC of the Institute of Chemical Technology, for Lonere. “I have submitted my resignation on personal grounds. I will go back to my parent institution where I came from, NIT-Surathkal, work there as a senior professor, be happy doing my research and work for the direct benefit of my students,” Sastry told TOI. He was appointed VC in March 2019 and had three more years of his term left. Recently, the state government asked Sastry to give away 40 acres of land for setting up NIPER (National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research), which he agreed to hand over. Then the ministry sent four non-academic members to be introduced in the university’s executive council. “There was constant pressure to award tenders to certain parties and to appoint a certain person as registrar,” said a source.“I am happy with the work I have done in ushering reforms like introducing minors and honours programmes for engineering students. I introduced the credit transfer scheme, allowing students to pick courses from top universities. I have also initiated the process of a credit bank which permits students multiple entry and exit,” Sastry said.Similarly, outgoing VC of KBCNMU Pradip Patil told TOI his health was deteriorating and hence he had put in his papers. But his university’s management council member Deepak Patil said, “The VC was being harassed and pressurized over whom to award tenders to. Also, many times, even as meetings would be on, Shiv Sena karyakartas would barge in and demand the VC’s time and attention. They would threaten him that if he did not concede their demands, they would take videos and make them viral. The VC often told some of us he felt mentally tortured.”Minister for higher education Uday Samant of the Shiv Sena was unavailable for comment.In a statement, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad said, “Recently the educational sector has been complaining about increasing governmental overreach and interference in universities in Maharashtra. Tales of instructions regarding University’s tenders from ministries have been doing rounds in all the universities. This overreach and the constant interference has compelled two VCs to resign, and this is a worrisome state for the education sector.” TOI had on March 3, 2020 reported that the higher and technical education department had issued a directive seeking information on tenders floated, procedures followed, bidders’ details, contractors hired, upcoming infrastructure projects to be undertaken, service providers appointed and new tenders to be called for, from all state universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vcs-who-quit-were-under-pressure-to-award-tenders/articleshow/81250703.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Goa||Centre diverts 120ha of biodiversity hotspot at Mollem for rail project||MARGAO: The Centre has sounded a devastating blow to the Mollem ecosystem as it approved the diversion of 140 hectares of forest for South Western Railways’ double-tracking project. What has raised the hackles of environmentalists and nature lovers is that around 120 hectares — almost 85% — lies within the Bhagwan Mahavir National Park, and this move is likely to drastically impact the biodiversity hotspot of Mollem in the ecologically-fragile Western Ghats. The in-principle approval, issued by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC), paves the way for diversion of 120.9ha of the biodiversity hotspot that lies within the Bhagwan Mahavir National Park and Mollem Sanctuary for the Castlerock to Collem stretch, while another 1.9ha and 15.6ha of forest land has been cleared for the Collem to Margao section. In a series of reports, TOI has highlighted that biodiversity and wildlife experts believe that the three Centre-sponsored infrastructure projects — the Panaji-Belagavi NH expansion and the Tamnar power transmission project, apart from the double-tracking — have the potential to exacerbate Goa’s water woes turning it into a parched state, while posing a mighty threat to the endemism and the flora and fauna of the region. The Mollem forests also constitute the catchment areas for the Khandepar, the main source of raw water for the Opa water treatment plant supplying potable water to Tiswadi and Ponda. Over the past few months, the movement to save Mollem has spread across the state, with artists, engineers, architects, environmentalists and other professionals mobilising support at various protests. In fact, the groundswell of support grew so large, BJP in November had asked CM Pramod Sawant to go slow on the projects lest the party’s image takes a beating ahead of the 2022 assembly polls. However, after BJP decisively won the zilla panchayat polls earlier this year, Sawant pledged to go ahead with the projects. Deputy inspector general of forests (central), M K Shambhu, in a letter issued to principal secretary (forests) of the Goa government, said that the clearance for diversion of forest land under wildlife & eco-tourism (North) and North Goa forest division, has been granted in favour of (South Western Railway) Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd “after careful examination of the proposal of the state government and on the basis of the approval of the regional empowered committee”. Significantly, the MoEFCC has stipulated that in order “to address the apprehensions of the people as well as to prevent spillage of ore, coal, etc, all the rakes of the freight trains shall have a spill proof/sealed cover, which is presently absent.” Chief minister Pramod Sawant had earlier written to railways minister Piyush Goyal suggesting that all railway rakes have “hard top covering and sealing” so as to take care of the spillage of coal onto the railway tracks “owing to torn unsecured tarpaulin covers”. TOI had earlier pointed out that Sawant’s proposal was being considered seriously by Indian Railways. Among the conditions laid out, the MoEFCC has stipulated that the trees to be felled be restricted to a minimum in the diverted forest land, and that the trees should be felled under the “strict supervision” of the state forest department. MoEFCC has also stipulated that compensatory afforestation (CA) shall be raised over double the extent of degraded forest land within three years from the date of Stage-l clearance, and maintained thereafter by the state forest department. “…At least 1,000 plants per hectare shall be planted over identified degraded forest land within three years of grant of final approval. If it is not possible to plant so many saplings in the area identified for CA, the balance saplings will be planted in any other forests as per prescriptions of approved working plan with provision for ten years on subsequent maintenance,” the letter states. MoEFFC has further mandated that mitigation measures as proposed by centre for ecological sciences, Indian Institute of Science (CES, IISc), Bengaluru, must be implemented along the Caranzol to Collem stretch of the railway track for safe passage of animals. Other important conditions include suitable soil moisture conservation works either side of the track on vulnerable stretches, and no damage to be caused to the flora and fauna of the adjoining area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-diverts-120ha-of-biodiversity-hotspot-at-mollem-for-rail-project/articleshow/81251619.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||In Narnaud, khap says sell milk to govt for Rs 100 a litre||HISAR: To intensify the ongoing farm stir, it was decided in a mahapanchayat held at Grain Mandi in Narnaund that farmers of 42 villages under the Satrol khap would sell milk to the government at Rs 100 per litre. They said the price of milk, as petrol prices were increasing every day, will also be raised. If anyone does not follow this decision, they will be fined Rs 11,000, decided members of the khap headed by Ramnivas Lohan Farmers would be allowed to sell milk in the village to other people at the old rate, but the price will have to be Rs 100 for government dairy or other undertakings, said Satrol khap president Lohan. He said this decision had been taken in consultation with the members of khap. “Until the government withdraws these three agricultural laws, it will be given milk for Rs 100 a litre,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-narnaud-khap-says-sell-milk-to-govt-for-rs-100-a-litre/articleshow/81250681.cms||Kumar Mukesh
February 28, 2021||Gurgaon||Despite appeals, farmers in Haryana keep turning on own wheat crop||JIND: Despite appeals by farm leaders, farmers in Haryana continue to destroy their wheat crop. Suresh Singh, a farmer, crushed his wheat crop grown over one acre of land in Kandela village of Jind district. The crop was destroyed for the first time in Haryana at Gulakni village of Jind district. This was followed by farmers destroying the crop at Dharoli, Meharda and Nidani villages. Farmers said they would keep only as much wheat as required by their families in the days to come if their demands were not met. If farmers stop growing their crops, there will be distress and the government would not find it easy to manage the situation, farmers claimed. Suresh Singh from Kandela village, who crushed his standing crop, alleged, “It was the outcome of the adamant attitude of PM Modi, who is not listening to our demands. The farming community is very peaceful and destroying their own crops will be a huge loss. We feel pain while cutting the standing crop but it is less than the pain we felt for farmers who lost their lives at Delhi borders. It would be a loss for us but we have reached such a level that we are ready to sacrifice anything to save our land.” Sudesh Devi, a woman protester from Kandela village, who drove a tractor to crush the crop claimed, “Modi doesn’t care for anyone in the nation and is behaving like a dictator. But we have also planned to protest against the three farm laws till 2024 and will not step down till the laws are repealed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/despite-appeals-farmers-in-haryana-keep-turning-on-own-wheat-crop/articleshow/81250708.cms||VIJENDER KUMAR
February 28, 2021||Pune||PMR’s recovery rate over 95% despite recent surge||PUNE: The Covid-19 recovery rate has remained at above 95% in the Pune Metropolitan Region despite the rise in the number of cases in the last three weeks. On Friday, the region’s overall recovery rate was at 95.4%. Both the municipal corporations of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, and the rural areas have been reporting recoveries of over 95% patients so far. The number of daily average discharges in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) have been above 800 since the beginning of the month. Of the total 4.04 lakh positive cases in the region so far, over 3.86 lakh patients have recovered. The health officials stated that though the cases had increased in the past three weeks, over 60% of the Covid patients were in home isolation and had mild symptoms. Sanjeev Wavre, the assistant heath chief at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said, “The number of recoveries has not reduced drastically. Also, we have observed that more patients have been opting for home isolation. We have been appealing to citizens to undergo tests in case they develop any flu-like symptoms because early detection is crucial to decide the line of treatment.” According to the data released by the district health office on February 27, the rural and Cantonment areas have reported the highest recovery rate of 95.7%, followed by Pune (95.4%) and Pimpri Chinchwad (95%) civic limits. The region’s recovery rate at the beginning of February was at 96.2%. Since the beginning of the month, over 25,000 new cases have been reported in the region. Another official from the PMC said people should not ignore the symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-recovery-rate-over-95-despite-recent-surge/articleshow/81250727.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 28, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Public inoculation will take a week to start at some private hospitals, say officials||PUNE: Covid vaccinations for people above 60 and those above 45 with comorbidities — set to start from March 1 — will take at least a week to take off at some private hospital sites as their staff will need to be trained, state officials said on Saturday. “Private medical workers will be key for this phase of inoculation. And it will take at least a week to train them. Private hospitals that have been roped in will also have to ensure they have dedicated staff for the drive,” a state health official said. Nearly 1,800 sites are set to be added for the new phase, which will take Maharashtra’s total number of vaccination sites to 2,500, officials said. An estimated one crore people may be vaccinated during this phase. According to government officials, only a soft launch may be organised at certain reserved Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs) on March 1, between 10am to 11.30am. State health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said training programmes will be held at private centres to ensure the drive is carried out smoothly. “We will be rolling it out as desired by the central government. They have asked us to prepare these sites for self-registration, slowly and steadily,” Dr Vyas said. Dr Sudhakar Shinde, state CEO of the Ayushman Bharat programme, said private hospitals empanelled with central or state insurance schemes will roll out the vaccines. “There will be lots of logistics involved, so it will take at least a week to settle,” Dr Shinde said. Besides training, officials will also have to ensure hospitals have space for vaccine storage and monitoring.  Pradeep Bhargava, member of the Pune Platform for Covid Relief said the involvement of private entities in the vaccine drive is a good move. “Like testing, vaccination too was beyond the capacity of government-run institutions alone. But I feel local bodies should have been allowed to upload citizen data, including presence of comorbidities, along with details of healthcare and frontline workers,” he said. He added a sudden rush to upload new details may trigger glitches. “Micro-management is slowing down the process. Local bodies should have been given the flexibility to speed up their drives,” he said. State immunisation officer Dr DN Patil said 11,56,500 doses of Covishield have come into the state, with the Centre promising timely supply and no shortages. The state has also requested the Centre that regions showing spikes should receive priority vaccination supply. However, experts said the glitch-prone CoWIN app remains top on the list of concerns. Several states have said problems with the digital database slowed down vaccination drives among healthcare and frontline workers. For example, West Bengal recently recorded 18 straight vaccination sessions that had CoWIN glitches with scores of beneficiaries stating they never got the automated invites, which contain time and location of the jab. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, state president of the Indian Medical Association, expressed reservation about self-registration on CoWIN, which he said could be a complicated process. “I’m not sure how the new CoWIN version will perform. But if it is complicated, it will be difficult for 60-plus beneficiaries to register,’‘he said. For the public vaccination phase, a beneficiary will have to download CoWIN 2.0 which will be opened to citizens soon. Beneficiaries will have to register for vaccination and, according to guidelines, documents required include voter ID or an Aadhaar card. CoWIN will then verify the data and go on to display vaccination sites with geo-coordinates. The beneficiary can choose a site and based on the availability of slots, can decide place and time for jabs. Problems with the system is another reason why officials have decided to have a soft launch for the citizen drive. Not many tech-challenged 60-plus citizens will be able to immediately download and self-register on CoWIN, which forms the backbone of the Centre’s digital infrastructure to monitor vaccine supply and dosage. Also, it is at the moment not known how many names will feature in CoWIN’s drop-box for selection of private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/public-inoculation-will-take-a-week-to-start-at-some-pvt-hosps-officials/articleshow/81250755.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 28, 2021||Pune||Pune: Last year’s virus hotspots registering fewer infections||PUNE: Certain locations in the city that were Covid hotspots last year are now seeing fewer new cases, despite an overall surge in infections in the city. The trend, experts said, seems to suggest that antibodies from previous infection may be protecting a large number of people. The Wanowrie-Ramtekdi and Bhavani Peth wards, which once had the highest number of micro-containment zones in the city, now have fewer cases compared to other wards, officials from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said. The PMC’s assistant medical officer, Sanjeev Wavare, said, “The Peth areas — Bhavani Peth, Sadashiv Peth, Mangalwar Peth and Shukrawar peth — are all reporting less number of cases compared to other parts of the city. Cluster transmission seems to be currently less in these areas. Reasons could be varied, including antibodies in the populations here or a high number of asymptomatic cases.” In fact, PMC data showed that Bhavani Peth, Wanowrie-Ramtekdi and Shivajinagar Ghole Road wards have, on most days, recorded some of the lowest numbers of new cases in Pune. Dr Subhash Salunke, adviser to the state government on Covid, said a “distinct pattern” can now be observed in Pune and Mumbai. “Currently, the number of cases seems to be more in areas that, last year, recorded a relatively lower number of patients. Conversely, areas that had a higher number of cases in July, August, September, October last year, now seem to have lower numbers. For example, Dharavi in Mumbai has been recording a lower number of positive cases, so far. Similarly, Peth areas in Pune now show a lower number of positive cases than Sinhagad Road, Baner and Hadapsar.” Dr Salunke said a key reason is that those who were infected last year remain protected to some extent by antibodies. “And those who were not exposed to the virus earlier, are now vulnerable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/last-years-virus-hotspots-registering-fewer-infections/articleshow/81250751.cms||Neha Madaan
February 28, 2021||Dehradun||CM on 2-day Almora visit: Holds meeting, takes stock of development works||ALMORA: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who is on a two-day visit to Almora, said that there is no gain from creating new districts. He made the remark while emphasizing on the development of the state. “Rather than creating new districts and allocating separate budgets, it would be better to implement the development schemes,” said the CM. The CM also laid stress on the implementation of Mukhyamantri Swarozgar Yojana in the district. The CM also held a meeting with party workers at the forest rest house in Ranikhet on Saturday evening. He said pirul will be purchased in the mountain at the rate of Rs 3.50 per kg. Earlier in the day, CM Rawat visited the Kanchi Dham forest rest house. On Sunday, the CM is scheduled to reach Dwarahat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-on-2-day-almora-visit-holds-meeting-takes-stock-of-development-works/articleshow/81248745.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Dehradun||Corbett, with capacity to nurture over 150 one-horned rhinos, ‘top priority’ site for their reintroduction: Study||DEHRADUN: A study recently published in the journal, 'Nature', states that out of the 31 protected areas (PAs) — comprising different tiger reserves, national parks and wildlife sanctuaries across India, Nepal and Bhutan — Corbett National Park can become an adequate habitat for the single-horn rhino. The one-horn rhino is categorised as a vulnerable species in the IUCN Red List, and currently, there are only around 3,500 rhinos across the globe out of which around 2,400 are in Assam’s Kaziranga National Park and around 600 in Nepal’s Chitwan National Park. Therefore, experts feel there is a dire need to reintroduce the animal which is most trafficked for its horn. Historically, in Nepal, rhinos were found in Banke National Park, Bardiya National Park, Shuklaphanta National Park, Koshi Tappu Wildlife Reserve, Chitwan National Park and Parsa Wildlife Reserve while in Bhutan, the animal's presence was noted in the Royal Manas National Park. In India, the megaherbivores were found across Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh and Bihar. In Uttarakhand, the animal's presence has been recorded in Corbett, Jhilmil Jheel Conservation Reserve, Sonanadi Wildlife Sanctuary and Rajaji National Park. The study — 'Feasibility of reintroducing grassland megaherbivores, the greater one-horned rhinoceros and swamp buffalo within their historic global range' — was conducted by a group of scientists from India and the UK, and was published on February 24. The scientists reached the conclusion of Corbett being a suitable habitat after analysing some of the vital parameters for the survival of the rhinos at a new location — legal status of the protected animal, protection from poachers, management efficacies and least human conflict. “Uttarakhand should simply go ahead with the opportunity to save this species which sorely needs attention as it has almost negligible tolerance to climate change. We have to bring them to a safer habitat,” said Yadvenderadev V Jhala, senior scientist and author of the study from WII. According to scientists, the rhino's population has dwindled owing to habitat loss triggered by conversion of the floodplain and foothill habitat into agricultural lands. The study while justifying Corbett as a high-priority site, stated, “Corbett can sustain a population of more than 150 rhinoceros. Site evaluation and habitat studies, including grassland food-source species like Saccharum, Imperata cylindrica, Arundo and Vetivaria, suggest that Corbett is suitable, with ample surface water (rivers, reservoirs, pools) plus sufficient grassland patches interspersed with forest cover, to support mixed foraging and cover during calving and in winters.” The study added that Bihar’s Valmiki Tiger Reserve can also be a high-priority site for rhinos reintroduction, but it can accommodate a lesser population (35-40). Incidentally, the Uttarakhand State Wildlife Board in 2019 had decided to reintroduce the one-horned rhino in Corbett, but the project did not see the light of the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/corbett-with-capacity-to-nurture-over-150-one-horned-rhinos-top-priority-site-for-their-reintroduction-study/articleshow/81248740.cms||Shivani Azad
February 28, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Lack of care in ICU can attract penal action: Consumer panel||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has ruled that patients admitted to ICU are expected to be closely monitored by hospital staff and failure to do so would attract action under the provisions of Consumer Protection Act. Striking down a petition that sought to quash an order passed by Ernakulam district consumer protection forum, the commission ruled that Indira Gandhi Cooperative Hospital in Kadavanthra is liable to give compensation to a patient for scant care and attendant trauma. He did not get enough attention in ICU. The case was that Abraham P Simon was admitted to the said hospital with chest pain complications in 2009. He had a mild myocardial infarction and was admitted to ICU. However, during treatment in ICU there was extravasation injury. As a result, he developed cellulitis and septicaemia later. Though he was given first line treatment with ointment and antibiotics, his condition worsened. His blood urea as well as creatinine shot up indicating renal failure. When renal failure was detected, he was advised to meet a nephrologist and referred to another hospital. According to the petitioner, deficiency of service in ICU led to medical complications, prolonged treatment and hospitalisation. He had to spend almost Rs 90,000 additionally. Hospital authorities claimed that extravasation of IV-line is common in hospitals. It was detected without delay and first line treatment was given to him immediately. Since he was diabetic, he did not respond to antibiotics initially. Moreover, extravasation could also have been caused by the movement of his hands. Upholding the district forum order that directed the appellant to pay the complainant actual hospital expenses, plus Rs 25,000 as compensation, the commission said that care inside ICU was the sole responsibility of hospital. “In the present case, extravasation took place within the confines of ICU. By the time it was noticed and remedial action was taken, cellulitis had set in. Later on septicaemia developed. The sequence of events leads us to the irresistible conclusion that the staff in ICU were negligent. Had extravasation been promptly detected and attended to, the development of cellulitis could have been avoided. Patients admitted to an ICU are expected to be closely monitored by the nursing staff and treated with prompt care and attention. That does not seem to have happened in the present case,” said the order passed by the bench chaired by justice K Surendra Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/lack-of-care-in-icu-can-attract-penal-action-consumer-panel/articleshow/81249389.cms||B S Anilkumar
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||BF blackmails woman to give him Rs33 lakh, 5 tola gold||Nagpur: A 37-year-old woman’s estranged boyfriend, now behind bars, blackmailed her into giving him Rs33 lakh cash and five tola gold over two years, threatening to leak private video clips and pictures. He also coerced her to have physical relations with him on the pretext of marriage, despite being married. Pankaj Patiyal, working as a hotel manager, was arrested by Sonegaon police from Uttarakhand on February 20 for allegedly raping and duping the victim, apart from issuing her threats. Police have also arrested Pankaj’s wife for her complicity in the crime. The two were remanded to police custody till March 2.Sub-inspector PM Dhakulkar of Sonegaon police station said Patiyal is likely to have duped many more victims by taking lump sum amounts from them on the pretext of starting hotels and service apartments, and fleeing to Uttarakhand as his business plans flopped. “Some victims have already approached the police with their grievances against Patiyal,” he said.It’s learnt that Patiyal and the victim were introduced to each other in 2017 when she had gone for an interview at his hotel in Dhantoli. As per the complaint lodged by the woman in the FIR, a copy of which is in the possession of TOI, Patiyal used to repeatedly ask her for money to start hotels and service apartments. In one of the service apartments, which he had started in Karve Nagar, Sonegaon, Patiyal forced himself upon the woman and promised to marry her soon. It’s learnt that Patiyal later avoided references to the promise of marriage by the victim. He continued to pressurize her for money, nevertheless. During a heated argument between the two, Patiyal is learnt to have showed the woman her private pictures and video clips in his mobile phone to blackmail her. She has mentioned in the FIR that she got unnerved upon seeing the photographs and videos, and started giving him cash even when it meant borrowing from others. Apart from giving away Rs11 lakh from her own savings, she took loans of Rs12 lakh and Rs8 lakh from two individuals. She had earlier given him Rs2 lakh and 5 tola gold, the latter demanded to “take care of his ailing mother”. She claimed in her FIR that Patiyal did not return any money before fleeing to Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bf-blackmails-woman-to-give-him-rs33-lakh-5-tola-gold/articleshow/81248737.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||STF busts Baguiati fake call centre||Kolkata: The Bengal Special Task Force and officers from the department of telecom on Friday busted a gang that had set up an illegal telephone exchange in order to commit Voice Traffic Termination fraud (VTT) from a flat located at Baguiati close to the Kolkata Airport. Cops arrested one Imran Tarafdar (42), from Deganga in North 24 Parganas, for running the gang. Known as VoIP GSM termination business, the accused received VoIP calls by bypassing the government gateways. A case of cheating, fraud, criminal conspiracy and section 4, 20, 25 of the Indian Telegraph Act and section 3 and 6 of the Indian Telegraphy Act has been initiated at the Baguiati police station. The modus operandi adopted by Tarafdar is referred to as Subscriber Identity Module box (SIMbox) fraud and is adopted on mobile networks leading to loss of revenue for the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stf-busts-baguiati-fake-call-centre/articleshow/81249393.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi ignored pollution hotspots in plantation drives, claims study||NEW DELHI: Tree plantations done under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) in Indian cities have been poorly planned and ineffective, a recent study by Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment (LIFE) has found. Track the pollution level in your cityThe report, released on Tuesday, stated that Delhi had neglected pollution hotspots like Dwarka, Mundka, Narela and Bawana. In most cases, either the plantation drive excluded key pollution hotspots or used species that did not absorb pollution. Korba, Hyderabad, Agra, Chandigarh and Varanasi were among the other cities that were covered in the study. “While plantations are being done across cities, they fail in identifying suitable locations or species. NCAP’s goal behind plantation drives in cities is pollution prevention. However, that objective largely remains unfulfilled as cities have failed to prioritise pollution hotspots like traffic junctions, traffic corridors and highways,” said the report. A total of 967 locations were identified by the report where plantation in Delhi took place. Plotting these on a single map, however, showed these were largely concentrated in central and eastern Delhi. “It can be seen from the superimposed map that the plantations are concentrated in central and eastern parts of Delhi while many of the polluted areas like Dwarka, Mundka, Narela and Bawana have been left untouched,” said the report. The study is based on analysis of Right To Information responses from various departments. According to the report, out of the 43 plantations done in Hyderabad, only one was near a pollution hotspot. Similarly in Varanasi, one of the most polluted cities in India, 60% plantations were in residential areas as against a mere 8% at traffic junctions. In the case of Chandigarh, gardens, parks and community centres were the preferred locations for plantations, while traffic junctions were skipped. “This approach raises concerns as already green locations get more plantation even though vehicular traffic is the major source of pollution,” the study adds. It also stresses on poor identification of species for green development, stating species not recommended by Central Pollution Control Board have also been planted. “Greening cities must be a planned scientific process, which aims at both pollution control and increasing the biodiversity through a mix of grasses, shrubs and trees.” Ritwick Dutta, managing trustee of LIFE, says, “Greening cities with trees in wrong places and with wrong species will not reduce pollution. The first priority of every city must be on protection of existing trees, especially in pollution hotspots. Transplantation is not the answer since trees will be transplanted from pollution hotspots to greener areas. NCAP’s target will not be met if we simply go on planting trees without any detailed plan of what to plant and where to plant.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-ignored-pollution-hotspots-in-plantation-drives-claims-study/articleshow/81250812.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
February 28, 2021||Pune||Real challenge now, monitor all adverse events: Experts||Pune: Public health experts have urged vaccination sites in government and private hospitals to closely monitor Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) when Covid inoculation opens for those above 60 and people over 45 with underlying conditions. “The real test will be this group,” said a health official, adding that each site has to maintain a register and ensure follow-ups are done. Dr A Jaylal, national president of Indian Medical Association, said while it was a smart move to involve the private sector, separate lists of AEFI should be maintained for citizens. “There should be close follow-up among those getting vaccinated at government and private sites. Since three phases are being executed simultaneously (citizens along with medical and frontline workers), monitoring could be an added burden on the health sector,” he said. He added that charges for the vaccine were unnecessary at this point of time at private vaccination sites. “It was not needed as the aim was to vaccinate more people within the shortest time," he said, adding that the charges — despite the Centre allocating Rs35,000 crore in the Union budget for vaccination — may now “slow the process down”. As for vaccine hesitancy, some officials felt the government rushed into the third phase without addressing concerns among beneficiaries from the first two phases. “Why was vaccine hesitancy high among health and frontline workers? There should have been proper communication from the start to ease concerns and encourage people to come forward,” a state health official said. In early February, the Union health ministry had released figures saying 97% of those who had received the vaccine were “satisfied with their experience”. But experts said the real test for the government starts now — when lakhs of citizens will have to be monitored.. A senior doctor with a private hospital in the city, who did not want to be named, said the three lists — a separate one for the medical and frontline workers — will have to be maintained. “There should also be regular updates from the administration to remove vaccine hesitancy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/real-challenge-now-monitor-all-adverse-events-experts/articleshow/81250783.cms||Nisha Nambiar
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||MahaRERA asks builder to refund siblings Rs 1.6 cr||Mumbai: Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRERA) ruled in favour of a brother-sister duo, directing the builder to refund them Rs 1.6 crore with interest for failing to hand over possession of two flats in a Jogeshwari project. Madhav Kulkarni, the adjudicating officer, also directed the builder to pay Rs20,000 each to them as cost. Altaf Hussain Sarguroh and his sister Rubina Ayaz Kazi had complained against builder Aibani Enterprise for failing to hand over their flats. Altaf said they booked flats in Aibani’s upcoming project, Musfika, in Jogeshwari in June 2013. Each of them paid Rs 50 lakh and the builder was to give possession by December 2015 for one flat and by December 2016 for the other. The work did not progress till May 2015. On execution of agreement on May 21, 2015, Altaf and Rubina and her husband took a loan of Rs 58.6 lakh from DHFL and paid stamp duty and VAT. The complainant had planned to start earning income from the flats from January 2017 and, hence, demanded Rs40,000 rent per month. The builder agreed to pay every three months from July 2018 till possession was handed over. In April 2018, the builder issued a letter to take fit out possession and pay the balance amount. The builder then applied to the MahaRERA and got an extension till December 2020. Altaf asked the builder to pay the outstanding rent of Rs 5 lakh, but his demand was ignored. With only 40% of the project completed till then, the complainant decided to withdraw from the project and sought refund along with interest at 18% per annum. The authority observed the rent was not paid, and possession of the flats was not given. There is no dispute that the complainant has paid Rs 1.6 crore, therefore the complainant is entitled for refund of this amount with 10.4 % interest. “Complainants received rent, and gave undertakings in 2019 that they would take possession of the flats. So where is the question of any dispute? My client also got extension for completion of project, which the court has not considered so we will appeal against the order,” builder’s lawyer Avinash Pawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharera-asks-builder-to-refund-siblings-rs-1-6-cr/articleshow/81250785.cms||Ahmed Ali
February 28, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||HC order hits teachers of aided institutions in politics||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala high court order nullifying the special privileges enjoyed by teachers attached to aided education institutions has come a bolt from the blue on several aided school/college teachers engrossed in political work. All political parties used to field aided-school/college teachers in elections to explore their public influence politically. Though the petitioners’ request only sought the high court to strip aided-school teachers of the ‘special privilege’, which enables them to freely indulge in political activities and contest elections, the order would have its cascading effect on aided-college teachers too. This means that the political sphere in the state, especially at local level, would undergo a change. The arguments against and in favour of the special political privileges to aided-school teachers by the state via a government order May 29, 1967, had been going on since long. A committee appointed by the state government in 2007 had recommended the government to scrap the special political privileges or freedom given to government-aided school/college teachers as it would neither stand legal scrutiny, nor common sense. However, successive governments decided not to implement the expert-committee report as political parties are the beneficiaries. “The high court order that nullified the special rights given to teachers in government-aided institutions is a highly welcome one. If politically-inclined teachers want to enter politics, let them follow the rules followed by other civil servants,” said G Gopakumar, political scientist and former vice-chancellor, Central University of Kerala. However, All Kerala Private College Teachers Association leaders said the tendency to view political activities by aided-college/school teachers as not beneficial to democracy is unfortunate. “We would say that not just those who work in aided schools and colleges, but all civil servants, except those working in certain sensitive departments should be permitted to indulge in political work and contest elections,” said the association general secretary C Padmanabhan. A number of politicians in the past and present doubled as teachers and politicians. Higher education minister K T Jaleel is learnt to have submitted an application for voluntary retirement from service a few weeks ago. General education minister C Raveendranath too became an MLA while he was an associate professor in an aided college. Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan had taken voluntary retirement as higher secondary teacher just before the last assembly elections. Health minister K K Shailaja was an aided school teacher till 2004, though she was elected to state assembly in 1996.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/hc-order-hits-teachers-of-aided-institutions-in-politics/articleshow/81249410.cms||B S Anilkumar
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||Parents and academics support auto-promotion||Nagpur: State cabinet minister Vijay Wadettiwar’s disclosure that Maharashtra may think about auto-promotion for school students, something which Tamil Nadu did, has found support among academics and parents. State’s education minister too hinted that such a proposal is being looked into for all school and junior college students, except X and XII (board exams).Sundeep Gaikwad, principal of Mecosabagh Methodist High School, said it is no fault of ‘poor’ kids that they could not access online education. “No purpose will be served by holding exams anyway because our students have not got the chance to study. The primary section is closed for physical classes and online is not an option for majority. So, to hold an exam will actually be unfair for them,” said Gaikwad.Ashnarayan Tiwari, principal of Adarsh Vidya Mandir, Gandhibagh, said this will be one the best decisions the government can take. “It’s for the benefit of students that they be promoted to the next level without examination. What’s happening currently is that online classes are reaching to at the most 50% of the students, which means online exams too are not possible for all. Calling students for offline exams is very dangerous,” said Tiwari. Madhu Joseph, principal of Bengali High School, said the auto-promotion decision will help students who have been deprived on education this year. “It’s a fact that online education has not reached students who come economically backward class. They either don’t have a smartphone or can’t afford the recharge. I hope the state education department goes ahead with this plan to benefit these needy kids,” said Joseph. This maybe a problem for Std XI, according senior principal Ashok Gavhankar, who also heads Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association. “Std XI is a crucial year because that’s the base for competitive exams for JEE and NEET. This may lead to students than just going through the motions and not studying seriously. I understand that it is a tricky situation for the government, hence I am not against the idea. But I feel a little more thought can be put before cancelling exams for Std XI students,” said Gavhankar, principal of Raosaheb Thawre school and junior college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parents-and-academics-support-auto-promotion/articleshow/81248758.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 28, 2021||Pune||Trust wants Bhimashankar fair cancelled||Pune: The Bhimshankar Devsthan trust has urged the Khed tehsil administration to cancel the annual fair in the temple town. The three-day fair begins on Mahashivratri, which falls on March 11 this year. “Having a fair at a time when Covid-19 cases are on the rise would be risky, so we have urged the administration to cancel the fair as a precautionery measure,” Suresh Kaudare, president of the trust, said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trust-wants-bhimashankar-fair-cancelled/articleshow/81250797.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Pune||Even Rs 500 penalty not enough for many to wear masks during Covid pandemic, for some a big deal||PUNE: The Rs 500 fine does not seem to be a deterrent to flouting the mask rule despite the recent spurt in Covid-19 cases in the city from the increasing number of unmasked people — around 450 on February 15 to over 1,800 on Saturday — pulled up by the police. Rs500 is not too meagre an amount, though. College student Piyush Gawade would spend the money at his favourite fast food joint with his girlfriend to get two burgers, fries and beverages with change to spare for dessert at a local ice cream parlour. For domestic help Lanka Potgante, the sum would be good to buy comfortable shoes for her son, who recently got a job as a customer service executive in a supermarket and has to stand for long hours. The more practical ones would buy five litres of petrol for sure. Still, mask-less people don’t care. Buoyed by the misinformation on social media, this super confident crowd perhaps finds it “cool” to become “super-spreaders”. Several studies and research papers have underlined the importance of using the face cover as a first line of defence against the coronavirus. “Masks bring down the community viral load. There is less getting out, and that means there is less for you to be exposed to,” says John Brooks, a medical epidemiologist at Centres for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta in his paper. A commentary in New England Journal of Medicine spoke of a theory that masks, by cutting down on the number of viruses that encounter a person’s airway, might reduce the wearer’s chances of getting sick. Yet, citizens seem to love flouting the mask rule and then grumble that police only catch the “poor common man” and let the “rich and political leaders” go scot free. Spend some time at a police check point, and you will be a master in giving excuses to escape paying fine for not wearing a mask. Many not wearing masks quickly switch lanes or flee on their two-wheelers. Inspector Shabbir Sayyed of the Kondhwa police station said, “A maximum number of people talk about having asthma or breathing issues when they are caught without masks. Then, there are people who give reasons that they misplaced it or forgot to carry it as they were travelling very short distance. We are just implementing the fine fixed by the government. But there is a lot of anger, resentment and many enter into arguments with the police.” Some people also seem to be under the impression that masks are to be worn on the chin, neck, dangled from one ear or kept on the dashboard of your vehicle. When Rakesh, an attendant of a pickup van was caught without a mask on NIBM Road, he said, “I had the mask but with the windows of the van open, it suddenly flew off as I had kept it on the dashboard. I cannot afford to pay Rs500 fine because I don’t have the money. I get Rs100 daily for my work. I am requesting the police to pardon me this time.” Akshay Joshi, a resident of the NIBM area, said it was his sheer bad luck that he got caught earlier this week. “My mask was coming off from my face as it had become loose. So, I was all set to buy a new one. There were so many not wearing masks, but the police did not catch them. I shall wear the mask from now on,” he said in his defence. Gangadhar Pendse, an autorickshaw driver, tried to convince the police that it was his first violation of the mask rule. “I had the mask with me but stopped to have tea at a stall and accidentally left it there. My daily income has reduced to Rs350-400. I paid the fine, which means that my income for the day is zero. Yes, I shall wear the mask as I have always done,” he said. So, why people forget the masks? “Ignorance about why and how the virus is spreading is the top cause for people not wanting to wear masks. Another reason is that they don’t like the intrusion of the government into their personal space. They consider it a breach when they are being told what to wear, even if it is a mask for their own protection,” said psychologist Jayasri Rengarajan. Ashna Mitra, a counselling psychologist, feels that Covid-19 has become normal among the masses, just like malaria or typhoid. “I think everyone might know someone or the other who has contracted the disease at some time, but we still have the mentality that ‘it will not happen to me’,” said Mitra. Psychologist Anuja Kapur thinks that the constant highlighting of dropping cases was a major reason for declining adherence to the safety norms. “Somewhere, people have perceived that the situation is low-risk now as the Covid-19 cases are dropping and the vaccine is out. But that does not mean that the situation is not a health emergency anymore. Some even think wearing a mask is a sign of weakness, while it should be treated as a sign of courage, as you are ready to do your bit by following the safety protocols,” Kapur said. A word of caution for those who wear the masks and feel invincible. Health experts have warned that besides wearing masks, frequent washing of hands, social distancing and avoiding crowded places must be followed during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/even-rs-rs-500-penalty-not-enough-for-many-to-wear-masks-during-covid-pandemic-for-some-a-big-deal/articleshow/81250833.cms||Joy Sengupta
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat civic polls phase 2: Polling under way in 81 municipalities, 31 district, 231 taluka panchayats||AHMEDABAD: After a resounding victory in the six big cities, the upbeat BJP aims to replicate its electoral success in towns and villages of the state, as municipalities and panchayats (district and taluka) go to polls on Sunday. Voting is being held amid stringent Covid-19 guidelines for 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats, and 231 taluka panchayats across the state.  Traditionally, voting in semi-urban and rural local bodies has been much higher compared to cities. Both the BJP and the Congress claim that voters in municipalities and panchayats will choose them. Meanwhile, the AAP, which has tasted success in the Surat Municipal Corporation polls, has fielded a sizable number of candidates in municipalities and panchayat elections as well. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), which won seven seats in the AMC election, has fielded candidates in Godhra and Modasa municipalities. As in the big cities, the BJP holds sway in the majority of municipalities. The saffron party trumped the Congress winning 1,199 seats in municipalities to the Congress’s 674 in 2015. However, the Congress had put up a much improved performance in municipalities in 2015 compared to 2010. As far as the rural bodies (district and taluka panchayats) are concerned, the Congress in 2015 won 597 district panchayat seats and 2,548 taluka panchayat seats. In comparison, the BJP could bag only 367 district panchayat and 2,017 taluka panchayat seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/phase-ii-gujarats-villages-towns-to-go-to-polls-today/articleshow/81249426.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Bareilly||Head constable, 45, kills self in Moradabad||BAREILLY: A 45-year-old traffic police head constable died after allegedly shooting himself in the head with his service revolver at his residence in Majhola area of Moradabad on Saturday. Police said he was suffering from "mental stress". The deceased has been identified as Sunil Kumar, a resident of Sidharth Nagar under Majhola police limits. He was deputed in Rampur district. Senior police officials including the Moradabad SP Amit Kumar Anand, SP (Traffic) Ashok Kumar, Majhola police station team and forensic experts rushed to the house. The deceased cop’s family informed police that Kumar had asked his wife to get a few things from a nearby shop on Saturday morning. She returned home to find him lying in a pool of blood. Their two children, who were asleep, woke up to the gunshot, the family said. “The head constable shot himself in the head and died on the spot. His service revolver has been recovered. The body has been sent for postmortem,” Amit Kumar Anand, SP (City), said. According to the cop's family, there was no dispute at home, but Kumar was "facing certain health issues". “He was suffering from mental stress. We have not recovered any suicide note from the house so far,” the SP (City) added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/head-constable-45-kills-self-in-moradabad/articleshow/81248297.cms||Maria Khan
February 28, 2021||Patna||Trolling of judges ‘grossly unfair’, says law minister||PATNA: Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday flagged the trend of trolling and "agenda-setting" against sitting judges on social media over "unfavourable judgments". Prasad’s statement came within two days of his announcement of guidelines for social media platforms in New Delhi. “India is a free country. Anyone can speak anything. We can surely criticise the reasoning of a judgement. But I foresee a new disturbing trend which I need to flag today,” Prasad said. He was speaking at the inauguration of the centenary building of the Patna high court done by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde in Patna on Saturday, in the presence of CM Nitish Kumar, Justice Navin Sinha, Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice Hemant Gupta of Supreme Court; Patna high court Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Shivaji Pandey. Prasad further said some people have an opinion about an issue, they file a PIL but start campaigning online that they must have a judgment suiting their view. “If the judgment is not as per their view then disturbing comments against judges on social media are made. At times they are even trolled. This is grossly unfair,” the law minister added. He emphasised that the judges, either of Supreme court, high court or district courts, must be given complete freedom to decide cases as per the law. “Any kind of trolling and agenda-setting and publicly criticising sitting judges are not fair. For a long time, I was thinking to share this concern publicly. I chose Patna high court to share my concern but this message is for the entire country,” he said. Prasad said that the launch of social media guidelines was long overdue. “We are supportive of freedom, criticism and dissent. The issue is not the use of social media but misuse and abuse,” he said defending the guidelines issued for social media platforms and added there should be grievance redressal mechanisms and that’s what the government has provided. The Union law minister also said the Centre is going to soon establish the All India Judicial Service (AIJS) on the lines of the civil services. “I am keenly pushing it (AIJS). The work is in progress. We are discussing it with CJI who is encouraging it. It is a part of Article 312 of the Constitution,” he said, addressing judges and CJI Bobde sitting on the dais. “The Union Public Service Commission would select the best minds for the service on par with IAS, IPS and IFS officers with oversight mechanism of the Supreme court. Best minds would become additional district judges, district judges, and a limited number would come to the high courts too. There will be proper reservation for SC, ST and OBC in the judicial service,” the minister said. Prasad said the Indian judiciary rose to the crisis arising due to the Covid-19 pandemic and kept functioning by hearing 76.38 lakh cases countrywide digitally till January 31. “Altogether 24.55 lakh cases were heard in such a way by high courts and 51.83 lakh cases were heard by district courts in the same period,” he said. On the use of I-T in the judiciary and easy access to justice, Prasad said there are four lakh service centres in the country under the law where a common man can go and log in for free litigation advice from a panel of lawyers. “Since 2017, 6.35 lakh advice have been given by lawyers for free via these kiosks. A large number of people belonging to OBC, SC and ST category are those who got benefited from the service,” the minister said and emphasised fast-tracking of ten-year-old criminal and civil nature cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trolling-of-judges-grossly-unfair-says-law-minister/articleshow/81248988.cms||Debashish Karmakar
February 28, 2021||Vadodara||Depressed scrap dealer ends life||Vadodara: Depressed 50-year-old man whose son died last month, ended his life on the railway track near Makarpura GIDC on Saturday morning. The deceased identified as Hanif Khan Pathan, a scrap dealer, had left his home on Vadsar Road for his shop around 8.30 am on Saturday. However, instead of going to the shop, Pathan slept on the railway tracks and was killed by a speeding train. His body was found later and cops were informed. A bike was found near the railway tracks where the body was lying, and a diary recovered from the deceased’s pocket revealed the identity.  Pathan’s family members said that he was grieving for his dead son. “He was depressed ever since the death of my brother, but we never imagined that he would take such an extreme step. We had our breakfast together before he left for the shop,” said another son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/depressed-scrap-dealer-ends-life/articleshow/81249481.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Pune||Daily cases inch above 1,500 again; 13 people die||Pune: The daily Covid-19 cases once again rose above the 1,500-mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region as 1,505 people tested positive for the virus on Saturday. In the 24 hours till 8pm on Saturday, 1,087 patients recovered from the infection. In the same window, 13 people succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, Pune Municipal Corporation added 739, while the rural parts of the district reported 396 patients. Pimpri Chinchwad recorded 370 new positive cases. This took the region’s tally of positive cases to over 4.06 lakh. Of the 1,087 recoveries, 412 were from PMC limits. Pimpri Chinchwad reported 330 discharges, while 345 patients recovered in the rural areas. The total number of recoveries in the region stood at 3.87 lakh. More than 13,000 samples were tested in PMR on Saturday. PMC conducted 8,041 tests, while Pimpri Chinchwad tested 2,321 samples. The rural areas accounted for 2,663 tests. This took the total number of samples tested in PMR to more than 23 lakh. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that six people died in areas under PMC’s jurisdiction, four breathed their last in Pimpri Chinchwad and three patients succumbed in the rural areas. Meanwhile, the active caseload in the region increased further to 9,860 — 3,872 patients were being treated in hospitals, while 5,988 infected people were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-cases-inch-above-1500-again-13-people-die/articleshow/81250814.cms||Sarang Dastane
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||Covid +ve cancer patient refused admission at CCC||Nagpur: A cancer patient who had tested Covid-19 positive was on Saturday allegedly refused admission at Pachpaoli Covid Care Centre (CCC) though his condition was found ‘stable’ and GMCH had advised home isolation.The patient with comorbidity from Amravati had tested positive on February 22 and was referred to GMCH Covid hospital. Following all check-ups, the 55-year-old man was advised home isolation as a step down process but couldn't return to his hometown due to lockdown there.The officials decided to admit him at the city’s lone CCC at Pachpaoli police quarters. On learning that the patient had underwent colostomy and would need assistance in replacing his faeces bag, the CCC didn’t allow the medical staff to drop him at the facility as they didn’t have housekeeping staff for isolation room.The patient was referred to Indira Gandhi Rugnalay (IGR) but officials there claimed the patient was not manageable because of the same reason. Ultimately, he was taken in by GMCH.GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said he had got a call from the attending doctor regarding the patient. “But CCC should accept the patient if s/he has been referred there. Issues can be sorted out but the patient must not be kept waiting,” he said.Dr Gawande said the cancer patient was a step down patient. “Only serious patients are admitted at our DCH. GMCH is a tertiary care centre, so accordingly we take admission as per the norms,” he said.Officials said GMCH ICU is now full while Covid patients are rising. “We need to keep beds free for serious ones,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-ve-cancer-patient-refused-admission-at-ccc/articleshow/81248764.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 28, 2021||Rajkot||Two held with liquor worth Rs 39L||Rajkot: The local crime branch of Kutch police seized Indian Made Foreign Liquor worth Rs 39.2 lakh and arrested two persons in a raid at Anjar on Friday night. Police said that they had received information about the distribution of liquor from a farm in Bhimasar village of Anjar taluka. Based on the tip-off, cops raided the farm and nabbed Madeva Dangar and Karan Inti, both residents of Anjar taluka. Cops also seized 8,796 bottles of IMFL and 3,360 beer cans. Police have declared four persons as absconders and seized an SUV used by the accused to transport the liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-held-with-liquor-worth-rs-39l/articleshow/81249641.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Brace for chaos: Record 164 in fray for MLC polls in Telangana||HYDERABAD: In what could be a record of sorts in the country, a massive 164 candidates are in the fray for the two graduate constituencies of the legislative council of Telangana, going to the polls on March 14. As many as 93 candidates will be trying their luck for the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat and 71 contestants will fight it out for the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda seat. These figures are three times more than the number of candidates who had fought the elections in 2015. With such large number of candidates in the fray, political parties are keeping their fingers crossed. The primary reason being there will be no party symbol on the ballot paper. Also, it will be difficult for voters to identify candidates in the jumbo ballot paper unless his or her face is familiar to them. Another worrying factor is that a candidate should get at least 50% of valid votes and one extra vote to be declared the winner. If none of the candidates get 50% votes, second preference votes will be taken into consideration. Election Commission officials said that only the name, party affiliation and photograph of the candidate will be published on the ballot paper. “Not having the party symbol on the ballot paper is a concern. During the campaign, party leaders must invariably show the photograph of the candidate,” a senior TRS leader said. Chief electoral officer Shashank Goel said, “Our officers are talking to the State Election Commission (SEC) and other states to get jumbo ballot boxes for the polling,” he told STOI on Saturday. In the 2015 graduates MLC polls, 31 candidates from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and 22 from Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda seats were in the fray. “As many as 180 candidates, including 170 farmers, were in the fray from Nizamabad Lok Sabha seat in 2019. Similarly, 480 candidates had contested from Nalgonda Lok Sabha seat in 1996 elections to highlight the fluoride problem. But, it is the first time that such a large number of nominations have been filed in an MLC election,” a senior SEC official said. With advocates, teachers’ unions and small registered parties’ candidates trying their luck, all major parties are worried that they will eat into their candidates’ votes. “If the photographs are not printed properly or persons have similar features, there is every chance of votes getting polled for other candidate,” a party general secretary said. Sources said independent candidates filed nominations in the hope that second preference votes will help them win the election. The TRS had lost some seats in both 2018 assembly and 2019 general elections due to symbol confusion among the voters. The party got ‘truck’ symbol removed from the independent candidates’ symbols as it resembled its ‘car’ symbol and had led to some of its candidates facing a defeat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/brace-for-chaos-record-164-in-fray-for-mlc-polls-in-t/articleshow/81250817.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 28, 2021||Patna||SI held in Muzaffarpur for striking ‘deal’ with liquor mafia||PATNA: Braj Kishore Yadav, a sub-inspector of police posted as SHO incharge of Karja police station in Muzaffarpur district, was arrested on Saturday for seeking a bribe from a liquor smuggler. Yadav, a 2009-batch SI, was caught by the district anti-liquor task force from the Kachhi Pakki area on NH-28 while making a deal to allow a truck bringing in liquor from outside the state. Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant said the police officer in question reached the spot after being tipped off about a truck transporting Indian made foreign liquor. Instead of taking action, the cop demanded Rs 2.5 lakh from the driver of the vehicle to release the truck. The SI was nabbed by the anti-liquor task force and brought to a police station for questioning. Later, an FIR was lodged against him and the driver of the truck. Sources said Yadav drove 15 km from the police station to strike the deal to release the liquor-laden truck. The SSP said around 4,400 litres of alcohol were seized from the truck. Raids are on to arrest others involved in the illicit liquor trade defying the prohibition law, he added. Yadav was earlier put under suspension and departmental proceedings initiated against him after a video showing him extorting money from truck operators went viral on social media. He was then posted at Sadar police station in Muzaffarpur. This is not an isolated case in the district. Earlier, Kumar Amitabh, then SHO of Motipur police station in Muzaffarpur district, was put under suspension after a huge consignment was seized from his residence in 2019. Surprisingly, Amitabh, who is closely associated with an influential politician, is still at large. An FIR was lodged against him under relevant sections of the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act 2016. Meanwhile, a chowkidar, Ratnesh Kumar, was arrested in inebriated condition from Kolhua under Ahiyapur police station in the district on Saturday. The action against the sub-inspector assumed significance in the wake of the killing of a police officer Dinesh Ram allegedly by the liquor mafia in the Sitamarhi district earlier this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/si-held-in-muzaffarpur-for-striking-deal-with-liquor-mafia/articleshow/81248979.cms||Ramashankar
February 28, 2021||Dehradun||Three new parking slots with capacity of 800 vehicles to come up at Nainital||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday announced the construction of three parking slots, having a total capacity of 800 vehicles, in Nainital. At present, Nainital has a total parking capacity of 450 vehicles and the lack of parking space often leads to long holdovers within and outside the city area. The situation worsens during peak tourist seasons. “When Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh, there were 4.5 lakh vehicles in the state and now, this number has gone above 26 lakh,” the CM said. He added that efforts are underway to solve the parking woes in Nainital. “A 300-vehicle parking area would come up at Bhowali, 400-vehicle parking facility in Kutchery premises and parking space for 100 vehicles at Phansi Gadera,” he said. Besides, an amount of Rs 25.77 crore was passed to develop a recharge zone and tourist destination at Sukhatal. Meanwhile, in a novel initiative, the Uttarakhand government on Saturday started “Ghareki Pechan Chelik Naam” from Nainital district. Under the ambitious campaign, the traditional Aipan art would be used to display the daughter’s name and decoration on name plates. One village each has been identified in the different development blocks where the project would be initiated. In case, a family has more than one girl child, the name of the youngest daughter would be displayed on the nameplate. While launching the project at Nainital, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said that it takes ahead the Beti Padhao-Beti Bachao campaign of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The house will be known by the name of the daughter and it is a big step ahead,” he said. In the first phase of the project, the Nainital Municipal Corporation has identified 8,000 houses in different blocks and later more areas would be included under the ambit of the campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-new-parking-slots-with-capacity-of-800-vehicles-to-come-up-at-nainital/articleshow/81248763.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||‘Tired of lockdown’, J’khand boy takes a bus to visit Kol zoo||Kolkata: Three sergeants from the Bhowanipore traffic guard rescued a 12-year-old boy who was trying to scale the walls of Alipore zoo to enter it on Friday night. When the cops — Amit Kumar Shaw, Swastik Chakraborty and Sanjeet Kumar Mullick — enquired, they realized the boy had run away from home. After further questioning, the cops called up his parents at Pakur in Jharkhand and asked them to come over and take away their child. This is the second time in less than two weeks that sergeants have recovered a teenager — residing outside Bengal — from the Maidan-zoo belt after they reportedly ran away just to visit these places. “There were cops in and around the zoo as preparations were on for the Left-Congress brigade rally. We were also keeping an extra vigil in the area after the theft of three rare birds. Amidst all the frenzy, we noticed the child. He said he wanted to come to the zoo as was tired of staying at home during the lockdown. So he took a bus from Dhanbad and reached Kolkata,” recalled an officer. “We are trying to speak to the bus driver and conductor who brought him here. We need to ensure that they play a vital role in stopping such incidents as these children run the risk of being exploited mid-way in the journey. If required, we will have to hold special classes with long-distance bus workers,” said an officer. The Bhowanipore traffic guard officers dropped him at the Alipore police station as per protocol. The police station, on their part, arranged for a shelter home for the child. The minor was later produced at the child welfare committee and he will soon be reunited with his parents, said cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tired-of-lockdown-jkhand-boy-takes-a-bus-to-visit-kol-zoo/articleshow/81249433.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Scriptwriter alerts GHMC on illegal constructions in Banjara||Hyderabad: Dozens of illegal constructions are coming up in many parts of the city. As per the GHMC records, 50% of the structures in the city have building plan deviations while 10% of them are illegal. Among the 16, 74,428 properties, 14,28,005 are residential, 2,16,000 are commercial and the rest are mixed (residential and commercial). Meanwhile, Telugu movie scriptwriter Kona Venkat complained about these irregularities. Speaking about the lack of civic infrastructure, Venkat tweeted, “Lot of illegal constructions are coming up in Sayyed Nagar, Road no 12, Banjara Hills... No sewerage, No sanitation, No roads.. but multi-storied constructions in these slums will lead to major problems in future.. Please look into this @CommissionrGHMC @KTRTRS @GHMCOnline.” There are several buildings in the city where illegal floors were raised, setbacks (space between the compound wall and built-up area) were left, commercial establishments are running in cellars, etc. Though Venkat flagged Sayyed Nagar in Banjara Hills Road No. 12, the condition is more or less the same in many parts of the city. In Serilingampally circle, several property owners raised double the number of floors and in Malakpet circle (Old City) a building was constructed on a disputed land. GHMC officials said that Syed Nagar will be inspected. “We have informed the town planning officials to inspect the area. Based on the inspection, action will be taken,” said MK Ali, GHMC deputy commissioner, Mehdipatnam circle .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scriptwriter-alerts-ghmc-on-illegal-constructions-in-banjara/articleshow/81249446.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 28, 2021||Salem||White metal loses shine as price doubles in a year||Salem: The price of silver has doubled over the past one year to Rs72,000 from Rs36,000 in the Salem jewellery market. However, it isn’t the first time the white metal is becoming this pricey. According to K Vadivel, one of the jewellery shop owners in the city, the price of 1kg silver had touched Rs72,000-mark in 2011, when the trend to fix the price online started. Merchants say silver price usually spirals upwards during festival times, especially during Diwali, Pongal, Onam (harvest festival of Kerala) and Dasara. While the price has skyrocketed, merchants say the sale, which was down since last March when the lockdown was announced to fight Covid-19 pandemic, is yet to pick up. According to them, the price of 1kg silver was only Rs.6800 in 2006, when there was no online price fixing system. Now, the price fluctuates by anywhere between Rs200 and Rs300 in a month. Pointing out that earlier people used to place orders for silver anklets, lamps, plates and pots for marriage functions, M Gupta, another merchant from Shevapet in the city, says such orders have come down because of the price hike. The price rise has left the silver ornament manufacturers worried. “We usually get orders from neighbouring states and that too has stopped now as there will be a sizable difference in the rate by the time orders get ready for delivery,” one of the manufacturers said. Salem is a known silver ornament manufacturing hub. Spread across Tirumalaigiri, Sivadapuram, Vedukathampatty, Panangkadu, Shevapet, Annadhanapatty, Maniyanur, Kondalampatty and Kandampatty, there are more than 3,000 silver ornament making units in the district and they together employ 80,000 workers. The units get orders from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala and Puducherry. The silver ornament makers have appealed both the Union and the state governments to take necessary steps to bring down the price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/white-metal-loses-shine-as-price-doubles-in-a-year/articleshow/81249461.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Worli murder case: Cops on lookout for missing help||Mumbai: The police, probing the murder of a 79-year-old woman resident of a bungalow at Worli Sea Face, said that they were looking for the bungalow’s domestic help who disappeared after the incident. He is suspected to have stolen jewellery worth Rs 5 lakh and killing the elderly woman. He was recently employed at the bungalow. No arrest has been made yet. Body of Vishni Dolwani was found in her bungalow a little after midnight on Friday at 12.15pm. “We are looking for the domestic help,” said a senior police officer. The deceased was found asphyxiated and prima facie, it appears to be a case of strangulation, an officer had said on Friday. The Dolwani family told the police their domestic help was missing and their safe was found open, and jewellery worth Rs 5 lakh was missing. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/worli-murder-case-cops-on-lookout-for-missing-help/articleshow/81250841.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Aurangabad||Forest dept announces bird census||Aurangabad: Days within the TOI report highlighting the inordinate delay in carrying out the bird census at Jayakadi sanctuary despite the migratory season almost nearing the end, the forest department has announced the necessary activity on Sunday. Divisional forest officer (Wildlife) Vijay Satpute said the census will be carried out more holistically this year as compared to the past. “To be carried out from dawn to dusk, the census will cover as many as 30 places that are habitats for different feathery bipeds. Besides the staff of the forest department, a group of bird experts and nature lovers will join us in counting different local and migratory birds,” he said. While bird experts prefer the census of winged creatures by the second week of January every year, the forest department said the delayed migration of some of the birds led to the postponement of the exercise this year. Officially notified as a sanctuary in 1986, Jaikawadi bird sanctuary is spread over 341.05 square km area and hailed as the biodiversity hotspot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/forest-dept-announces-bird-census/articleshow/81248303.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||N440K variant of coronavirus can cause reinfection: Study||HYDERABAD: Researchers, including those from Kurnool medical college, have said that the novel coronavirus variant, N440K, can cause reinfection. According to them, this variant can escape the immune system and can cause reinfection in patients already recovered from Covid-19, reports Syed Akbar. The researchers studied a case in Kurnool, which they said was the second reinfection case in India caused by the variant, one of the most rouge mutants of the virus. The study was published on pre-print research server OSF. Earlier, researchers from CCMB and Apollo hospitals in Hyderabad recorded two cases of Covid-19 reinfection in the city, but these were not related to N440K. Researchers from Kurnool Medical College, Kurnool, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi, and Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research, Ghaziabad, have found that N440K has a high prevalence of over 33% in Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/n440k-variant-of-coronavirus-can-cause-reinfection-study/articleshow/81251912.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Three men rob security guard at knife-point in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 30-year-old man, who stays in Bhopal and works as security guard, on Friday filed a complaint with Karanj police alleging that three men including an autorickshaw driver robbed him of Rs 19,000 on Nehru Bridge on Thursday night. The robbers first snatched away his money and then returned Rs 1,000 to complainant Raghuveer Chandel. Chandel said that he was going to his sister’s place in Viratnagar to give her money. When he was walking on Relief Road, an autorickshaw driver approached him and he sat inside. Two passengers were already seated inside. The driver began moving towards Nehru Bridge. When Chandel resisted, they pointed a knife at him and snatched away all of his money. However, later they returned Rs 1,000. Chandel later approached Karanj police and filed a complaint of robbery against three men, aged around 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-men-rob-security-guard-at-knife-point/articleshow/81249452.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Four young sailors march towards career in Army||HYDERABAD: Madhava and Bharati Rao, parents of 10-year-old Manideep Perikatta, couldn’t stop beaming on Saturday. Earlier this week, their son was selected for the Army Boy Sports Company in Bengaluru - set up by the Indian Army under its engineer's regiment. The institute draws sportspersons from across the country and trains them for their induction into the Armed forces. Manideep, a student of Alpha Omega school in Rasoolpura, is among the four chosen to join the institute in Bengaluru. Each of these young boys have been trained by the Yacht Club of Hyderabad Foundation. Barely able to contain his excitement, Madhava Rao said: “We came to Hyderabad in 1995. We've faced several challenges because of no job security. Today, we are very happy that my son got an opportunity to join the Armed forces. This wouldn’t have been possible without the four months of training that my son was given at sailing here (Yatcht Club of Hyderabad).” He and his wife migrated to Hyderabad from Odisha and have been working as construction workers to eke out a living. The other three boys are: Nitin Nayak (Nagarkurnool), Abiram Kavarala (Wanaparthy) and Harshavardhan Yerra (Vikarabad). All these young sailors come from modest backgrounds, with their parents doing odd jobs to earn a livelihood. The club selects its sailors from marginalised communities and trains them for national and international levels. “When I joined the Yacht Club of Hyderabad, I saw a few of my seniors in the Army and Navy teams but I did not even dream I would be part of those teams too. I am very grateful for the intensive training and support provided to me by the foundation,” said Harshavardhan, son of a farmer from Chilkur. The founder and coach of the club, Suheim Sheikh, too is extremely proud of the boys. He said, “We’ve been training kids for about 10 years now. We have trained about 1,000 of them so far. Getting four of our boys selected when only eight were chosen out of hundreds of applicants is very satisfying. Once they pass their class 10 boards, they will be inducted into the Armed forces directly. This is a clear indication that our training and systems are well established. Dignity Through Sports is our motto and this is surely another step in exactly that direction.” The club also sent six girls under their Naavika programme to the Atlantic Week in Portugal, Spain and to Oman for the Asians in 2019 and 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-young-sailors-march-towards-career-in-army/articleshow/81249462.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat companies lead CNG station surge||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat-based city gas distribution (CGD) companies are planning to aggressively add new compressed natural gas (CNG) stations. The expansion is driven by the government’s greater push for the usage of cleaner fuels, growing adoption of CNG amid surging petrol and diesel prices, as well as the allotment of new geographical areas for creating CGD networks. Companies such as Gujarat Gas Ltd (GGL), Torrent Gas Ltd (TGL) and Sabarmati Gas Ltd (SGL) have chalked out ambitious plans to expand their network of CNG stations next fiscal. In fact, these firms continued adding new stations during the current fiscal despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. “GGL has so far commercialized 107 CNG stations across geographies this fiscal,” said Sanjeev Kumar, managing director, GGL, the largest CGD player in India. Kumar added: “We plan to further increase the number to 150 by March 2021.” The company added 107 stations in just eight months, which was the fastest addition by any company in India during the given timeframe. Now, the state-run GGL plans to add 200-plus CNG stations in 2021-22, involving a capital expenditure of about Rs 400 crore. At present, the company has 500 stations in several parts of the country, including Gujarat. Torrent Gas intends to set up 150 CNG stations in 2021-22. The private sector CGD player has so far commissioned 86 CNG stations this fiscal and aims to establish 25 more by the end of 2020-21, which will take its total tally of operational CNG stations to 160. “The company intends to invest about Rs 1,000 crore for creating CNG infrastructure over the next five years,” said a spokesperson of Torrent Gas. Sabarmati Gas Ltd set up 26 new stations and plans to reach 30 by March-end. The public sector CGD player aims to establish similar number of new stations in the next fiscal as well, said sources. “To ensure wider and faster availability of green fuel, our chief minister Vijaybhai Rupani launched the unique CNG Sahbhaagi Yojana, under which 384 letters of intent (LOIs) have already been issued,” said the managing director of GGL. “In order to achieve this, GGL has doubled its executive capabilities.” The company is also setting up a CNG station at Kevadia in Narmada district. According to a Torrent Gas spokesperson, there is significant emphasis by the Government of India on the usage of cleaner fuel for transportation and hence there is a general push to set up more CNG stations. As petrol and diesel prices have been de-regulated, the price of CNG is cheaper by 50% and 60% when compared with diesel and petrol, respectively. Hence, the consumer adoption of CNG has accelerated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-companies-lead-cng-station-surge/articleshow/81249476.cms||Kalpesh Damor
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Fuel price, advocate couple murder become MLC poll issues||Hyderabad: Two unlikely subjects — the rising prices of petrol and diesel and the murder of an advocate couple have become major poll issues in the March 14 elections to the two graduate MLC constituencies. Issues pertaining to jobs, promotions, pay revision of employees, education policies, problems being faced by graduate voters are taken up in campaigning by political parties during graduate MLC elections. But the issues such as petrol and diesel price hike, which normally affects the larger gamut of common people and the issue of murder of advocates, that would have been by and large confined to the voters from legal community, have become central issues in the MLC polls now. While Congress, led by its state president N Uttam Kumar, has been targeting both BJP and TRS governments for skyrocketing fuel prices, even TRS ministers have been vocal about hike in petrol prices during their campaign for the party candidates notwithstanding the fact that state taxes too are a cause for higher fuel prices in the state. Finance minister T Harish Rao appealed to voters of graduate MLC seats to decide whether they would vote for BJP which has taken petrol prices to near Rs 100 per litre. “Do you want to vote for the BJP whose government at the Centre has not fulfilled the assurances made to Telangana state in the AP State Reorganisation Act,” he asked while campaigning for party candidate Surabhi Vani Devi, who is contesting from the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar MLC seat.  State BJP chief spokesperson K Krishna Rao said: “Those trying to make it an election issue are only trying to derive political advantage and exploit the election process. The murdered couple was fighting against the government. So that definitely has become the issue for the voters to consider.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fuel-price-advocate-couple-murder-become-mlc-poll-issues/articleshow/81249458.cms||Roushan Ali
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC officials prepare status report on public washrooms||Hyderabad: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) deputy commissioners submitted the status report of public washrooms after inspection to Santosh Badavat, GHMC additional commissioner for health wing. In view of the Swachh Survekshan 2021 survey, the municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) department had issued a memo to the GHMC deputy commissioners directing them to inspect public toilet in their respective circles and report their status. A document in possession with TOI says that the deputy commissioners were told to submit the status report of public washrooms in the format annexed. Most of the public washrooms in the city are not operational. The GHMC had handed over the maintenance of the public toilets to the private agencies through tenders. Some agencies said that they did not receive work orders and that the GHMC is not releasing payments, which is the primary reason for the dysfunctional washrooms. “For some washrooms, the GHMC did not issue work orders, if GHMC does not pay us how is it possible to maintain the toilets,” asked an agency official who was handed over the contract. GHMC officials did not respond to TOI’s calls over the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-officials-prepare-status-report-on-public-washrooms/articleshow/81249459.cms||Nabinder Bommala
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: After 7-year fight, Audi owner gets Rs 17L from insurance company||HYDERABAD: More than seven years after an Audi Q7 owner suffered a huge loss and spent Rs 20 lakh on repairs of the vehicle, the Telangana State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (TSCDRC) directed the insurance company to pay Rs 17.54 lakh along with 7% interest. The car was damaged in the 2013 floods. The insurance company had offered only Rs 53,000 payout. Finding fault with Bharti Axa General Insurance Company Ltd for refusing to help car owner Ch Sudhakar Raju despite collecting a premium of Rs 1.12 lakh, the bench said in its order said that the insurance company was wrong in its conclusions. Raju, a resident of Banjara Hills, got the Audi repaired after its engine was damaged in the floods. The bench of Justice MSK Jaiswal as president and Meena Ramanathan as member said: “Merely because the car got stuck in rain or drain water on the main road, we cannot expect the person sitting at the steering wheel not to make any attempt to start the car. The natural human instinct is to make an attempt to restart the car.” Stating that each servicing of a luxury car costs at least Rs 50,000, it said: “Getting repairs done to such vehicles is much more expensive. It is wrong on the part of the insurance company to offer just Rs 53,000 to the petitioner towards repairs.” The bench also slapped costs of Rs 10,000 on the insurance firm and gave it four weeks to pay Rs 17.54 lakh plus the interest amount. Raju bought Audi Q7 3.0TDI model in December 2012 for Rs 60 lakh and took an insurance policy. But within 10 months, the car was stuck in a traffic jam caused by a heavy downpour on September 15, 2013, at Jubilee Hills. Within minutes, the area was heavily inundated and vehicular traffic was stranded up to KBR Park area leaving scores of owners and their vehicles marooned. Flood water gushed into the car engine. The vehicle could not be started and was later shifted to Audi workshop. The insurance firm representative assessed the car and said it was due to hydrostatic loss that the car could not move. The company contended that this particular issue was not covered by the policy and hence refused to compensate the loss. It also argued before the commission that if the vehicle was driven or an attempt was made to drive without effecting the required repairs, then the burden would lie on the car owner. “We will not pay insurance in such a situation. Moreover, a surveyor appointed by the company gave a report saying that the engine cannot be damaged so easily. Based on this, we have concluded that the engine was damaged on account of the faulty handling of the situation by the owner. We are not liable to pay any insurance,” it argued. The company further argued, “After the vehicle got stuck in flood waters, the owner should not have tried to start it. Because the owner tried to start it, the engine condition had worsened and the car got heavily damaged. Hence, the liability would lie on the owner and not on us.” It said: “At best, we would pay Rs 53,000 towards repairs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-7-yr-fight-audi-owner-gets-rs-17l-from-insurance-co/articleshow/81250853.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS mins hit campaign trail||Hyderabad: A day after withdrawal of nominations process was over for MLC elections, the TRS has started a high-octane campaign in the all six erstwhile districts going to the poll on March 14. TRS incharge ministers, appointed by party president K Chandrasekhar Rao, started campaigning and meeting with leaders on Saturday. Finance minister T Harish Rao, who has been given incharge of Rangareddy, addressed party workers at three places, including Bonguluru in Ibrahimpatnam, at a function hall in Uppal and another meeting in Medchal. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mins-hit-campaign-trail/articleshow/81249472.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||KTR woos government employees, says TRS has special bond with them||HYDERABAD: TRS working president KT Rama Rao said the state government employees and TRS have always shared a special bond since the start of separate Telangana movement, but some parties were spreading rumours that they have turned against the TRS. “Government employees worked with the TRS closely during the statehood struggle. After formation of Telangana state, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced a huge pay revision and increment to all categories of government employees,” KTR said. Party working president, who addressed party corporators, elected representatives and party leaders at Telangana Bhavan on Saturday evening in view of the forthcoming graduates MLC elections, called upon the party leaders and workers to meet every voter personally and explain the developmental activities taken up by the TRS government in the last six years and also expose the BJP’s smear campaign against the government. Wary about BJP’s efforts in this elections too, KTR said leaders should tell the graduates that the BJP government at the Centre has not given any funds to the state government. KTR said the opposition parties, especially BJP, were spreading lies from ‘galli to Delhi’ against the TRS government. Even Mission Bhagiratha scheme, which was taken up to provide drinking water to every household, is being claimed as Centre’s scheme. “We should expose the saffron party. Increasing petrol, diesel and gas prices could be highlighted as a major issue with voters,” he said. “TRS used to struggle to get candidates to contest in the GHMC elections. Now, we have won mayor post twice by registering a huge victory. This was possible because of developmental works and also united efforts of party leaders. This spirit should continue in the MLC elections also,” he said. KTR said clean image of TRS candidate from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar Vani Devi would help her clinch the victory. To attract youth voters, he said the party workers and leaders should explain that TRS had provided 14 lakh jobs in private sector both directly and indirectly apart from filling up 1.32 lakh jobs in various government departments. He also said party would recognise the efforts of each workers and leader. TRS secretary general K Keshava Rao, ministers Mohammed Mahmood Ali, Talasani Srinivas Yadav and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-woos-govt-employees-says-trs-has-special-bond-with-them/articleshow/81249466.cms||Koride Mahesh
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||New script in Telangana govt schools: Coding in Telugu||HYDERABAD: Move over English, coding in Telangana’s government schools will now be taught in Telugu, in a new move that could see scores of students queuing up to learn the programming language in their mother tongue. Authorities said with students who are not well-versed in English and shying away from learning this skill, it has been decided to start courses in Telugu to encourage youngsters. “As a pilot, we will start the programme in 50 schools in the coming academic year. Soon, it will be extended to all other schools in the district,” said Vijaya Kumari, district education officer (Medchal-Malkajgiri district) where the project will be kick-started. Kumari said co-curricular and extracurricular activity periods would be devoted for coding classes. “See this is new subject for many, so we decided to teach it in Telugu,” she told TOI. The programme, which will be run by Coding For All, a startup, will commence from the academic year 2021-22, which will see students of class 8 to class 10 get introduced to programming. The medium of instruction and material will both be in Telugu. An app will be used to help students run their code and learn programming. “Despite not knowing English, countries like Japan and China produced many great programmers. The language barrier did not stop them from learning to code,” said M Omkarnath, chief executive officer, Coding For All. He said with the digital literacy and coding resources, mostly available in English, many turn away. In this initiative, the startup is partnering with the Telangana government to support more than 50,000 children from disadvantaged sections free of cost. “Right now, our focus is to ensure that students have the required skill set to be programmers,” he said, and added that some of his students, who are not good with the English language, are already working as programmers in Blockchain and machine learning. The programme is designed in such a way that coding is taught without a computer. Students can write the code, scan it using a mobile phone, and upload it onto the app, which converts an image into text to run the code. Industry experts welcomed the move, saying priority is always given to coding skills. “In industry, especially in product-based companies and for research and development (R&D) profiles, coding skills are given much more importance over soft skills. In service-based firms and client-based roles, communication skills are also needed, but students can learn them at any given point in time,” said Bharani Kumar Aroll, president, Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA). He said that in schools coding should not be made unnecessarily difficult by being taught in English, that many students are unfamiliar and uncomfortable with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-script-in-t-govt-schools-coding-in-telugu/articleshow/81250870.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||BJP says it’ll agitate for rights of SRA builders||Mumbai: At a time when top builders enjoy a 50% discount in real estate premiums, the BJP has hit out at the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for not giving instalment facilities to Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) developers on par with builders who work with other planning authorities like the BMC and Mhada. The BJP has warned that if the flexible instalment facility for SRA builders is not started by Monday, it would launch a sit-in protest outside Nirmal building in Nariman Point, from where the key decisions of the urban development department are allegedly taken. BJP MLA Mihir Kotecha, who is the state BJP’s treasurer, alleged that the file to start flexible instalment facility for SRA builders was stuck with urban development minister Eknath Shinde’s office for three months. “We have seen the importance of having a home with the toilet inside during the Covid-19 pandemic. The MVA government is only working for the big builders and killing SRA builders. This will destroy the entire rehabilitation of slum-dwellers and they will be forced to live in slums,” Kotecha said. The state government earlier this year cut real estate premiums for builders by 50% but builders of SRA projects are not getting the same instalment facility for paying premiums like those working with other agencies. While the state government’s urban development department allowed the BMC, Mhada, the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) and the MMRDA to let builders pay charges through flexible instalments in September 2019, the SRA was left out. The BMC allows five instalments to developers involved in constructing buildings up to 70 metres — 10% in the first instalment and 22.5% in the remaining four instalments. For buildings higher than 70 metres, there are six instalments — 10% in the first instalment, and 18% in the remaining five instalments. In the SRA, builders have to pay all premiums in four instalments of 25% each. This means that while builders get to pay premiums in smaller instalments in the BMC and Mhada, those carrying out SRA projects have to pay premiums of bigger amounts. Kotecha alleged that the entire urban development department was running out of Nirmal building in Nariman Point instead of Mantralaya. “Unless you do ‘Laxmi darshan’ there, no work gets done in the department,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-says-itll-agitate-for-rights-of-sra-builders/articleshow/81250858.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 28, 2021||Salem||Poll code to hit biz further||Salem: Silver ornament manufacturers said their woes would intensify in the next three months, as model code of conduct for the state assembly polls has come into force. Pointing out that they usually travel in trains and buses to deliver the finished ornaments to their customers, S Kannan, an ornament manufacturer from Tirumalaigiri, said, “We usually don’t keep receipts and bills for the ornaments, which we often deliver through our workers, who return with cash.” Now that the poll code is in force, he said, officials would nab the workers travelling with ornaments or cash. As per the model code of conduct, people should have valid documents, receipts or bills for the materials and cash, if its more than Rs50,000, they carry. “In the absence of valid documents, cash and other items will be seized by the officials and handed over to the income tax department,” Kannan said. According to Salem Silver Ankle Chain Manufacturer’s Association, silver ornament production in the district has already dropped to two tonnes a day from five tonnes over the past one year. “The production will further drop till May 15 because of the poll code of conduct. Each unit will face at least Rs10,000 loss a day business of this alone,” Kannan said. Many silver ornament manufacturers have decided to shut their business till May 15, as they fear officials would purposely raid their units and seize ornaments, citing they were meant to be distributed as freebies by political parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/poll-code-to-hit-biz-further/articleshow/81249478.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||MA&UD min tweets on ‘GDP’||Hyderabad: Municipal minister KT Rama Rao took potshots at BJP government over rising prices of gas, diesel and petrol.  KTR posed a question to twitterati: “Quick general knowledge question. What is the full form of GDP that has been on the rise because of the extraordinary performance of the Union Govt? (sic)” Twitterati seemed to have understood the sarcasm behind the question and some of them answered – Gas, Diesel, Petrol. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maud-min-tweets-on-gdp/articleshow/81249479.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur-Mumbai morning flight plan to work out soon||KOLHAPUR: Efforts are currently on to start the daily Kolhapur-Mumbai two-way flight service in the morning schedule and the plans will materialise soon, said district guardian minister Satej Patil on Saturday after meeting with the officials at the Kolhapur airport. The meeting of the consultant committee for the development of the airport was held on Friday. Apart from Patil, MPs Sanjay Mandlik and Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, experts and officials were present. Issues related to the runway extension, night landing and other infrastructure-related matters were discussed. Currently, the flight service to Mumbai is a thrice-a-week affair in the afternoon slot. Passengers, however, have been demanding a morning flight. “Over the past couple of weeks, I have been discussing the matter with the airport authorities in Mumbai to allow a slot in the morning. Similarly, we are also planning to start a regular flight to Pune. Soon, both will materialise,” said Patil. At the meeting, Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati expressed displeasure over the slow pace of the terminal building and other works. Patil said most of the infrastructure-related works will be completed in six to eight months. “The airport authorities have assured to give permission for night landings once the obstacles along the runway are removed. Also, the work on runway extension needs to be carried out effectively so that the cargo Airbus can land safely,” he said. The committee members lauded the efforts of the airport authorities on successfully starting the Kolhapur-Ahmedabad two-way flight service. Currently, the Kolhapur airport connects major cities like Bangaluru, Mumbai, Tirupati and Hyderabad. On Wednesday, Kolhapur airport recorded the highest passenger movement since the start of the pandemic. A total of 585 passengers, in 16 flight movements to five international airports, were registered. The airport authorities have appealed to the passengers to arrive well before time due to the Covid-related processes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-mumbai-morning-flight-plan-to-work-out-soon/articleshow/81248316.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Man killed in road accident||Hyderabad: A 29-year-old man died in a road accident after the car in which he was travelling hit a signal post in BN Reddy Nagar on Saturday. Vanasthalipuram police said that the deceased, Sandeep Reddy, and two others, Gowtham and Mallikarjun, were travelling in a car from Champapet to Turkayamjal. Gowtham lost control over the vehicle since he allegedly drove the car at high speed and hit BN Reddy Nagar signal post and the median. “Sandeep, who was seated in the rear seat, died on the spot. It is a case of alleged speeding and drunken driving. It was the car driver who called up the victim’s family and informed them about the mishap,” police said. The victim, a resident of Champapet who worked in a private company, sustained bleeding head injury in the mishap. Police said that a case was registered under Section 304 (ii) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of IPC based on the complaint given by Sandeep’s family members. The accused, Gowtham, is reportedly in police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/81249482.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Accused in obscene videos case raked in Rs 2 crore: Cops||Mumbai: Three persons, including a tuition class owner were arrested for uploading obscene videos, after the brother of a victim saw one of them on social media and approached police. Girls were offered money for featuring in videos the accused shot of them being touched inappropriately. The videos were uploaded on YouTube channels and Facebook, from where the accused made Rs 2 crore.The offence in this case took place on February 23 and an FIR was lodged on February 25. Police booked all three accused for outraging the modesty of a woman under IPC and invoked sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Information Technology Act. So far, five girls have complained to police about the gang.“The accused would tell girls to act in videos. Some were lured, saying it was a good platform to show off their talent and they could land roles in films. The accused would pay the girls Rs1,000-1,500 for acting in a 7-8 minute video,” an officer said.The prime accused, who is married, lives in Thane, while his two aides are from Kurar village in Mumbai. The accused are a Commerce graduate, studying BHMS and pursuing a bachelor’s degree in management services.The trio had shot many videos at Juhu beach, Aksa beach and some MCGM gardens during the lockdown. “The accused had 17 YouTube channels with over 15 crore views. They earned around Rs 2 crore through YouTube and advertisements. The channels had over two crore subscribers and followers. Most of the money went to the main accused. His parents were unaware what he was doing,” said an officer. “We have written to YouTube to shut down the channels and Facebook to block the pages. If people come across any such victim, they should approach police. The victim’s identity will not be revealed,” Bharambe said. Investigation are being carried out by inspector Mousami Patil and supervised by cyber police DCP Rashmi Karandikar.Many years back, videos of girls being touched inappropriately in public abroad were made and were initially considered pranks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/accused-in-obscene-videos-case-raked-in-rs-2-crore-cops/articleshow/81250880.cms||Mateen Hafeez
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Won’t rest till culprits are punished: Cong||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said his party will not keep quiet until all culprits involved in the murder of advocates Gattu Vaman Rao and PV Nagamani are punished by the court. The lawyer couple was murdered in broad daylight near Peddapalli on February 17. Accompanied by Manthani MLA D Sridhar Babu, Uttam met family members of slain lawyers at their Gunjapadugu home and conveyed condolences to them.  Earlier, Uttam in a meeting with the party’s legal cell directed them to extend legal help to the family of Vaman Rao. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wont-rest-till-culprits-are-punished-cong/articleshow/81249486.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Nashik||Loan borrower beats up bank staff||Nashik: A manager of a nationalised bank and the recovery staff were beaten up by a person when the bank staffers went to his residence seeking payment of the pending loan instalments. As per the FIR registered with the Gangapur police station, Ajaysingh Segar, the bank manager, along with his recovery team went to the person’s house in Mahatma Nagar on February 25 to request him to pay the outstanding instalment amount against his loan. However, the loan borrower asked the bankers to come inside his residence and then assaulted Segar and his recovery team. He also stopped them from going outside his bungalow, when the team tried to escape. On the complaint of the bank manager, the police have booked the person concerned under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. The Gangapur police are investigating the case. No arrest has been made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/loan-borrower-beats-up-bank-staff/articleshow/81248323.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Guj HC to send ‘Telegram’ to lawyers, clients||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has decided to use a social media platform and messaging service for dissemination of information to advocates, litigants, and other stakeholders. The HC has created an official Telegram channel to share circulars, notices, press releases, listing of cases, notifications, and Youtube live streaming links. The information, which is being uploaded on high court’s official web portal, will be simultaneously shared on the Telegram channel from March 1. The HC administration stated that with this additional mode of providing updates, “the channel subscribers will be able to keep themselves updated with latest information without having to frequently check the website for the same.” It further said that this additional platform to share information will help particularly when the updates on the website are inaccessible. The high court is also planning to initiate more services through this platform like the case list for advocates, case status, orders, judgments and other case-related information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-hc-to-send-telegram-to-lawyers-clients/articleshow/81249487.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||77-year-old Myanmar refugee’s plea fails to move Telangana government||HYDERABAD: A key poll issue in the upcoming West Bengal assembly election is illegal entry of Myanmar nationals into India. However, a 77-year-old Myanmar national’s fight to stay with his family in Hyderabad got mired in red tape and legal formalities. As a result, he continues to languish in a correctional home in Kolkata though he completed his two-year jail term, convicted for illegally entering the country, in 2017. The Calcutta high court has recently directed the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to pursue with the Telangana government to allow 77-year-old Myanmar national Wali Ahamed, currently staying at Dum Dum Correctional Home, Kolkata, be shifted to Hyderabad. It said the senior citizen be allowed to stay close to his family, including son who are already in Hyderabad as refugees and possessing United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) ID cards. In 2015, Wali Ahamed was caught by Border Security Force (BSF) after he illegally entered Bengal from India-Bangladesh border. In 2016, Wali was convicted by a local court in Balurghat, Dakshin Dinajpur. The judge had handed him a two-year imprisonment besides directing him to pay a fine of Rs 10,000. In the same order, the court said Wali be sent back to his country after the term. In 2017, Wali had completed his imprisonment, but till date is still languishing at the Dum Dum Correctional Home. Wali too was given refugee status by UNHCR in 2018. In 2018, his son Mohammed Idris, presently residing at Jalpally in Balapur, filed a petition before the Calcutta High Court praying that, considering his father’s age and ailments, Wali be shifted to Hyderabad so that he can stay with his family members. Based on the high court orders, the MHA officials addressed several letters to the department of home, Telangana, since April 2019. ``The court has directed to relocate Wali Ahamad from Dum Dum Correctional Home at Kolkata to a suitable safe home in Hyderabad. The home secretary, Telangana, was requested to cooperate on humanitarian grounds in this regard,’’ MHA officials said in a letter to the Telangana home department in July, 2019. Since there was no positive response from the Telangana government for the letters written by MHA and Idris, another petition was moved by Wali in the Kolkata high court. On January 28, 2021, the high court, in an interim order, said: “The Article 21 of Constitution is available for both citizens and non-citizens and it is reasonably expected that the ministry of home affairs shall take up the matter with the Telangana government.” “It now appears from the submission of additional solicitor general (ASG) that the government of Burma (Myanmar) has recognised the petitioner as their national. However, the Union government has not decided to deport the petitioner given his age and health. It is also understandable that the petitioner, who is 77-year-old, has a few relatives in Hyderabad, who he wishes to be closer and accessible to at this age,’’ the court said in its order. When contacted, a senior official of the home department said that in the past a decision was not taken since the Myanmar government did not confirm whether Wali was their national. “Myanmar has confirmed that he is their national now. In the past, we replied to MHA for their letters. Again, if we get any letter from MHA on this issue, we will evaluate it and action will be taken accordingly,’’ the officer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/77-yr-old-myanmar-refugees-plea-fails-to-move-t-govt/articleshow/81249492.cms||Srinath Vudali
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Test run OK at STP near Shahdara Jheel||New Delhi: East Delhi Municipal Corporation on Friday evening conducted a test run at a Sewer Treatment Plant (STP) near the waterbody at Shahdara Jheel before it becomes fully operational next month. The civic body is working on developing the first recreation facility-cum-waterbody on 14 acres at the back of its zonal office. The project is pending for years and expected to be inaugurated in the third week of March. “The waterbody is spread over 7 acres and the test was done to check leakages and functioning of the STP, which has a capacity to treat 30 lakh litres of water daily,” said the EDMC official. “The test run was satisfactory and now we will wait for some time before releasing water,” said the official further. The civic agency has started planting grass and saplings in addition to giving a finishing look to the area too. “Once developed, this will be the first such picnic spot in east Delhi with provisions for boating, eateries, huge lawns, walking tracks, etc,” said the official. In the beginning, the maintenance of the park will be done by EDMC. However, the agency might hire a concessionaire to look after the place for the long term. The project is funded by the Centre under its AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/test-run-ok-at-stp-near-shahdara-jheel/articleshow/81250901.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Nashik||Nashik collector seeks scrutiny of land deals||Nashik: After the registrar’s office in Deola registered a property deal, in which fake stamp paper was used, the Nashik collector formed a team to scrutinise documents registered recently to check if fake stamps were used. “We have formed a team of 12 members, who have been asked to inspect 40,000 registrations carried out in the recent period across the district,” Mandharer said. Of the 40,000 documents, 241 have been verified and no discrepancy has been found in them. In Deola taluka, farmland was transferred using fake stamps and this was noticed by the sub-registrar department after which an inspection of all the properties registered is being carried out to check for genuineness. A case has been registered against the person who had allegedly got the ‘mutation entry’ on the land records in his name using the fake stamps procured from a stamp vendor in Deola. The stamp vendor has also been booked. The main accused, who got the process done is, however absconding. The department of stamps has received some complaints related to the use of fake stamps and the teams are now verifying the same. The licence of the stamp vendor in Deola has been revoked after the incident. The register with the stamp vendor has also be seized for inspection and verification. Collector of stamps Kailas Dawange has appealed to the people to keep inspecting the 7/12 extract of their property periodically to ensure there was no change in the record of right without their consent. He has also appealed to the people to notify the registrar office at the earliest in case of any discrepancies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-collector-seeks-scrutiny-of-land-deals/articleshow/81248338.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Trichy||Poll preparedness gathers steam in central districts||Trichy: A day after the Election Commission of India (ECI) set April 6 as the date for the assembly polls in Tamil Nadu, the district election officers (DEOs) of nine districts including Trichy in the central region of Tamil Nadu and police have switched to poll mode to ensure a fair election. Officials in Trichy, Karur, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and the recently-bifurcated Mayiladuthurai districts started preparations for the elections in the 46 assembly constituencies in the region. Being the centrally-located district, Trichy administration and police organized a slew of meetings with the government officials, representatives of political parties including the AIADMK, DMK and regarding the latest guidelines issued by the ECI. Addressing media persons, Trichy collector S Sivarasu made it clear that the first information report (FIR) will be initiated against those violating the guidelines, which allow only five people for the door-to-door campaign in view of the Covid-19 spread. The collector said that 81 static surveillance teams (SST), 81 flying squad teams (FST), nine video surveillance teams (VST), nine video viewing teams (VVT), nine accounting teams (AT), nine assistant expenditure observers (AEO) will be monitoring the movements of people and political leaders in all the nine constituencies – Manapparai, Srirangam, Trichy West, Trichy East, Thiruverumbur, Lalgudi, Mannachanallur, Musiri and Thuraiyur (Reserved). Though teams with the local police have been deployed on the borders of the city and the districts, a full-fledged operation will gain pace following the arrival of the central security personnel. Commissioner of police, Trichy city, J Loganathan told ToI this evening that 100 personnel of the central armed police force (CAPF) will be deployed in Trichy city for the elections. On the permission to avail postal vote option, the collector said that Trichy district has 53,044 voters in the category of 80-year-age and above and 19,265 voters in the category of persons with disabilities (PwD). “Those in the category that can opt for the postal vote will be allowed to cast their votes at their doorsteps. Others can vote at the polling booths,” he said. Trichy district has its polling booths increased to 3,292..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/poll-preparedness-gathers-steam-in-central-districts/articleshow/81251465.cms||Gokul Rajendran
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Booming ‘dubious’ land share schemes across Hyderabad leave developers rattled||HYDERABAD: The mushrooming of undivided share of land schemes across Hyderabad – particularly on its fringes—have the city’s real estate sector worried. Industry players fear that these deals, if not checked, can throw the city’s property market off the track. Terming it a ‘scam’, the Hyderabad chapter of Credai — the largest umbrella body representing developers across India — has not only warned buyers against investing in these schemes but also reached out to the Telangana government to stall such sales.  “This is a ponzi scheme that has flooded the market and will spell doom if not regulated soon. Buyers will be defrauded and that will lead to them doubting even genuine developers in the market,” said P Ramakrishna Rao, president of Credai Hyderabad. “We met senior officials in the government over the issue and urged them to take necessary measures to arrest such transactions. We will submit a written representation soon,” he added. The scheme, the association says, has gained ground over the last 10 to 12 months and has already attracted thousands of buyers who have invested anywhere between Rs 30 lakh and Rs 50 lakh each. This includes IT professionals, businessmen, private/government employees and investors. Here’s how this works: a customer is sold a small portion of land, from a larger land parcel, and promised a constructed apartment in a high-rise against this sale. The money for the land is collected upfront and the delivery of a home is promised after three to four years. While this might sound like a perfect investment proposition on paper, there are multiple red flags. For starters, none of these projects have any of the statutory permissions. When TOI called to enquire about some of these ventures – most coming up around Kollur – it was told that municipal and RERA permissions will “come through eventually”. A majority of these projects – there are at least a few dozen in the market currently – are being marketed by ‘agents’ and not established developers. Though most of them claimed that their project would be ready by 2023-24, none agreed to give a written commitment. “If you have the money readily available, only then we can talk about it,” was the common response of all dealers, who wanted the entire money with 15 days. All of them were non-committal about a refund, in case a customer decided to pull out of the scheme two years from now. Senior officials from Telangana’s stamps and registrations department said that they weren’t aware of such a fraud and said they would look into it. “If they are selling apartments against sale of land and registering only the land (and not the constructed unit), it is an illegal deal. If Credai or a buyer can bring us documents to prove this, we will probe it and take action,” a top official of the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/booming-land-share-schemes-leave-developers-rattled/articleshow/81250884.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
February 28, 2021||Trichy||DMK, allies will bag 160 seats: Nehru||Trichy: Exuding confidence that the DMK and its allies will win 160 seats in the assembly election, party principal secretary K N Nehru termed the loan waiver and announcements of other schemes by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami a political stunt here on Saturday. “Instead of providing such schemes earlier, he is announcing them at the end of the term. So, people know they are only aimed at the election. I wonder how it is possible to allocate funds and implement it now,” he told reporters at Kalaignar Arivalayam where he addressed party functionaries at the executive committee meeting of Trichy north and central districts of DMK. He also alleged that crop loan waiver has not benefited deserving farmers but only AIADMK party men. Nehru claimed that the DMK and its alliance will bag 40 of the 46 constituencies in the central region of Tamil Nadu. The exit of IJK from the alliance won’t impact his party. “We hoped they would not leave the alliance, but they did. It will be a loss for them (IJK),” he said adding that the committee to hold talks with alliance parties on seat sharing will be meeting in the evening. On the possibilities of conducting fair election, Nehru said the announcements of the Election Commission of India (ECI) seemed to be good but the implementation should be fair. Citing the postponement of the party’s general body meeting scheduled in Chennai on March 7 and the state conference to be organised in Trichy on March 14 following the announcement of election dates, he said that DMK president M K Stalin will visit Trichy and address the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-allies-will-bag-160-seats-nehru/articleshow/81251464.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Campaigners’ list late, Congress expenses hit||AHMEDABAD: The late submission of star campaigners’ list is likely to hit the Congress badly. The State Election Commission clarified on Saturday that it received the party’s list of campaigners for corporation elections too late. Hence, it has decided that the expenses of star campaigners will be added to the expenses borne by the candidates, instead of the party. Activist Santosh Rathod had sought clarification from the SEC regarding a letter in this issue signed by the SEC joint commissioner. Usually, the expense of the star campaigner is added to expenses incurred by the party. The election commission said that it had been communicated to all parties that the list of star campaigners had to reach the commission before the candidate are finalized. According to Rathod, the EC has said that the list will be considered for the taluka panchayat, nagarpalika and even municipality elections. Rules state that if a candidate’s expenditure crosses Rs 6-lakh limit, s/he will be disqualified. Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi said that as per the Election Commission, the parties are just to give their list to the commission. “But the SEC, which itself has not been following the rules, was pressuring the Congress by implementing rules which never existed. We have submitted the list in time. We will fight it out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/campaigners-list-late-cong-expenses-hit/articleshow/81249501.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Nashik||Man, 3 others held for registering false complaint||Nashik: The Wadivarhe police of Nashik rural have arrested a 34-year-old man, who had registered a fake complaint about being shot at when he was on his way to Nashik from Thane in the wee hours of Friday. Three more people have been arrested, who were involved with the complainant in staging the plot of “attempted murder” of the the latter. The man, who had registered the fake complaint, has been identified as Swapnil Dandgawhal, a resident of the College Road area in Nashik. On Saturday, Dandgawhal had registered a fake complaint that he had been to Thane district for some work in his friend’s car and when he was on his way back around 1.30 am, two people on a bike had fired a shot at him before fleeing towards the Mumbai. The bullet hit the front windshield of the car. The Wadivarhe police had then registered case of attempted murder against unidentified people. However, during the investigation, the police observed contradictions in the sequence of events narrated by Dandgawhal. The police then interrogated him further and he eventually confessed to having registered a fake complaint. Assistant police inspector Nitin Shinde of the Wadivarhe police station said he had taken loans from various people and they were behind him for their money. To find a way out of this, he decided to stage the whole thing. He fired at the car himself and later called two of his friends to give the country-made firearm to them. Shinde said the complainant is also a stage artist. The case was detected by the local crime branch of the rural police under the guidance of police superintendent Sachin Patil and additional SP Sharmishtha Walavalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-3-others-held-for-registering-false-complaint/articleshow/81248332.cms||Santosh Sonawane
February 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Tree planting project yields fruitful results||Tirupur: Vanathukkul Tirupur, a massive tree planting project launched by NGO Voluntary Organization for People Empowerment of Rural Areas by Youth (Vetry), helped to accumulate 4,076 tonnes of biomass and sequestrated 7,377 tonnes of carbon dioxide, revealed a survey conducted to assess its ecological impact. The project was launched in 2015 as a tribute to late President A P J Abdul Kalam. Members of the NGO planted 10.50 lakh saplings across the district and 88.4% of them survived, said project director Kumar Duraisamy. “We planted native species in protected places like farmlands and took care of them for two years,” he said. Members of Siddharth Foundation conducted the ecological impact survey. The report was penned by a team of scientists, including P Pramod, principal scientist at the Sálim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History and Dhanya Praveen, scientist at the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University. It was released on Saturday during the sixth-year anniversary celebration of the project. The project covers 2,071.2 acres of land and is distributed across 481 plantation sites. The survey also found 79 species of birds, 65 species of butterflies and 41 species of spiders in the sampled plantations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tree-planting-project-yields-fruitful-results/articleshow/81249494.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||Labourer brutally kills calf with a spade||Nagpur: In a case of animal cruelty, a construction worker killed a calf with a spade. Despite repeated appeals by animal activists, no concrete action has been taken by the city police. The incident took place some days ago in Sadhbhavna Nagar near Manewada. The calf, which was moving around in a lane along with its mother, stopped to drink water in front of a tap. The accused, who was working at a nearby construction site, suddenly attacked the calf with a spade after which the animal died on the spot. While the intentions behind the cruel act remain unclear, workers in his defence stated that he reacted out of fear as he thought that the calf was coming to attack him. “The animal was killed very brutally. This is no excuse,” said Swapnil Bodhane, a state animal welfare officer appointed by the Bombay high court. Coincidentally, Bodhane was in the area when the incident took place. He immediately alerted cops from Ajni police station who reached the spot to conduct the panchnama. “They did not file the first information report immediately. And when they did, important sections were missing,” said Bodhane. He now plans to meet senior police officials to ensure that strict action is taken against the accused. “Cases of animal cruelty have been on the rise in the city. Despite this death, the police doesn’t take the issue seriously. Laws are in place but unfortunately, they are not being implemented,” added Bodhane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/labourer-brutally-kills-calf-with-a-spade/articleshow/81235073.cms||Manka Behl
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘21% of poisoning victims were homemakers’||Ahmedabad: A very under-recognised and under-reported simmering public health concern — poisoning — is demanding immediate attention. Recently, Gujarat’s primary poison information centre at the National Institute for Occupational Health (NIOH), Ahmedabad studied 1,373 poisoning cases in Ahmedabad over the last few years and found that a major chunk of the victims were housemakers, almost 21%, followed by labourers (11%), agricultural workers (11%) and industrial workers (7%). The data suggests that pesticides used for agriculture are the major source of poisonings.Consumption of household chemicals like insecticides, rodenticides, phenyl, bleaching powder and mosquito repellent made up 12% of poisoning cases.Insecticides were widely found to be the most preferred agent of poisoning, accounting for 26% of cases. Further analysis of poisons revealed chemical agents which included toxic chemicals like acephate, phorate, adrin, carbofuran, celphos, chlorophos, chorpyriphos, cypermethrin, DDT, gamexin, dimethoate, imidochloprid, malathion and monocrotophos.“The list also includes some insecticides with local trade names whose chemical composition was not clear,” said the study by Avinash Pagdhune, Kundan Kunal, Rajendra Palkhade, Aswin Patel, SukhDev Mishra, Kanubhai Amrutlal Patel of NIOH Ahmedabad and Jaseer Muhamed of the biochemistry department of the Regional Occupational Health Centre, Karnataka. Incidence and fatality rates was found to be higher in males than females. “During the course of treatment, 289 (21%) cases required ventilator support. A total of 47 patients suffered from limb paralysis due to poisoning during this time period,” claimed the study. Interestingly, there were 23 cases where poisoning was reported through inhalation of a toxic agent. The study also pointed out previous studies which reported higher incidence, almost 44%, of poisoning due to household chemicals. The study reiterated that chemicals used in agriculture should be either banned or given to farmers with strict usage guidelines explaining the risks involved. “Most of the poisoning cases reported here were suicidal in nature, indicating the need for effective measures to prevent suicides and improve psychological health in the community,” the study said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/21-of-poisoning-victims-were-homemakers/articleshow/81249542.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Unidentified body found with throat slit at Mumbra||Thane: The Mumbra police found a body of an unidentified man with his throat slit at Mittal area of Mumbra on Saturday. The police said the person may have been killed on the road between Mittal and MM Valley area by unidentified persons. The police said that on Saturday morning, some of the residents informed the police about a body lying on the road near a nullah. Accordingly, a team of Mumbra police reached the spot and carried out a panchnama and sent the body for post-mortem to the CSM hospital at Kalwa. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/unidentified-body-found-with-throat-slit-at-mumbra/articleshow/81250912.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||N’Sagar bypoll: Are BJP, TRS playing waiting game?||Hyderabad: As the stakes are high for the bypoll to the Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency, it looks like the BJP and the TRS are playing a waiting game to announce their candidates. While the Congress, which is known for finalising its candidate at the last moment, became the first political party to announce it was fielding seven-time ex-legislator K Jana Reddy from Sagar, the TRS and BJP are yet to announce their candidates. A senior leader said BJP is waiting for the TRS to make the first move as the saffron party is likely to field a candidate from the BC community in case of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao finalises a candidate from the Reddy community. Nagarjuna Sagar constituency was represented by Nomula Narsimhaiah of the ruling TRS, a Yadav from the BC community. Though the names of MLC T Chinappa Reddy, Bhagat Yadav and Gutha Sukhender Reddy from the TRS, and Kankanala Niveditha Reddy, K Anjaiah Yadav, Indrasena Reddy and Ravi Naik from BJP are doing rounds, both the parties kept the names under wraps and seem to be playing the waiting game. The Election Commission of India is likely to announce the schedule for bypoll any time soon. BJP state president Bandi Sanjay reportedly gave a dressing down to the party leaders from Nagarjuna Sagar constituency over campaigning on their own without proper coordination.  This bypoll is crucial for the ruling TRS which cannot afford to lose another election after its defeat to BJP in Dubbak bypoll and BJP’s performance in the GHMC elections winning 48 seats||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nsagar-bypoll-are-bjp-trs-playing-waiting-game/articleshow/81249532.cms||Roushan Ali
February 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Buses to ply from today as unions call off strike||Coimbatore: Transport trade unions that launched an indefinite strike three days ago, decided to resume work from Sunday after the state government promised to meet their demands. During a talk with the union leaders on Saturday, officials from the transport department agreed to sign a revised wage agreement immediately after the assembly election, said M Velankkaniraj, general secretary of Kovai government transport workers union. “The officials also agreed to consider our other requests, including providing full retirement benefits and including those who had joined the department after 2003 under the old pension scheme. They also urged the government to help the Tamil Nadu state transport corporation, which is struggling due to incurred loss,” he said. The officials urged the government not to take action against the workers who participated in the strike and not to cut their wages for the last three days, the union leader said. Meanwhile, a group of transport workers staged a protest in front of the Sungam bus depot, condemning TNSTC officials for transferring four workers who participated in the strike. “The workers have been transferred to places like Tirupur, Valparai and Mettupalayam. It looks like an attempt to break the strike. The officials should cancel the transfer orders,” Velankkaniraj said. As many as nine trade unions, including AITUC, CITU, LPF, HMS and LPF had participated in the strike. As many as 3,000 workers, including drivers and conductors in the region stayed away from work. On Saturday, only 424 or 48.9% of buses were operated in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/buses-to-ply-from-today-as-unions-call-off-strike/articleshow/81249537.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Lucknow||Ram Temple coffers brim with Rs 2,100 crore on last day of crowdfunding||AYODHYA: The Ram Temple Trust coffers brimmed over with Rs 2,100 crore on Saturday evening — the last day of the 44-day funds-raising campaign launched by Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) for building a grand temple in Ayodhya. Before launch of the crowdfunding campaign on January 15, the Trust had projected an estimate of Rs 1,100 crore for the building the Ram temple complex, but an overwhelming response from people gave the project a head-start with the Trust receiving Rs 1,000crore more than what was budgeted. Read AlsoSeer who lived in caves for over six decades donates Rs 1 crore for Ram templeSwami Shankar Das, an octogenarian seer from Rishikesh who has been living in caves for more than 60 years, deposited a cheque for Rs 1 crore as donation for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. According to Das, it was at the cave of his guru Taat wale Baba that he received donations fromTreasurer of Sriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust Govind Dev Giri said, “The funds-raising campaign has ended with generous contributions from all cross-sections of the people, including residents of far-flung villages of India, blurring religious barriers. Total donations received has crossed Rs2,100 crores on Saturday evening.” Giri had pegged the construction cost of the temple at Rs 300-400 crore, while making an estimate of Rs 1,100 crore for building the entire complex on Ramjanmabhoomi in December last year. Read AlsoFraud donation drives worry Ram temple trustThe trust, which is backed by the Sangh Parivar and hopes to reach half the population by the end of February, has started reporting against those taking advantage of the driveOn Saturday, Ayodhya seers advised the temple Trust to plough in the surplus money into development of Ayodhya and warned against misuse of the money donated by crores of Ram Bhakts. However, Dr Anil Misra, member of the Trust said, “The budget for building the temple complex is not final and this will be known only after the construction is complete.” Talking to TOI, peethadeshwar of Tapaswi Chawni, Swami Paramhans Acharya, said, “The Trust should use additional funds to set up a Sanskrit University in Ayodhya in the name of Mata Sita and establish a goshala for free supply of milk in the temple town.” On behalf of Mahant Dhinendra Das of Nirmohi Akhara, Prabhat Singh told TOI that “the money was donated by millions of Indians in the name of Lord Ram and the excess money should be used for the welfare of Ayodhya and its temples”. Priest of Hanumangarhi temple Mahant Raju Das said the money could be used to revamp dilapidated temples in Ayodhya. Former BJP MP Vinay Katiyar, however, said, funds collected in the name of Lord Ram should be used only for the temple complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/temple-coffers-brim-with-rs-2100cr-on-last-day-of-crowdfunding/articleshow/81251508.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Many battling behavioural problems||Hyderabad: It’s not exam stress or academic issues that are bothering adolescents this year, but many are said to be battling behavioural problems and internet, smartphone, or gaming addictions. A few psychiatrists from the city said that unlike every year not many are approaching them seeking help to handle exam stress and anxiety. “Surprisingly, this year, I have not seen anyone with exam-related issues to date. I am mostly getting children with behavioural issues,” said C Praveen, clinical psychiatrist, Tranquil Minds. He said that internet or gaming addiction, which is mostly seen in kids from well-to-do families, has now been seen even in those from middle and lower middle-class families. “With smartphone or computer becoming their classroom, many are unable to maintain the boundaries and are using it for everything,” he added. They said that several are coming with anxiety, lack of concentration, temper tantrums, substance abuse, among other issues. “Since January, I am seeing many students who are afraid of stepping out of their homes to give exams. Parents also have been complaining that their children are struggling to understand concepts taught online,” said Charan Teja Koganti, consultant neuropsychiatrist, KIMS Hospitals. He said that many, who had never faced exam-related anxiety before, are worried about not securing passing marks. “Earlier, it was mostly one parent who used to remind them about studies, but now with many adults at home reminding them about studies, students are not taking it well,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-battling-behavioural-problems/articleshow/81249573.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Man decamps with police motorcycle||Coimbatore: A cop attached to the Saibaba Colony traffic police station lost his motorcycle to a thief on Friday. Traffic police sub-inspector Karunakaran had parked the police department’s motorcycle at ARC Signal on Mettupalayam Road before regulating traffic on the busy stretch on Friday evening. He returned to the spot around 7pm, but could not find the vehicle. Karunakaran alerted the Saibaba police station and a police team collected CCTV footage from the area. “We have formed two special teams to nab the motorcycle thief. Police teams collected CCTV footage and we will nab the miscreant soon,” said police commissioner Sumit Sharan. The city is witnessing an alarming rise in burglaries, motorcycle thefts, and mobile phone and chain snatching incidents. Police are struggling to nab the culprits. On January 24, two men waylaid constable Ashokan attached to the 4th battalion of Tamil Nadu special police at Kovaipudur, when he was heading towards Ganapathy from Kovaipudur with his wife and child on a motorcycle. The miscreants, who were on a scooter, snatched his mobile phone. The Kuniyamuthur police have not been able to nab them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-decamps-with-police-motorcycle/articleshow/81249574.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Anxious inter students have no experts to turn to this year||HYDERABAD: None of the clinical psychologists or psychiatrists, who partnered with the Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) last year to help students deal with exam stress and related issues, are made available to the students this year yet. Of the total seven psychologists/psychiatrists, whose contact numbers were shared by the board in March 2020 to provide telecounselling to avert student suicides, six of them ‘do not exist’ and ‘incoming calling facility is temporarily not available on one of the numbers. “What’s the point of having counsellors only during exams or results? At least for the current academic year, the board should have had made counsellors available for the entire year as it has been a very stressful year for students as they are forced to stay at home for most of the year,” said KS Rama Rao, president, Telangana Government Junior Colleges Principals Association. During the academic year 2019-20, these psychologists received thousands of calls from anxious students seeking help to handle exam stress and anxiety. The majority of calls are made by intermediate first year toppers or those from rural areas who are afraid of not meeting their parents’ or teachers’ expectations. This year, many students are said to be worried about passing the examinations as they could not understand virtual classes. Physical classes are being conducted for first and second year intermediate students since February 1 on alternate days. Interestingly, even today, colleges are accepting new admissions although there are hardly two months left for the public examination. Although a faculty has been identified as a student counsellor in every college in the state to observe students and extend support if they are facing any problems, even they could not keep a tab on students as colleges have remained closed for about ten months. “In September, we got in touch with students. Back then, many were worried whether or not exams will be conducted and how they will manage to clear exams. Having counsellors handy would have been very helpful to students during the pandemic,” said M Krishnaiah, a student counsellor in a government intermediate college. Syed Omer Jaleel, commissioner and secretary, TSBIE, said that they had issued temporary numbers to psychologists/psychiatrists in 2020.“We will issue new numbers of psychologists by mid-March or April. They will be available for about three months during exams and results,” Jaleel told TOI. He said that currently the board is telecasting lectures on stress management through Doordarshan and live links to help students and added that they are working towards ensuring that there will be zero intermediate student suicides in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anxious-inter-students-have-no-experts-to-turn-to-this-year/articleshow/81249557.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
February 28, 2021||Lucknow||Two Lucknow University professors, KGMU surgeon bag coveted awards for work in Hindi||LUCKNOW: Two Lucknow University professors and a faculty member from KGMU have been selected for coveted awards by the Uttar Pradesh Hindi Sansthan for their contribution to promotion of Hindi. Prof Vinod Jain, a surgeon and dean of paramedical sciences at KGMU, has been awarded ‘Vigyan Bhushan’ for his books on medical and health in Hindi. The award includes a citation and cash prize of Rs 2 lakh. Prof Pawan Agarwal of LU’s Hindi department has been awarded with Madan Mohan Malviya Vishwavidyalaya Stariya Samman for his contribution to teaching and publication in Hindi. The award carries Rs 1 lakh cash prize and a citation. Head of Mass Communication and Journalism at Lucknow University, Prof Mukul Srivastava, has bagged Nirmal Verma Puruskar in travelogue category for his book ‘Laut ke batata hoon’. The award carries Rs 40,000 cash prize and a citation. Prof Jain has written 11 books on health issues starting with ‘Gurde Ki Pathri’ in 2009 to the most recent ‘Trauma Bachao, Upchar Evam Prabandhan’. Earlier in 2013, he was awarded Dr Birbal Sahni Award by Hindi Sansthan. “Writing on medical issues in Hindi is the need of the hour so that most people, including students, can easily understand it. It is the best language to convey message to the masses. Appreciations in the form of awards motivate recipients to work and write more,” Dr Jain said. “I am happy that my efforts to popularise Hindi at the university level and in the society have been recognized. The credit goes to the university and my mentor Prof SP Dixit,” said Prof Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-lu-profs-kgmu-surgeon-bagcoveted-awards-for-work-in-hindi/articleshow/81251536.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||After 3 days, city’s daily case tally drops just below 1,000||Mumbai: For the fourth day in a row, the state reported over 8,000 new Covid-19 cases, but the city reported a dip in its daily tally. After adding over 1,000 cases for the last three days, Mumbai reported less than 1,000 on Saturday. Maharashtra reported 8,623 cases and 51 fatalities on Saturday. With the addition, the state’s total caseload jumped to 21,46,777 and the total death toll stood at 52,092. The city on Saturday reported 987 cases and 4 deaths. The city tally has crossed 3.24 lakh and 11,465 deaths since March 2020. Mumbai’s daily tally appears to have stabilised, said AMC Suresh Kakani, who visited seven wards on Saturday. He said housing societies have been told to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour and not allow gatherings with over 50 people. The BMC has been conducting over 20,000 tests a day with 15 to 20 close contacts being tested for every patient, he added. Dr Rahul Pandit, head of ICU department in Fortis Hospital and a member of the state task force, said the next week is crucial for Maharashtra, including Mumbai. In an outbreak, fatalities increase only 15 to 21 days after a rise in cases. Maharashtra is at that juncture now, he added. Akola region, which includes hotspots like Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal, reported 13 deaths, highest in the state. Nashik region reported 10 deaths. Active cases in the state are on the rise and are now 72,530 in the state; of these, 8,080 are in Mumbai. A state official said the situation appears to have stabilised in Amravati and Yavatmal. “We are now confident that cases rose in those districts because of gram panchayat elections, but the cases in Nagpur sector seem to be rising,” he said. Cases in Nagpur have been as high as Mumbai and Pune circles. Nagpur isn’t as densely populated as Pune and Mumbai and hence there is a cause for concern. All educational institutes in Pune will remain closed till March 14, it was decided on Saturday. The restrictions in hotspot districts of Vidarbha were extended on Saturday and some new restrictions added. Lockdown has been extended up to March 8 in Buldhana, Akola and Amravati. Amravati collector Shailesh Naval extended the lockdown in certain cities. “However, people will be able to buy essential commodities between 8 am and 3 pm,” Naval said. The Chandrapur district administration has ordered mandatory closure of barber shops, beauty parlours and spas on Mondays in the district for sanitizing of equipment. A weekend lockdown will be observed in Wardha, Yavatmal, Nagpur and Washim. Special teams have also been formed in Gadchiroli to visit marriage venues and impose a penalty if the limit of 50 people is violated. MSRTC buses in Gadchiroli will not allow travellers without masks. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 187 fresh patients and 2 deaths. In Navi Mumbai, 101 cases and one death were reported. PCMC areas reported 70 fresh cases and no new fatality. The Mumbai region added 1,823 cases, highest in the state. Pune stood second with 1,765 new additions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-3-days-citys-daily-case-tally-drops-just-below-1000/articleshow/81249600.cms||Bhavika Jain
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Reduced circle rates notified in city||New Delhi: Delhi government has notified the 20% reduced circle rates for land and immovable properties to boost transactions in real estate. Recently, Mumbai had cut stamp duty rates, which led to a massive increase in people buying and selling properties. The lieutenant governor of the National Capital Territory of Delhi notified the relaxation in the minimum rates (circle rates) for valuation of lands and immovable properties in Delhi on Friday. As per the notification, the new rates will come into force without previous publication. The above rates will be taken into consideration for registration of instruments relating to lands and immovable properties in Delhi by all the Registering Authorities under the provisions of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899) and the Indian Registration Act, 1908 (XVI of 1908) as in force in Delhi at the time of registration of instruments. These revised rates shall come into force with immediate effect till September 30. IANS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/reduced-circle-rates-notified-in-city/articleshow/81250927.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Producer’s plea rejected in rape, blackmail case||Mumbai: Bombay HC on Thursday rejected a quashing petition filed by a film producer against an alleged case of rape and blackmail registered last July here. His lawyer, Tanveer Nizam, argued that no case was disclosed against Sudeep Saha and alleged that the complainant had filed “false complaints’ against him in the past too. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakre and for the complainant advocate Subhash Jha submitted that the FIR when read in its entirety discloses alleged serious offences against the accused which need further investigation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/producers-plea-rejected-in-rape-blackmail-case/articleshow/81250934.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||180 Covid-19 cases, one death in T||Hyderabad: Telangana on Saturday recorded 178 new cases of Covid-19 and one death. With this, the total count of cases so far in the state has touched 2,98,631, while the death toll is 1,633. So far, a total of 2,95,059 patients in the state have recovered from the coronavirus infection. The recovery rate in the state is currently 98.80%, better than the country average recovery rate of 97.1% while the case fatality rate (CFR) is currently 0.54%. Telangana continues to fare better than most other parts of the country, on both the counts. The number of active cases in the state has increased to 1,939 on Saturday against 1,815 a fortnight back. On Saturday, a total of 40,821 samples were tested for Covid-19. Telangana has now completed 86.6 lakh tests and has reached 2.32 lakh sample testing per million population. On Saturday, GHMC recorded 30 new cases while Medchal-Malkajgiri recorded 20 cases and Rangareddy recorded 15 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/180-covid-19-cases-one-death-in-t/articleshow/81250932.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Delhi||At 17.8°C, Delhi hits highest minimum February temperature in 6 years||NEW DELHI: After seeing a few highs in maximum temperature, Delhi witnessed the highest minimum temperature in February in the past six years at 17.8 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal, on Saturday. It was recorded at Safdarjung, the city’s base station, says India Meteorological Department (IMD). Before this, a higher minimum temperature reported in this month was 19 degrees Celsius on February 25, 2015. The minimum temperature reported at Safdarjung station on Friday was 15.2 degrees Celsius. On Saturday, some stations recorded even higher minimum temperatures, with Pitampura and the sports complex in east Delhi crossing the 21 mark. The night temperature reported at Pitampura, sports complex, Najafgarh, Palam and SPS Mayur Vihar was 21.6, 21, 19.4, 19.1 and 19 degrees Celsius, respectively. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “A western disturbance has affected the hills and it caused cloudiness over Delhi-NCR region. The cloud cover caused a rise in minimum temperature.” However, strong winds on Saturday helped in reducing the maximum temperature. The day temperature recorded on Saturday was 31.7 degrees Celsius, six notches above normal, as against 33 degrees on Friday. “An average wind speed of 20kmph was observed during the day and the temperature didn’t not rise much. An average wind speed of 15kmph is expected on Sunday, but it is predicted to rise again to 20-30kmph on March 2,” said Srivastava. According to IMD, the mercury will decrease marginally on Sunday with the minimum and maximum temperatures hovering around 15 and 30 degrees. The maximum temperature may hover around 29 degrees Celsius on March 1 and 2, but the mercury is predicted to soar again from March 3 and go up to 31. A rise in wind speed, meanwhile, helped Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) to remain in “poor” category at 203. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), a central forecasting body, said, “Surface winds are high and west-southwesterly. Increased surface wind speed, higher temperature and higher boundary layer heights are influencing AQI positively.” However, an increase in mineral dust contribution from dry desert regions of Rajasthan is expected in the coming days. Hence, AQI is forecast to remain in “poor” category in the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/soaring-at-17-8c-capital-records-highest-feb-minimum-in-last-6-years/articleshow/81249592.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Lucknow||UP: E-learning parks, loaded tabs to usher digital reforms in education||LUCKNOW: Ushering e-reforms in higher education, the UP government has made a provision of Rs 4.8 crore for developing e-learning parks in 120 government colleges, while also providing pre-loaded tablets to state-run colleges in seven aspirational districts in the first phase. These pre-loaded tabs can also be accessed even without internet connectivity and would be stashed in libraries to be issued like books. Initially, the tablets will be made available in 18 government colleges in eight aspirational districts of Bahraich, Balrampur, Shravasti, Siddharthnagar, Chandauli, Sonbhadra, Fatehpur and Chitrakoot. Additional chief secretary (higher education) Monika S Garg said the department will float an e-tender to procure tablets and in the second phase, the scheme would be extended to remaining 102 government colleges. The department came up with the concept of e-learning parks during the pandemic to reach out to maximum students in remote areas. These wi-fi-enabled parks are being established in 120 government colleges in backward regions, which lack technological resource. “Now, students can benefit round-the-clock from an e-learning park, which will be set up at a cost of Rs 4lakh,” said Garg. Also, students using the facility will be able to access the higher education digital library, which has recorded lectures and videos of teachers. For other higher education institutions, the government is planning to develop e-suvidha kendras to bridge the digital gulf. These kendras are meant for both state and private universities, aided, and self-finance colleges and will be developed on PPP mode, where students can access e-content. Garg said, a public-private partnership can be generated in higher education institutions and a small fee can be charged from students to set up e-suvidha kendras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/e-learning-parks-loaded-tabs-to-usher-digital-reforms-in-edu/articleshow/81251559.cms||Isha Jain
February 28, 2021||Surat||Surge continues even as days turn hotter||Surat: It was feared that there will be a surge in Covid-19 cases during winter, but it did not happen. However, as the temperature rose up above 35 degree Celsius, Surat city is also witnessing a rise in coronavirus cases. On Saturday, 94 fresh cases were reported in the city and rural areas of Surat. But the silver lining was that there were no deaths reported and only a few patients were under hospitalisation. Out of total 84 cases in the city, 30 were reported from the Athwa zone followed by 18 in Rander and 16 in Varachha. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials have intensified contact tracing and declared containment areas to prevent the spread of the virus infection.SMC officials also held meetings with representatives of business, industry and schools recently and made asked them to strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines. The SMC health department claimed that 39,389 (97.01%) patients out of the total 40,603 have recovered from Covid-19. Total 1,197 teams of the civic body’s health department conducted a survey of 1,79,142 homes comprising a population of 5.51 lakh people. According to SMC, 4,171 persons were quarantined at their home, while 82 were under hospitalisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surge-continues-even-as-days-turn-hotter/articleshow/81249588.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||Wanted gangster’s Facebook page disabled||BATHINDA: The Facebook page of gangster-turned-activist Lakhbir Singh alias Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted by Delhi Police in connection with the Republic Day rioting case, has been disabled. While the page is not visible in India, some of his supporters claim that it can be accessed in some other countries. Sidhana is in hiding but has been a regular on social media, mobilising support for the farm agitation, lashing out at the Centre and calling for the fight to continue till the new agri-marketing laws are repealed. Delhi Police recently announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh for information leading to the arrest of Sidhana, an alleged conspirator in the January 26 violence that marred what was supposed to be a peaceful tractor rally. Sidhana had last gone “live” on his Facebook page on the night of February 23, soon after turning up at a rally in Mehraj village of Punjab’s Bathinda district. Some of his followers noticed on Saturday that his page was no longer accessible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wanted-gangsters-facebook-page-disabled/articleshow/81251950.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||DHFL’s Rs 7,500 crore funds stuck in 8 big Mumbai realty projects||MUMBAI: Eight Mumbai-based realty firms owe over Rs 7,500 crore to Dewan Housing Finance Ltd, the beleaguered housing finance company taken over by the Piramal Group recently. According to documents made available to TOI, DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, who are currently in jail, had provided construction finance to these builders for residential housing projects in Mumbai, which are now shown as ‘non-performing assets’ (NPAs). Property market sources said the Piramal Group has started scouting for reputed and financially solid developers to take over these stalled projects and recover the money. A Piramal spokesperson said the group would not like to comment “at this point in time”. One of the biggest projects in the lot is One Mahalaxmi, a 5-acre residential development at Jacob Circle promoted by Neelkamal Realtors (D B Realty). In February, DHFL had issued a demand notice against this firm and its borrowers, Shahid Balwa, Vinod Goenka, Sanjay Chhabria among others, for failing to pay outstanding dues totaling Rs 1,189 crore. “The loan account has been classified as NPA,” said the demand notice, which gave the borrowers 60 days to pay up. Balwa did not respond when asked to comment. The biggest borrower on the DHFL list is Radius Group, with an outstanding loan with interest of around Rs 3,000 crore for a residential project in Santa Cruz (west) called Avenue 54. The project is a joint venture between Radius and Sumer Group. This redevelopment of the prime 5-acre Willingdon Catholic Colony located on S V Road is believed to be the most expensive residential gated community in the western suburbs. Over 150 people had booked luxury apartments in the under-construction towers, paying on an average, a hefty Rs 55,000 a sq ft. DHFL has shown this project as an NPA, but only on custody of Radius share of 50% in the form of a conveyance deed executed for the land. A Radius spokesperson said DHFL had disbursed close to Rs 2,000 crore for the project, but then stopped releasing more money. As a result, the project stalled and fell through, he said. Incidentally, in 2019, Avenue 54 was taken over by Yes Bank after the developer, Sumer Radius Realty, failed to repay a Rs 479-crore loan. Another large loan sanctioned by DHFL was to a little-known builder named D K Realty India for a residential project called Livsmart in Kurla. The loan sanctioned was Rs 967 crore but has increased to over Rs 1,100 crore with principle interest, penal interest and accrued interest. The project comprising 28 towers and 1,582 flats, has stalled and the loan declared as NPA. Another lesser-known developer, Rajen Skyscrapers, was sanctioned over Rs 600 crore for a society redevelopment, Palm Land, in Bandra (west). The project never took off and total outstanding is now over Rs 750 crore. The Wadhawans also sanctioned Rs 13,500 crore as loans for three slum redevelopment projects (SRA) in Juhu Gully, Irla and Chembur. Documents accessed by TOI show that as of August 2020, DHFL had sanctioned construction finance totalling Rs 13,623 crore, mortgage loans of Rs 7,444 crore and corporate loan finance of Rs 15,159 crore. All these loans were mainly given to builders across the country. Last month, the Reserve Bank of India approved Piramal Group’s takeover of DHFL for Rs 37,250 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dhfls-rs-7500-crore-funds-stuck-in-8-big-mum-realty-projects/articleshow/81264375.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Long due, highrises get final warning to do safety check||NEW DELHI: Receiving a tepid response from highrise buildings that were served notices nine months ago for submitting structural audit reports, Delhi’s civic bodies have now resorted to issuing final warning for disconnecting water and electricity supply if no response is received within a month. South Delhi Municipal Corporation has dispatched over 30 such warnings, while North Delhi Municipal Corporation has issued five notices so far. East Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to initiate similar action in the future. To ensure seismic stability of buildings in Delhi, the three civic bodies had earlier issued around 1,350 notices to buildings identified as high-risk structures. These included 709 buildings in EDMC’s jurisdiction, and around 300 each in north and south corporation areas. “People need to understand that the survey is for their safety and there is no need for retrofitting in all cases. There have been instances where buildings constructed prior to 2000 were declared fit, except for minor repair work. In a city like Delhi, which falls in Seismic Zone-IV, such surveys are needed for the safety of all. In SDMC areas, 45 structural audits have been done so far,” said a civic official from the building department. In east Delhi, of 709 identified buildings, structural audits of only 47 have been completed so far. “Of these, 12 were found seismic complaint, while retrofitting will be done in the remaining 35 buildings by March 31. The structural audit has also been carried out for 70 municipal buildings, of which 68 were found to have seismic compliance,” an EDMC report mentioned. North DMC, meanwhile, hs issued over 300 notices, including 93 in the Keshavpuram zone. “We are giving opportunity to people to come forward and avail the facility for their own good. To make the task easier, the corporations have made a list of empaneled engineers, which includes faculty at government institutes such as IITs,” said a civic official. Aditya Sharma, a structural engineer, who is part of the empaneled group, said things are manageable at colonies where the RWA is strong. “The problem arises in societies constructed under self-finance schemes or old DDA flats, where there is no proper RWA. It becomes difficult to convince residents there,” added Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/long-due-highrises-get-final-warning-to-do-safety-check/articleshow/81249601.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||‘Post-Covid period has brought out best in us’||Mumbai: Post-pandemic period has brought out the best from all of us. It has accelerated high rates of technological changes in our daily life,” Mahindra & Mahindra MD Pawan Goenka told the graduating batch of Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay. “Most work today is conducted online and virtually. This year’s graduating students will be entering their professional career with the new normal lifestyle, and I hope these students can be the change agent of the new normal,” Goenka added. At the interim session of 59th convocation of IIT-Bombay on Saturday, he said, “The graduating students should help in nation-building with the help of developing technology and innovation. The importance of R&D is increasing. I urge students to step out with confidence. The industry needs to understand your calibre in the R&D sector.” Keeping in view safety measures on priority during pandemic, physical participation at the function was limited. IIT-B director Subhasis Chaudhuri, said, “It was a matter of great satisfaction to the institute that nearly 140 students could complete PhD during difficult times. The resilience and adaptability shown by students, staff and faculty members in upholding the spirit and excellence of IIT-Bombay is truly remarkable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/post-covid-period-has-brought-out-best-in-us/articleshow/81250968.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat women record 58% rise in blood pressure compared to 32% of men||AHMEDABAD: The blood pressure of Gujaratis is rising! A study has found that while prevalence of hypertension or high blood pressure spiked across categories in Gujarat between 2016 and 2020, women were more affected by the health condition. Compared to 2016, men recorded 32% rise (from 9.9% to 13.1%) in the category of slightly above normal, according to the National Family Health Survey (NHFS) 5, conducted in 2019-20. Over 29,000 families were covered in the state. For women, this rise was 58% (from 7.4% to 11.7%). The paper titled ‘Trend of Hypertension in Gujarat–Understanding the NFHS-4 and NFHS-5 Data’ by Dr Swati Patel and Dr Prakash Patel from SMIMER mentioned that the overall prevalence of hypertension in Gujarat during NHFS-5 has also increased significantly. While in absolute terms, men recorded more prevalence of hypertension, the rise was significant for women in both slightly above normal and moderately high categories. Among the urban females, the above normal hypertension in NFHS-5 was 11.4%, which rose from 8.2%. Among the rural women, it rose from 6.7% to 12%. Dr Jayesh Prajapati, professor of cardiology at the UNMICRC, said that they have seen a steady rise among women patients. “While factors such as stress, erratic lifestyle and eating habits are more or less the same for both the genders, women are expected to handle both home and professional fronts, putting them under comparatively more duress,” he said. “Compared to men, we see women getting less opportunities to look after their health in terms of exercise and diet,” said Dr Manoj Vithlani, a city-based internal medicines expert. “But one must understand that hypertension is a silent killer, and constantly high blood pressure can invite health complications ranging from heart attack to internal organ failure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-women-record-58-rise-in-bp-compared-to-32-of-men/articleshow/81249598.cms||Parth Shastri
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi government officials in 12 colleges spark row||NEW DELHI: The tussle between Delhi government and the 12 colleges it fully funds took a new turn when government officials were given charge of the institutions. There were sharp reactions from certain quarters in Delhi University who claimed that such officers had no sanction in university norms and there was no clarity on their duties. On February 17, the Delhi government’s finance department gave additional charge of the colleges to 12 officials for six months. Some officials visited the colleges they were assigned to on February 25. “An official came to the college. We asked him if there were specific instructions, but the official said that he had none so far,” said Payal Mago, principal, Shaheed Rajguru College. Mago added, “There is no provision in DU norms or in UGC regulations for such appointments. The colleges already have their financial checks, like the governing bodies, internal and exit audits and CAG audits.” A Delhi government spokesperson responded that the appointments were “as per the Pattern of Assistance (PoA)”. He said, “When funds are being provided through taxpayers’ money, it’s the duty of the government to make sure the spending is as per the financial rules and for the purpose it is meant for. That’s why the PoA incorporates this condition.” At Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College too, principal Hem Chand Jain claimed not to have been told why the government official, who hasn’t joined yet, was coming. “This shows Delhi government’s intention is to put someone in the college to control the finances.” University teachers are taken aback. “Colleges can only be run as per the rules and regulations of the university’s Academic Council and Executive Council,” pointed out Rajib Ray, president, DU Teachers’ Association. “If government officials are sent to ensure the rules are being followed, it is fine, but this sort of extra supervision is not the right way.” Sujit Kumar, associate professor, Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, alleged the government hadn’t released funds for months and was instead asking questions to the colleges. “Appointing officers to look into the grants issue is nothing but red tape and will further delay the already delayed funding to these colleges,” Kumar said. However, Poonam Verma, principal of Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, argued that the government, as the funding agency, had the right to appoint its officers. “We have no problem with this move, only the government should specify what the appointee’s job is.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-officials-in-12-colleges-spark-row/articleshow/81250950.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
February 28, 2021||Surat||Wife, her brother detained for dragging man behind a tempo in Surat||SURAT: Police detained a woman and her brother on Saturday for allegedly dragging her husband on the road tied to a mini tempo in Kadodara of Surat district. Watch: Man tied, dragged behind tempo on road by wife, her brother in Surat's KadodaraREAD MORE:… https://t.co/SM1PPactIO— TOI Surat (@TOISurat) 1614489327000Police investigation so far revealed that the incident took place out of domestic violence heaped on Shital Rathod. The victim allegedly thrashed his wife in a drunken stupor following which she sought help from her brother, Anil Chauhan, who came to their house in his mini tempo. When matters only worsened, they tied the man with a rope to the tempo and dragged him for about 500 metres on the road, leaving him with serious head injuries. The man was admitted in SMIMER hospital in a critical condition. Police detained the duo on charges of allegedly attempting to kill Balkrushna Rathod, a labourer in a dyeing mill. The duo will be arrested if they test negative for Covid-19, police said. The victim’s family is from Jalgaon district in Maharashtra. According to police, Balkrushna returned home drunk in Durganagar locality in Kadodara on Friday afternoon and started fighting with Shital and also beat her up. The woman then called up her brother asking him to come over. Chauhan, who drives a mini tempo, arrived at the spot and asked his brother-in-law not to thrash his sister. “The victim did not stop and instead abused both brother and sister. The woman told the police that Balkrushna often thrashed her and also failed to return home for days at a stretch,” said a police officer at Kadodara police station. After the victim continued to ransack things in the house, Chauhan tried to control him and when he failed the duo decided to teach him a lesson. “The brother-sister duo first thrashed the man and then tied one hand of the victim to the tempo and dragged him in speed for around half a kilometre,” said the police. Seeing the man being dragged behind a tempo, locals chased it and forced Chauhan to stop. They thrashed the accused and handed him over to the police. The injured victim was shifted to a private hospital in Kadodara, but after his condition worsened, he was shifted to SMIMER hospital in the city. “The victim is still unconscious and his condition is critical due to severe head injuries,” police added. Watch Gujarat: Man dragged by wife, brother-in-law behind a tempo in Surat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/wife-her-brother-detained-for-dragging-man-behind-a-tempo/articleshow/81249622.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||Did Delhi get its name from King Anagapal? NMA to trace more||NEW DELHI: National Monuments Authority (NMA), a body under the ministry of culture, has sought to carry out research to further establish that India’s national capital Delhi got its name from 11th century Rajput ruler Anangpal-II. Scholars from IIT, JNU, BHU, Panjab University and renowned archaeologists from ASI on Thursday gathered at a two-day seminar on the city’s glorious past calling Anangpal-II as the founder of Delhi. NMA sought a pilot project to find more coins of Anangpal-II era, conduct vertical excavations in Lalkot area in Delhi and submit a research based on numismatic discoveries. National Monuments Authority (NMA) chairperson Tarun Vijay speaks during a session on role of 11th century King Anangpal-2 Tomar, who is believed to set up Delhi with its then name Dhilli or Dhillika after an inscription on pillar was found in Delhi. President Ram Nath Kovind described it as a significant move. “Delhi has an enriching historical legacy since its inception as Indraprastha till Dhillika, later founded by Tomar Kings. It is a significant move to have scholars from different academic hues like history and archaeology to sit together and contemplate on the various aspects of our glorious past,” said Kovind in a message to NMA. So far, there have been epigraphical evidences besides the bardic legends that Anangpal-II ruled Delhi. Anangpal-II belonged to the Tomar dynasty, which ruled Kannauj after the downfall of the Pratiharas from 10th century onwards. He was the 16th ruler of dynasty. One of them is the inscription on Mehrauli iron pillar and excavations held between 1992 and 1995 by then ASI archaeologist Dr BR Mani. “Story of the loose pillar (Killi-Dhilli Katha) mentioned by a number of authorities becomes very relevant as it gives an inscriptional evidence. The truth is Anangpal-II established the city and wanted to uproot the iron pillar, which was supposed to be nail of the earth. It was colloquially called Killi. And the iron pillar mentions the date 1102. The then scholars warned him if he uprooted the pillar, he would lose kingdom. The pillar then loosely called to be known as Dhilli. That later became Dhillika or Dhillkapuri,” Mani, co-convener, of two-day event, told TOI. NMA officials said that the objective of the event was to have different views of scholars further establish Anangpal’s contributions to Delhi. Framed photographs showing excavation at a site belonging to Anangpal-2’s kingdom in Mehrauli’s Lalkot and Anang Tal in Mehrauli and portrait of the king seen at a two-day seminar by NMA. “That’s why we had three sessions. First was based on tradition and literature, another on coins and epigraphs and third on archaeological evidences. The attempt was to find out the actual picture. The objective is to fortify research apart from excavations and inscriptions on tracing Delhi’s name to Anangpal-II,” said NMA chairman Tarun Vijay. Historians said that research on Delhi’s roots is essential to trace textual, epigraphic and genealogy glimpses of how Rajput rulers were established. “I suggest there must be more vertical excavations in Lalkot area, so that things could be established with exactitude with clear legends of Tomar,” said Dr GS Khwaja, former director (epigraphy), Arabic and Persian, ASI. Senior historian Upinder Kaur said, “I have discussed the connection between Tomar Rajputs and settlements in Delhi area in my book Ancient Delhi. Apart from reference to Anangpal and Dilli on the iron pillar, the remains at Anangpur and stone masonry dam at Anangtal also suggest a connection,”. Author Amish Tripathi said," Many of our true heroes have been airbrushed. The story of Anangpal is not recorded in our modern history books. It's most unfortunate and I want to congratulate the ministry and NMA are reviving memory of King Anangpal". Watch NMA to carry out research to establish King Anangpal’s contributions to Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/did-delhi-get-its-name-from-king-anagapal-nma-to-trace-more/articleshow/81251952.cms||Rohan Dua
February 28, 2021||Goa||Unlikely to have outcome before next poll: Experts on disqualification plea||Panaji: A day after speaker Rajesh Patnekar reserved orders in the disqualification petition filed by Congress and MGP against their former MLAs, legal experts do not expect an outcome before the next election, as both parties could go on and challenge the orders. Constitutional expert and advocate Cleofato Almeida Coutinho said in case the speaker disposes the petition, either party can challenge the speaker’s order before the high court or Supreme Court. “The chances of the speaker disqualifying (the MLAs) are very bleak, almost negligent, hence, since a year is left for this House, it may have to be challenged,” he said. “Going by the track record, I do not expect any final decision before the next election. That’s the problem with disqualification litigation.” He also said that “in the unlikely event of the speaker disqualifying the MLAs, they may go to the Supreme Court via the high court to get breathing time”. Another lawyer, Arun Bras de Sa, said that “the aggrieved party in my opinion will impugn (challenge) the said order in accordance with law”. In May 2019, senior MGP functionary and former deputy chief minister Ramkrishna Dhavalikar filed a petition before the speaker seeking the disqualification of deputy CM Manohar Ajgaonkar and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar, who quit MGP to join BJP in March 2019. The MGP challenged their claim that two-thirds of MGP legislature party has merged with BJP. MGP had three MLAs in the 40-member House, and it has now been reduced to one. Dhavalikar had said that the 10th Schedule of the Constitution does not postulate such a merger, by which the members of the legislature party would meet at midnight and claim that a merger has taken place. On July 10 that year, 10 rebel Congress MLAs led by deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar joined BJP, claiming that the Congress legislature party had split. The other nine MLAs are Isidore Fernandes, Nilkanth Halarnkar, revenue minister Jennifer Monserrate, Antonio Fernandes, Francisco Silveira, Wilfred D’Sa, Clafasio Dias, Filipe Rodrigues and Atanasio Monserrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unlikely-to-have-outcome-before-next-poll-experts-on-disqualification-plea/articleshow/81250966.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Spike in some states due to lax attitude, says CCMB chief||Hyderabad: The massive spike in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring states including Maharashtra and Kerala are not due to any new variant of the virus, confirmed the director of CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB). “The spike is solely due to human behaviour. This makes it even more important for people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour, even if the state has been able to steer clear of a second wave till date,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, director, CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad. In fact, a few days back, two variants of the virus namely — N440 K and E484 K — were confirmed to be present in Maharashtra, Kerala and Telangana by Dr VK Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog. These as well as the UK variant are not the reason for the increase in cases, clarified Dr Mishra. “What we are seeing in Maharashtra or Kerala is that there is no particular variant in large numbers. We are not seeing any strain or variant which is emerging and which coincides with the peak in terms of occurrence, be it the N440, E484 or the UK variant. It doesn’t look like they are the cause. So far, data suggests that it is because Covid appropriate behaviour has not been followed — that is why there is a spike,” said Dr Mishra. “It is the same virus but if you do not wear a mask, hold elections, party around, indulge in clustering and board the local trains without taking precautions, after some time the infection picks up and then it becomes a catalytic process. It’s like a chain reaction,” he added. The state health authorities, meanwhile, have already sounded an alert about the possibility of a spike if the guard is lowered. “The virus is still around us and therefore the minute we become careless, we are likely to see a spike. We are already seeing high level of complacence in following Covid appropriate behaviour. It is a ticking bomb,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana, urging people to take Covid precautions and opt for the vaccine. Dr Mishra too said that people should opt for the vaccine as it will be a huge barrier for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spike-in-some-states-due-to-lax-attitude-says-ccmb-chief/articleshow/81250973.cms||Amrita Didyala
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Covid surge: Cases from all across Delhi||NEW DELHI: After falling consistently for a while, the number of new Covid cases is on the rise in Delhi and the spike is almost evenly spread across the 11 districts. On Saturday, there were reports of 243 new cases, following on the 256, the highest in February, a day earlier. The surge has caused concerns, especially because of the spike reported in Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. The overall positivity rate, however, remains below 0.50%. Experts believe the spurt in fresh cases may be linked to people ignoring Covid precautions. An analysis of the last seven days suggests that most districts are reporting more cases than they reported in the week before February 19. Most of the 11 districts are conducting 5,000-7,000 tests daily, and the positivity rate varies among the districts from 0.08% to 0.71%. On February 26, South district reported 54 new cases and South-West 21. North-East district, which had zero cases on two separate days, reported five that day, while for the first time in the past fortnight Central district reported 19 cases, East 35 and Shahdara 18. New Delhi reported 46 cases on Thursday and West, 28, its highest in the past 15 days. On Saturday, 243 new cases were reported after testing 67,484 people, a positivity rate of 0.36%. According to the government, 45,873 people took the RT-PCR test and 21,611, the rapid antigen test. While there were three Covid deaths, 164 people also recovered from the infection. On November 11, Delhi had reported 8,500 new cases, the highest in a single-day, but the situation was brought under control within weeks by increasing the number of RT-PCR tests and conducting extensive contact tracing and treatment. Throughout February, there were less than 200 single day cases with around 60,000 people being tested daily. On February 16, only 94 of 56,944 tests returned positive results, an infection rate of 0.17%. The cases started surging on February 24, with the addition of 200 Covid patients that day and a positivity rate of 0.36%. Since then, Delhi has reported over 200 cases daily. The number of active cases on Saturday was 1,307, up from 1,231 on Friday. Of them, 436 people were in hospitals, one in a Covid care centre and 627 in home isolation. Delhi government is monitoring the situation closely. The capital’s Covid condition was extensively discussed in the meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority recently and the authorities asked to enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour besides maintaining strict surveillance and testing. A district official disclosed that experts had advised adoption of cluster-based surveillance, testing and genome sequencing besides enforcing Covid-compliant measures. “We are maintaining the current levels of testing, especially the use of the gold standard RT-PCR tests, which has proved effective in containing the spread of Covid in the city. The high number of tests are required to identify any source of a resurgence in infection in Delhi,” said the official. As a precautionary measure, Delhi government intends to make it mandatory for arrivals from Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab to carry Covid-negative test reports to be able to enter Delhi. A highly placed source said discussion on this measure is still going on. Meanwhile, Delhi is gearing up to expand the vaccination programme. From March 1, inoculation is likely to be opened up for people aged 60 years and above and those aged above 45 with comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-surge-cases-from-all-across-city/articleshow/81249632.cms||AlokKNMishra
February 28, 2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath raps officials of tehsils with maximum helpline complaints||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath launched a crackdown on additional district magistrates and station house officers of areas, where residents logged a high number of complaints on CM helpline and sought an explanation from them. During a review of complaints pertaining to home and revenue departments over six months, the chief minister on Saturday said, the helpline clocked highest number of complaints from Prayagraj district’s Phoolpur and Handia tehsils and Farukkhabad’s Sadar and Kayamganj tehsils. He said, additional district magistrates of these tehsils would be held accountable. Also, Sadar tehsils in Hardoi, Gonda, Mirzapur and Shajahanpur districts, Bidhuna tehsil in Auraiya district and Hariya tehsil in Basti district recorded a high number of complaints. ADMs handling complaints would be held responsible, the CM said. During a review of police stations, it was found maximum complaints were received from Isanagar, Nighasan and Dhaurahra in Lakhimpur Kheri district. The CM has sought an explanation from the superintendent of police, Lakhimpur Kheri, and directed officials to fix responsibility on station house officers. He also took to task the station in-charge officers of Handia in Prayagraj district, Kannauj kotwali in Kannauj district, Kotwali in Unnao district, Lalganj in Pratapgarh district, Nanpara in Bahraich district and Laharpur in Sitapur district for the flood of complaints from their respective areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-raps-officials-of-tehsils-with-max-helpline-plaints/articleshow/81251570.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||Hawker menace continues in Kolkata despite civic assurance||KOLKATA: A day after KMC officials and senior police officers assured New Market traders that encroachment on the streets around New Market area would be removed so that traffic could move freely and shoppers could park their cars, customers continued to face harassment on Saturday. Though some hawkers were asked to vacate the carriageway, parking lots on Bertram Street and Humayun Place remained obstructed by hawkers. Several motorists who drove down to New Market after news reports on the assurance were disappointed as they were denied space to park. A survey of parking lots on Saturday evening revealed only eight cars parked on Bertram Street and one car on Humayun Place. The parking lot on Bertram Street can accommodate 40 cars while Humayun Place has space for 30. Car parking attendants said some hawkers resorted to intimidation on Saturday when they attempted to guide cars into the parking lot. “We were threatened with dire consequences if we complained about the encroachment to police or civic authorities,” said an attendant. Among those who were refused parking space was a senior citizen who had driven to New Market to shop. He was refused parking at three lots on Bertram Street. The first space is located barely 50m from the mayor’s gate at KMC headquarters. It has been occupied by hawkers selling footwear. The senior citizen drove past the spot and halted near a medicine shop at the intersection of Bertram Street and Humayun Place. Here, too, he was shooed away. He then moved ahead, hoping to find another spot near the Bertram Street-Lindsay Street intersection, but had to finally give up. According to Uday Sahoo, a senior official in the Joint Traders Federation representing 5,000 traders in the Chowringhee belt, they will wait a while to see if there was a genuine attempt on the part of the authorities to address the issue. “If nothing cha-nges thereafter, we will be forced to launch a bigger stir,” Sahoo said. A KMC car parking department official said the civic body officials had a talk with the local police station about removal of encroachment and they will start a drive next week to free up the parking lots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hawker-menace-continues-despite-civic-assurance/articleshow/81249643.cms||Saikat Ray
February 28, 2021||Jaipur||Congress brings Ashok Gehlot, Pilot together for assembly bypolls||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot travelled together for the first time since the revolt by the latter in July last year to jointly address Congress’s political rallies on Saturday. As bypolls for four assembly seats are getting closer, the Congress state unit is trying to project a united face by bringing Gehlot and Pilot together. The poll dates are yet to be announced, but the party has already launched its election campaign. The two leaders appealed to people at farmer rallies in Bikaner and Chittorgarh districts to vote for Congress. A photo of Gehlot, Pilot, AICC general secretary Ajay Maken and PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra ready to fly together in a chopper for the Kisan Sammelan near Sridungargarh in Bikaner was shared on social media early morning to convey that all was well in the state unit. People were, however, quick to question if the ‘smiling faces’ portrayed a genuine solidarity. So far, Pilot had been addressing farmer rallies separately organised by MLAs close to him. Pilot’s demand for a greater participation of ‘Congress workers’ in the governance by making state-level political appointments and cabinet reshuffle/expansion has been getting postponed ever since his reconciliation with Gehlot brokered by the Congress central leadership in August last year. With bypolls approaching and Gujjars having a significant presence in two of the four seats up for grabs, the Congress state unit has been taking some conciliatory steps of late. The decision, early this week, to withdraw a special leave petition in Supreme Court challenging a high court order to stay action on disqualification of Pilot and his 18 loyal MLAs was part of the conciliation strategy, said party sources. Sites for political rallies in the name of Kisan Sammelan were selected to cover the nearby assembly seats where bypolls are due. Sujangarh in Churu, Sahara in Bhilwara, Vallabnagar in Udaipur and Rajsamand would have bypolls as their sitting MLAs died of illness. Gehlot remembered the four deceased MLAs, including Kiran Maheshwari who was a BJP MLA, in his speeches to seek votes for Congress. “BJP has around 70-72 MLAs. Even if it gets one or two more in the bypolls, that will just increase its numbers. But if you make Congress win all four seats, not only will our government be strengthened but the officials from top to bottom will also realise that the people are with Congress and would work efficiently to address your grievances,” he said at Matrikundiya in Chittorgarh district. He did not miss the opportunity to target BJP for “killing” Gujjars during quota agitations under the previous Vasundhara Raje government. “Ninety people, including 70 Gujjars, were killed in police firing under the Raje government. But our subsequent government handled the protests without resorting to even a lathi-charge,” Gehlot said. Gehlot and Pilot both targeted the BJP-led Centre on the three controversial farm laws. “Farmers protested in the open in shivering cold, but the Centre was stubborn and is still not listening to them. How can Modi ji and Amit Shah ji sleep at night when the farmers are protesting?” the CM said. Pilot said, “Modi ji promised to double the farmers’ income but has instead thrust on them the three farm laws made to fill pockets of a few people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-brings-gehlot-pilot-together-for-assembly-bypolls/articleshow/81250971.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
February 28, 2021||Delhi||465 electric four-wheelers registered since August in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Since the launch of the Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy in August last year, a total of 465 new electric four-wheelers have been registered, with more vehicles being added each day, indicating that Delhiites have started switching to electric vehicles in large number. The AAP government is currently running the ‘Switch Delhi’ campaign, which focuses on sensitising Delhiites on the benefits of electric four-wheelers, along with the incentives that EV adopters can avail under the new policy. “Incentives of up to Rs 3 lakh is provided under the Delhi EV policy, which includes Rs 1.5 lakh subsidy, registration, and road tax exemption. This is the highest subsidy in India and makes the cost of ownership of an electric car in Delhi the same as a diesel car,” transport minister Kailash Gahlot explained. The subsidies provided on electric vehicles under the EV policy, Gahlot claimed, reduced the total cost of ownership of EVs by up to 30%. “An individual can save Rs 1,050 per month by switching to EV from a diesel car,” he added. Meanwhile, Delhi government, in an order issued on Thursday, stated that all government departments, autonomous bodies, and grantee institutions would replace their existing fleet of hired conventional fuel vehicles with electric vehicle. A total of 2,000 cars will be impacted by this decision and the transition would take place in the next six months. CM Arvind Kejriwal had praised this decision and tweeted: “This will go a long way in curbing pollution in Delhi. Delhi is fast becoming a modern city. Every Indian is proud of Delhi”. The transport department is the nodal department to monitor the progress of the transition from existing vehicle to EVs. It will also be necessary for all departments to produce monthly action reports on the transition to EVs to the nodal department. Delhiites, who have switched to electric cars, can share their experience under the #DilliKeGreenWarrior initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/465-electric-four-wheelers-registered-since-august/articleshow/81249646.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Why ramping up of new phase will take 10 days||Mumbai: Though the third phase of the vaccination drive begins on Monday, state officials said it could take another week or 10 days for the campaign to be ramped up and for the general public to be able to take the shot at the “closest” private hospital. Officials said inspection of private players, training of their staff and storage issues needed to be sorted out. TOI lists the reasons why the ramp-up may be a slow process:  Registration of recipients  Not many tech-challenged 60-plus citizens will be able to immediately download and self-register on the Centre’s digital platform for the Covid-19 vaccine programme, CoWIN. Also, it is at the moment not known how many names will feature in CoWIN’s drop-box for selection of private hospitals. Eligibility of pvt hospitals The Centre on Friday said only those private hospitals empanelled with the Central or state government’s insurance schemes could join the vaccination programme. The Centre has sent the BMC a list of private hospitals empanelled for CGHS and PMJAY programmes that could double up as vaccine centres, but civic officials said they haven’t been able to locate some of these hospitals because of sketchy addresses. “We have asked the local ward offices to locate them,” said an official. At the moment, the better-known city hospitals such as Breach Candy or Hinduja seem ineligible. BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani said he has called a meeting of private hospitals on Sunday to discuss the vaccination drive. Inspection by BMC As per the Centre’s requirements, each vaccine centre must have demarcated waiting areas, sterile zones, etc. The BMC will need to inspect each of the hospitals (named by the Centre) to check if they fulfil the criteria. Also, they should be able to maintain a cold chain for the vaccine.  Training for vaccinators Nurses in private hospitals will have to undergo BMC training for vaccinating. Data entry operators in private hospitals will have to be trained on how to use the Co-WIN app. Sale of vaccine The Centre has not made any announcement on the sale of vaccine. BMC officials said that they have got a directive to supply vaccines to private hospitals. “People going to private hospitals will have to pay Rs 250 (Rs 150 for the vaccine and Rs 100 as user charges). Of this, Rs 150 will have to be given to the government.”  A dry run The state will have to carry out dry runs at the private centres before the private hospitals can start vaccinating senior citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/why-ramping-up-of-new-phase-will-take-10-days/articleshow/81249653.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Bhandara police gives clean chit to NU in abandoned answersheets case||NAGPUR: Bhandara police, who were conducting an inquiry into the answersheets found along NH-6 highway on January 11, have given a clean chit to Nagpur University in the matter. The inquiry report was handed over to special nodal officer A Deshmukh, who was summoned from Mantralaya in Mumbai to Bhandara on Friday to conduct a probe into the incident. The ministry of higher and technical education is now contemplating setting up of new standard operating procedure (SOP) and policies of answer sheet disposal to avoid such a controversy, it’s learnt. University authorities had verified the 379 answersheets from the 2019 winter examinations to ascertain whether their results were out, and had found them to be suitable for disposal as per the ordnance and regulations governing such activities, before an e-tender was floated, inviting the highest bidder. The answersheets become eligible for disposal after 90 days of the results being declared, as per the university ordnance. It’s now learnt that a high-level decision has been taken to ensure that a forensic audit of the entire episode would be conducted by experts from the regional forensic science laboratory (RFSL), who had also visited the Bhandara police station. The university authorities have constituted a four-member committee to probe into the incident, that will shortly meet and submit its report too. Senior inspector of Bhandara city police station Lokesh Kanse said the university had submitted the details and documents of the tendering and auctioning procedure before the answersheets were handed over to the vendor, who was taking it for disposal or recycling at Raipur. “Technically the answersheets were already disposed of, after completing due formalities. As on today, their value is nil. The results were also declared. After speaking to the university officials concerned and verifying all facts, we have given a clean chit to the university,” Kanse said. “The answer-sheets had fallen off a truck on January 10,” he added. It’s learnt that the university has asked the vendor concerned Devendra Dhage to conduct searches in Bhandara and the adjoining localities for three days to ascertain whether more answersheets are to be seized. “The role of the vendor is under scanner now as he did not report the loss of the answersheets immediately to the police and university officials,” said a highly-placed source in the university. Pravin Udapure, a senate member who had raised the issue, said the answersheets were ferried in a negligent manner by the vendor, who also took long to report the matter to police. “There was every chance the answersheets and their blank pages could be misused,” he said. Bhandara police had started the inquiry after getting a complaint from Dhage on January 23, 13 days after he had lost them. Dhage had won the contract to dispose of the answer sheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bhandara-police-gives-clean-chit-to-nu-in-abandoned-answersheets-case/articleshow/81249649.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 28, 2021||Surat||80 architecture students feted at SCET convocation||Surat: Faculty of Architecture at Sarvajanik College of Engineering and Technology (SCET) organised its convocation at its campus on Friday to award diplomas to its students. Students who won university gold medals and won national-level competitions for best architecture thesis were also felicitated at the event. Dressed in formal black, students and faculties made the entire event held in Gujarati to honour the mother tongue even more grand. Former vice-chancellor of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) Dakshesh Thakar and theatre personality Padma Shri Yazdi Karanjia attended the event as guests which was graced by chairman of Sarvajanik Education Society, Kamlesh Yagnik, besides Bharat Shah of Chhaydo NGO. Altogether 40 students were awarded diplomas in Interior Design and 20 were awarded advance diplomas in Interior Design. Total 80 students of Bachelor of Architecture and 20 M Arch (City Design) students were felicitated. While Krisha Shah, who won the VNSGU gold medal as best architecture student was felicitated at the event, Harin Naik, another student was felicitated for selection of his thesis ‘Excellence in Architecture’ by Kurula Varkey Design Forum. The thesis will now be sent for participation in a competition for the best thesis at Council of Architecture. Karanjia explained the meaning of life to the students in a short but humorous address. “Life’s a journey to enjoy not to compete with others. We are all on different journeys. Do not wait for weekends to enjoy life,” said the ace theatre personality, adding that success cannot guarantee happiness, but a happy person can be successful.Imploring students to be truthful to their duties, Thakar said, “Listening is among the top 10 skills in the world while in India we consider speaking as a skill. Only earning a degree is not important as is the understanding of life.” Principal of Faculty of Architecture SCET, Persi Engineer, said that students of interior design were awarded diplomas, while architecture students who were conferred degrees were also felicitated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/80-architecture-students-feted-at-scet-convocation/articleshow/81249655.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan government’s big push for DMIC project||JAIPUR: In what would give a firm push to the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor’s (DMIC) Khushkhera-Bhiwadi-Neemrana Investment Region (KBNIR), the state government announced Rs 1,000 crore in the Budget to develop core area infrastructure of the project. The funds will be used for paying land compensation and developing roads and creating water and electricity infrastructure.  According to a senior RIICO official, development of core area infrastructure comes under the state’s responsibility and the money spent for it will be its equity for the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) where the Centre will have 50% equity. DMIC projects are jointed developed by state governments and the Centre. “The funds announced in the budget will be part of our equity for the SPV. The Centre will also contribute an equal amount which again will be used for developing the infrastructure for KBNIR,” said the official.Since RIICO has been made the Regional Development Authority (RDA) for the KBNIR, funds will come from the state PSU while the state government might share some of it. Forming the SPV would be the first major step for developing the KBNIR project. There are many other projects waiting on the wings to make the National Capital Region in Rajasthan a mega industrial hub in the country. Work on the Rapid Regional Transit System and eight-lane Delhi-Mumbai Expressway is in progress. The detailed project report for a greenfield airport in Bhiwadi has been approved. Leveraging connectivity between the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway and the NH-48 is a priority for the government. Again, focus is also on providing connectivity between Bhiwadi and NH-48 which will improve efficiency of the industrial zones, said the official. The state government has already requested to Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Ltd (DFCCI) for a Multimodal Logistics Hub (MMLH) at its Salarpur industrial area township which is strategically located at DFC and NH-48. The MMLH facilities will support DFC in achieving its potential by providing an integrated logistic facility for efficient storage, and transitioning of goods to and from the state. “There is one MMLH coming up in Haryana. But the industrialists of Rajasthan would much prefer to use facilities in Rajasthan than going to Haryana. So, we would like our own independent MMLH in Rajasthan itself,” he said. Recently, the prime minister inaugurated 306-km New Rewari-New Madar section of the Western DFC which will be used for exclusive operation of freight trains. The trains will run at a maximum speed of 100 km per hour connecting MMLHs and DMIC. One of the world’s largest infrastructure projects, the DMIC has been designed as a high-tech industrial zone spread across six states between Delhi and Mumbai. 39% of the route passes through Rajasthan. The industrial projects developed along the DFC, which will form the corridor’s transportation backbone. The 14th Finance Commission has already sanctioned Rs 520 crore out of which Rs 320 crore will be spent for creating a new industrial township in Kaysa near Neemrana, while Rs 200 crore will go into expanding the capacity of Neemrana industrial area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govts-big-push-for-dmic-project/articleshow/81249647.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
February 28, 2021||Jaipur||Bhuvnesh Sharma elected HC Bar president||Jaipur: Bhuvnesh Sharma was on Saturday elected the new president of High Court Bar Association, Jaipur. Sharma got 1,619 votes, while his close competitor Mahendra Shandilya got 1,564 votes. Giriraj Sharma bagged the post of general secretary. He defeated his close rival Sanjay Khedar. Girraj Sharma secured 1,553 votes while Khedar received 1,238 votes. Nidhi Khandelwal and Bharat Yadav secured two posts of vice president, Vivek Sharma got joint secretary post while Vivek Joshi was elected treasurer, Rajaram Chaudhary eas elected as library secretary and Deepti Jain bagged the post of cultural secretary. Hitesh Bagdi was elected unopposed as joint library secretary. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bhuvnesh-sharma-elected-hc-bar-president/articleshow/81249663.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Lucknow||Sant Ravidas’s life an inspiration: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath paid tributes to the mystic poet-saint Sant Ravidas on his 644th birth anniversary on Saturday and announced the beautification of his temple at Krishna Nagar in the state capital. The CM said the state government is carrying out development and beautification of the temple at the saint’s birthplace Seer Goverdhanpur in Varanasi and urged the Sant Ravidas Seva Samiti and Lucknow Cantt MLA Suresh Chandra Tiwari to prepare a plan for beautification of the temple in Lucknow. Sant Ravidas was born in Varanasi 645 years ago and took Sanatan Dharma in India to new heights, said Yogi. “Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee used to say, Aadmi na chhota hota hai, na bada hota hai, aadmi to aadmi hota hai (A human being is neither inferior nor superior. A human being is a human being). Sant Ravidas was a perfect example of this and proved that irrespective of one’s birth how a person can achieve greatness through his deeds and earns reverence of people,” the CM said. Referring to an anecdote about the saint and his maxim, the CM said Sant Ravidas said that if one’s soul is pure, then there is no need to purify oneself by taking a dip in the holy Ganga. “If our conscience is pure, then we will be able to rise spiritually. If our conscience is impure, then we will not succeed in our pursuit of spiritualism,” he added. Sant Ravidas always worked to strengthen Sanatan Dharma even though he had to face the hypocrisies of society throughout his life,” the CM said. “Sanatan Dharm is strengthening Hinduism to fulfil the vision of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sant-ravidass-life-an-inspiration-cm/articleshow/81251584.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 4 burnt alive after 2 trucks collide & catch fire in Churu||JAIPUR: Four people were burnt alive after two trucks caught fire following a head-on collision near Sirsala village within Dudhwa police station limits in Churu district early on Saturday. The deceased included two drivers and two helpers. According to police, the trucks bearing Haryana and Punjab registrations collided caught fire after the collision. “Some people, who rushed with mud and buckets of water to douse the fire, informed police. A police team and a fire tender rushed to the spot and contained the fire in 20 minutes,” said a senior police officer of Churu district. The deceased were identified as Nafey Singh and Harpreet Singh, the driver and helper of the Haryana-registered truck, and Harjeet Singh and Sukhdev Singh of the Punjab registered lorry. Police said there was one more person in one of the trucks who is missing. “We called up owners of the trucks using the registration numbers who helped us to identify the bodies. The relatives of the deceased have been intimated and bodies were handed over to them after autopsy,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-burnt-alive-after-2-trucks-collide-catch-fire-in-churu/articleshow/81250986.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Goa||Goa: New lease of life as eight trees transplanted at NIT site||PANAJI: With the resolve that not a single tree should be lost during construction of the new campus of the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Goa, at Cuncolim, eight coconut trees have been transplanted at the campus. The trees have been relocated to another site within the 121 acre campus property, with the help of experts from Mangaluru. The institute is developing its new campus as a green one and has already planted hundreds of mancurad mango and other saplings of indigenous trees to mark the start of the construction work. “There are 35 coconut trees on the site, of which eight were falling within the construction area. We consulted experts from Mangaluru and with the help of local agriculturists, the transplantation was carried out. A 3x3 feet ditch was constructed, which was layered with sand, hay, soil and manure. The quality of soil at the site is good and the trees are expected to start growing new roots within a couple of weeks,” said Mugeraya. The coconut trees are of an age of 10 to 15 years. “We found that mango and coconut trees are stress-friendly trees and are expected to give better yield after trimming of branches, transplantation, etc. We did not want to lose any of the trees already existing at the campus site, besides coconut trees are retained at any cost because of their usefulness,” he said. At the green campus, already four natural seasonal ponds are being developed as water harvesting structures. “We have retained the natural hilly terrain of the property while designing the buildings for the new construction, this will ensure minimum disturbance to the soil. The new campus will also partially recycle water for use,” he said. He said that special material for the construction is also being procured from Pune, which will ensure that the temperature inside the buildings is three degrees lower than the temperature outside. “Goa experiences summer heat for upto four months and then the humidity of the monsoon for another four months, the structure will regulate the temperature in these seasons by three degrees,” said Mugeraya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-lease-of-life-as-eight-trees-transplanted-at-nit-site/articleshow/81250990.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Premium petrol price in Mumbai hits century-mark||MUMBAI: The price of premium petrol here crossed the century-mark, retailing at Rs100.35 a litre at pumps as prices went up once again on Saturday morning. Ordinary petrol was also hiked to Rs97.57, while diesel shot up to an all-time high of Rs88.60. Premium petrol is with additives that help the engine stay carbon-free, which many motorists prefer. Premium petrol had already crossed Rs100 in districts like Parbhani and Nanded. Ordinary petrol in Parbhani is 28 paise short of Rs100. The price of petrol going up is pinching pockets of motorists who have no option. “I need the car for daily travel to the mall, markets or for groceries. I also take the car to office, so I need the fuel, although it has been hiked by more than Rs20 a litre in 10 months,” said Sagnik Dey from Thane. Another car owner, Nirmal Thakker, said the government must reduce taxes, VAT and excise duties to give relief to the common man. All eyes are on the state budget, on whether the government will make any announcement. Petrol pump owner Ravi Shinde said there was no drop in customers. “People need to travel. We see a good flow of motorists and bikers at our pump daily,” he said. There were protests in Navi Mumbai by Aam Aadmi Party activists few days back on fuel price hikes. Other parties like Congress, Shiv Sena and MNS have protested too. Oil marketing company sources said various factors impacted the price of fuel. Price of fuel includes excise duty, value added tax (VAT), and dealer commission. VAT varies from state to state, and is one of the highest in Maharashtra. The state government burdens consumers by charging VAT on petrol at 26% not only on basic price and transport cost but also on excise duty. The state also charges an additional cess of Rs10.12 a litre. Sources said petrol is taxed at 250-300% of basic cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/premium-petrol-price-in-city-hits-century-mark/articleshow/81250992.cms||Somit Sen
February 28, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Former judge Lohra is new Lokayukta||JAIPUR: Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra on Saturday appointed former judge of Rajasthan high court Justice Pratap Krishna Lohra to the post of Lokayukta. The governor issued a warrant on the appoinment on Saturday.  The post of the Rajasthan's Lokayukta was lying vacant after the term of Justice (retd) S S Kothari ended on March 7, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/former-judge-lohra-is-new-lokayukta/articleshow/81249666.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||CCTV reveals clinching evidence against Bhandara hospital nurses||Bhandara: CCTV footage of the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU), retrieved by the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) at Kalina, Mumbai, revealed crucial evidence against the Bhandara district general hospital nurses in the fire of January 9 that claimed the lives of 10 babies. The footage, said the public prosecutor before the sessions court, had captured sparking in the warmer machine at the NICU for around 11 minutes before a fire broke out. The nurses, Smita Ambildukhe and Shubhangi Sathawane, who are accused in the case, realize there was a fire only after around 20 minutes of the sparking first happening. There was a loud blast which first attracted the attention of the nurses, following which they managed to rescue some babies, otherwise the casualties would have increased. Among several other lapses, it’s also learnt the nurses had forgotten to switch off the main power supply of the warmers, which led to over-heating and subsequently sparks started flying out of it. The nurses were allegedly busy on social media on phone or attending to calls even as flames spread in the unit where babies were kept. They were not present at either of the two NICU units. The CCTV findings were learnt to be part of the prosecution pleadings submitted before the sessions court in Bhandara on Friday to oppose the anticipatory bail pleas of three nurses Smita Ambildukhe, Shubhangi Sathawane and another, who had approached the judiciary for pre-arrest bail. The court adjourned the hearing of the anticipatory bail plea to March 8, said district government pleader Vinod Bhole, who is representing the prosecution. Out of the three who approached the court, Bhandara police had earlier registered offences against Ambildukhe and Sathawane for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after 40 days of the incident, holding them responsible for the death of 10 babies. It’s learnt the third nurse was the senior of Ambildukhe and Sathawane, whose role was to allot and distribute duties. Police sources said the third nurse was not found to be negligent. The three had however approached the judiciary for anticipatory bail in January. An expert committee under divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar was also formed to ascertain the administrative lapses behind the devastating fire. As the committee did not share it's findings with the police, the retrieval of the CCTV footage went a long way to help police zero down on the roles of the two accused in the case. The committee findings also had led to the termination of the contracts of the nurses, who had completed special courses in managing neonatal conditions. Sources in the district also said cops were first stunned to see the CCTV recorders did not have any footage. It took the FSL 15-20 days to retrieve the footage. A nurse was also spotted sleeping with her head on the table. It’s also learnt that the police have submitted details of the eyewitness accounts before the court. The eyewitnesses had revealed the accused nurses were not present at the NICU units and reached only after the fire had already spread, leading to the deaths. The statements of the nurses had also been recorded before the magistrate under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cctv-reveals-clinching-evidence-against-bhandara-hospital-nurses/articleshow/81235173.cms||Soumitra Bose
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal CM’s protest ride to Nabanna piques interest in electric vehicles||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Thursday taken a pillion ride to Nabanna and back on an e-scooter driven by minister Firhad Hakim to register her protest against the skyrocketing price of petrol and diesel. Little did she know she would end up as an ambassador for electric vehicles. Seizing the opportunity of the CM first taking a pillion ride and then attempting to drive the e-scooter herself, dealers of electric two-wheelers said the protest had actually created huge awareness among masses on the practicality of e-vehicles. Ramdhanu Enterprise, from where Hakim and Kasba councillor Tarun Mondal purchased the e-scooter, has even taken to social media to leverage the event. “Honourable CM Mamata Banerjee promoting electric scooter to stop wasting money on petrol and keep environment healthy,” wrote executive Nilendu Banerjee. Siddharth Singhania, dealer of Hero Electric, admitted the event grabbed eyeballs and piqued people’s interest. “No matter how many measures we take to create awareness on e-vehicles, it will be no match to what’s been achieved after the CM’s ride. We are getting a steady stream of enquiries, some of which we hope will convert to sales,” he said. Sharad Gupta, who owns Hitech Motors, has also witnessed a jump in enquiries. “After the lockdown, the enquiries increased by 300%. Following the CM’s ride, there’s been a further jump. It is still too early to evaluate how much but if a public figure adopts an electric vehicle, it is sure to inspire confidence among others,” he said. Post lockdown, sales of e-scooters and e-bikes are pegged around 500-550 a month in Bengal. If Banerjee and Hakim’s ride does bring about a change in people’s mindset about electric vehicles, the numbers will shoot up. At present, two types of electric two-wheelers are sold in the city: low-speed and high-speed bikes. The former has a maximum speed of 25kmph and does not require RTO registration. The latter, which is like a petrol scooter or bike, has to be registered. The price of low-speed scooters is Rs 38,000-60,000, depending on the battery type. High-speed bikes and scooters cost Rs 70,000 to over Rs 1 lakh. The price is after adjustment of 20% government subsidy. The cost of operating an electric two-wheeler is less than Rs 1 a km against almost twice for other vehicles. A two-wheeler can run for 50-80km on a single battery. There are, however, areas of concern that have stymied the growth. These include infrastructure limitations that cause anxiety over what would happen if the charge gets over, government flip-flop on subsidy and poor after-sales service from unorganized players in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cms-protest-ride-to-nabanna-piques-interest-in-electric-vehicles/articleshow/81249660.cms||Subhro Niyogi
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||Hidco earmarks another two kilometre for cycle lane||KOLKATA: Encouraged by New Town being shortlisted among the country’s top 25 cycle cities, the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) plans to demarcate another 2km for a bicycle lane on Eco Park’s outer ring road from Gate 1 to Street 787. Hidco authorities will engage an agency to set up the dedicated cycle track on the road where cyclothon events are being organized. Hidco has already set up 17km of dedicated bicycle lanes across New Town, mainly on the service roads and inner roads. “We are committed to developing cycle-friendly infrastructure in New Town as a sustainable and environment friendly mode of transport and want New Town to become the bicycle capital,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. The authorities will introduce 400 e-cycles on the roads of New Town very soon, Sen said. Times ViewNew living zones have the advantage of planned development and more open spaces that can be utilised meaningfully; so places like New Town start with an obvious edge. But that does not mean other places do not even try to give their occupants a better quality of life. Older cities should try to emulate this and identify some areas that can have pedestrian-only and cycling zones. Every small effort counts.A number of cycling events have recently been held in New Town and more such events are in the offing. “The cycle tracks have given a new life to New Town. We are happy that New Town has been chosen among the top 25 cities in the country for promoting cycling,” said Samaresh Das, chairperson of New Town Forum and News (NTFN), a local NGO. Hidco and NKDA have been working on several initiatives to develop cycling in New Town. The public cycle sharing scheme has been reintroduced with 100 app-based bicycles, along with smart cycle stands with docking systems and a 24-hour mobile cycle clinic for repairing the cycles. There are plans to set up the state’s first velodrome with a circular cycle track for racing and other events. NKDA has also taken a policy decision to change building rules for a mandatory provision to reserve space for parking cycles with a docking system in all high-rise residential and commercial establishments across New Town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hidco-earmarks-another-2-km-for-cycle-lane/articleshow/81249668.cms||Suman Chakraborti
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Health dept in tizzy over cases in dists||Hyderabad: Spurt in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Maharashtra has got health officials in Telangana worried and put them on alert against a fresh wave of cases in districts. Health officials conducted a Zoom meeting with DMHOs on Saturday and asked then to take the necessary precautions. District medical and health officer (DMHO) of Karimnagar G Sujatha urged the people to undertake travel to neighbouring states only if it is necessary. She said necessary precautions have to be taken so that there is no fresh spurt in cases because of those returning to the district from other states. She said social distancing norms must be adhered to along with sanitisers and masks. She urged the public to visit a hospital to get a Covid-19 test done if they have any symptoms. The DMHO said telemedicine has already started in some districts and it would be launched in Karimnagar soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-dept-in-tizzy-over-cases-in-dists/articleshow/81250995.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||1.24L HCWs, FLWs still to get jab||Nagpur: The government is all set to begin phase-III of Covid-19 vaccination programme for 60-plus age group and those above 45 years with specified comorbidities in Vidarbha from March 1. However, inoculation of 1.24 lakh healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs), who were covered under phases I and II, respectively, is pending in the region.As per data of state public health department, 1,98,840 HCWs had registered for vaccine in 11 districts of the region. The government rolled out vaccine for this particular group on January 16. So far, 1,25,866 (63.3%) HCWs took the first dose while inoculation of 72,974 is pending.As far as frontline workers are concerned, registration of around 1.25 lakh was done. Total 73,763 (59%) took the jab while 51,237 are still go it.Thus, 1,99,629 HCWs and FLWs availed the benefit while 1,24,211 failed to turn up for inoculation.The state had set a deadline of February 14 for completion of first dose of HCWs. Later, Centre announced that February 25 would be the last date. Similarly, the deadline of February 27 set by state for completion of FLWs has also come to an end.The deadline for first dose for HCWs was set so that second dose of this particular group can start from February 15. The deadline of first dose for HCWs was revised, as was for FLWs, so that inoculation of age-appropriate people can begin from March 1.Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI, “First dose of HCWs, along with second and first doses of FLWs, will continue till further orders of the government. Vaccination is a voluntary exercise. So, all can visit any vaccination centre and get the jab,” he said.Vaccination of first dose of HCWs, FLWs and second dose of HCWs will continue simultaneously with age-appropriate people.Low turnout is being also registered in second dose of HCWs. In the first two weeks of vaccination programme, 54,922 HCWs took the first dose. Second dose is due 28 days later. But 34,835 (63.43%) HCWs took the second dose between February 15 and 27.The ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) had stated that good amount of antibodies develop after two weeks of second dose.All districts have reportedly started preparations for vaccination of citizens above 60 years and those over 45 years with specified comorbidities.Radhakrishnan held a meeting with NMC officials on Saturday and directed them to finalize the list of vaccination centres. “Already, 28 hospitals empanelled under the central government health scheme and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) have been identified for inoculation. The government made it mandatory to conduct vaccination programme only in health facilities,” said NMC officials.All districts are likely to begin vaccination of age-appropriate group with available doses for HCWs and FLWs. The government is yet to supply doses separately for phase-III.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-24l-hcws-flws-still-to-get-jab/articleshow/81248922.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||Second sero survey for Nagpur district in March||Nagpur: The health department and divisional administration will conduct second sero surveillance in Nagpur district in March. Blood samples of about 4,000 people from Nagpur city and district will be tested for IgG antibodies which indicate exposure to the novel coronavirus. The first full-fledged sero survey conducted in October 2020 had shown near 50% prevalence of Covid-19 in the city.“Administration is gearing up for the second sero survey next month. The exercise is important to understand how widespread the prevalence of Covid-19 is in the population,” said divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar. Dr Uday Narlawar of GMCH, Nagpur, who was nodal officer for the survey conducted in October, will head the second one too. “The second sero survey will be conducted on the lines of the first one. We will collect blood samples of 2,000 citizens from Nagpur city and 2,000 from Nagpur rural (district),” said Dr Narlawar. The city will be divided into 10 zones and 200 samples will be collected from each zone. The zone will be divided into four clusters and 50 samples will be collected from each cluster. In Nagpur rural, 50 samples each will be collected from three villages in 13 tehsils and one additional village from Nagpur tehsil. According to Dr Narlawar, blood sample collection and survey process will start immediately after the administration completes the formalities and clear expenses. “The survey is most likely to start from March second week. Last time, the result took around a month. But this time, it will come even earlier,” he said.Sero survey 2.0 - Provides estimate of Covid-19 prevalence in population- People who have experienced mild or asymptomatic illness with no signs or symptoms and did not seek medical care or test will be tested - 2,000 citizens from 10 zones of Nagpur, and 2,000 from 13 tehsils of Nagpur district will be tested - First survey held in October had shown near 50% prevalence of Covid-19 in city||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/second-sero-survey-for-nagpur-district-in-march/articleshow/81248917.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 28, 2021||Surat||Navsari ASI held taking Rs 5K bribe||Surat: An assistant sub inspector in Navsari was caught accepting Rs 5,000 as bribe from a jaggery seller on Saturday. Accused Diva Dahwad, who was out on election patrol duty, had gone to the residence of the complainant in Pati Bavisi Faliyu near Khergam and was caught by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) with the bribe money. Dahwad had left the complainant’s home with the money and a an ACB team led by K R Saxena, police inspector ACB, Valsad trapped the accused on the road. The exercise was carried out under the supervision of N P Gohil, assistant director, ACB, Surat. According to ACB, the complainant in the case is into edible jaggery business and accused Dahwad of trying to frame him as selling illegally to country liquor brewers. Threatening to frame him, Dahwad demanded Rs 5,000. The complainant asked him to collect the amount on Saturday morning. “The accused had come in the van that was taken on rent by police for election patrol duty. There were other cops present in the car but they are not involved in the crime,” said an ACB officer. The accused is to retire in five years and had worked for 30 years in Navsari police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/navsari-asi-held-taking-rs-5k-bribe/articleshow/81249696.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: FIR against 3 wedding halls for flouting Covid norms||MUMBAI: Continuing its crackdown on marriage halls violating Covid-19 norms and allowing crowds to gather at weddings, the BMC on Friday night registered FIRs against three such halls in Kalina. Civic officials said that these venues were allowing more guests than the 50 limit, despite warnings. The FIR was registered by Vakola police station for violating SOPs under Indian Penal Code sections 188 for disobedience to an order, 269 for an act likely to spread an infection and 34 for common intention, added officials. According to officials, FIRs were filed against a Yashodhan Hall, Gurunanak Hall and Noor Marriage Hall. “We had issued notices to all event venues in the area and told them to comply with the Covid-19 restrictions on the number of guests, but they did not listen. When we visited the venues on Friday night, we found that there were around 200 to 300 guests present and there was no social distancing being practiced at all. None of the guests were wearing face masks either,” said a senior civic official. All three venues are located on Kalina’s CST Road. “The filing of the FIRs must act as a deterrent. However, the BMC must have constant vigil and cancel licenses of establishments that violate Covid-19 protocols,” said local Congress corporator Tulip Miranda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fir-against-3-wedding-halls-for-flouting-covid-norms/articleshow/81249670.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Senior citizen conned of Rs 3L in online fraud||Thane: A senior citizen from Thane was conned of Rs 2.8 lakh in an online fraud recently. The accused had posed as an employee of a mobile phone company. The accused told the victim that his sim card would get deactivated as his KYC wasn’t updated. He then sent him a link and asked him to click on it and key in all his details. Without smelling a rat, the victim downloaded the app and started keying in all his bank details. However, through remote access, the accused received all the victim’s details. The victim then received an OTP. As soon as he keyed it in, the accused siphoned of Rs 2.8 lakh. When the victim received a message about the amount being debited, he realised he was conned. — Nishikant Karlikar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/senior-citizen-conned-of-rs-3l-in-online-fraud/articleshow/81250999.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
February 28, 2021||Goa||Edu dept seeks ban on students riding to school||Panaji: The directorate of education (DoE) has asked schools to ensure that no student rides a two-wheeler to school, as many are seen riding vehicles recklessly and by violating traffic norms. Schools have been asked to raise the issue with their respective Parent Teacher Associations (PTA). “It is informed all heads of institutions to take up issue of students riding two-wheelers to school during PTA meetings and ensure that students do not ride two-wheelers to schools,” director Santosh Amonkar has said in a circular. “It is also informed that many students are seen using two-wheelers and riding in a reckless manner violating traffic rules. It is once again enjoined upon all heads of institutions to address this issue in PTA meetings and ensure that no students drive two-wheelers to schools,” states the circular. Though due to Covid-19 pandemic, schools are largely conducting classes online, physical classes for students from Class IX to XII began from November 21, 2020, for which students of these higher classes attend school on a regular basis. In 2019, schools were urged to follow safety guidelines issued by the state, where every vehicle, including private ones used to transport students, should display a board in bold letters stating that it is school transportation. Many students are seen using two-wheelers and riding in a reckless manner violating traffic rules. It is again enjoined upon heads of institutions to address this issue in PTA meetings and ensure no students ride two-wheelers to schools, states the department circular||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/edu-dept-seeks-ban-on-students-riding-to-school/articleshow/81250996.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi teen stabbed as he tries to save sister from harassment||NEW DELHI: Objecting to lewd remarks directed at his sister by five youths in southeast Delhi’s Govindpuri proved fatal for a 17-year-old boy, who was first thrashed and then stabbed in full view of his sister. The boy was taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre, where he underwent surgery. After the assailants were identified as residents of the same neighbourhood, police began tracking them and by Friday night had apprehended three youths and two juveniles. The accused have been identified as Kishan (20), Jishan (18) and Ritik (18). The injured boy has been identified as a resident of Sarvodaya Camp, a slum cluster in Kalkaji. According to the cops, a phone call was received on Friday afternoon about a few youths getting embroiled in a skirmish after an argument near Sarvodaya Vidyalaya in Kalkaji that had led to one person receiving stab wounds. A police team reached the spot immediately to find that the wounded teenager had been rushed to hospital. At AIIMS Trauma Centre, the cops found that the injured teenager had been shifted to an operation theatre. The statement of the boy could not be recorded, but during the initial probe, police were able to ascertain that he was attacked when he and his 18-year-old sister were returning home from school. “During questioning, the boy’s sister, who is an eyewitness in the case, stated that when she and her brother were returning from school, some youths started following her,” revealed a senior police officer. “The girl said they made lewd remarks for her to hear and to which her brother objected. On this, they picked a fight with him and during the scuffle, one of the three took out a knife and stabbed the boy on the left side of his abdomen. Seeing him collapse and hearing his sister calling for help, the accused fled.” She also told police that she could identify her brother’s attackers. The girl told police that she had then called her father, after which her brother was taken to hospital. According to the teenager, her brother underwent surgery and was in the intensive care unit at the hospital. R P Meena, DCP (Southeast), said that a case had been registered against the three men under the Indian Penal Code for attempt to murder, stalking and intending to insult the modesty of a woman. “During the initial probe, the accused were identified as residents of Giri Nagar jhuggi cluster in Govindpuri. Several teams were formed to go after them, leading to their arrest,” Meena said. Watch Delhi: Boy stabbed as he tries to save sister from harassment, 3 held||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/17-yr-old-boy-stabbed-as-he-tries-to-save-sister-from-harassment/articleshow/81249671.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Delhi||64-year-old’s body found near rail tracks in Delhi's Shakurbasti||NEW DELHI: The body of a 64-year-old man was found near railway tracks in Shakurbasti in west Delhi, police said on Saturday. The deceased, identified as Mundka-resident Baldev Chaudhary, was a retired railway employee. No external injury marks were found on the body. Chaudhary had came to join his friend’s retirement party at power house railway colony, Shakurbasti around 11am on Friday and left from there about 3.30pm, they said. He was supposed to head to his daughter’s house from there but when his family members tried to contact him, his mobile phone was found switched off. His body was later traced by his son-in-law Dharam Pal, a senior police officer said. Chaudhary was wearing a silver ring in his right hand finger, a chain, and a wrist watch in the left hand. Inquest proceedings are being carried out and the autopsy report will ascertain the exact cause of death, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/64-yr-olds-body-found-near-rail-tracks-in-shakurbasti/articleshow/81251004.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||In-laws prosecution based on wife’s vague allegations isn’t legitimate: HC||NAGPUR: Coming to the husband and his relatives’ rescue, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court quashed a wife’s police complaint against them for alleged cruelty, holding that prosecution against them can’t be a legitimate one on the basis of ‘vague allegations’. “Taking into consideration the vague nature of allegations against the petitioners and unexplained delay of more than three years in registration of First Information Report (FIR), we’re satisfied that continuation of proceedings against them would amount to abuse of process of court. On the basis of such allegations, we’re satisfied that the prosecution launched by the wife can’t be said to be a legitimate one,” a division bench comprising justices Zaka Haq and Amit Borkar held. Quoting FIR contents, the bench noted that the wife approached the police station on July 29, 2014, only after she came to know about the second marriage of her husband, that too, three months after it was performed. Petitioner Vikas Sakhare and his relatives approached HC through counsel Anirudh Ananthakrishnan after his estranged wife lodged a complaint against them under Section 498A of IPC alleging physical and mental harassment to her. She also claimed that the in-laws demanded dowry of Rs7 lakh to Rs8 lakh from her father for construction of a house. Quoting Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), they prayed for quashing the FIR and related criminal case pending before Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) here against them, as a fall out of the complaint. The judges pointed out that as per wife’s FIR, she was subjected to harassment from July 9, 2010 to May 14, 2011. “However, the FIR was lodged on July 29, 2014, which is after more than three years she left the matrimonial home. There is no explanation provided by her that can be said to be sufficient to justify delay in filing the FIR.” The judges added they’re satisfied that the wife’s allegations regarding demand for money are vague in nature. “She hasn’t mentioned the month or year, nor attributed a specific role to any of the petitioners who had demanded the amount. The allegations regarding abuses to her are also vague as she has stated that in-laws abused her from time to time,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-laws-prosecution-based-on-wifes-vague-allegations-isnt-legitimate-hc/articleshow/81249690.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL to dismantle, auction 2 units of Ropar power plant||Patiala: The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has formally decided to dismantle and auction first two units at the Ropar thermal plant. The approval to the decision was given by the PSPCL authorities in a recently held meeting. The process of tendering for the auction would start soon. Of the total six units (each 210 MW) at the government-run Ropar power plant, the first two units were lying shut for more than three years as they had completed their life term. Unit No. 1 and Unit No. 2 were retired in January 2018 in compliance with CEA guidelines to close thermal units functional for more than 25 years. These units were commissioned in September 1984 and March 1985 respectively. Now, Ropar thermal plant has been left with four units, which were commissioned between 1988 and 1993. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Parsad said, “The decision is yet to been taken. The remaining four units of the plant would continue to run efficiently.” The Punjab State Electricity Board (PSEB) Engineers Association has been opposing the closure of state thermal units which have not completed a three-lakh hours of running. They said the running hours of closed Ropar units were less than two lakh hours. Unit No. 3 and Unit No. 4 of the Ropar power plant have a running hours of 1.7 lakh hours and Units Nos. 5 and 6 have 1.3 lakh running hours. Sources said that earlier there was a proposal to hand over the Ropar power colony in the city to the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pspcl-to-dismantle-auction-2-units-of-ropar-power-plant/articleshow/81250997.cms||Bharat Khanna
February 28, 2021||Goa||NIT Goa’s new campus to be ready by December: Director||Panaji: By December, the new campus of the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Goa, will finally be ready in Cuncolim. From the academic year 2022-23, the NIT will operate from its new premises, director Gopal Mugeraya said. The institute has been functioning from its temporary campus at Farmagudi since its establishment in 2010. “The work on the foundation will be complete by May this year. After this, we require only four months, post the monsoon, to set up the entire campus, as we are using pre-cast technology for construction. The unit to make the pre-cast blocks has already been set up at the site. Pre-cast blocks make the process of construction very quick,” said Mugeraya. He said after the new campus is ready in December 2021, within three to four months, shifting of operations to Cuncolim will begin. “The campus will have a built-up area of 43 acres in the land granted to the NIT by Goa government of 121 acres at Cuncolim. The campus will have a hostel of a capacity of 2,000 students – 1,200 spaces for boys and 800 for girls. Unlike other campuses, this campus will provide individual hostel units to a student, where they do not have to share the room with another student, and this will give them privacy. The campus will have 60 classrooms in all, which will all be fully-equipped smart classrooms, in keeping with the future of classroom learning,” said Mugeraya. The construction is being carried out by the Central PWD and the new campus is being built at a cost of Rs 300 crore. “Unlike regular buildings where the contractor keeps building on the foundation and there is no way of testing the strength of the structure, pre-cast technology allows the blocks to be used for construction to be tested for their strength. Each unit will be tested for strength before being used for construction, ensuring durability of the structure,” said Mugeraya. The main administrative building will have features of the Indo-Portuguese architecture, he said. “Minute attention has been given to the convenience of students like inter-connecting corridors so that students can walk into their classrooms and back to the hostels without fear of getting drenched in the rain or of bearing the scorching summer heat,” said Mugeraya. “From 2022-23, our students will be able to pursue programmes at the new campus. With 50% reservation for Goan students at the NIT, the campus will be of tremendous benefit to local students too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nit-goas-new-campus-to-be-ready-by-december-director/articleshow/81251005.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Youth duped of Rs 1.1 lakh through ‘unused’ credit card||HYDERABAD: A youngster lodged a complaint with the sleuths of cyber crime, Hyderabad, after three transactions worth Rs 1.10 lakh was done without his knowledge by unknown persons using his new credit card, which is still in a sealed cover. On Friday, Tejeshwar Reddy informed police that recently he had applied for a private bank’s credit card after he was told that there would not be any annual fee. “Later, I got a call from the bank that the card is being dispatched. It was during this call I was told by the caller that there will be a Rs 2,000 annual fee, which was contradictory to what I was told previously. Then, I told the caller not to dispatch as it is not agreeable to me,’’ Tejeshwar said. Despite that, the bank had sent him the credit card kit, which he decided to ignore. On February 24, he got a message on his phone that transaction of Rs 76,820 was being done. He got a OTP message. Within a short time, both the messages disappeared. Similarly, two more such transactions were done in the next few minutes. When he called up the call centre and verified, they confirmed that three transactions were done. “I did not open the kit sent by the bank till now. I went to the bank and called their customer care to report the fraud. But the response was poor. So, I lodged a police complaint,’’ he said. The complainant said he fell into their trap after he gave his contact number to some marketing executives, who met him at a supermarket, belonging to the private bank offering the credit card.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youth-duped-of-rs-1-1-lakh-through-unused-credit-card/articleshow/81251003.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Chennai||Four engineering students held for smuggling ganja in Chennai||CHENNAI: Four engineering students were arrested for smuggling and selling ganja to youngsters at Virugambakkam. Police raided the house where the group was staying and seized 5kg of ganja from their possession. A magistrate court remanded the four in judicial custody. Inquiries revealed that all four students, hailing from Andhra Pradesh, were studying B Tech at a city college and they took a house on rent at Virugambakkam. The accused -- Dharma Teja, 21, of Krishna district, V Jagadeesan, 21, Prakasam district, V Seetharaman, 21, of Vijayawada and S Gowtham, 23, -- would sell the contraband to youngsters and teenagers in city schools and colleges, police said. Based on a specific tip, the Prohibition Enforcement Wing from T Nagar raided a house in Kumaran Colony in Vadapalani and found ganja sachets hidden there. Further inquiries revealed that the students staying in the house smuggled the contraband from Andhra Pradesh to peddle in the city. The PEW wing police, after conducting preliminary inquiries, handed over the four to the Virugambakkam police station. Police seized four mobile phones from them. Meanwhile, the Nazarethpet police have arrested two people for smuggling gutka products in a car into the city. As much as 141kg banned tobacco products and the car used for the offence were seized from the accused, identified as J Aslam, 27, and S Ibrahim, 30, of Vellore district. They were remanded in judicial custody on Friday. In yet another incident, the Avadi police arrested two men for peddling 1.3kg ganja in an autorickshaw. The accused — M Mohanra, 22, of Avadi and S Arif, 24, — were secured near a check-post at Avadi on Friday and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/four-engineering-students-held-for-smuggling-ganja/articleshow/81248949.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi government to move fast-track court in minor murder||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday claimed Delhi’s law and order situation was in a “serious turmoil” and requested Union home minister Amit Shah to take appropriate action. “Deeply concerned by the murder of a 8-yr old girl in Khichdipur and attack on a 17-yr old boy in Kalkaji. Delhi’s law and order situation is in a serious turmoil, I appeal to home minister and lieutenant governor to take appropriate action to address the situation (sic),” Kejriwal tweeted. Delhi government will move the murder case of the girl in Khichripur to a fast-track court, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia assured the victim’s family members during a visit on Saturday. He also assured the family all legal help to ensure death penalty to the guilty. The minor girl was abducted from Khichripur in east Delhi and killed. Her body was later recovered from Modinagar in western Uttar Pradesh. Police officers have arrested four persons in this connection. Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Kalkaji Atishi said that “law and order situation in the entire capital is crumbling and criminals think that they can kill anyone and they will not face any punishment.” Meanwhile, A 17-year-old boy was stabbed for reportedly opposing three boys who were stalking his sister in Kalkaji. Atishi tweeted: “Met the family of the 17-year-old boy who was stabbed in Kalkaji yesterday. Have assured them of full support. Also spoke to the doctors at the AIIMS Trauma Centre, who said that the boy is stable and recovering.” The Kalkaji MLA added that the survivor’s family would get all kinds of help from AAP and Delhi government. “Why a girl who is returning from her school not safe in Delhi? And when her brother tried to save her, the culprits stabbed the boy? Delhi Police, which comes under the BJP-led central government’s ministry of home affairs, has completely failed to ensure the safety and security of the national capital. The only work of Delhi Police is protecting BJP leaders,” Atishi said. The Aam Aadmi Party functionary spoke to deputy commissioner of police of southeast Delhi and sought swift action. Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights has taken suo motu cognisance of the Kalkaji incident, and has directed that the SHO should conduct an inquiry into the matter and submit a report before March 10 besides ensuring regular patrolling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-to-move-fast-track-court-in-minor-murder/articleshow/81249681.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Protest after sewerman dies in manhole in Hisar||HISAR: While cleaning the sewerage line near Lahoria Chowk in Hisar, a man died of suffocation while another one became unconscious. The deceased sewerman has been identified as Vikrant, a resident of Meat Market located at Thandi Sarak in Hisar. Anil from Jind has been admitted to the general hospital for treatment. Vikrant was stuck in the manhole for 10 hours, resulting in his death and Anil had gone into rescue him, but fainted. After the union went on a strike, the administration announced a job, a compensation of Rs 15 lakh to a member of the deceased family, besides lodging an FIR against the contractor. Hisar police said a case has been registered on the complaint of Gurtej Singh, sub-divisional engineer of public health department against Amandeep, a resident of Dariapur of Yamunanagar district, contractor of the department under Section 304 (culpable homicide) of the Indian Penal Code. In his complaint, he said the sewerage cleaning work near Lahoria Chowk was allotted to contractor Amandeep, who resumed the closed work on Friday night without informing the department. Vikrant entered the manhole at night, and could not get back due to the gas inside the manhole. To remove him, the sewerman Anil entered and he also fainted. The police said the department received information about at around 3.30am on Saturday. Police said the contractor had been ordered to follow the Supreme Court guidelines for keeping sewermen safe, but he did not follow them. After this incident, the delegation of Haryana PWD Mechanical Workers Union, belonging to Sarva Karmachari Sangh, met the officials of the department and expressed strong objection. District president of the union, Naresh Gautam said apart from registering an FIR against the convicted contractor, the SDM assured to pay Rs 15 lakh and to give employment to one member of the family in the public health department. Criminal action should be taken against the officer who forced the employee to go into the sewerage without providing masks, gas cylinders and safety kits, he demanded. 117 sewermen died in 25 years in HryAfter the incident of five sanitation workers killed during sewage cleaning in West Delhi’s Mauti Nagar in September 2018, when the state government collected data related to this, it was found that in the last 25 years, there have been 117 sewermen had died in such incidents in Haryana. The family of the deceased was not compensated until September 2018. However, then minister of state for public health and engineering, Banwari Lal had announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh each to the families of all 117 sewermen at an event held in Hisar on April 23, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/protest-after-sewerman-dies-in-manhole-in-hisar/articleshow/81251000.cms||Kumar Mukesh
February 28, 2021||Lucknow||UP: NSA slapped on Bahraich man for abduction & murder of boy||LUCKNOW: The National Security Act (NSA) was slapped on a Bahraich man on Saturday for abduction and murder of a 12-year-old boy in Bahraich in October last year. The accused, Hasan Mohammed, had kidnapped a 12-year-old boy for ransom, murdered him and dumped his body in Shravasti district, said superintendent of police, Bahraich, Vipin Mishra. NSA was invoked on the district magistrate’s nod. Police had recorded statements of eye-witnesses and gathered evidence on role of the accused, who was nabbed along with his son, Kalim, 48 hours after the body was found. “We filed the chargesheet on November 22 last year and collated forensic details a few weeks back,” said Mishra. Kalim would sell biryani in a posh Mumbai locality, but was forced to return to his Bahraich home after the Covid-triggered lockdown came into force. “He tried to revive his business in his village, but failed. Deep in debt, Kalim hammered out a plan with his father, Hasan, to kidnap a 12-year-old boy for ransom and make fast buck,” said the officer. On October 29, Majholi police received a complaint about a 12-year-old boy of a contractor going missing. A case of kidnapping was registered, but his body was found the next day. Later, a neighbour of the missing child told police that the father-son duo of Hasan and Kalim had murdered the boy dumped him in Shravasti district. Police booked Hasan, wife Ayesha, son Kalim, and his relatives, Israr Khan, Tahira, and Rabiya under SC/ST Act, kidnapping, murder and criminal conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nsa-slapped-on-bahraich-man-for-abduction-murder-of-boy/articleshow/81251601.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Two men arrested for planning to kill Kashmiri activist in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has averted an assassination attempt on a Kashmiri human rights activist with the arrest of two men from southwest Delhi’s RK Puram area. The men belong to Faridkot in Punjab and had been given four pistols to kill the activist, police said. The accused have been identified as Sukhvinder Singh (25) and Lakhan (21). They were residing at a rented house in Vijay Vihar from where they were arrested. A senior police officer said that the two men were arrested following a secret information about them. “They were arrested following a raid and four pistols were recovered from them. It was during the interrogation that the real motive of them coming to Delhi was unearthed,” the officer said. Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said: “During their interrogation, they said that they are both from Faridkot in Punjab and were sent to Delhi at the behest of one person namely Prince alias Tutti.” “They disclosed that Tutti is a childhood friend of Lakhan and is facing trial in a murder case in Faridkot. Their claims are being verified. They also disclosed that they had been promised Rs 10 lakh to kill the activist. Four pistols, along with four live cartridges, were provided to them by Tutti,” the DCP said. Sources revealed that two of the pistols were made in Pakistan and the conspiracy was hatched abroad. Singh said both the men have been arrested and booked under Arms Act and under Indian Penal Code sections 120B (for punishment of criminal conspiracy) and 115 (for abetment of offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life). “Considering the sensitivity of the case and possibility of involvement of foreign hands, it has now been transferred to Special Cell,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-men-arrested-for-planning-to-kill-kashmiri-activist/articleshow/81249692.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Graffiti removed as corporation gets cracking for election||CHENNAI: Field staff of Greater Chennai Corporation have begun removing all political wall writings, posters, papers, hoardings, cut-outs, banners and flags on government property. The work was visible on many city walls from Saturday morning, 12 hours after the model code came into force following the announcement that the state assembly election would be held on April 6. Greater Chennai Corporation announced that all political advertisements in railway stations, bus stands, roadways, government buses and local body buildings would be removed within 48 hours of the announcement on elections. All political advertisements displayed on private property and subject to local law and court’s directions, if any, would be removed within 72 hours of the announcement, it said. The civic body, which is the district election office for Chennai, said this year the number of polling booths would be increased to 5,911 from the 3,500 put up in 2016. This is due to addition of 2,157 additional booths due to change in the election rules which call for more booths in areas where there are more than 1,000 voters. There are 16 assembly constituencies in the city that will go to polls on April 6 along with the rest of the state. Corporation commissioner and district election officer G Prakash said they formed 48 flying squads, 48 stationary squads and 16 video squads for monitoring poll related violations. These would comprise officials drawn from the corporation as well as police. The corporation has also nominated 16 returning officers, 16 assistant returning officers and a same number of additional assistant returning officers for the assembly constituencies. A special monitoring office has been created on the second floor at Ripon Buildings, the corporation headquarters, for election-related work. Totally 40,000 ground level staff would be working during the elections, the civic body said. A special facility of postal votes for the differently abled and senior citizens above 80 years has been introduced. Covid-19 patients and those with symptoms can also use postal votes, the corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/graffiti-removed-as-corpn-gets-cracking-for-election/articleshow/81248933.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Visakhapatnam||‘State needs comprehensive development plans for coasts’||Visakhapatnam: Experts at the National Town and Country Planners Conference emphasised that, in the wake of a three-capital proposal and a vast, vulnerable coastline, Andhra Pradesh needs a complete urban and rural development plan. The conference, which started on Friday and will conclude on Sunday, is hosting discussion on the development of the state, especially its coastal region. Head of department of planning at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA) at Vijayawada, Dr Abdul Razak Mohamed, was selected to provide recommendations on the Integrated Coastal Region Development Plan. The state government has also requested recommendations for the same. “Coastal area development is needed for AP as it has a long coastline of 974 km spanning across nine out of its 13 districts,” he told TOI. The professor suggested the establishment of district development planning authorities, equipped to help in preparation of physical and strategic planning for districts. He said these bodies should also double as coastal planning authorities to coordinate development activities along the coast which is vulnerable to frequent damage. He also emphasised on the need for an urban development policy. “The policy should focus on the spatial distribution of population, employment, natural resources, poverty reduction among others,” he said. According to ITPI president NK Patel, the conference will see 500 town and country planners of 24 regional chapters participating, some physically while others through virtual means. He said the conference will address challenges posed by climate change, water depletion among others. Experts in the planning sector, including Sujith Dongre of Goa, and joint director of coastal area development Dr Panigrahi along with others would give recommendations, which will be sent to the governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-needs-comprehensive-development-plans-for-coasts/articleshow/81248765.cms||Siva G
February 28, 2021||Rajkot||Female cub killed during infighting in Dhari||Rajkot: A female lion cub, aged 3-4 months, was found dead in Gadhiya Patala village that falls under the Tulsishyam range of the Gir East forest division in Dhari taluka of Amreli district on Saturday. Forest officials said that the cub had died in infighting. According to the statement issued by the forest department, the cub’s carcass was found by forest field staff in the revenue land of Gadhiya Patala village. “It seems that the cub died during infighting as canine marks were seen on the carcass and multiple pug marks of a male lion was found in nearby death location,” the statement read. Postmortem of the cub conducted at Khambha confirmed that the cub had died during infighting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/female-cub-killed-during-infighting-in-dhari/articleshow/81249673.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Vijayawada||AP records 118 Covid cases, highest in a month||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 118 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,89,799. This is the highest single-day case total in the last one month. The state did not recorded any new deaths from novel coronavirus disease. Altogether 86 patients have been declared cured on Saturday. There are currently 667 active cases with the 8,81,963 cumulative recoveries and 7,169 fatalities. At one point, the active caseload had dropped to 500-range but it has again touched the 600-mark with a gradual increase in the daily cases. Chittoor reported 33 new coronavirus infections on Saturday, followed by Visakhapatnam (14), East Godavari (14) and Guntur (13). Vizianagaram has not recorded any new cases. The remaining eight districts registered single-digit case numbers. With increasing cases in the last few days, the active caseload has gone past 100-mark in Chittoor district. Andhra Pradesh tested 37,041 Covid-19 samples on Saturday and detected 118 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.3%. The overall case positivity rate stood at 6.4%. The state’s mortality rate has remained stable at 0.8%. AP has so far vaccinated about 6.69 lakh people. Maharashtra continued to report the highest daily new cases at 8,333. It is followed by Kerala (3,671) and Punjab (622).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-records-118-covid-cases-highest-in-a-month/articleshow/81253312.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Amaravati||AP records 118 Covid cases, highest in a month||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 118 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,89,799. This is the highest single-day case total in the last one month. The state did not recorded any new deaths from novel coronavirus disease. Altogether 86 patients have been declared cured on Saturday. There are currently 667 active cases with the 8,81,963 cumulative recoveries and 7,169 fatalities. At one point, the active caseload had dropped to 500-range but it has again touched the 600-mark with a gradual increase in the daily cases. Chittoor reported 33 new coronavirus infections on Saturday, followed by Visakhapatnam (14), East Godavari (14) and Guntur (13). Vizianagaram has not recorded any new cases. The remaining eight districts registered single-digit case numbers. With increasing cases in the last few days, the active caseload has gone past 100-mark in Chittoor district. Andhra Pradesh tested 37,041 Covid-19 samples on Saturday and detected 118 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.3%. The overall case positivity rate stood at 6.4%. The state’s mortality rate has remained stable at 0.8%. AP has so far vaccinated about 6.69 lakh people. Maharashtra continued to report the highest daily new cases at 8,333. It is followed by Kerala (3,671) and Punjab (622).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-records-118-covid-cases-highest-in-a-month/articleshow/81253311.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Chennai||Govt guards farmers like eyelid protects eye: Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday exuded confidence that the AIADMK and its allies would win majority of seats in the forthcoming assembly elections. In his 10-minute concluding speech in the last session of the 15th assembly, Palaniswami said his government had stepped into the fifth year overcoming the false propaganda of the rivals that his government would not last beyond a few months. “The government has realised the dreams of AIADMK leaders MGR and Jayalalithaa and earned the goodwill of people. Since a number of schemes have been rolled out till date, the state is on a victorious path (Vetri Nadaipodum Tamilagam),” he said, adding, “The government, from the day I assumed charge till now, has achieved a lot and remains a government of achievements.” Palaniswami spent a major part of the time to profusely thank his deputy, O Panneerselvam for standing by him. He thanked his ministerial colleagues, speaker, deputy speaker, chief government whip, MLAs, government officials and other staff. The CM went on to say his government had won a legal battle in the five-decade-old inter-state Cauvery water dispute and enacted a law to declare Cauvery delta a protected special agricultural zone. It protected the farmers interests during natural disasters by extending relief. TN topped the list of states receiving high compensation under crop insurance scheme. “It is no exaggeration to say the government protects the farmers akin to how eyelid protects the eye,” the CM said. The AIADMK government had turned the state into power surplus, and scripted educational revolution by setting up law colleges, 11 medical colleges, three veterinary colleges and research institutes, besides arts and science colleges. It took the state to the number one position in gross enrolment ratio in higher education. “The government realised a big dream by bringing AIIMS to Madurai,” he said. The CM said the government also opened memorials for leaders who rendered great service. “More than that, the government built a mausoleum for Amma, and declared conversion of her Veda Nilayam residence into a memorial,” EPS said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-guards-farmers-like-eyelid-protects-eye-eps/articleshow/81249735.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Pandemic and a consequent dip in demand grind lorries to halt||VIJAYAWADA: A loss of business brought about by the pandemic has hit lorry owners harder than the fuel price hike. Disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic in the manufacturing sector has directly impacted the transport business. In addition, the state government’s curbs on transportation of foodgrain from other states have dealt a second blow to lorry owners. Lorries from Andhra Pradesh transport fish, eggs, paper and ‘vanaspati’ to Odisha, Bihar, Assam and West Bengal and in return, bring rice, corn, ginger and potato. But apart from Covid-19, this year the lorries have been unable to bring back corn and ginger due to crop loss in Assam and West Bengal. With the government imposing curbs on transportation of rice from other states to check malpractices by rice millers, demand for lorry transport has fallen considerably, resulting in a free fall in prices. Lorry owners, meanwhile, complained that they have lost more than 50 per cent of their business in terms of volume and margin, combined. General secretary of Andhra Pradesh Lorry Owners Association (APLOA), Y V Eswar Rao said foodgrain transportation is a cyclical business that picks up during the harvesting of the kharif crop and which lasts for three months .“We used to get better margins on transportation of rice and corn during this season as the prices would go up due to the cyclical nature of the business,” he said. Krishna Machineni, an owner of two lorries said while earlier, they would carry two consignments, back and forth, in a month with prices ranging between Rs 70,000 to Rs 80,000 per load, prices have now fallen to Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000. Machineni attributed the drop in price to the standstill in rice transportation and a lack of demand for other products such as corn and ginger. “With a continuous rise in fuel prices, we will not be able to meet ends,” he worried.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pandemic-and-a-consequent-dip-in-demand-grind-lorries-to-halt/articleshow/81248810.cms||Srikanth Aluri
February 28, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Ease of doing business in AP a major draw for firms||VISAKHAPATNAM: India is the largest importer of defence products in the world, DRDO’s director general of naval systems and materials, Dr Samir V Kamat, said on Saturday. Addressing the annual meeting of Confederation of Indian IndustryVisakhapatnam Zone, Dr Kamat said that India will grow more with growth of its defence sector and PSUs and added that defence industries and MSME need to collaborate. At the meeting, centred on ease of doing business and Atmanirbhar Bharat, Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) chairman, Rama Mohan Rao said that ease of doing business is very important for a self-reliant and globally competitive India. He added that AP tops the country in terms of ease of doing business and that the Single Window Act, mandating time-bound delivery of services, would greatly help investors. Rao said the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative will attract investors to AP, domestic and foreign. Also speaking at the session, AP Maritime Board’s deputy chief executive officer, Lieutenant Commander Ravindranath Reddy said the Atmanirbhar initiative opens up lots of opportunities for defence and aerospace. He opined that with three major ports set to come up in AP, more opportunities will open up. CII Andhra Pradesh chairman D Ramakrishna, said that technology will play a vital role in making business simpler and generating opportunities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ease-of-doing-biz-in-ap-a-major-draw-for-firms/articleshow/81248785.cms||Siva G
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Shiv Sena minister quits as opposition ups heat in suicide case||MUMBAI: Forest minister Sanjay Rathod of the Shiv Sena handed over his resignation to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday, having faced a storm of allegations from opposition parties since the suicide of a young woman in Pune on February 8. Insiders said Thackeray accepted the resignation, making the Digras (Yavatmal) MLA the first person in the MVA government to quit the cabinet over a controversy. Rathod’s resignation came as the BJP intensified its attack on the government on the eve of the budget session and demanded he step down over the death of 22-year-old TikTok star Pooja Chavan, who allegedly jumped off a building in Hadapsar. The BJP also demanded an FIR against Rathod. A four-time MLA who is a heavyweight politician from the Banjara community spread around Yavatmal and Washim districts, the 49-year-old Rathod had been unreachable since February 8, surfacing only on February 23 at the Poharadevi shrine in Washim in a show of strength that is said to have embarrassed Thackeray with its violation of Covid-19 norms. Before Rathod and his wife’s arrival at Varsha, several leaders of the Banjara community asked Thackeray not to let him step down. Jitendra Maharaj, a mahant from the Poharadevi temple, said to the media that Rathod might visit the temple again in a day or two. Later, Rathod spoke to the media and said the opposition was trying to destroy his political career with baseless allegations. “With the opposition threatening to disrupt the budget session and continuing to malign my image, I decided to step down,” he said. Thackeray said Rathod had resigned on moral grounds and not under any pressure. He said at a press conference in the evening that the inquiry into Chavan’s death had been ordered on the very day of the incident. Countering leader of the opposition in the assembly Devendra Fadnavis’s demand for an FIR against Rathod, he said: “He (Fadnavis) was also the CM. He must know that the inquiry report is needed to file the FIR. It is the same police force as when he was the chief minister. The police will not register an FIR only because someone demands it, and the government will take action against the guilty, whoever it is, in the case.” Thackeray said Chavan’s parents had met him earlier in the day and handed over a letter saying that Rathod should not be asked to resign merely on suspicion. “They also have faith in the police and the system,” he said. On Fadnavis’s allegation that Rathod had the blessings of the Shiv Sena leadership, he said that the suicide of Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar mentioned many top BJP politicians “So, does it mean that they are all blessed with the BJP leadership? Why no one agitated for him?” Delkar, an independent MP, was found hanging from the ceiling fan of a Marine Drive hotel room recently. Thackeray said he would take over Rathod’s forest portfolio now. “I or the minister of state will answer questions related to the forest department during the legislature budgetary session,” he said. After meeting Thackeray, Rathod said he would continue to represent his constituency as an MLA. ”I want an impartial and fair inquiry so that the truth will come out," he said. Rathod said it was unfortunate that a young woman from his Banjara community had died and the BJP was taking advantage of the incident. “Using the media and social media, the BJP has tried to destroy my political career. Whatever I did in my 30 years of political and social work has been destroyed by the opposition. Now the truth should come out through an impartial probe,” he said. Fadnavis said BJP MLAs would resign from the Shakti law committee if Rathod did not resign. “The Sena leadership tried to save Rathod, but finally there was no option but to ask for his resignation,” he said. “Why in the last 18 days no action has been taken, which was ideally expected on the day one? Despite audio clips, photographs and other proofs, an FIR has still not been registered.” Fadnavis said the police inspector leading the investigation in Chavan’s death should be immediately suspended for dereliction of duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sena-min-quits-as-oppn-ups-heat-in-suicide-case/articleshow/81264396.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
February 28, 2021||Vadodara||52-year-old loses Rs 97 lakh in pursuit of matrimony in Vadodara||VADODARA: A 52-year-old government employee in search of a bride for himself fell in the trap of a Delhi-based gang posing as astrologers and ended up losing Rs 96.8 lakh as he believed that all his problems will be resolved through rituals they promised to conduct. According to the man, who lives near high tension line road in Subhanpura, had randomly received a call from the accused in January 2018. Police said that the caller identified himself as an astrologer from ‘Ramjanmabhumi’ Ayodhya and asked the man working in labour and employment department to share his problems. The man told the accused that he was not married and lives alone. The accused asked the victim his date of birth and told him that he will be married to a woman aged between 35 and 40 years and they will also have a son. On hearing this, the victim developed trust in the accused and the gang started taking advantage of it. The man was told that his family will be troubled by evil spirits and a buffalo will have to be sacrificed for peace. He was also told that for the peace of his late parents and prosperity in his house several ceremonies and rituals will have to be conducted and he will have to give money for it. The victim was told that on his behalf they will donate cows and offer prayers at 12 Jyotirlingas in the country. “The victim received calls at different times from different people from the same gang and they all identified themselves as some or the other astrologer or a ‘rishi’,” said inspector N K Vyas of Cyber Crime police station. “The man kept transferring money to them in their bank accounts whenever he was told until recently when he realized that he was only falling in the trap,” Vyas said. Interestingly the complainant never met the accused yet he kept transferring money when he was asked on the phone. The government employee lodged a complaint against seven people and nine other unidentified persons in whose bank accounts he had transferred money of the past couple of years. “We have identified the gang and preliminary investigation has revealed that they are from Delhi. Soon, we will be arresting two more people from the gang,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/52-year-old-loses-rs-97-lakh-in-pursuit-of-matrimony/articleshow/81249434.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Goa||‘No mention of shacks in draft coastal mgmt plan’||Panaji: Traditional shack owners, who set up temporary shacks on beaches throughout Goa during the tourist months, have found that the draft coastal zone management plan (CZMP) has “no reference or mention of the existence of shacks”. The Shack Owners Welfare Society (SOWS), representing the interests of beach shack owners, has stated that fear is created in the minds of shack operators that shacks may not be permitted in the future as the CZMP is supposed to include all permitted activities along the beaches. In a letter to the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA), the society has stated that no provisions have been made in the plan for these shacks, even as such shacks are erected on the beaches in terms of Rule 5.3 (ii) (g) of the Beach Shack Policy. “If no provision is made regarding shacks in the CZMP, doubts could arise in the future regarding the legality of such shacks,” president of SOWS Cruz Cardozo said, while adding that “shacks are permitted on each beach as per the beach carrying capacity of each village, and such a study has been made and notified”. “It would therefore be just and proper if the existence of shacks is reflected in the CZMP through suitable changes and appropriate indication in the plan and or the accompanying note. The plan focuses on zone management and the traditional shacks must be mapped,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-mention-of-shacks-in-draft-coastal-mgmt-plan/articleshow/81251029.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Kapu leader summoned over torching of Ratnachal Express||RAJAHMUNDRY: The II metropolitan magistrate for railway, Vijayawada, has issued summons to 41 people, including Kapu leader Mudragada Padmanabham to appear before the court on March 2 in connection with the torching of Ratnachal Express on January 31, 2016. Railway Protection Force (RPF) outpost in Tuni had registered a case against them various sections of Railways Act in 2016. According to RPF, the Kapu Garjana Maha Sabha — under the leadership of former minister Mudragada Padmanabham — had conducted a meeting insisting reservation in jobs for Kapu community. The event was attended by about one lakh supporters of Kapu Maha Sabha. It was announced in the meeting to hold blockade of road and rail traffic. A mob of more than 50,000 started blocking road and rail traffic by squatting on the track. At about 3.20 pm on January 31, Ratnachal Express reached Tuni-Hamsavaram railway stations but the agitators blocked it by squatting on the track. They removed the loco pilot, assistant loco pilot and guard of the train and chased them away. The violent mob started pelting stones at coaches. After passengers stepped out, the mob set coaches on fire. As many as 23 coaches were charred, and one SLR and loco was partially damaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/kapu-leader-summoned-over-torching-of-ratnachal-exp/articleshow/81248851.cms||Samson Raj
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||One village of books in each district: CM||Mumbai: CM Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said the state will develop a village of books in each district to spread of Marathi language and literature. There is currently one village of books in Bhillar village, Satara district, developed in 2017. Bhilar aims to be the one-stop destination for lovers of vernacular literature. These books are accessible at a nominal deposit fee. Thackeray, who was speaking at an event on the occasion of the Marathi Bhasha Gaurav day said, “Marathi should be used as much as possible. To ensure that the language is used more, the village of books initiative was undertaken. To serve the purpose effectively, there should be at least one book village in every district.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/one-village-of-books-in-each-district-cm/articleshow/81251019.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Lucknow||UP: 10% of RT-PCR samples to be evaluated for new strains too||LUCKNOW: Following instructions from the chief minister office, at least 10% of the Covid-19 samples being put to test through RT-PCR method will be evaluated for other strains too. Officials in the state health department claimed that though the number of cases in the state was declining, there was still a risk of infection. Also, new strains of Covid-19 have been reported in different parts of the country. “To ensure that new strains do not cause any kind of trouble the testing activity includes assessment of the collected samples for the variants of coronavirus as well,” said a senior health officer. Earlier, reviewing the Covid-19 situation, the chief minister instructed that no laxity in control will be tolerated. The CM also said that the momentum of testing and surveillance activities must be maintained to ensure that the pandemic virus does not raise its head in the state again. He reiterated the importance of focused testing, besides directing officials to spread awareness on adhering to Covid-19 prevention protocol. Meanwhile, 78 new cases in the past 24 hours took the state’s total to 6,03,427. As many as 115 recoveries took the total of recovered to 5,92,556.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/10-of-rt-pcr-samples-to-be-evaluated-for-new-strains-too/articleshow/81251609.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP records 118 Covid cases, highest in a month||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 118 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,89,799. This is the highest single-day case total in the last one month. The state did not recorded any new deaths from novel coronavirus disease. Altogether 86 patients have been declared cured on Saturday. There are currently 667 active cases with the 8,81,963 cumulative recoveries and 7,169 fatalities. At one point, the active caseload had dropped to 500-range but it has again touched the 600-mark with a gradual increase in the daily cases. Chittoor reported 33 new coronavirus infections on Saturday, followed by Visakhapatnam (14), East Godavari (14) and Guntur (13). Vizianagaram has not recorded any new cases. The remaining eight districts registered single-digit case numbers. With increasing cases in the last few days, the active caseload has gone past 100-mark in Chittoor district. Andhra Pradesh tested 37,041 Covid-19 samples on Saturday and detected 118 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.3%. The overall case positivity rate stood at 6.4%. The state’s mortality rate has remained stable at 0.8%. AP has so far vaccinated about 6.69 lakh people. Maharashtra continued to report the highest daily new cases at 8,333. It is followed by Kerala (3,671) and Punjab (622).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-records-118-covid-cases-highest-in-a-month/articleshow/81248755.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP: Mangalagiri beverage plant shut after three employees test positive||VISAKHAPATNAM: A beverage company in Atmakur village in Mangalagiri mandal was closed for 24 hours on Saturday after three employees tested positive for Covid-19. Mangalagiri tehsildar GV Ramprasad, who visited the plant, said that about 700 people are working in the plant. “Three people tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease in the tests being conducted for the last few days. As per the existing norms, the workplace has to be closed for 24 hours after detecting any Covid-19 cases.  The very objective of this closure is to carry out sanitation and fumigation activities to prevent the transmission of the virus. The close contacts of the three people were tested negative for the virus. Two patients were shifted to the Government General Hospital, Guntur. As we may be on the verge of a second wave, I appeal to the public to strictly follow all the Covid-19 precautions such as not stepping out of homes without any masks, physical distancing and frequent hand washing” said Ramprasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mangalagiri-beverage-plant-shut-after-three-employees-test-positive/articleshow/81248882.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Fog at Vijayawada airport disrupts three flights||VIJAYAWADA: Three flight services at Vijayawada International Airport were affected due to heavy fog on Saturday morning. This is the second time fog has interrupted the landing of aircrafts at Vijayawada airport. A SpiceJet flight service with 67 passengers from Bengaluru faced difficulty in landing. ATC at the airport initially denied permission for the landing. Officials permitted aircrafts to land when visibility improved after 8.30 am. An Air India flight service from New Delhi was also delayed due to the fog. Despite high beam lighting on the runway, a thick layer of fog affected visibility, airport authorities said. A Bengaluru to Vijayawada service operated by SpiceJet also faced difficulty in landing and the pilot routed the aircraft to Hyderabad in view of passenger safety. Airport authorities said they are continuously monitoring weather updates from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and assessing fog cover in the early hours. They added that the the problem recurs at Vijayawada airport every year towards the end of winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fog-at-vijayawada-airport-disrupts-three-flights/articleshow/81248827.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man charred to death as ‘illegal’ factory catches fire||NEW DELHI: A 35-year-old man was charred to death while three others, including two firefighters, were injured after a massive fire broke out at a factory in North Delhi’s Pratap Nagar in the wee hours on Saturday. Investigations revealed that it was an illegal unit where multiple factories and some packaging units were being operated from different rooms. The workers of the factory resided in the same complex as well. The building comprised ground plus two floors and the second floor had a temporary roof shed, which collapsed due to the fire. The door of the building was locked from outside and the call to the fire department was made much later. According to the fire department, a call was received around 3.45am about a fire at a factory in Ram Bagh area of Pratap Nagar. Firefighters said by the time the call was made, the fire had already engulfed the building. The deceased has been identified as Upchand Kumar (35), a resident of Siwan in Bihar. His body was recovered from one of the rooms on the first floor where a cylinder blast also occurred. The other injured was identified as Sushil, a resident of Kishanganj. Two other injured persons were firefighters one of whom sustained a burn injury while trying to remove the body. Delhi Fire Service director Atul Garg said: “Twenty-eight fire tenders were rushed to the location to douse the fire. The fire was extinguished by 9am and cooling operations were later carried out. The building did not have any fire NOC.” Ravinder Singh, assistant divisional officer, said: “The fire was on the first and second floors of the building. By the time we got the call, the flames had engulfed the building and it was even locked from outside. The body was recovered from the first floor where the cylinder blast had already occurred by the time the fire tenders reached. There were small rooms, around 15 on the first floor, from where various manufacturing and assembling units were operating. On the second floor was a godown with plastic material and other items stored. While carrying out the rescue operation, two of our firemen also sustained injuries.” Police have registered a case and called the owner of the building for questioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-charred-to-death-as-illegal-factory-catches-fire/articleshow/81249707.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Harassed, Vatva woman ends life in Sabarmati||Ahmedabad: Main hawaaon ki tarah hoon; main behna chaahti hoon, behte rehna chahti hoon: These were the last words of Aisha Makrani, a 23-year-old woman who jumped into the Sabarmati from the riverfront walkway on Thursday morning. Before ending her life, the Vatva resident shot a heartrending video on her cellphone. Initially in the video, she asserts that no one was to blame for the step she was about to take. However, as the video progresses, the reason for her distress becomes clearer. The police have now charged her husband Arifkhan Gafurji, a man from Jalore district of Rajasthan, for abetment to suicide. The video opens to Aisha, all smiles, sitting on a bench along the walkway. As you wonder what it is about, she says: “Hello Assalamo Alayekkum, my name is Aisha Arif Khan. Whatever I am going to do now is just my decision. No one has pressured me for this. What should I say now. Understand that the life given by almighty was this short only." It takes a moment to grasp that this is Aisha’s suicide note. In his FIR withSabarmati Riverfront (West Police), her father Liyakatali said that Aisha and Arif had an arranged marriage on July 6, 2018. However, Arif and his family began harassing her seeking for more dowry soon after that. Fed up of the constant harassment, Aisha returned to her parents’ place on December 5, 2018. A month later, following the intervention of community leaders, she went back to Arif’s place. “Neither Arif nor his relatives mended their ways. They showed Aisha no mercy and kept harassing her. Som she returned to Ahmedabad again on July 21, 2019," said Liyakatali. Later, on January 26,2020, Arif came to Aisha’s place and allegedly sought Rs 1.5 lakh. He took Aisha back with him but abandoned her again in March 2020. Since he had allegedly thrashed and harassed her constantly, she filed a complaint of domestic violence against him with Vatva police. Arif wanted her to withdraw the charges. Meanwhile, Aisha found a job with a private insurance firm but was constantly harassed by Arif to withdraw her charges. On Thursday morning, she left for her workplace. But after a while, she called her parents and informed them that she was about to take her life. After she jumped into the Sabarmati, swimmers of Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services tried to rescue her. They called the ambulance and rushed her to SVP hospital in Ellisbridge but she was declared brought dead. Aisha’s last words “Hello Assalamo Alayekkum, my name is Aisha Arif Khan. Whatever I am about to do now is just my decision. No one has pressured me. What should I say? Just believe that the life given by the Almighty was this short. What life I lived has been very peaceful due to the grace of the Almighty. (Laughs) Dear Dad, how long will you fight with near and dear ones? Let us withdraw the case. I don’t want to do this. Aisha was not born to fight. I love Arif, and will not harass him unnecessarily. If he wants freedom, then it is alright, he can live with his own freedom... my life was this much only. I am happy that I will meet Allah. I will ask him what was my fault (tears filling her eyes). I got very good parents; I have also got very good friends. Perhaps, somewhere I made some mistake or there was some problem with my destiny. I want to go peacefully. I pray to Allah that he will never make me see the faces of humans again. I want to tell you something… if love happens then it should be both ways, it must not be one-sided. Sometimes love remains half even after marriage. This lovely river… I pray that she absorbs me inside her. Please do not make any hue and cry after I leave. I am like the wind; I want to keep flowing, I will not stop for anybody. I am happy that I got answers for all my questions. I have told the truth to all concerned persons. Please remember me in your prayers. Don’t know if I get a place in Jannat (heaven) or not. So, goodbye.” Phone call to parents “Nothing is going to be like it was earlier,” she told her parents. She told them that her life had been ruined and she could not bear the pain. She told them that she tried to contact Arif to settle the issue but he told her that he wanted to get rid of her and told her to shoot a video before committing suicide. Her father pleaded with her to give them one last chance. He promised to go to Jalore and settle the issue. He also told her, “For Quran-e-Shareef’s sake, for almighty Allah’s sake, please do no do that." He said he would send his son to collect her, and Aisha agreed. However, a while later an unknown person called him saying that she had jumped into the river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/harassed-vatva-woman-ends-life-in-sabarmati/articleshow/81251035.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Two on trial for destroying house||NEW DELHI: Two men accused of rioting and destroying property during the northeast Delhi riots have been put on trial by a Delhi court. The complainant in the case was a resident, whose house had been set on fire by a riotous mob, of which the two men were a part. The court referred to the witnesses’ statements to frame rioting, unlawful assembly, destroying house by fire or explosive substance and other charges. In its prima facie view, additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat stated: “The unlawful assembly comprising accused persons committed mischief by damaging the property of the complainant and also setting fire to his house.” Yogender Singh and Suraj were accused in a case registered on the complaint of a man whose house was looted, ransacked, and burnt by a group of rioters. The two men allegedly made disclosures to the cops about their involvement and were identified by the complainant. Their counsel, however, sought their discharge stating that no recovery of any weapon was made from them. The counsel argued that it was only natural for the men to be present in the vicinity of the place of incident, as they lived in the same locality. The order noted: “In terms of the written complaint and statement of the witnesses… accused namely Yogender Singh and Suraj were part of the unlawful assembly, which used force/violence in the prosecution of the common object of rioting/mischief and thus, charges under sections 146 (rioting), 147 (punishment for rioting) of IPC, read with section 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of IPC are made out.” The two accused denied the charges and instead claimed trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-2-on-trial-for-destroying-house/articleshow/81249732.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Chennai||Institutions compete to offer loans to TN, says O Panneerselvam||CHENNAI: Rebuffing charges regarding mounting outstanding debt burden of the state, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam on Saturday said in the assembly that external funding institutions such as the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank were competing to offer loans to the state, reposing confidence in its repayment capacity. Replying to the general discussion on the interim budget, Panneerselvam said external agencies were extending loans to implement developmental projects as it would scale up the state’s own tax revenue and help the government repay loans. “We don’t use the loan for any extravagance,” he said. The state had been witnessing an increase in GSDP, from Rs 5.19 lakh crore in 2010-11 to Rs 19.43 lakh crore in 2020-21. Hence, the capacity to repay loans was also increasing. Panneerselvam urged the opposition not to resort to false propaganda for political gains citing mounting borrowings. Some have borrowed more than 10% of their GDP. But TN, going by the Centre’s authorisation, has borrowed only 2% of the GSDP, he said. The assembly on Saturday passed the vote-on-account bill permitting the state to withdraw money from the consolidated fund for the first six months of the next financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/institutions-compete-to-offer-loans-to-tn-says-ops/articleshow/81249754.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||Over 36,000 birds to be culled after flu detected in Amravati farm||AMRAVATI: More than 36,000 birds in Bhankheda area of Amravati taluka will be culled and buried in a big put on Sunday after the National High Security Animal Diseases Institute, Bhopal, detected flu at Dhiman Poultry Farm. SDO and chairman of Amravati Taluka Bird Flu Control Committee, Udaysingh Rajput, issued the orders on Saturday. “The area within one kilometre radius of the farm has been declared as a transmission zone and the one in 10km radius has been termed as a survey zone,” said Rajput. All the birds of the poultry farm located in survey No. 57/2 and others within one kilometre radius would be scientifically culled and put in a big pit by a team from the rapid action force on Sunday. Dr Mohan Gohatre, deputy commissioner, animal husbandry, said action has been initiated as the birds are more than 36,000 in number. Apart from the birds, their food, eggs, egg papers, trays, baskets, manure and waste too will be destroyed after which the sanitization process would begin. A three-month ban has been enforced on the entry and exit of processed products, food and eggs in the survey area. This is for the first time that birds would be culled on such a large scale due to the flu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-36k-birds-to-be-culled-after-flu-detected-in-amravati-farm/articleshow/81249745.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Goa||Govt rejigs disability advisory board||Panaji: The state government has reconstituted the State Advisory Board on Disability, appointing 44 members onto the board to deliberate and decide on issues pertaining to individuals who have disabilities. The board has been constituted for a period of three years and it will be required to meet once every six months. While the board is headed by the minister of social welfare Milind Naik with several MLAs from the opposition ranks also filling up the seats. Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco along with BJP MLAs Alina Saldanha and Nilkant Halankar have been appointed as members. President of Disability Rights Association of Goa Avelino D’Sa, Research Centre in-charge of the National Association for the Blind Mahadev Sawant, Director of Caritas Goa Fr Maverick Fernandes, chairman of Sanjay School for Special Education Guruprasad Pawaskar are also members of the board The government has also appointed industry representatives on the State Advisory Board on Disability with president of Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industries Manoj Caculo and president of Goa Industries Association of Goa Vishwanath Kochkar also finding a mention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-rejigs-disability-advisory-board/articleshow/81251051.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: SSC topper held for selling videos of sex abuse in garb of pranks||MUMBAI: The BKC cyber police on Friday arrested three persons, including the 29-year-old owner of a Thane tuition class, for allegedly making obscene videos using vulgar language and posting them on YouTube and Facebook. The prime accused in the case had topped SSC exams in Thane district a few years ago, scoring 98.5%. He allegedly used several girls, including minors and his students, to make the “prank” videos that also had eve-teasing clips. “We got a complaint that the accused made videos and uploaded them on 17 YouTube channels and FB. The language was vulgar and the accused who acted it them would touch girls inappropriately,” said Milind Bharambe, JCP (crime branch). The accused uploaded 300 videos. The brother of one of the victims saw a video on social media and approached police. The offence in this case took place on February 23 and an FIR was lodged on February 25. Police booked all three accused for outraging the modesty of a woman under IPC and invoked sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Information Technology Act. So far, five girls have complained to police about the gang. “The accused would tell girls to act in videos. Some were lured, saying it was a good platform to show off their talent and they could land roles in films. The men would pay the girls Rs1,000-1,500 for acting in a 7-8 minute video,” an officer said. While the main accused is married and lives in Thane, while two aides, aged 25 and 23, are from Kurar village in Mumbai. While one is a Commerce graduate, one of the men is studying BHMS and the third is pursuing a bachelor’s degree in management services. The trio had shot many videos in places like Juhu beach, Aksa, Bandra Fort, Marine Lines and some MCGM gardens during the lockdown. “The accused had 17 YouTube channels with over 15 crore views. They earned around Rs 2 crore through YouTube and advertisements. The channels had over two crore subscribers and followers. Most of the money went to the key accused. His parents were unaware what he was doing,” said an officer. “We have written to YouTube to shut down the channels and Facebook to block the pages. If people come across any such victim, they should approach police. The victim’s identity will not be revealed,” Bharambe said. Investigation are being carried out by inspector Mousami Patil and supervised by cyber police DCP Rashmi Karandikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ssc-topper-held-for-selling-videos-of-sex-abuse-in-garb-of-pranks/articleshow/81251623.cms||Mateen Hafeez
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi corporation orders survey of small household units running illegally||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash has directed the building department to carry out a survey of small-scale household units running in non-conforming areas without obtaining licences or submitting relevant documents. He has also called a joint meeting with officials of the department to finalise a list of congested areas where survey can be started on priority and to decide further action against defaulters on the basis of a report about the fire incident at Pratap Nagar, which is to be submitted by Delhi Police. The development took place after the mayor and other civic staff visited the site of the fire incident. “Our staff were informed by locals that a lipstick packaging unit was running in a small rented room and many other similar packaging, storing and assembling units were found operating on a 700-800 square yard multi-storeyed plot originally meant for residential purpose. It is a non-confirming area and the factory looked illegal as per an initial inquiry,” said Jai Prakash. “Even if these factories were operating as household units, officials needed to check if they had applied for any licence. While we have called a joint meeting to decide future course of action, including speedy survey in congested areas and notice to defaulters, we are also waiting for the police inquiry report based on which action will be taken,” said the mayor. Officials said that due to congestion in these areas, people have left their residences and rented them for running small-scale units. “But these units can’t operate without fulfilling norms, such as taking appropriate electric connections. We are even ready to provide a licence for running factories in industrial areas on each floor provided conditions are met,” said the mayor. In December 2019, a massive blaze had ripped through a four-storey building housing illegal manufacturing units in north Delhi’s congested Anaj Mandi. None of the units had NOC from the fire department. Forty-three labourers were killed in the incident. Teams were then formed to probe the cause of fire but till date, no one has been punished in that case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-corpn-orders-survey-of-small-household-units-running-illegally/articleshow/81249743.cms||Vibha Sharma
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Hunar Haat beats Covid blues, sees heavy footfall||New Delhi: Despite the pandemic, the Union ministry of minority affairs estimates that the total footfall may cross 16 lakh by March 1 at 'Hunar Haat' that has brought together 600 artisans and craftsmen from minority communities from across states to the national capital to sell their products.Drawing upon the theme “Vocal for Local”, the fair started at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium on February 20 and concludes on Monday. Union minority Affairs minister Mukhtar Abbar Naqvi on Saturday said more than 12 lakh people have visited ‘Hunar Haat’ so far and they expect the last two days to bring in large number of people.The Haat showcases handmade products ranging from applique work, jute-cane, brass products, wooden and clay toys, Ajrakh block print, blue art pottery, pashmina shawl, khadi products, Banarasi silk, lac bangles, Rajasthani jewellery, Phulkari and Khurja pottery among other things. Naqvi said the Haat has enabled creation of employment for more than 5,30,000 artisans, craftsmen and artists involved with making and selling the products.In a statement, the minority affairs ministry stated that they will be able to provide employment and employment opportunities to 7,50,000 artisans and craftsmen through 75 ‘Hunar Haat’, which will be organised till 2022 when India marks 75 years of Independence.Similar ‘Hunar Haats’ will be organised in Bhopal, Goa and Kota in March and April. Hyderabad, Mumbai, Jaipur, Patna, Prayagraj, Ranchi, Jammu and Kashmir are the other places where ‘’Hunar Haat’ will be organised during the course of the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hunar-haat-beats-covid-blues-sees-heavy-footfall/articleshow/81249756.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Coimbatore||30 sovereigns stolen from locked house||Coimbatore: The Saravanampatti police are on the lookout for the burglars, who decamped with 30 sovereigns of gold jewellery from a locked house at Thirumurugan Nagar. Houseowner Arun Kumar, who was running a hotel near Kumaraguru College in Saravanampatti, had shifted to Salem with his family last year after suffering heavy loss. “Kumar’s father returned to the house on Thursday night to find the back door and a cupboard broken open and 30 sovereigns of gold jewellery missing. We are trying to collect fingerprints from the house,” an officer said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/30-sovereigns-stolen-from-locked-house/articleshow/81249749.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Dispute over golgappa brand reaches court||AHMEDABAD: Golgappas, the crispy, puffed dough balls, bursting with a filling of savoury potato filling and tangy-sweet flavoured water, are enough to send any street-food loving Indian salivating. A bitter trademark and copyright dispute, however, has reached the court over the name of golgappas, popularly called pani-puri in Gujarat-- a food processing company selling the snack under the brand of Gol Mol has taken objection to another company naming its golgappa as Gol Mal. Chhajed Foods Pvt Ltd has filed a suit in a Mirzapur court claiming that Grainspan Foods Pvt Ltd has infringed upon its trademark and copyrights by branding and selling its golgappa product in an identical and similarly deceptive trademark and label. Chhajed Foods told the court that it launched its famous brand Gol Mol Oval Papad, which is dry uncooked puri/papad to be fried to get fresh pani puri. Its application for registration of trademark is pending with the trademark registry. In 2019, it found out that Grainspan had applied for registration of Gol Mal as a trademark and the label under which it has been selling its product is similar to its own label. Before the court, Chhajed Foods submitted that Grainspan is “illegally using the identical and/or deceptively similar trademark Gol Mal with deceptively similar label for identical goods oval papad”. It claimed trademark and copyrights over the name and label stating that it had commissioned the artwork. It further submitted that Grainspan has with “full knowledge and with malafide intention” adopted the identical mark with “identical colour scheme, get up, arrangement, combination with similar placement of devices in the label”. “The defendant has pirated and has lifted the entire idea, concept and representation of the plaintiffs prior adopted, well known and extensively used trademark/label of GOL MOL,” reads the application before the court. Chhajed Foods also pointed out the Grainspan’s Gol Mal packet mentions ‘Gol Mol’ in Devnagiri script, which reflected the “dishonesty” on part of the opponent company. After Chhajed Foods filed the suit restraining Grainspan from using Gol Mal brand for its golgappa, Grainspan filed an application questioning the maintainability of the suit and asserted that the trademark and copyright infringement cannot be challenged in a single suit before the same court at Mirzapur. On February 19, additional sessions judge Sagar Prem Shankar rejected Grainspan’s objection to the suit and the court will hear Chhajed Food’s suit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dispute-over-golgappa-brand-reaches-court/articleshow/81249757.cms||Saeed Khan
February 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Flying squads, special teams to check flow of cash, liquor||COIMBATORE: A day after the model code of conduct for the assembly election came into force in the state, collector K Rajamani, who is also the district election officer, told TOI that 30 flying squads have been formed for the 10 assembly constituencies in the district. Three squads each would be deployed at each assembly constituency from Monday morning. Presently, the squad members are undergoing training. He also directed all the local bodies to remove posters and banners, which were put up by political parties, from the streets and walls. Following this, city corporation staff were on Saturday morning seen removing the ruling party’s posters from the pillars of Ukkadam flyover. Rajamani said 30 static surveillance teams (three teams for each constituency), 20 video surveillance teams (two teams for each constituency), 10 video viewing teams (one for each constituency) and 10 accounting teams have also been formed in the district. “We are now training the team members and all the teams will be deployed in the field from Monday.” He said people carrying Rs 50,000 or more in cash should keep enough documents with them. ‘Otherwise, the cash will be seized and released only after producing the source of money. If they fail to do so, the amount will be deposited at the treasury.” The collector said the Election Commission of India (ECI) had directed them to split the polling stations into two, if the number of voters exceeded 1,050. “With the addition of 1,379 auxiliary polling stations, the district now has 4,427 polling stations, compared to the earlier 3,048. These booths are spread across 1,084 locations.” According to him, the district has 5,523 control units, 7,414 ballot units (electronic voting machines) and 5912 VVPATs (voter verifiable paper audit trial). “We need 21,250 polling personnel and we identified them. They will be trained soon.” To receive complaints related to poll code, a control room has been set up at the district collectorate and a toll-free number would be announced on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flying-squads-special-teams-to-check-flow-of-cash-liquor/articleshow/81249758.cms||A Subburaj
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Corona prompts mixed show at DU, 1.7L get digital degrees||New Delhi: Shreya Guru Krishnakumar was one of the three physically challenged students who received the Vice-Chancellor’s gold medal for the highest marks in her stream. While the home science student with 71% hearing disability was unable to make out the speeches at Delhi University’s 97th convocation on Saturday, she was elated that she was graduating after three years of her time studying at Lady Irwin College. As part of Covid restrictions, the varsity conducted a blended convocation where only medallists and prize winners were invited to attend physically. The varsity awarded over 1.7 lakh students with digital degrees, all by just pressing a button. The proceedings of the convocation were kicked off by the acting vice-chancellor, PC Joshi, in the presence of selected students who were all seated at a distance from each other and with masks on. Joshi said that “today 670 doctoral degrees, the highest in the last five years despite the Covid-19 pandemic, 156 medals and 336 prizes will be awarded to the students in person and 1,76,790 going to become a bachelor’s or master’s degree holder in various disciplines in-absentia by initiating a digital process.” A button, pressed by the education minister, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, led to several students receiving their degrees on their email addresses. While many students saw the proceedings online, those present at the convocation were without their parents who saw them receive certificates and prizes on a live feed at the convention centre. Kailash Jain, a parent, was one of those present at the convention centre. “I did not mind not being there with my daughter as I saw the proceedings online on a big screen,” said Jain. The acting VC congratulated the university for completing the open book exam “keeping the safety and health of the students as the topmost priority.” Joshi also spoke of ‘Vidya Vistar Yojna’, which aims at “maximising the utilisation of existing resources available with the university through academic collaboration and cooperation.” Announcing that the university is set to begin an Academic Bank of Credits, Joshi said that this is a “student-centric initiative providing flexibility and ample opportunities to choose the best combination of interdisciplinary/multidisciplinary courses for abundant knowledge acquisition and skills development.” In his address to the gathering, Ramesh Pokhriyal asserted that the duty of a university was to patronise, promote, support and guide other educational institutions. He observed that the university was supporting and promoting institutions located in remote areas under Vidya Vistar Yojna. Emphasising the need for reforms in the education sector, he said that “the University of Delhi can further contribute to nation-building by advancing Center of Excellence on National Education Policy (NEP). The efforts will not only strengthen the Indian education system but also make India a global knowledge superpower.” He appreciated the efforts of Delhi University for ensuring no disruption in the holistic development of its students during the Covid pandemic. “It was a major achievement that over 30 crore students went online last year to continue their education.” Praising the NEP, the minister said that “countries around the world want to emulate it as they see it as a major reform.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corona-prompts-mixed-show-at-du-1-7l-get-digital-degrees/articleshow/81251062.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Woman killed during fight with husband in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Saturday arrested a 35-year-old man for allegedly killing his 28-year-old wife by hitting her with a wooden plank at their house in outer Delhi’s Buddh Vihar on Friday night. The murder took place during a quarrel between the couple over the husband’s drinking habit. The man, who was also injured in the scuffle, is undergoing treatment at a hospital. After cops received a call from a neighbour about the argument between the couple, a team reached the spot and found both the husband and the wife, identified as Geeta and Chetan Prakash, injured and unconscious. They were taken to a hospital, where Geeta was declared brought dead while Prakash was admitted for treatment. Initial probe revealed that Prakash worked as a driver. Neighbours told police that the couple often argued over Prakash’s drinking habit and their finances. A senior police officer said that an official complaint in this regard was also received from Geeta’s brother Sher Singh, who also reached their house after being informed by a neighbour. Cops have registered a case of murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-killed-during-fight-with-husband/articleshow/81249762.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Goa||‘IT policy benefits to roll out by March-end’: GTA||PANAJI: Goa Technology Association (GTA) met with the officials of the department of information technology and urged them to smoothen the registration process for the IT Policy. Director for information technology Ankita Anand assured the IT industry representatives that the IT Policy will be implemented and scheme benefits will be rolled out by March 31. The Goa Information Technology Policy was introduced in 2018 and till date 11 IT companies have registered to avail the benefits of the scheme. However, till date, not a single IT firm has succeeded in getting any financial benefits. IT companies have repeatedly urged the IT department to improve the registration process. “Finally, IT Policy will be implemented and disbursements will start by the month-end,” GTA president Mangirish Salelkar said. GTA and other industry representatives have been trying to meet with IT minister Jennifer Monserrate and had finally approached chief minister Pramod Sawant seeking his intervention. With the Covid-19 pandemic hitting all businesses hard, the IT sector wanted the state government to roll out scheme benefits to provide a lifeline to IT companies. Anand informed GTA that a committee would be constituted and notified to scrutinise and clear the applications for scheme benefits. “The director was quite supportive and she said that at least two to three IT companies who had completed the registration process several months ago will get benefits of the scheme by March-end,” Salelkar said. GTA has also asked the IT department to seek information regarding salaries paid to employees or about lease rent being paid only if the particular IT firm seeks incentives or subsidies related to salaries or lease rent. “Right now, the government asks for data about employees and salaries right at the first stage when the IT companies begin the registration process,” Salelkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/it-policy-benefits-to-roll-out-by-march-end/articleshow/81251061.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘More health centres in rural areas, fewer in urban’||Ahmedabad: The state government has informed the Gujarat high court that it has created more health centres in rural areas than the minimum requirement under the parameters of the existing health policy. However, by the same parameters, the number of health centres in urban areas falls short of the minimum requirement. The principal secretary of health and family welfare department’s affidavit filed on Friday, also revealed the state falls short of 13 district hospitals. The affidavit was filed to rebut the objections raised by advocate K R Koshti during the hearing of the suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and lockdown. In November 2020, the lawyer took exception to the state government’s claims that the health department had performed well to deal with the Covid situation. He highlighted that the health department lacked in infrastructure and human resources. The secretary submitted that advocate Koshti’s claims were not true, but her affidavit revealed that the state government has not been able to man the infrastructure in a proper manner. Advocate Koshti pointed out the vacancies in health department at different levels and alleged that the department was not taking serious initiatives to fill the vacancies. The affidavit also revealed that the departments – public health and family welfare, medical services and medical education had many vacancies. Last year, the high court took suo motu cognizance of a report published in TOI on basis of information revealed by the government under the provisions of the Right to Information Act stating that nearly 50% posts in the health department are vacant. The HC had sought explanation from the government in this regard. Advocate Koshti also raised the issue in his affidavit. The government has submitted that its efforts have been continuous during Covid times to hire doctors in government hospitals and health centres. It also informed the HC how it summoned the bonded doctors to take the field for Covid duty. The government has asserted that the vacancies are “filled up by regular recruitment process” and contractual appointments are made as “stop gap arrangement only”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/more-health-centres-in-rural-areas-fewer-in-urban/articleshow/81251056.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Railway peon having ‘excess’ assets of Rs 34L gets 2 yrs in jail||Mumbai: A 53-year-old Central railway ‘khalasi’ (peon) has been convicted and sentenced to two years imprisonment for amassing assets — to the tune of Rs 33.56 lakh — disproportionate to his known sources of income. Ambica (47), wife of the accused, Shivaji Naidu, and his brother Bhavani Prasad (46) too have been sentenced to one year imprisonment each for abetment as some of the tainted assets are in their joint names. “The properties which are in the nature of disproportionate assets to the tune of Rs 33.56 lakh, are forfeited to the state government...” special CBI ACB judge Vivek V Kathare said.Special public prosecutor Ashok Bagoria cited evidence of 13 witnesses to seek conviction of the accused. The prosecution submitted that between 1991 and 2007, Shivaji amassed properties like flats and a shop. It said that during this period, of the his total income of about Rs 80 lakh, his likely savings were around Rs 55 lakh. The prosecution submitted that he had assets to the tune of around Rs 91 lakh at the end of the period.The court held that Ambica abetted her husband, a public servant, by holding unexplained cash credits in her name. The court said that Bhavani Prasad also participated in purchasing properties either in his name or in the joint name with Shivaji from the ill-gotten assets amassed. “When it is established that accused no 2 [Ambica] and 3 [Bhavani Prasad] were not possessing any source of income proportionate to the value of assets held by them, the logical corollary of abetment to commit an offence by the public servant by abusing his official position gets established,” observed the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/railway-peon-having-excess-assets-of-rs-34l-gets-2-yrs-in-jail/articleshow/81251066.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Aiming to set new record, fashion students race against time to create largest mandala painting||Tirupur: At 6am on Saturday, 23 students of NIFT-TEA College of Knitwear Fashion here sat down on a large white canvas placed on the college veranda to create India’s largest mandala painting within 24 hours.The students, who aim to enter the annals of Limca Book of Records, said they will take break only for meals. The painting will depict all viruses that hit the world, said assistant professor G Boopathy Vijay. “Mandala art is a complex abstract design that is usually circular in form. It is considered as a spiritual symbol in Hinduism and Buddhism, representing the belief that life is never ending and everything is connected,” he told TOI.The 1,089 sq ft canvas is made of ivory paper. The students are using black and red pointed markers. The students did a bit of research and found 21 viruses, including Covid-19 virus, HIV, smallpox virus, Japanese encephalitis virus and yellow fever virus that hit the world in the last 100 years. “They collected images of the viruses and found that they were all markedly different. So, they decided to make each circle with a virus’s physical structure,” said Vijay.The students also identified the origin of each virus. “The Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus originated from camels and bats. H5N1 virus originated from hens. So, we have included the images of the animals and birds in the painting,” said Sneha Adriala, a student.They chose viruses as the topic for the artwork after witnessing the extent Covid-19 impacted the economy and communities across the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aiming-to-set-new-record-fashion-students-race-against-time-to-create-largest-mandala-painting/articleshow/81249760.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: R Sarathkumar meets Kamal Haasan for poll talk||CHENNAI: Amid talks about a third front, All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi leader R Sarathkumar called on Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan on Saturday. Sarathkumar said he met Kamal to explore the possibility of good and likeminded people getting together. “I heard his views. MNM office-bearers will discuss with us how to take it forward. After that, we expect a good decision,” he said. On severing ties with the AIADMK, Sarathkumar said there was no invite for alliance talks from the ruling party. “We were part of the AIADMK alliance for the past 10 years. There was no invite for an alliance talk. Now, we have decided to move on,” he said. When asked whether T T V Dhinakaran’s AMMK would join the third front, he was evasive in his reply. “People with similar views need to join hands to contest elections. If it happens, we will let you know,” Sarathkumar said. Kamal told reporters that his doors were open. “Clouds are forming and it will rain soon,” he said about the possibility of more parties joining the fold to fight the assembly elections together. Speaking about the election schedule, he said, “We thought there were lots of days for the polls. But as per the schedule announced by the Election Commission of India, there are only 36 days left for the elections. Fortunately, MNM started preparations early.” The party formed a six-member committee headed by Kamal Haasan to interview the candidates who have filed applications seeking seats. Kamal would start the campaign on March 3. Veteran politician Pazha Karuppaiah and social activist Senthil Arumugam of Satta Panchayat joined MNM on Saturday and Kamal said they would contest in the upcoming elections. Asked about his wheelchair comment, which has irked the followers of former CM M Karunanidhi, Kamal said he was not referring to Karunanidhi doing politics sitting on a wheelchair. Kamal said he was talking about his own future plans and sought to explain that he meant he did not have enough time for a long tenure in politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sarathkumar-meets-kamal-for-poll-talk/articleshow/81249764.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Two arrested for smuggling 50,000 gelatin sticks to Kerala||COIMBATORE: Kerala police arrested a truck driver and a cleaner on Friday night for smuggling 50,000 gelatin sticks through the Walayar check post from Attur in Salem district. Police seized the truck carrying 250 boxes of the explosive worth Rs 1.5 crore. The Palakkad district police had received a tip-off on Friday night about two people smuggling a huge cache of ganja to Kerala through the check post. A police team stopped a truck carrying vegetables and found the boxes filled with gelatin sticks hidden inside. The truck was taken to the Palakkad police station. Each box weighing 25kg had 200 gelatin sticks. Police also found 4,500 electric detonators. Police arrested truck driver Ilavarasan and cleaner Karthik for smuggling the explosives from Salem district. They told cops that they were heading towards Malappuram to deliver the explosives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-arrested-for-smuggling-50k-gelatin-sticks-to-kerala/articleshow/81249759.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Goa||Cong, GFP & NCP mull united front against BJP||Margao: In a move to forge a united front against the BJP for the upcoming civic polls, leaders of Congress, Goa Forward Party and NCP came together for talks in Margao on Saturday, but no conclusive decision was taken, ostensibly in view of the petition filed in the high court challenging the legality of the delimitation and reservation of wards, order on which is expected to be pronounced on Monday. “We are expecting the high court order by Monday. Let us see (what the order says) before we take any decision,” leader of opposition Digambar Kamat told reporters after the meeting. Asked about the likelihood of an alliance getting forged, Kamat said, “We are working out an alliance. As this election is not being fought on party lines, our main aim is to defeat the BJP. So, (it was decided) everywhere the local leaders should coordinated with other groups and try to put out a good panel.” The Margao MLA said that Congress was in talks with other groups in other cities as well, including for Panaji and Mapusa civic polls, apart from Margao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-gfp-ncp-mull-united-front-against-bjp/articleshow/81251069.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||VC to hold all power at Gujarat University||AHMEDABAD: With the term of Gujarat University senate members ending on Saturday night, the university’s vice-chancellor will now get sweeping powers to take any executive or policy decision. “The state government has not made any announcement about appointments of new members. As a result, the varsity’s vice-chancellor, Himanshu Pandya, can now take all the decisions without getting consent of the syndicate or senate,” said an official in the know of the matter while calling it a rare occurrence. An announcement about the nomination of senate members has to be made in the state assembly, however, due to the local body and municipal corporation elections in the state, the assembly session has been delayed this time. Infrastructure development projects worth Rs 200 crore are under way at the varsity. Representations have been made by members of the senate for the new appointments. The senate consist of about 100 board members. With the term of senate members ending, the appointment of syndicate members is also stuck. The members of senate are members of the GU syndicate council. There are 17 BJP backed members in the council and 3 Congress backed members who fought elections. “Now that they are no longer in senate, how can they be in the syndicate? Their term has also ended abruptly,” said sources in GU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vc-to-hold-all-power-at-gu/articleshow/81251071.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Portal to aid in boosting fishermen’s livelihood||Thiruvananthapuram: Parivarthanam, an initiative of the Kerala State Coastal Area Development Corporation (KSCADC) to supply fresh fishes at the doorsteps of consumers, has launched its portal. The website, http://www.parivarthanam.org will provide information about KSCADC’s multi-pronged strategies for coastal communities through quality fish supply and marketing; promotion of green energy; and building bridges with industry. It will also help jobless youth in securing gainful employment and help them eliminate skill gaps. The project is aimed at improving socio-economic conditions of coastal communities by forging closer links with industry and enhance the livelihood skills of the youths along the coastline. “The portal’s launch is a step towards streamlining our efforts to improve the quality of life of our coastal communities, empower youngsters through skill development and contribute to an appreciable reduction of our carbon footprint,” KSCADC managing director Sheik Pareeth said. Parivarthanam ensures that the fish is iced in boxes upon capture at sea, closed and transported swiftly on landing to processing centers. It will also provide traceability ensuring the end-consumers are fully aware of the sources and origins of the fish, time of capture and details of fishers involved. "Kerala has a long tradition of processing seafood to quality standards of Scandinavian countries but this facility was not available for home consumers. Parivarthanam seeks to redirect this processing technology towards home markets and establish a high-quality supply chain to deliver fish to homes,” team leader of Parivarthanam, Roy Nagendran said. The initiative is expected to be a boost for the fisheries sector that has been reeling from poor harvests, migration of popular species, extreme weather conditions, and excessive fishing pressure even before the onset of Covid19, which brought in its wake a growing fear of contamination from wet markets. Parivarthanam will ensure that all the fishes, sourced either from capture or live from the farms, will have to abide by Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (ICAR-CIFT) standards. Every fish product as well as all seafood units of Parivarthanam will carry the quality stamp of CIFT, the country's leading research centre in fishing and fish processing. High tech surveillance systems will monitor the temperature of the fishes all through the supply chain till delivery, ensuring freshness and food safety. Parivarthanam is also reaching out to all fish producers in Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts, making them an integral part of the supply chain and encouraging them to become entrepreneurs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/portal-to-aid-in-boosting-fishermens-livelihood/articleshow/81248978.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Erode||Turmeric production, acreage under cultivation dip in Erode||COIMBATORE: Turmeric farmers in Erode district are a disappointed lot, as the ongoing harvest season has sent out initial signals that the production was unlikely to improve. The farmers said the turmeric price was also not likely to go up this season. While they were hopeful of a bumper harvest following the successful southwest and northeast monsoons, unexpected rain and cloudy skies in January played spoilsport, as they triggered diseases, damaging the crop. In fact, the farmers were worried that the bumper harvest would cause the price to dip further. Krishnan Sundaraman, an organic turmeric farmer from Sathyamangalam, said, “The rain in January and cloudy skies have cast shadows on our expectations. Some crop had developed leaf spot disease, leading to drop in yield.” Deivasigamani, president, Turmeric Farmers’ Association, said they were expecting an average yield of two tonnes per acre. “Unaffected farms may yield three tonnes per acre and those affected by leaf spot disease hardly 1.2 tonnes.” Turmeric traders, meanwhile, attributed the fall in production to the drop in acreage under cultivation to 50,000 acres from 1.5 lakh acres. “Many farmers have moved away from the spice crop. We mainly get the product from Karnataka,” said R Manickam, a turmeric farmer and trader. “The arrival of locally grown produce is very low. And only now that we have realized that the acreage under turmeric cultivation has shrunk in the district. I too didn’t grow turmeric last year, when I switched to banana.” Farmers, however, blamed the low prices for moving away from turmeric cultivation. “It costs us around Rs 9,000 to produce one quintal turmeric and it is priced anywhere between Rs 8,500 and Rs 9,000 in the market. Actually, we don’t get any returns,” Deivasigamani said. Sundaraman said the turmeric was a labour-intensive crop. “With the labour shortage getting worse, many farmers had no other option but switch to banana and tapioca cultivation.” The fall in production is unlikely to result in a price hike. “We are getting the product from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. If there is no fall in the production there, prices are not likely to change,” Manickam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/turmeric-production-acreage-under-cultivation-dip-in-erode/articleshow/81254392.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Rajkot||Helping friend elope costs youth his life||Rajkot: A 22-year-old student was killed on Friday for helping his friend elope with a girl from a different community. Pravin Dhapa, a resident of Katakda village in Bhavnagar district, was forcefully taken away by two men to their farm where they beat him mercilessly with iron pipe and wooden stick.The two accused, Mahipat Kamaliya and Meram Kamaliya, were irked by Dhapa’s post on social media about his caste. The duo was already suspicious about Dhapa’s involvement in the elopement of Meram’s daughter with the former’s friend, Jaideep. The post only confirmed their doubts and fuelled their anger against Dhapa.Dhapa and his younger sister had been living with their cousin Mathur for more than a year after their parents died. As Dhapa’s college was closed due to the pandemic, he used to help Mathur in farming.The accused duo asked Mathur to come to the farm and take Dhapa away. When Mathur reached, the duo, however, asked him to beat his cousin with the wooden stick if he wanted to take him back home. Mathur hit Dhapa gently, but Mahipat goaded him to hit harder and Mathur hit him again. In the meantime, Mahipat started to make a video of the act on his mobile phone, while continuing to push Mathur to hit his cousin even harder. Later, they bellowed him to take Dhapa away.Mathur rushed Dhapa to Talaja where the doctor asked them to go to Bhavnagar looking at the serious condition. Dhapa was taken to Sir T Hospital in Bhavnagar where he was declared dead on arrival.When the police at the hospital asked about Dhapa’s cause of injury, a frightened Mathur lied that Dhapa had fallen and injured himself. Mathur was afraid of being targeted by Mahipat and Meram if he divulged about their atrocity. But, later, he mustered courage and narrated to the cops about how they attacked his cousin. Based on his complaint, an offence was registered against Mahipat and Meram on Saturday. The duo is yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/helping-friend-elope-costs-youth-his-life/articleshow/81249776.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Budget sans new projects draws flak||Coimbatore: A day after the city corporation tabled the budget for the 2021-22 fiscal, activists and public representatives have condemned the civic body for hurrying the same without including any new projects. Last year too, the city corporation hadn’t announced any major projects in the budget.It was a surplus budget that was tabled on Friday for the upcoming fiscal, with a projected Rs 2,630.19 crore revenue and Rs 2,629.14 crore expenditure.K Kathirmathiyon, a city-based activist, said it couldn’t be considered a complete budget. “Public gets to know about the projects in the pipeline and the status of the ongoing projects only when the budget is tabled, especially when there isn’t a local body council. In the absence of the both (details of the new and ongoing projects), it cannot be considered a complete budget.” Pointing to the ongoing projects under the smart city mission, he said the corporation should have ideally shared details of funds obtained from the Union and state governments and how the same was utilized so far. “The public will have confidence in the corporation only when it ensures transparency in works.”Another activist, S P Thiyagarajan, said it looked like the corporation had presented the budget just for namesake and wasn’t actually concerned about the public.“There has been no transparency in the works carried out by the civic body ever since the council dissolved in 2016. The corporation has stopped providing information through the Right to Information Act and uploading its resolutions on its website. Now, it has stopped sharing details in the budget document as well,” he said.Thiyagarajan said the public could come forward to share their suggestions only if the corporation provided details regarding the ongoing and upcoming projects. Singanallur MLA N Karthik, meanwhile, said no major works were carried out in the city for the past few years and the civic body was struggling to complete the projects, including the underground drainage project, that had commenced more than a decade ago. “It shows nothing but the administrative and financial failure of the corporation,” the DMK MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/budget-sans-new-projects-draws-flak/articleshow/81249765.cms||Nivedha Selvam
February 28, 2021||Gurgaon||Covid cases going up again in Gurugram, but not precaution||GURUGRAM: Covid cases are once again showing an upward trend and the lack of adherence to safety norms like social distancing and masks in public transport is increasingly becoming a cause for concern. There have been complaints about overcrowding in buses, people not wearing face masks in shared autos and throwing social distancing norms out of the window in most places. Commuters said they are forced to get into crowded autorickshaws since they have no other means to commute long distances. Also, there is no thermal screening while boarding buses and autos, something that was being done during first few weeks after the lockdown. From November 2020 to January this year, the case graph witnessed a steady decrease. However, in the first 10 days of February, 211 new cases were recorded in the city. There were 251 new cases from February 11 to 20 and 205 new cases in the last six days. On an average, 21 cases were reported daily in the first ten days, which has now increased to 34 cases per day. Akash Yadav, a law student, told TOI: “Most of the shared autos are carrying more than 14 passengers. I have to request the auto drivers to wear masks and not to take more than two passengers at a time. I urge the government to enforce preventive measures.” Notably, during the pandemic, shared autos were carrying only four passengers and following the SOPs. “While Delhi’s buses are strictly following the norms and carrying only 50% passengers but GMDA’s buses are carrying a crowd,” said Ravi Ratan, a school teacher. Yogesh Sharma, general secretary of the Haryana auto driver union, said: “Considering the SOP when the passenger count was reduced and we charged Rs 20 per passenger, a rider was not willing to pay. Due to rising diesel and CNG prices, we have been incurring losses.” Doctors have expressed concern over the flouting of Covid safety norms in public transports. “We can clearly see people are not abiding by the Covid-19 safety protocols and this is definitely a matter of concern for us,” said Dr Chandan, a private practitioner. Subhash Boken, Gurugram police spokesperson, said: “We are imposing a fine on auto drivers who have been caught without masks. We are also trying to alert them to follow the Covid rules.” The deputy commissioner could not be reached for a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/covid-cases-going-up-again-in-gurgaon-but-not-precaution/articleshow/81251115.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: 9 test Covid-19 positive in Bhadradri, administration on alert||HYDERABAD: Nine people, including four children, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Sabbnapalli village in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. Of them, seven belong to one family. After the development, the district administration is on extra alert. The district administration has begun contact tracing to identify and conduct a test for all those who the family members had met. Collector M V Reddy has asked medical officers to submit a report on the measures being taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 from those who had tested positive. According to preliminary information, a family member had gone to attend a function in Eturunagaram. When there were symptoms of Covid-19, he got himself tested. When other family members underwent a test, they also tested positive. In addition to the seven of the family, two others from the same village have also tested positive. When the tests were conducted at the Primary Health Centre, Mangapeta, nine people, including four children, tested positive on Friday. Officials have taken measures to prevent the spread of the virus in Sabbnapalli village in Mulkapalli mandal. The area, in which the family lives, has been declared a containment zone. The collector has cautioned people to strictly be in home quarantine if they arrive from other places. At the mandal level, health committees have been constituted with the tahsildar as chairman to see that there was no spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/9-test-ve-in-bhadradri-admin-on-alert/articleshow/81251068.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
February 28, 2021||Coimbatore||Turmeric production, acreage under cultivation dip in Erode||COIMBATORE: Turmeric farmers in Erode district are a disappointed lot, as the ongoing harvest season has sent out initial signals that the production was unlikely to improve. The farmers said the turmeric price was also not likely to go up this season. While they were hopeful of a bumper harvest following the successful southwest and northeast monsoons, unexpected rain and cloudy skies in January played spoilsport, as they triggered diseases, damaging the crop. In fact, the farmers were worried that the bumper harvest would cause the price to dip further. Krishnan Sundaraman, an organic turmeric farmer from Sathyamangalam, said, “The rain in January and cloudy skies have cast shadows on our expectations. Some crop had developed leaf spot disease, leading to drop in yield.” Deivasigamani, president, Turmeric Farmers’ Association, said they were expecting an average yield of two tonnes per acre. “Unaffected farms may yield three tonnes per acre and those affected by leaf spot disease hardly 1.2 tonnes.” Turmeric traders, meanwhile, attributed the fall in production to the drop in acreage under cultivation to 50,000 acres from 1.5 lakh acres. “Many farmers have moved away from the spice crop. We mainly get the product from Karnataka,” said R Manickam, a turmeric farmer and trader. “The arrival of locally grown produce is very low. And only now that we have realized that the acreage under turmeric cultivation has shrunk in the district. I too didn’t grow turmeric last year, when I switched to banana.” Farmers, however, blamed the low prices for moving away from turmeric cultivation. “It costs us around Rs 9,000 to produce one quintal turmeric and it is priced anywhere between Rs 8,500 and Rs 9,000 in the market. Actually, we don’t get any returns,” Deivasigamani said. Sundaraman said the turmeric was a labour-intensive crop. “With the labour shortage getting worse, many farmers had no other option but switch to banana and tapioca cultivation.” The fall in production is unlikely to result in a price hike. “We are getting the product from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. If there is no fall in the production there, prices are not likely to change,” Manickam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/turmeric-production-acreage-under-cultivation-dip-in-erode/articleshow/81249763.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||In bid to boost food industry, govt maps products unique to districts||NEW DELHI: If you want to start a business in food products, it would serve you well to look at the farm/animal/marine product-specific map with insights into the speciality of that district and the support which you may get from the government as a food processing entrepreneur. The agriculture ministry under ‘One District One Product’ (ODOP) approach has finalised 135 district-specific unique products for 728 districts across the country, identifying each of them with certain agricultural, horticultural, animal, poultry, milk or marine products. Though there are some familiar names of district-product combo in the list such as oranges of Nagpur, grapes of Sangli, litchis of Muzaffarpur, the comprehensive list dedicates 60% of total 728 districts to fruits (226 districts), vegetables (107) and spices (105). In contrast, foodgrains such as paddy (40), pulses (16) and wheat (5) found place in quite a small number of districts across the country even as they are produced widely. It can be attributed to the need for processing and support which the listed products may require for value addition, keeping in view brand building and export promotion of local produce. The list of products has been finalised after taking inputs from the states and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), focussing on existing clusters and availability of raw materials. “These products will be promoted in a cluster approach through convergence of the central government schemes to increase the value of the products with the ultimate aim of increasing the income of the farmers,” said Shubha Thakur, joint secretary in agriculture ministry, in a note to chief secretaries/administrators of states. These district-wise identified products will be supported under the PM Formalisation of Micro food processing Enterprises (PM-FME) scheme which provides incentives to promoters and micro-enterprises. The scheme adopts ODOP approach to reap benefits of scale in terms of procurement of inputs, availing common services and marketing of products. “The state governments are accordingly requested a plan for implementation of the programme which can benefit farmers and provide support for realizing the expectations of value addition and subsequently enhancing agri export,” said Thakur. Besides the popular district-product combo, the comprehensive state-wise list shows names of products which may not be known outside but have been quite popular locally due to traditional usage and business around it. “The identification of products has also been done with focus on intended diversification of crops in mind. If you look at the list of Punjab and Haryana, you won’t find the two most popular foodgrains — paddy and wheat — among farmers. The list mostly carries horticultural produce which requires help for creating a robust supply chain and processing/storage infrastructure,” said another official. List for Delhi shows focus on bakery, ready-to-eat products and milk-based products whereas Mumbai’s list mentions marine products, Bengaluru has poultry and bakery products and Hyderabad has ready-to-eat snacks. The PM-FME scheme, launched as “Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan” package last year, will also take forward the existing ‘Operation Green’ plan from TOP (tomato, onion and potato) to total (all fruits and vegetables) by extending support to producers of such crops.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-bid-to-boost-food-industry-govt-maps-products-unique-to-districts/articleshow/81251955.cms||Vishwa Mohan
February 28, 2021||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath sends MP, minister to Baswar to pacify Nishads||LUCKNOW: MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi and state MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh were sent to Baswar village in Prayagraj district by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday to calm down the ruffled Nishad community members whose boats were allegedly damaged in police action against suspect illegal sand mining earlier this month, besides ordering a magisterial enquiry into the incident. Earlier, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had visited Baswar village last Sunday to support the villagers against alleged harassment by police after she received complaints. Singh assured the villagers that the magisterial enquiry ordered by the chief minister would be completed within 10 days and till then, the policemen allegedly involved in the incident will be sent to lines. “The boats which were damaged are being repaired. The process to withdraw cases registered against the boatmen will start immediately and sent to the government for approval,” he said, adding that a list of mining mafia will be prepared so that government can take action against them. Singh criticized Prayanka Gandhi and said she visited Baswar only for political mileage and her visit flared up the situation instead of resolving the issue. He said sand mining has been prohibited on the orders of National Green Tribunal, which was set up under a law passed by Congress government. “The present government is opposing the law,” he said. Singh also listed out works of the state government for the fishermen community, because of which fishery production in the state increased to 6.9 lakh tonne in 2019-20. “The government has set a target of fish seed production and distribution of Rs 300 crore during 2021-22. The state government will also be giving ponds of gram panchayat on lease for 10 years to boost fisheries. Rs 243 crore was allocated under PM Matsya Sampada Yojana while there is a provision to cover 2 lakh fishermen with free insurance during 2021-22,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-sends-mp-minister-to-baswar-to-pacify-nishads/articleshow/81251627.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||The need for oxygen is increasing again in Nagpur for home and hospital||NAGPUR: Private hospitals treating Covid patients are once again witnessing an increasing demand for oxygen as the number of new cases and admissions are going up. Doctors said that those in home isolation and recovered patients also need oxygen more than before. Though the situation is not as alarming as it was last year during the Covid peak in August-September, doctors from medical colleges and private hospitals say patients are needing oxygen. OCHRI director Dr Anup Marar said all admitted patients are on oxygen-supported beds. “All patients getting admitted are needing high flow non invasive ventilation. The demand is around 40 to 50 litre per minute. Otherwise it is around, 4 to 5l per minute,” he said. Dr Marar added that patients need around 10 days but if critical then hospital stay goes beyond that and may extend up to a month too. “Those on ventilator need a longer stay,” he said. Consulting pulmonologist at Kingsway Hospitals Dr Vikram Rathi said that they are experiencing a 4 to 5 times increase in oxygen demand for patients. “With rising cases and admissions, the oxygen demand has shot up many times as compared to December,” he said, adding that some patients in home isolation are also advised oxygen therapy. Alexis Multispecialty Hospital spokesperson Niranja Joshi too said their oxygen consumption is up 2.5 times as compared to the same period last year. Of late, the number of critically ill Covid patients admitted at medical colleges is going up. GMCH officials said over 100 patients in their Covid hospital are on oxygen support. “But there is no shortage and the hospital has huge storage capacity now,” they said. IGGMCH officials too said they had enough stock to cater to patients for a month. While government hospitals are not facing any problems with medical oxygen, private hospitals complained of increased cost. “The rates are up but we are not allowed to charge additionally for the 80% regulated beds. Price are capped and hospitals are facing losses,” Dr Marar said. The cost of medical oxygen was around Rs17 a litre and now some vendors have hiked it to 21 per litre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/oxygen-requirement-going-up-again-for-home-and-hospital/articleshow/81249774.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
February 28, 2021||Chennai||10.5% quota for vanniyars is Edappadi K Palaniswami’s last-minute gimmick, says M K Stalin||CHENNAI: DMK leader M K Stalin on Saturday criticised chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s decision to provide 10.5% reservation to vanniyars just minutes before the announcement of assembly polls by the EC and said it was a last-minute “gimmick” by EPS, done with the hope that it would bring votes to the party. At a meeting at Madhavaram, Stalin questioned the rationale behind the CM’s efforts to pass a bill to temporarily provide reservation to vanniyars within the MBC quota just 30 minutes before the election code of conduct was set in motion. He questioned EPS’s sudden realisation of the decades-old issue and wondered why nothing was done for four years when he was in power. He said if the DMK comes to power, it would look into the reservation issue to provide right opportunities to right people. While addressing a meeting at Padappai earlier in the day, Stalin said he would be the “Mudhalvan” to redress grievances of people, starting from May. He said no section of society was leading a peaceful life in the state. “I will be the light in your home, a servant of the state and a leader who thinks about the people,” said Stalin. Taking a jibe at chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s pet project, Kudimaramathu, Stalin said it was riddled with corruption. Only looting is happening under the guise of works, he said, adding that Rs 4,000 crore had been spent under the head, but not much work had taken place. While the silt removed from tanks has to be supplied to farmers, fake bills were being created to sell the silt to private parties for profit, he said. Even sand smuggling was happening under the guise of Kudimaramathu works, he said, adding that the DMK alone can put an end to this corrupt rule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/10-5-quota-for-vanniyars-is-epss-last-minute-gimmick-says-stalin/articleshow/81249772.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Bhayander pilot flies into uncharted skies||MUMBAI: Afshan Farookh Qureshi was too young when her grandmother had taken her to a driving school to learn drive a car and to ride a bike. Back then, neither her grandmother nor anyone else in the Qureshi clan imagined that Afshan’s desire to be in control of machines would take such flight. Today, at 24, she is the first woman pilot in India from the Qureshi community to which she belongs. Traditionally meat traders, the Qureshis are not known to encourage their daughters to pursue higher education or unconventional careers. “Everyone, except for me, at my flight training school in Florida, USA, had at least one person of his family in the aviation field. It was a challenge, both to test my physical and mental endurance and to overcome the handicap that my environment had thrown at me,” said Afshan, seated at her modest home in Bhayander. Ever since she returned home in December 2020, after completing more than 250 hours of flying from the Florida school, Afshan’s success has been toasted by different social and community groups. “She has made the community feel proud,” said president of All India Jamiatul Quresh and also president of Delhi-based India Islamic Culture Centre Sirajuddin Qureshi. The Quresh Jamat had planned a felicitation function on March 2 at Haj House, near Crawford Market, but, as All India Jamiatul Quresh’s youth wing (Mumbai) president Gulrez Qureshi informed, it has been postponed due to fresh curbs on crowding. An engineer in electronics and telecommunications, Afshan would perhaps have never become a pilot had her businessman father Farookh Qureshi not stopped her from joining a job she was offered during a campus selection in 2019. “No woman in my family had ever done a job. I thought people would say that I depend on my daughter’s money and so I stopped her from joining the company,” said Farookh. As she sat at home planning to do MTech, she read about air traffic control, saw umpteen videos and blogs uploaded by trainee pilots. “I told my father I wanted to be a pilot,” she said. With parents becoming the wind beneath her wings, Afshan left for the Florida flight school. Soon after she left, lockdown was imposed in India. However, in the US, flight training schools were open even as the pandemic raged. She returned to India in December though she was offered the flight trainer’s job by her training school. “I want to work in India and be with my people,” she said. Now she is preparing to take the qualifying exams in March before the Directorate General of Civil Aviation issues her a commercial pilot’s licence to work here. Her next dream? To command a flight with parents and grandmother onboard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bhayander-pilot-flies-into-uncharted-skies/articleshow/81251073.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
February 28, 2021||Bareilly||‘Suicide pact’: Youth, 20, found hanging, metres away from body of his ‘girlfriend’, 19, in Sambhal||Bareilly: In a suspected suicide pact, a 20-year-old youth was found hanging from a tree and only a few metres away was found lying on the ground the body of his 19-year-old girlfriend, who had eloped with him on Friday night, in a desolated location in Sambhal on Saturday. Sambhal police suspects it to be a case of “suicide pact”, but hasn’t ruled out the possibility of “honour killing”. The bodies were sent for postmortem and a probe was underway, said police. Passers-by first spotted the youth's body hanging from a tree early Saturday morning and alerted police. The girl’s body — covered with a cloth — was spotted a few metres away in the afternoon, said police. Sambhal additional superintendent of police (ASP) Alok Kumar Jaiswal said, “Police team brought down the body from the tree and sent it for the postmortem. Besides, a forensic team examined the spot and collected evidence. The girl’s body was found a few meters away in the late afternoon. The body was covered with a cloth. Police recovered bottles of celphos (a poisonous substance) from the spot.” “It appears to be a case of a failed relationship. Unable to bear the mental stress they were undergoing, the couple gave up and ended their lives. However, we can’t rule out an honour killing. We are investigating the case from all possible angles,”added the ASP. Meanwhile, alleging that it was a murder and not suicide, the youth’s family said, “I am not aware of their love affair, but it is for certain that he was killed. It is not a suicide.” Sambhal’s Kudh Fatehgarh police station SHO Varun Kumar told TOI, “We were informed over the phone that the youth had eloped with a girl in Kudh Fatehgarh area on Friday night, but a complaint wasn’t lodged. The post-mortem reports are awaited. The autopsy will reveal the actual cause of death and based on which further legal action will be initiated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/suicide-pact-youth-20-found-hanging-metres-away-from-body-of-his-girlfriend-19-in-sambhal/articleshow/81248040.cms||Maria Khan
February 28, 2021||Hyderabad||Rogue Covid-19 strain N440K can cause reinfection, shows study||HYDERABAD: Researchers, including those from Kurnool medical college, have said that the novel coronavirus variant, N440K, can cause reinfection. According to them, this variant can escape the immune system and can cause reinfection in patients already recovered from Covid-19. Live updates: Coronavirus pandemicThe researchers studied a case in Kurnool, which they said was the second case of Covid-19 reinfection in India caused by the variant N440K, one of the most rogue mutants of the pandemic virus. The study was published on pre-print research server OSF. Earlier, researchers from CCMB and Apollo hospitals in Hyderabad recorded two cases of Covid-19 reinfection in the city, but these were not related to N440K. The city scientists had said their work had shown that Covid-19 can cause reinfection irrespective of the virus undergoing mutation in the spike protein or not. Read AlsoIndia host to 7,569 corona mutants: StudyThe novel coronavirus is perhaps the first infectious organism in recent times to form thousands of its variants across the globe. In India alone over 7,569 coronavirus variants have been analysed since the pandemic virus was first recognised in Wuhan. This is despite the fact that not enoughResearchers from Kurnool Medical College, Kurnool, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi, and Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research, Ghaziabad, have found that N440K has a high prevalence of over 33% in Andhra Pradesh. A 44-year-old public service employee was diagnosed positive for Covid-19 on July 25, 2020. He tested negative on August 2, 2020. However, he tested positive again on September 10, 2020, during routine surveillance. He showed symptoms like fever, cough, and malaise. The research team comprising Pallavali Roja Rani, Mohammed Imran, Juturu Vijaya Lakshmi, Bani Jolly, Abhinav Jain, Avileli Surekha, Vigneshwar Senthivel, Pulala Chandrasekhar, Mohit Kumar Divakar, Damam Srinivasulu, Rahul C Bhoyar, PR Vanaja, Vinod Scaria, and Sridhar Sivasubbu found 15 and 17 genetic variants in the genomes from the two episodes of infection in the public service employee, respectively. Of them 14 variants were common between the two episodes. “A close comparison of the genetic variants with a compendium of immune escape variants revealed a Spike N440K variant in the genomes isolated from both episodes of infection,” the study revealed. Incidentally, this variant was also found in a case of reinfection previously reported by the team in a healthcare worker from North India. Analysis shows that genomes isolated from the two episodes fell under two distinct clusters of genomes, closely related with other genomes from Andhra Pradesh. The close resemblance of the genome isolates from the two episodes of infection yet the presence of distinct variants in the two genomes suggests that the patient acquired both infections from the same location in Andhra Pradesh at two different time points. Recent studies exploring the role of novel coronavirus genetic variations in escaping immune response has shed light on the possible mechanisms of the pathogen to evade antibody response and immune reactions. The N440K variant has been reported to be resistant, the researchers reported. The high prevalence of N440K in India along with the findings presented in the study highlight the importance of analysing the potential impact of the variant and additional host factors on reinfections and immune evasion, the researchers added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rogue-covid-19-strain-n440k-can-cause-reinfection-shows-study/articleshow/81251076.cms||Syed Akbar
February 28, 2021||Jaipur||Study says plasma from recovered patients may cause mutation, Raj panel junks theory||Jaipur: A recent study by experts in the United States, the United Kingdom and Italy has stated that convalescent plasma used indiscriminately for Covid might alter the virus, allowing escape mutations to dominate. The findings were also echoed by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). However, the core committee of Covid management and care in the state on Friday didn’t subscribe to the theory, saying, “It is still under research and investigation”. They said Maharashtra has found an altogether different strain, which is quite similar to the UK strain and thus people need to be more cautious and careless. TOI spoke to the experts in the core committee to know if Rajasthan, after rampantly using convalescent plasma therapy, can become a catalyst in allowing the virus to allow escape mutations to dominate. An escape mutation allows SARS-CoV-2 to evade antibodies specific to the spike protein which the virus uses to enter human cells. ICMR director general Dr Balaram Bhargava had warned against the random usage of unproven therapy such as convalescent plasma for Covid, saying that such practices put immune pressure on virus to mutate. “We too had learnt that to investigate the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 in the immune population, scientists had co-incubated virus with a highly neutralising plasma from a Covid convalescent patient. It was found that the plasma fully neutralised the virus initially but after 80 days, it helped generate a variant completely resistant to plasma neutralisation. But the virus co-incubated was not the same which is found in United Kingdom. I think this is an issue which needs further study and research before reaching any kind of conclusion,” said Dr Ajeet Singh, member of the Covid core committee and superintendent of RUHS. Many experts have been saying that rampant use of plasma therapy without prior testing for neutralising antibodies, will do more harm than good. However, Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal of SMS Medical College and head of the core committee, said, “I don’t think Maharashtra had used the convalescent plasma therapy as we did. Still, it is seeing a good spike in cases and more than 80 deaths were reported in 24 hours. So, these things are under research and are far from being conclusive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/study-says-plasma-from-recovered-patients-may-cause-mutation-raj-panel-junks-theory/articleshow/81249780.cms||Ashish Mehta
February 28, 2021||Goa||Goa: Jackfruit, coconut to get boost under central scheme||PANAJI: The Centre has formally notified jackfruit and coconut as products for the North Goa and South Goa districts respectively under the One District One Product (ODOP) scheme. The Union ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare has now asked the Goa government to promote the products through a cluster based approach and by converging them through other central government schemes. Goa had finalised Jackfruit and Coconut as products under One District One Product (ODOP) in December. “The converged resources approach will make the programme robust and sustainable and will help in making the programme a success. The state governments are accordingly requested to plan for implementation of the programme which can benefit farmers and provide support for realising the expectations of value addition and subsequently enhancing agri export,” joint secretary with the union ministry of agriculture and farmer’s welfare Shubha Thakur, said. The centrally sponsored scheme is part of the Prime Minister Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises(PMFME) programme being undertaken by the Union ministry of food processing industries. The scheme is part of the Centre’s push to increase self reliance among food processing industries and to double farmers’ income. Government sources said that Goa has set up a state-level approval committee and district-level committees for each district. The first meeting of the state-level committee was held in December under the chairmanship of chief secretary Parimal Rai. The officers of the directorate of industries trade and commerce and the department of agriculture have been asked to prepare a roadmap to achieve the targets given by the ministry of food processing industries. The PMFME scheme can be availed by individual firms as well as self-help groups (SHG), farmers producer organisations (FPO) and producer co-operative. For individuals, 35% subsidy will be provided with a ceiling of Rs 10 lakh. Whereas, Groups can avail the capital subsidy scheme with 35% grants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/jackfruit-coconut-to-get-boost-under-central-scheme/articleshow/81251078.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Cops attacked while trying to rescue abuse victim||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kazhakootam police station personnel who were trying to rescue a victim of a child sexual abuse case were allegedly attacked using crude explosives by her alleged abuser, who happened to be her stepfather. The incident happened around 5.30pm at Menamkulam under Kazhakootam police station limits. Fortunately, none of the cops were injured in the attack. A team comprising Kazhakootam station-house officer inspector U Biju, sub-inspector Vipin Kumar, additional sub-inspector Shibu, junior sub-inspector Gopakumar, senior civil police officer Suresh and woman civil police officer Ancy faced the attack. Inspector Biju said the suspect was a resident of Poundukadavu under Thumba police station limits. He is accused of raping and impregnating his 14-year-old stepdaughter. “The victim is the daughter of his live-in partner,’’ the inspector said. When he learned that police were looking for him, he went absconding along with the girl. “We learned that he was staying in a rented house at Menamkulam and went to check. That was when he launched the attack,’’ inspector Biju said. As soon as he heard the gate of the house being opened, he came out and started hurling crude explosives from a cloth bag he was carrying. The cops escaped unhurt as they managed to duck on time. The suspect then grabbed the girl’s hand and tried to flee. But the cops managed to save the girl from his clutches while he succeeded in getting away. The inspector also said the accused was a known criminal, who have been arrested and jailed several times in the past for offences ranging from ganja peddling to assault. “A few days ago, the mother of the girl had approached child welfare committee with a complaint against her partner,” said child welfare committee chairperson advocate N Sunanda. Based on the complaint, the CWC chairperson had directed the Childline to rescue the girl. Police too were informed to initiate legal action. It was following this, the accused went absconding with the girl, Sunanda said. The girl has been shifted to a shelter home under CWC. Police have formed a special squad to search for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cops-attacked-while-trying-to-rescue-abuse-victim/articleshow/81248987.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||A’bad airport ranked top, but survey flags 3 metrics||Ahmedabad: Even though Ahmedabad-based Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport ranked top in the survey by Airports Council of India (ACI) and Airport Service Quality (ASQ) released recently, a few areas where the airport’s performance was flagged include courtesy and helpfulness of check-in staff, flight information screens and parking facilities. According to the AQI-ASC survey report for the quarter ending December 2020, which ranks the airports across India for 30 performance-based parameters, while the airport performance improved on most parameters, it significantly dropped on the parking facility as compared to the March quarter of 2020. SVPI airport was taken over by Adani Ahmedabad International Airport Limited (AAIAL) on November 7, for its operations, maintenance and development under a public-private partnership with Airports Authority of India (AAI). Earlier it was entirely managed by AAI. Despite its flaws, SVPI airport is the top-ranking airport in the ACI-ASQ survey of December quarter. Some passengers and frequent flyers said that while parking facility has improved, the pick-up and drop continues to remain haphazard. Manish Sharma, chairman, Gujarat, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI), who also travels frequently, said, “Parking facilitation has definitely improved but the pick up-drop needs to be smoothened. I travelled only last week and no defined lanes are there for cabs and private vehicles and that does create chaos.” Sharma said there is specific information about excess baggage, mode of payment put up at check-in counters. Jaydeep Shah, a consultant, who took two international trips in December, said, “The pick-up-drop area is not clearly defined for cabs and private vehicles. At the same time, the security personnel keep heckling the drivers to move their cars to the parking bay. Adequate time should be given to passengers to unload their luggage.” “People also irresponsibly park vehicles,” he added. An email query sent to AAIAL evoked no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-airport-ranked-top-but-survey-flags-3-metrics/articleshow/81251101.cms||Niyati Parikh
February 28, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra: From tomorrow, pay Rs 27 as minimum night fare for auto, Rs 32 for taxi||MUMBAI: If you plan to take an auto or a taxi in Mumbai, Thane or Navi Mumbai at midnight from Monday, the minimum night fare will be Rs 27 for a three-wheeler and Rs 32 for a kaali-peeli—among the most expensive modes of transport in the city. This was revealed in the new tariff cards that the transport ministry released on Saturday afternoon. Tariff cards for autos, taxis and Cool Cabs will be valid only from March 1 to May 31, as the drivers and owners will have to recalibrate the electronic meters compulsorily within this period. From June 1, fares will be collected only by electronic meters, said transport chief Avinash Dhakne. From March 1, the minimum auto fare for an auto will rise from Rs 18 to Rs 21 From March 1, the minimum fare for a kaali-peeli goes upo from Rs 22 to Rs 25. For a Cool Cab, the fares will go up from Rs 28 to Rs 33 across Mumbai metropolitan region. The night charges will be applicable from midnight to 5am. “The tariff card will help auto and taxi drivers collect revised fares from Day 1. The card will show the distance (in km) and the old (existing) fares corresponding to the new (revised) fares. So, it will be easy to check the meter which is not recalibrated and the equivalent fare in the tariff card,” Dhakne said. RTO officials said the tariff card can be used till the meter is recalibrated for any auto or taxi. “To make it simpler and methodical, we have framed a timetable for autos and taxis to arrive at the meter shops and RTOs for the recalibration. For example, vehicles whose registration number ends in ‘0’ will first arrive for recalibration between March 1 and 7. This will be followed by vehicles with digit ‘1’ from March 8 to 14 and ‘2’ from March 15to 21 and so on till the last digit ‘9’ from May 3 to 9,” a senior RTO official said, adding the remaining days in May will be kept for those who are unable to get vehicles during the scheduled slots. There will be 4.6 lakh autos and 60,000 taxis in MMR going through the meter recalibration and each meter upgradation could cost the driver/owner Rs 700, sources said. There will be 300 meter repairers who will be deployed to upgrade the meters. This will involve removing seal, installing recalibrated chip supplied by meter manufacturer, bench test of meter by authorised testing agency and fixing of first seal (mostly ITI and polytechnics). Subsequently, there will be fitment of meter to auto/taxi by repairer and production of vehicle before assistant inspector of motor vehicles for actual road test. The vehicle will be tested on road by an RTO officer for a certain fixed distance and the second seal will be fixed before the meter is used to charge fares. In wake of the Covid-19 risk and the need for social distancing, RTO officials are gearing to handle the rush for meter recalibration and also field track tests from Monday. “The government will ensure that auto and taxi drivers/owners are not put to risk by limiting the number of people at every meter repairer shop and RTO premises,” said a senior transport official||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/from-tomorrow-pay-rs-27-as-min-night-fare-for-auto-rs-32-for-taxi/articleshow/81252081.cms||Somit Sen
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: From tomorrow, pay Rs 27 as minimum night fare for auto, Rs 32 for taxi||MUMBAI: If you plan to take an auto or a taxi in Mumbai, Thane or Navi Mumbai at midnight from Monday, the minimum night fare will be Rs 27 for a three-wheeler and Rs 32 for a kaali-peeli—among the most expensive modes of transport in the city. This was revealed in the new tariff cards that the transport ministry released on Saturday afternoon. Tariff cards for autos, taxis and Cool Cabs will be valid only from March 1 to May 31, as the drivers and owners will have to recalibrate the electronic meters compulsorily within this period. From June 1, fares will be collected only by electronic meters, said transport chief Avinash Dhakne. From March 1, the minimum auto fare for an auto will rise from Rs 18 to Rs 21 From March 1, the minimum fare for a kaali-peeli goes upo from Rs 22 to Rs 25. For a Cool Cab, the fares will go up from Rs 28 to Rs 33 across Mumbai metropolitan region. The night charges will be applicable from midnight to 5am. “The tariff card will help auto and taxi drivers collect revised fares from Day 1. The card will show the distance (in km) and the old (existing) fares corresponding to the new (revised) fares. So, it will be easy to check the meter which is not recalibrated and the equivalent fare in the tariff card,” Dhakne said. RTO officials said the tariff card can be used till the meter is recalibrated for any auto or taxi. “To make it simpler and methodical, we have framed a timetable for autos and taxis to arrive at the meter shops and RTOs for the recalibration. For example, vehicles whose registration number ends in ‘0’ will first arrive for recalibration between March 1 and 7. This will be followed by vehicles with digit ‘1’ from March 8 to 14 and ‘2’ from March 15to 21 and so on till the last digit ‘9’ from May 3 to 9,” a senior RTO official said, adding the remaining days in May will be kept for those who are unable to get vehicles during the scheduled slots. There will be 4.6 lakh autos and 60,000 taxis in MMR going through the meter recalibration and each meter upgradation could cost the driver/owner Rs 700, sources said. There will be 300 meter repairers who will be deployed to upgrade the meters. This will involve removing seal, installing recalibrated chip supplied by meter manufacturer, bench test of meter by authorised testing agency and fixing of first seal (mostly ITI and polytechnics). Subsequently, there will be fitment of meter to auto/taxi by repairer and production of vehicle before assistant inspector of motor vehicles for actual road test. The vehicle will be tested on road by an RTO officer for a certain fixed distance and the second seal will be fixed before the meter is used to charge fares. In wake of the Covid-19 risk and the need for social distancing, RTO officials are gearing to handle the rush for meter recalibration and also field track tests from Monday. “The government will ensure that auto and taxi drivers/owners are not put to risk by limiting the number of people at every meter repairer shop and RTO premises,” said a senior transport official||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/from-tomorrow-pay-rs-27-as-min-night-fare-for-auto-rs-32-for-taxi/articleshow/81251651.cms||Somit Sen
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||100+ hospitals in Gujarat to administer Covid vaccine from March 1||AHMEDABAD: More than 100 hospitals, both private and government, will administer Covid-19 vaccinations from March 1, senior state health department officials said. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health and family welfare), said registration for vaccination will be mobile phone-based. “Up to four beneficiaries can be registered from a single phone number. Registration can be done either on CoWIN or Aarogya Setu applications,” she said. On Saturday, Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister, announced that the cost of vaccination at private hospitals would be Rs 250.” The cost will include a Rs 100 administration charge and a Rs 150 vaccine charge,” he said, adding that inoculation at state-run hospitals will be free of cost. The third phase of the vaccination drive will include senior citizens and those above 45 years who have comorbidities. On Friday, the Union government had issued a list of comorbidities that will be considered for the vaccination programme. Such beneficiaries will have to bring a valid certificate of a medical professional to get vaccinated, said health department officials. “Gujarat has 2,050 government-run hospitals and vaccination centres, in addition to 520 hospitals under PM-JAY and 14 under the CGHS system,” said Patel, adding that the state has adequate vaccine doses, and the state will procure more. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said a special committee has been formed at the city level to ensure smooth administration of vaccines, which is likely to increase manyfold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/100-hospitals-to-administer-covid-vaccine-from-mar-1/articleshow/81249857.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Youth collective harnesses culture to engage city in climate change talk||Standing atop the balmy Castella de Aguada popularly known as the Bandra Fort, a bunch of heritage walkers took in deep breaths of the early morning air and scanned the expanse around the historic watchtower built by the Portuguese in 1640. Perched 79 ft above sea level, their eyes met with nothing but spectacular views of the Arabian Sea to the west, the Worli skyline to the south and the engineering wonder that is the Bandra Worli Sea Link. And while they marveled at the coastal road under construction that would reduce travel time between South Mumbai and the Western Suburbs from two hours to 40 minutes, what they could not see was “the environmental impact of such encroachment into the sea and the dumping of debris that could decimate fishermen’s livelihood by destroying the rocky intertidal shore that fish use as their breeding grounds,” pointed out Harshvardhan Tanwar of No Footprints, steering this first-of-its-kind climate art walk around Bandra on Friday. Instead of abstract statistics and overwhelming survey reports, the walking experience initiated by the Ministry of Mumbai’s Magic (MMM) — a collective of young Mumbaikars wielding creative ideas to rally for the city’s biodiversity — shunned overtly scientific rhetoric to draw attention to key sites of historical and cultural heritage in the city with climate change written into its landscape. If sweeping views from the Bandra Fort detailed “imbalances in the marine ecosystem, artisanal fishermen missing from the creeks, land reclamation forcing Koli communities to adopt unsustainable fishing practices”, the halt at Mount Mary Church highlighted hazards of lighting candles at its altar. “This is where culture and faith intersects with climate change. When people light these candles out of piety they don’t often realise that the paraffin wax they’re made of releases carcinogenic elements into the air,” explained Tanwar. The next stop was the historical flight of stairs — the Bandra Steps — once a derelict slope squashed between towering buildings and now a “sigh of relief” in a city constantly gasping for open public spaces. Moving on, the walkers wound their way through the 400-year-old Ranwar Village which served as a reminder of how the heritage quarter once inhabited by Kunbis or rice cultivators had retained its distinct old world charm even as new developments hemmed it in on all sides. The last stop was Hill Road where the surreal sight of a train emerging out of concrete skyscrapers submerged in water made for an art installation ‘Agla Station: Mumbai 2.0’ that gave a visual voice to the risk of flooding that Mumbai faces daily. “The artist Tyrell Valladares employed local trains as the symbol of the city’s spirit to emphasize the need for a flood resilience plan,” explained Arpita Bhagat, campaign manager for MMM, hoping that these gripping narratives of Mumbai’s cultural history would shed a spotlight on the urgency of the climate crisis and elevate people’s feeling of responsibility “in a personal way”. Named after the magical government in the wizarding world of Harry Potter and founded amidst the pandemic last August, the MMM is built on an idea of “magic realism” that aims to bridge reality and fantasy when dealing with the challenges of climate change. “Through research, we found that there were many young people willing to use their voice, time, or social cache for the cause, but didn’t know how to enter a climate conversation. Our activities leverage the arts (comedy, artwork, poetry, music) that speak to young people’s sensibilities and ease them in,” explained Bhagat. Efforts by this “youth climate collective” made up of local non-profit partners, civil society organisations, artistes and storytellers has already managed to create the right buzz after an open letter they wrote to Aditya Thackeray in September for a five-point action plan — rallying for the protection of flamingo habitats; acknowledgement of Aarey as a forest; a policy supporting Koli community’s livelihoods; and protecting Mumbai’s parks — prompted the Yuva Sena chief to respond on Twitter. “Hey, if you want I could sign this too,” he quipped. If their recommendations to BMC following an online public consultation about Mumbai’s parks and gardens drove officials to alert the superintendent of gardens, a biodiversity map of Mumbai created by a cartoonist as part of their campaign illustrating the invisible flora and fauna hotspots in the city has been resonating on social media. “The current phase of our campaign focuses on shifting perceptions of the Koli community and their role as caretakers of the natural environment,” informed Bhagat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/youth-collective-harnesses-culture-to-engage-city-in-climate-change-talk/articleshow/81251096.cms||Mohua Das
February 28, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: From tomorrow, pay Rs 27 as minimum night fare for auto, Rs 32 for taxi||MUMBAI: If you plan to take an auto or a taxi in Mumbai, Thane or Navi Mumbai at midnight from Monday, the minimum night fare will be Rs 27 for a three-wheeler and Rs 32 for a kaali-peeli—among the most expensive modes of transport in the city. This was revealed in the new tariff cards that the transport ministry released on Saturday afternoon. Tariff cards for autos, taxis and Cool Cabs will be valid only from March 1 to May 31, as the drivers and owners will have to recalibrate the electronic meters compulsorily within this period. From June 1, fares will be collected only by electronic meters, said transport chief Avinash Dhakne. From March 1, the minimum auto fare for an auto will rise from Rs 18 to Rs 21 From March 1, the minimum fare for a kaali-peeli goes upo from Rs 22 to Rs 25. For a Cool Cab, the fares will go up from Rs 28 to Rs 33 across Mumbai metropolitan region. The night charges will be applicable from midnight to 5am. “The tariff card will help auto and taxi drivers collect revised fares from Day 1. The card will show the distance (in km) and the old (existing) fares corresponding to the new (revised) fares. So, it will be easy to check the meter which is not recalibrated and the equivalent fare in the tariff card,” Dhakne said. RTO officials said the tariff card can be used till the meter is recalibrated for any auto or taxi. “To make it simpler and methodical, we have framed a timetable for autos and taxis to arrive at the meter shops and RTOs for the recalibration. For example, vehicles whose registration number ends in ‘0’ will first arrive for recalibration between March 1 and 7. This will be followed by vehicles with digit ‘1’ from March 8 to 14 and ‘2’ from March 15to 21 and so on till the last digit ‘9’ from May 3 to 9,” a senior RTO official said, adding the remaining days in May will be kept for those who are unable to get vehicles during the scheduled slots. There will be 4.6 lakh autos and 60,000 taxis in MMR going through the meter recalibration and each meter upgradation could cost the driver/owner Rs 700, sources said. There will be 300 meter repairers who will be deployed to upgrade the meters. This will involve removing seal, installing recalibrated chip supplied by meter manufacturer, bench test of meter by authorised testing agency and fixing of first seal (mostly ITI and polytechnics). Subsequently, there will be fitment of meter to auto/taxi by repairer and production of vehicle before assistant inspector of motor vehicles for actual road test. The vehicle will be tested on road by an RTO officer for a certain fixed distance and the second seal will be fixed before the meter is used to charge fares. In wake of the Covid-19 risk and the need for social distancing, RTO officials are gearing to handle the rush for meter recalibration and also field track tests from Monday. “The government will ensure that auto and taxi drivers/owners are not put to risk by limiting the number of people at every meter repairer shop and RTO premises,” said a senior transport official||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/from-tomorrow-pay-rs-27-as-min-night-fare-for-auto-rs-32-for-taxi/articleshow/81252083.cms||Somit Sen
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||26 micro-containment zones in Ahmedabad, tony societies affected||AHMEDABAD: The Covid virus in the city — with 26 societies notified as micro-containment zones in just four days — is now hitting high-end societies. On Saturday, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation declared four houses each at Shaligram and Safal Parisar-I as micro-containment zones. The AMC on Saturday declared a list of five societies that have been micro-contained, which included the 4th floor of Block-B of Shaligram, near Jhansi ki Rani statue, the second floor of L-Block in Safal Parisar-I in South Bopal. Eight homes on the fourth and fifth floors of Block-B of Shakti 243 Apartments in Bodakdev were also micro-contained. The AMC also declared houses Nos. 1 to 32 at Bhagyodaya Row Houses in Chandlodia and Sahana Apartments in Danilimda as micro-contained. A total of 247 people are living in these five micro-containment zones. Since vote counting ended the city, 26 societies have been micro-contained. Officials said that barring six societies, the remaining 20 were in the western part of the city. In Bopal, Safal Parisar was the second society to have a micro-containment zone in the last two days. On Friday, Binori Solitaire in South Bopal was included on the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/26-micro-containment-zones-in-city-tony-societies-affected/articleshow/81249845.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||IIM-Calcutta director, governing board on collision course||KOLKATA: The Board of governors of Indian Institute of Management-Calcutta, the country’s premier B-school, has reportedly passed a resolution against institute director Anju Seth, sources on the campus said. The resolution was passed after faculty members and the director were asked to leave the meeting, the sources said, adding that the resolution may lead to an inquiry into the director’s conduct. Faculty members said they had heard about the resolution but were not present when it was passed. TOI’s calls and messages to the director went unanswered. The director and the chairman of board of governors have apparently had strong disagreements over several issues for a considerable period of time. Seth had apparently written to the ministry of education alleging that her functioning had been restricted by the chairman of the board, Shrikrishna Kulkarni, and this was negatively affecting her. She has reportedly mentioned how the chairman was interfering in her administrative activities. Trouble has been brewing on the campus for quite some time with a large number of faculty members complaining that they were not given “freedom” and “space” to work as academicians. Several faculty members told TOI that they had seen this coming. Though unwilling to be quoted, a senior faculty member said, “Most of us have stopped intreracting with the director. It’s suffocating to work here.” A large section of faculty members had drafted a letter against the director and sent it to the education ministry in December. “So many faculty members have resigned and no efforts were made to hold them back. They have all spoken about harassment after resigning. No one took note of that. Look at the large number of vacancies,” a senior faculty member pointed out. The board of governors, in its resolution, has apparently taken serious objection to the fact that Seth chose to write directly to the ministry instead of placing her problems before the board. The fact that she did not have harmonious relationship with the faculty was also highlighted in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iim-c-director-governing-board-on-collision-course/articleshow/81249836.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 28, 2021||Jaipur||Kota reports maximum Covid cases in Rajasthan in last 2 days, watch intensified||JAIPUR: People have to shell out Rs 250 for Covid vaccine at private hospitals. Health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said rate have been finalised after receiving directions from the Centre. “Rs 100 is fixed as service charge and Rs 150 fixed as cost of the vaccine,” he said. The health department is beginning the drive for vaccinating people above 60 years of age and those between 45 and 59 years with identified comorbidities from March 1. According to health department officials, open allotment will be done for beneficiaries. In government hospitals, options of both reserved and open allotment will be done. The health department is encouraging people to get vaccinated at a time the state is witnessing a spurt in Covid cases forest the last four days. Spike of cases in the state has been mainly reported from Kota where a lot of passengers travelling by train from other states reach. In the last two days, Kota has reported 69 new infections. “Majority of those who tested positive had travelled by train and reached Kota. We have intensified surveillance at the railway station. Also, we have informed schools, hostels, education institutes and other such establishments where people gather to ensure strict adherence of Covid guidelines. If we see any violation of guidelines, we will take action against them,” said Dr BS Tanwar, chief medical health officer (Kota). Besides, the state government has strengthened surveillance at airports and now it has issued directions to conduct RT-PCR Covid test by collecting samples at railway stations of suspected cases. The health department is keeping an eye on those reaching any part of the state from other states especially those states such as Maharashtra and Kerala, which are currently witnessing spike in Covid cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-reports-max-cases-in-raj-in-last-2-days-watch-intensified/articleshow/81249835.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||City’s daily Covid-19 tally crosses 100 after 38 days||The city on Saturday accounted for 23% of the state’s daily tally of Covid-19 cases, with 105 new cases. Ahmedabad had 102 cases on January 20. Ahmedabad accounted for 614 of the 2,258 active cases as of Saturday evening. City-based experts said that the steady rise of cases is the result of multiplication that has started over the past week, coinciding with the municipal elections. “Ahmedabad in 24 hours carried out 5,572 tests, giving a test positivity rate of 1.9%. It’s likely that case numbers will rise with more surveillance in several pockets and new containment zones,” said a city-based critical care specialist. Even city hospitals have seen an increase with 160+ patients at various hospitals – the highest since January 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/citys-daily-covid-19-tally-crosses-100-after-38-days/articleshow/81249850.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Goa||Goa: No casualties on Saturday, dip in new infections||PANAJI: After seven Covid-19 related deaths were reported over the past four days, no mortalities were reported on Saturday. Fresh coronavirus infections also dropped from 100 to 61 and the positivity rate came down to 3.8% with testing dropping by 224 as only 1,588 samples were tested. On Saturday, 15 persons were hospitalised across the state for coronavirus while 60 opted for home isolation. Meanwhile active cases in Goa rose to 598. New infections were reported in Candolim, Porvorim, Margao, Vasco, Curchorem, Canacona, Cortalim, Curtorim, Sanguem, Dharbandora, Navelim, Panaji, Aldona, Candolim, Porvorim and Siolim. No travelers have tested positive for Covid-19. A total of 50 persons recovered over the past 24 hours with the recovery rate currently at 97.5%. Friday had seen a worrying spurt in cases which rose by 40% and the positivity rate had risen to 5.5% from the 1,813 samples that were tested. It was also the first time that new infections touched 100 after three weeks and the first time in three weeks that testing of samples was at its highest at 1,813.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-casualties-on-sat-dip-in-new-infections/articleshow/81251105.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Code of conduct: Corp may pass only budget estimates||Thiruvananthapuram: With the code of conduct coming into effect following declaration of legislative assembly elections, the corporation has been caught in a bind over getting the budget for 2021-22 passed. The civic body scheduled a discussion on proposals on March 1 and 2 before the election date was announced. The budget was presented on Thursday. Corporation secretary Binu Francis has forwarded a letter seeking guidance on the matter to chief electoral officer. The letter will be referred to the election commission via the state government. Mayor AryaRajendran will convene an emergency all-party meeting on Monday. "We are awaiting a written communication from the election commission. We have been told that we may not be able to present and discuss the budget proposals and make changes. In that scenario, we will have to get the accounts passed to run the corporation till code of conduct is lifted," said Rajendran. As per relevant sections of Kerala Municipality act, the council shall finally pass the budget estimate before the beginning of the financial year and submit copies to the government and the officer authorized by the government and to the auditors. The Act says that unless the council passes the budget before April 1, from that date onwards, no amount shall be expended from the municipal fund. Deputy mayor P K Raju presented a budget expecting a revenue of Rs 1490.37 crore and an expenditure of Rs 1359.59 crore. The surplus was estimated as Rs 130.77 crore. It is most likely that only the budget estimates shall be cleared by the council on Monday and no discussion on budget proposals will be taken up. The introductory speech by the mayo, which is included in the budget document, lists down a series of achievements by the LDF government in the past five years. BJP parliamentary party leader P Ashok Kumar said that they have serious reservations about the figures presented in the budget. "Due to the code of conduct, we are not in a position to raise the anomalies in budget figures. We will go by the norms if budget estimates are to be passed," he said. Raju had projected lower revenue receipts in the budget for 2021-22 which was uncharacteristic because usually higher estimates in revenue income are presented in the budget. The district panchayat had presented the budget and got it passed on the same day following discussion earlier this week. The corporation budget for 2021-22 featured 117 proposals with focus on women empowerment, waste management and agriculture. If the proposals are put on hold, the highlight projects on waste management will also be delayed in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/code-of-conduct-corp-may-pass-only-budget-estimates/articleshow/81249072.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Bareilly||Constable, 26, married two months ago, found dead under mysterious circumstances in Sambhal||Bareilly: A 26-year-old police constable — married around two months ago — was found dead under mysterious circumstances in the barracks of Naraura Bairaj flyover police post under Gunnaur police station in Sambhal on Saturday morning. Senior police officers said the constable died of a cardiac arrest while on duty. Originally hailing from Madhuri village under Sikandra Rao police station in Hathras, the victim — Shailendra Yadav (26) — was deputed at Sambhal Police Lines and was on duty at Naraura police picket under Gunnaur police station limits on Saturday morning when he was found lying unconscious in the barracks. Sambhal superintendent of police Chakresh Mishra said, “After getting information, police teams were rushed to the spot and the constable was rushed to the district hospital where doctors proclaimed him dead upon arrival.” “No visible bruises or any evidence of suicide were found. Besides, we haven’t recovered a suicide note. The constable suffered a cardiac arrest and died on the spot. The body was sent for a post-mortem examination to ascertain the actual reason for death.” Sambhal superintendent of police, Chakresh Mishra among others paid a floral tribute to the deceased cop at Police Lines, Bahjoi. Sambhal police said that financial assistance will also be provided to the family of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/constable-26-married-two-months-ago-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-sambhal/articleshow/81248051.cms||Maria Khan
February 28, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad businessman held for Rs 98 crore GST fraud||GHAZIABAD: The central GST department of Ghaziabad has arrested a local businessman in connection with a Rs 98 crore goods and services tax (GST) fraud. Rakesh Sharma, the accused, created fake firms and generated bogus invoices through them to avail fake input credit of Rs 37 crore, officials said. Alok Jha, commissioner of central GST, Ghaziabad, said, “On Friday, we arrested Rakesh Kumar, the proprietor of M/s Kumar Sales engaged in the business of tobacco products. He issued fake GST invoices without actual supply of goods and passed on the said fraudulent input tax credit to other firms at a certain percentage through bogus companies.” “We carried out searches at his offices and residence and seized incriminating documents proving his involvement in the fraud. He was produced in the court of the chief judicial magistrate and sent to judicial custody,” added Jha. In January, the department conducted similar raids at offices of three firms and unearthed GST fraud involving taxable value of Rs 81 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/bizman-held-for-rs-98cr-gst-fraud/articleshow/81249862.cms||Abhijay Jha
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||20% of Gujarat has high blood pressure: NFHS-5||AHMEDABAD: The National Family Health Survey 5 (NFHS-5) has revealed that 20.6% of women and 20.3% of men covered reported elevated blood pressure — over 140mm of Hg systolic and over 90mm of Hg diastolic blood pressure. The survey covered 29,368 households in Gujarat in 2019-20. A paper, ‘Trend of Hypertension in Gujarat–Understanding the NFHS-4 and NFHS-5 Data’ by Dr Swati Patel and Dr Prakash Patel of SMIMER, published in the National Journal of Community Medicine stated that the data is not comparable to NHFS 4, conducted in 2016, as the criteria were different. “Compared to men, we see women getting less opportunities to look after their health in terms of exercise and diet,” said Dr Manoj Vithlani, a city-based internal medicine expert. “One must understand that hypertension is a silent killer, and constantly high blood pressure can invite health complications ranging from heart attack to internal organ failure.” Dr Bhupesh Shah, a city-based cardiac surgeon, said constantly high blood pressure increases the risk of heart attack manyfold. “Stress, lifestyle, food habits and lack of exercise are the primary reasons for this phenomenon. We are now also seeing younger patients of hypertension,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/20-of-state-has-high-bp-nfhs-5/articleshow/81249865.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: SVPI airport passenger traffic stuck at 60%||AHMEDABAD: There are more flights landing at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport, and yet passenger movement continues to remain at 60% of pre-Covid level. Widespread apprehensions regarding travel, frequently changing rules by state governments coupled with travel restrictions by corporates led to reduced passenger footfalls, believe travel experts. According to data by the Airports Authority of India, domestic travel declined by 44% whereas international travel declined by 83% in January 2021, year-on-year. Against 2.18 lakh international passenger footfall recorded at SVPI airport in January 2020, barely 35,475 passengers were recorded at the city airport in January this year. Similarly, domestic passenger footfalls dropped from 8.75 lakh to 4.88 lakh during the same period. Experts attribute the decline in passenger movement to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Infrequent passenger movement has begun impacting hospitality sector in Ahmedabad, with hotels still clocking sub-50% occupancy levels. “Leisure travel has failed to pick up. Therefore, occupancy levels are impacted as far as hotels are concerned. Currently, weddings and social events taking place at the hotel are providing a cushion to the business,” said a source in the hospitality sector. Even the average daily rate has failed to pick up. However, hoteliers say that with cricket matches and other social events, it may pick up in the days to come. “ADR has been stable as it has been over last three months. This is because of the less demand in the city. The occupancy although has been rising. Cricket has really brought a lot of activity to the city with Syed Mushtaq Ali trophy in January and now with the India England series which will definitely see a lot of growth in occupancy. With the increase in demand, we see potential to increase in ADR. Also,the demand grows because of the sports tournament,” said Punit Bijal, general manager, Hyatt Regency Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/svpi-passenger-traffic-stuck-at-60/articleshow/81251136.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||Skywalk at Ruby to be linked with Metro FOBs||Kolkata: The skywalk at Ruby crossing will have a walkway linked to the foot overbridges (FOBs) being built to access the Hemanta Mukkherjee Metro station. “If linked with the Metro FOBs, pedestrians as well as Metro commuters can access the skywalk from all four sides,” said an engineer. The decision to build the skywalk—it will be constructed in the 10m gap between the Metro station and the road—was taken after a meeting among KMDA, the implementing agency of the Ruby flyover and custodian of EM Bypass, RITES and RVNL, implementing agency of the New Garia-Airport Metro, on Saturday. But there’s a fresh issue for Metro work at Avishikta crossing. The infrastructure committee of KMDA has asked RVNL to reduce the height of the Kavi Sukanta Metro station’s FOBs. RVNL has agreed to modify its design so that the Hemanta Mukherjee station FOBs can be linked with the skywalk, but it has expressed reservations about changing the height of the Kavi Sukanto station FOBs at Avishikta crossing. RVNL reiterated the heights of the viaduct and the FOBs were sacrosanct, but the KMDA’s committee is pushing for the proposal of two short flyovers above Ruby and Avishikta crossings instead of one running over the two, as was planned earlier. The revised proposal has already been turned down by consultancy firm, RITES. The infrastructure panel, however, feels two flyovers can be accommodated if the Metro FOB heights are lowered. The Saturday meeting was held to finalize the alignments of Ruby flyover and the skywalk, which is a part of the Rs 600-crore flyover project at Ruby crossing. Attempts were also made to clear the pending accesses to Hemanta Mukherjee station (Ruby crossing) and Kavi Sukanta station (Aviskihta crossing). RITES has to prepare the flyover’s DPR based on the Metro alignment. RITES engineers batted for the plan of one flyover from Ambedkar bridge on Bypass till Kalikapur or Avishikta crossing. But KMDA infrastructure committee insisted two flyovers would benefit motorists more. RVNL referred the issue to its Delhi-based designers. “In a week, RVNL will decide on amending the FOB and the issue will be resolved,” an urban development department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/skywalk-at-ruby-to-be-linked-with-metro-fobs/articleshow/81249867.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 28, 2021||Rajkot||Helping friend elope costs youth his life in Gujarat||RAJKOT: A 22-year-old student was killed on Friday for helping his friend elope with a girl from a different community. Pravin Dhapa, a resident of Katakda village in Bhavnagar district, was forcefully taken away by two men to their farm where they beat him mercilessly with iron pipe and wooden stick. The two accused, Mahipat Kamaliya and Meram Kamaliya, were irked by Dhapa’s post on social media about his caste. The duo was already suspicious about Dhapa’s involvement in the elopement of Meram’s daughter with the former’s friend, Jaideep. The post only confirmed their doubts and fuelled their anger against Dhapa. Dhapa and his younger sister had been living with their cousin Mathur for more than a year after their parents died. As Dhapa’s college was closed due to the pandemic, he used to help Mathur in farming. The accused duo asked Mathur to come to the farm and take Dhapa away. When Mathur reached, the duo, however, asked him to beat his cousin with the wooden stick if he wanted to take him back home. Mathur hit Dhapa gently, but Mahipat goaded him to hit harder and Mathur hit him again. In the meantime, Mahipat started to make a video of the act on his mobile phone, while continuing to push Mathur to hit his cousin even harder. Later, they bellowed him to take Dhapa away. Mathur rushed Dhapa to Talaja where the doctor asked them to go to Bhavnagar looking at the serious condition. Dhapa was taken to Sir T Hospital in Bhavnagar where he was declared dead on arrival. When the police at the hospital asked about Dhapa’s cause of injury, a frightened Mathur lied that Dhapa had fallen and injured himself. Mathur was afraid of being targeted by Mahipat and Meram if he divulged about their atrocity. But, later, he mustered courage and narrated to the cops about how they attacked his cousin. Based on his complaint, an offence was registered against Mahipat and Meram on Saturday. The duo is yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/helping-friend-elope-costs-youth-his-life/articleshow/81249777.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||Computer store in central Kol gutted||Kolkata: A fire broke out at a popular electronics items shop — that sold computers and its spare parts — in central Kolkata on Saturday. The incident was reported around 12.10pm from the ground floor of the four-storey building on Khetri Das Lane, off Ganesh Chandra Avenue. Besides employees, several customers were present in the building. Six fire tenders reached the spot though four were used to douse the flames in 50 minutes. Though an office was open in the building, people managed to evacuate in time. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/computer-store-in-central-kol-gutted/articleshow/81249868.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala assembly polls: Pinarayi Vijayan government 2.0 to be main theme of LDF campaign||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Earlier this month, when it was time to name the two Kerala yatras of LDF before the assembly election, the leadership decided that unlike the usual practice of using war jargons, the name should reflect the development works carried out by Pinarayi Vijayan government over the past five years. A brief discussion among top leaders soon led to the finalization of the name ‘Vikasana Munnetta Yatra’ – a rally to take development forward. During the two-week travel, leaders stressed on the rejuvenation of health and education sectors, completion of 2.5 lakh houses under Life Mission, increasing of social security pension to Rs 1,600/month and development projects, worth Rs 63,000 crore, launched with the aid of KIIFB. “Kerala is changing. The notion that no project can be initiated here is gone,” said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan while inaugurating the concluding rally of Vikasana Munnetta Yatra on Friday night. The LDF which widely used ‘LDF varum, ellam sariyavum’ (LDF will win and everything will be sorted out) slogan during the assembly campaign last year is all set to experiment with the modified version of that slogan during the forthcoming campaign season. Sources said campaign materials being prepared for LDF will be based on the theme ‘LDF thudarum, Keralam valarum’ (LDF will continue, Kerala will grow’. There will be television, digital and print ads apart from posters and hoardings to stress this theme. During the past two months, information and public relations department released a series of advertisements about development projects implemented under the catchphrase ‘Ente Keralam, Ente Abhimanam’ (My Kerala, My Pride). This theme too will be part of LDF’s election campaign. Pinarayi Government 2.0 and Classic Captain are two phrases that will be widely used in new media by CPM workers and cyber cell members. The idea is to repeat and reinforce among voters the hypothesis that LDF government will win one more term in office. Professional agencies have already been roped in to design quality advertisement material for the front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pinarayi-govt-2-0-to-be-main-theme-of-ldf-campaign/articleshow/81249033.cms||B Sreejan
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Lockdown-like restrictions extended in Akola & Amravati||NAGPUR: Looking at the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha, the lockdown-like restrictions in Akola and Amravati have been extended up to March 8. Earlier, these restrictions were till the morning of March 1. District collectors of these districts have ordered extension up to 6am on March 8. Buldhana, the third district, where similar kind of restrictions are in place, has not declared any extension after March 1. Amravati’s district collector Shailesh Naval extended the lockdown by yet another week and brought Anjangaon Surji town too under its cover. Citizens will be allowed to buy essentials between 8am and 3pm only. Weekly bazaars would remain shut along with schools, colleges, tuition classes, gyms, swimming pools, cinema halls and multiplexes. Hotels and restaurants would be allowed parcel service only while vegetable markets would be open for retailers between 2am and 6am. A similar kind of lockdown has been imposed in Akola city, Akot city and Murtizapur city in Akola district. However, all other parts of both Amravati and Akola districts will follow only Covid-19 restrictions and not stricter lockdown-like measures. All government and semi government exams would be allowed to be conducted. Nagpur, Yavatmal, Wardha, Washim, Buldhana have imposed weekend shutdown of all non-essential activities. Saturday was the first day of this shutdown. It received a good response in all the districts. The same system will continue every weekend until further orders. In Nagpur division, stricter measures are in place in Gadchiroli and Chandrapur while Bhandara and Gondia are also on alert. In Gadchiroli, the district administration has constituted 75 special teams to visit marriage venues and penalize violators where the limit of 50 has been crossed. In Chandrapur, district collector ordered mandatory closure of barber shops, beauty parlours and spas on Mondays in the wake of rising Covid cases in surrounding districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-like-restrictions-extended-in-akola-amravati/articleshow/81249866.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 28, 2021||Goa||Patients queue up at Goa Medical College as testing halted for 2.5 hours||PANAJI: Covid-19 testing at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, came to halt for over two hours on Saturday morning due to unavailability of the doctor conducting the tests. People waited endlessly in long queues at Flu OPD 30 after the doctor concerned reported sick, and no replacement was brought in. The OPD staff had to face the ire of patients as they were left waiting with no information on whether or when testing would commence. Only after a long wait were arrangements made, and a replacement doctor brought in. Testing that was supposed to commence at 8am began only at 10.30am. Dean of the GMC and head of Covid hospitals in the state, Dr S Bandekar, said that a replacement doctor was brought in immediately. The issue arose when the intern at the Flu OPD tested positive for Covid-19 during a routine test. “He received his report when he reported to work in the morning. He tried to get a replacement, but the doctor refused to report, after which the hospital had to find a third doctor,” Dr Bandekar told TOI. No other staff have tested positive, he said. “Swabbing of people is done with all universal precautions and those coming in for testing need not worry,” Dr Bandekar said. After there were a decline in cases, the Flu OPD has been operating from 8am to 8pm. “Should anyone report sick in the night, testing is carried out at the CCRR ward. Testing here is carried out 24x 7,” Dr Bandekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/patients-queue-up-at-gmc-as-testing-halted-for-2-5-hrs/articleshow/81251149.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||‘Academic schedule is not sacrosanct. Need to adapt to contingent situation’||Dr Ved Prakash Mishra, the pro-chancellor of Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences (deemed university), dons many hats in the world of medical academics. From being a member of the Medical Council of India to heading renowned medical institutions, Dr Mishra has decades of collective experience, both academic and administrative. He talked to TOI about the unique academic situation where delayed exams, sessions and online teaching are becoming the norm. Excerpts... Q. Given the Covid situation, there are some who feel that exams can be done away with. A. Depends on which type of exam you are talking about. Certain milestones like board exams or final semester/year have to be conducted. These are certification level exams based on which the future of the student is decided. So I do not think that exams of this level must be completely done away with. Progression cannot be natural, it has to be certifiable. In academics, you cannot jump from one level to the other without having proved your credentials. For this, an exam is necessary. Q. But most of these board exams are to be held April onwards and there’s a fear of further rise in Covid cases. A. There are two ways to approach this issue. First is that the academic session can be pushed and tests be taken when the situation is conducive. There is nothing sacrosanct about an academic schedule. It needs to adapt to the contingent situation. Just have a look at the university’s 2019-20 academic session. Did it not officially end in December 2020? So this just proves that nothing is fixed. Everything has to evolve keeping the situation in mind. Imagine a city where a crucial exam is to take place but there’s an earthquake. Then obviously the exam is postponed and held at a later date when the situation becomes manageable. But students will get the same certificate/degree as their counterparts from other cities who appeared on the original day. Hence, I always stress that the system has to evolve and adapt. The delay in the start of an academic session can always be made up for later by cutting down on some vacation or the other. Q. What’s the second approach? A. The other approach is to hold online exams or give students the option of online or offline exams. Both these tests need to be only in MCQ format. Here we don’t need to evaluate a student on his/her descriptive type of answers, just on whether or not the correct option was chosen. This will, however, pose another set of challenges which the authorities will have to tackle. Q. Can you elaborate on these challenges? A. Providing the requisite infrastructure for conducting online exams at such a large scale, like SSC or HSC, is not an easy task. Students come from all backgrounds and some may not have access to online connectivity whereas some may not be comfortable with that mode of examination. Where connectivity is not available in villages, a tehsil level place needs to be made an exam centre. Apart from that, planning has to be such that online and offline tests have to conducted on the same day to make it fair. Q. Do you feel that Covid has given a strong push to online teaching becoming mainstream? A. I don’t believe that one to one physical teaching can ever be replaced. The hybrid model is here to stay but it will work in tandem. I had devised a study model for the medical academic field called Hi-Tech and Hi-Touch. And it was about teachers and technology working together. Q. But that means teachers too will need to evolve. A. That’s a constant process. Every institute must put its teachers through a proper programme where their skills are updated and they are able to produce the results required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/academic-schedule-is-not-sacrosanct-need-to-adapt-to-contingent-situation/articleshow/81249947.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||286 homeopathy seats returned||Ahmedabad: The Admission Committee for Professional Undergraduate & Postgraduate Medical Educational Courses (ACPUGMEC) has decided to return the 286 vacant seats for homeopathy courses after it did not find any takers for them. The seats have been returned to the six colleges and now further admission process to fill these seats will be done by the colleges, said sources in the admission committee. The committee had carried out a mop-up round for 11 colleges using video conferencing. After holding five online admission rounds for undergraduate Ayurveda and homeopathy courses in the state, about 1,200 seats in homeopathy and 800 seats in Ayurveda courses are available The new admission round, to be held across eleven colleges in the state, will be conducted from February 23 to February 26. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/286-homeopathy-seats-returned/articleshow/81251164.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||Man found dead near sarobar||Kolkata: A 76-year-old man, identified as Nilu Sarkar, resident of Sultan Alam road was found dead near the Menoka Cinema gate of Rabindra Sarobar on Friday. Locals claimed that he had fainted and was declared dead on arrival at SSKM. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-found-dead-near-sarobar/articleshow/81249873.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Now focus on arithmetic & literacy, state tells teachers||Mumbai: Once back in the classroom, the education department has asked teachers to focus on arithmetic and language literacy of students. Addressing concerns about learning loss during the lockdown, the department on Friday issued guidelines to help bring students up to speed. Schools in the state have been shut since March 2020, and have reopened in some districts only recently. Over the 10 months, even as schools made a switch to digital learning, a vast majority of students remained disconnected and lost crucial academic time. The programme will be in addition to the recently announced 10-day drive to identify out-of-school children and bring them back to formal education. “A lot of students migrated back to their villages and are likely to drop out. Not only do we want to bring them back into the formal setup, but also make up for the learning loss,” said the eight page guideline. Teachers have been asked to provide remedial teaching sessions once the children are in the classroom and ensure basic arithmetic and language literacy in each class. “Teachers must first evaluate the learning levels achieved by their students and accordingly draft a plan to provide additional support in terms of remedial teaching,” said the guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-focus-on-arithmetic-literacy-state-tells-teachers/articleshow/81249914.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||Woman dies after sari catches fire||Kolkata: A 75-year-old resident of Kidderpore-Watgunge area, Mira Saha, was found with severe burns at her home on Friday. Locals took her to SSKM Hospital, where she was declared dead. “We believe her sari caught fire from an incense stick,” said an officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-dies-after-sari-catches-fire/articleshow/81249912.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||BJP ‘raths’ parked at Kolkata warehouse vandalized||KOLKATA: The BJP’s campaign vehicles, popularly called the “rath”, parked inside a warehouse at Kadapara was vandalised and several electronic gadgets were stolen on Friday. The accused broke into the warehouse, smashed the vehicles’ windshields, and stole an LED TV, a laptop and two mobiles from the vehicle. Phoolbagan police station got a complaint from BJP. “We are checking CCTV images,” said a cop. Three locals were arrested. BJP workers alleged Trinamool men entered the warehouse around 11.30pm and beat up the drivers with iron rods and bamboo and broke the windshields of at least seven vehicles. “We have lodged a police complaint. The model code of conduct is on. We hope cops will not cower under pressure,” BJP’s Sabyasachi Dutta said. Trinamool leader Saugata Roy said, “We don’t support vandalism.” BJP’s Parivartan Yatra on Saturday was stopped at Baguiati after cops cited the model code of conduct. In protest, BJP blocked VIP Road for 30 minutes. In Malda, a tableau decked up for the Parivartan Yatra was stolen allegedly by Trinamool workers. District Trinamool leaders, however, denied the allegation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-raths-parked-at-city-warehouse-vandalized/articleshow/81249906.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||Localization is the key to a resilient Indian automotive industry: Auto experts||Nagpur: Gearing up for the April's auto trade fair in New Delhi — ACMA Automechanika, the organizers of ACMA Automechanika, Messe Frankfurt India, and the Automotive Component Manufacturers Association (ACMA) say there is a need for deep localization of auto component manufacturing. Raj Manek, executive director & board member, Messe Frankfurt Asia Holdings Ltd said, “It is very vital to provide a push to local manufacturers to bolster the domestic supply chain and strengthen the automotive industry from its very core. With the world's leading electric car company (Tesla) setting up its base in India, it will be just a matter of time before the first fleet of electric cars arrive in India. Thus, a more resolute approach towards e-mobility by Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) will largely benefit in the long term.” Vinnie Mehta, director general of ACMA said, "The excitement is mounting as the biennial ACMA Automechanika New Delhi, the flagship Aftermarket Expo, draws closer. To be organized jointly by ACMA and Messe Frankfurt, the event is being held at an opportune time as the automotive market gains momentum post the pandemic hiatus. The expo, probably, the first of its kind in the 'real world' since the lockdown, will be a ‘hybrid’ one. Bridging the best of a physical and online exhibition, the one-stop sourcing platform will provide a preview of the latest aftermarket innovations and a sneak peek into shapes of things to come.” The approach of the automotive industry in 2020 was largely subdued as the issuance of trade restrictions brought a drastic slowdown in key sectors. Despite endless hurdles faced last year, some green shoots appeared toward the second quarter as demand briefly resurfaced during festive season. Domestic retail vehicle sales across categories grew for the first time since the onset of the pandemic, as a double-digit growth was achieved in the sale of passenger vehicles (PV) and two-wheelers. While industry experts continue to be cautiously optimistic, recent projections from Indian Independent and Professional Investment Information and Credit Rating Agency (ICRA) show that the domestic auto component industry's revenue may grow by 16-18 per cent in the subsequent financial year. There have also been speculations that demands may revert to the 2019 levels, in case auto sales and production retain normalcy this year. ACMA Automechanika is scheduled to be held from April 22–25 at Pragati Maidan. Manek said, “Going forward, the focus of our automotive trade fairs will not just be aimed at creating a safe and healthy atmosphere for channel players to promote their businesses, but also enabling them to develop collectively as one integrated industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/localization-is-the-key-to-a-resilient-indian-automotive-industry-auto-experts/articleshow/81258760.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 28, 2021||Agra||Doctors of pvt hosp block traffic over alleged police assault||Agra: Doctors of a private nursing home, led by office bearers of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), on Saturday blocked traffic on Ramghat road in Aligarh alleging police high-handedness after a clash broke out between hospital staff and patient’s family members over a disputed medical bill a day earlier.A purported video clip of the clash surfaced on social media showing hospital owner Dr KK Varshney’s son Dr Sagar being dragged by some policemen after a clash broke out between doctors and a patient’s family members. Following the clash, the medical fraternity staged a protest for two hours on Saturday demanding action against the cops who allegedly beat the doctors. However, the family of the patient alleged that the hospital staff had attacked them after they refused to pay an additional amount demanded by the hospital at the time of discharge. “Initially, they asked us to deposit a certain amount for surgery but later, they demanded more money at the time of discharging the patient which led to an argument. Later, they attacked us,” patient’s relative claimed. SP (city) Kuldeep Singh Gunawat told TOI that an inquiry has been set up by the IG (Aligarh range) to probe the allegations of police highhandedness. “Video footages from the hospital have been taken into custody and action will be taken after analyzing them in detail,” he said, adding that disciplinary action has been taken against a home guard and a constable who were found guilty during preliminary investigations. ‘While the homeguard has been sacked, the police constable has been put under suspension,” he said.BJP MLA Anil Parashar also reached the protest site and condemned police action against the medical practitioners. He said strict action will be taken against those found guilty in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/doctors-of-pvt-hosp-block-traffic-over-alleged-police-assault/articleshow/81248459.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kochi||CEO calls for strict action from polling officials in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief electoral officer (CEO) Teeka Ram Meena on Saturday urged all polling officials to proactively discharge their duties to ensure the conduct of a free and fair election. “Polling officials should discharge their duties promptly. They should act impartially. Election Commission promises all support, both during and after the election to officials who discharge their duties meticulously,” Meena said while explaining the preparations being put in place for the assembly election scheduled on April 6. Webcasting would be done from 50% of polling booths in the state. The polling time is from 7am to 7pm, except in those booths in Naxal-affected areas. In those booths, the polling process would be wound up by 6pm. Meena said 298 booths in Palakkad, Malappuram, Kannur and Kozhikode districts are located in Naxal-affected areas. “Central force would be deployed inside polling station compounds in booths identified as Naxal-affected, critical or vulnerable,” he said. The commission would distribute Braille slips for voters having limited vision. Dummy ballots would be available on presiding officers’ table in every polling booths and those who suffering from vision problems can use this machine for a trial voting. Voter slips by EC would have no voters’ photograph this time. “However, all voters would have to lower their face mask for identification purpose inside the booth and those who refuse to do so will not be permitted to cast vote,” Meena said. Covid-19 positive persons can cast their votes in the last hour of polling. Polling officers would have to keep the number of such voters separately. Body temperature of all those who reach polling booths would be recorded. Those identified with higher temperature would be asked to wait and their body temperature would be checked again after an hour. In case their body temperature remains high on that instance as well, such voters would be asked to cast their vote in the last hour of the polling along with Covid-19 patients. There will be three queues, namely for women, men and persons with disabilities. The commission would make arrangements for free travel for differently-abled. They would be given special free pass in public transport services. For the first time, the commission would grant postal ballot option to journalists authorised by ECI for covering the poll. Postal ballots are optional. Distribution of postal ballots would start three days post the date fixed for withdrawal of nomination by candidates. Eighty-plus voters and those working in emergency service sectors would be eligible to apply for postal vote facility. After scrutiny of the applications for postal voting, which has to be submitted in 12B form, a four-member team would call on the eligible voters at their home with the voting unit. The voters can cast vote using the unit and the procedure would be videographed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ceo-calls-for-strict-action-from-polling-officials/articleshow/81249054.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Goa||Now, Aadhaar mandatory for social welfare schemes in Goa||PANAJI: The state government has made it mandatory for beneficiaries of 21 social welfare schemes to enrol for Aadhaar in order to continue to avail of benefits. Adoption of Aadhaar will make the service delivery and transfer of benefits transparent while also increasing efficiency, the department of social welfare announced in a notification issued on Friday. The 21 schemes offered by the state government are funded out of the consolidated fund, and adoption of Aadhaar will ensure that genuine beneficiaries get the benefits, it said. The schemes include the Mundkarache Ghar scheme for the SC or dhangar community, Atal Asra Yojana for the SC/OBC community, Antya Sanskar Yojana, Dayanand Social Security Scheme for senior citizens, single women and disabled persons, financial assistance for those with disabilities, 50% fuel subsidy for motorised vehicle of persons with disabilities, Rajiv Awaas Yojana, Kanya Dhan for the SC community, Bachpan scheme, scholarship for disabled students and the home nursing scheme. The notification stated that any individual who sought to receive the benefits under any of the 21 schemes will have to either produce an Aadhaar number or enrol for Aadhaar authentication and produce the enrolment number before registering for the scheme concerned. While the beneficiary awaits for his/her Aadhaar number, benefits under these schemes will continue to be disbursed based on supporting documents such as permanent account number (PAN), driving licence, passport or voter’s identity card. The government also said departments that provide social benefits are required to offer Aadhaar enrolment facilities or direct applicants to a convenient enrolment centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-aadhaar-mandatory-for-social-welfare-schemes/articleshow/81251181.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||‘Dakshineswar services to go up with new rakes in March’||Kolkata: More services would be added on the Dakshineswar stretch of the north-south Metro after a new rake arrived in March, Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi said. Following the opening of the new 4km stretch beyond Noapara, Dakshineswar and Baranagar stations have been witnessing an average footfall of 9,000 on a week day but commuters have been disappointed with the low frequency of services. Asked if more services would be added to the existing 158, Joshi told TOI, “We are expecting a new Medha rake from Chennai’s Integral Coach Factory in March. With the additional rolling stock, we can add more services for the Dakshineswar extension.” He added, “We will gradually increase some more services on the entire north-south corridor, so that we can return to our pre-pandemic count of 288.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi flagged off the the 4km Noapara-Dakshineswar section on Monday. “I took the Metro from Baranagar on Tuesday. But I didn’t feel like using it the next day, given the gaps between two trains,” said Dunlop resident Ishita Sen, who commutes by CTC’s AC buses. Echoing her, Ariadaha lawyer Anshuman Ghosh said, “There is a 20-minute gap between the 7.18am train and the next one. So, the next day, I took my two-wheeler to Tollygunge.” Currently, 244 services are available in the north-south Metro. But not all trains travel to and from Dakshineswar. Only 79 Up and 79 Down services are available between Dakshineswar and Kavi Subhas stations, while the numbers between Dum Dum and Kavi Subhas are 122 on each direction. There are only three trains from Dakshineswar in the first one hour. The frequencies improve from 8am to 9am, with five trains. The 9.30am-11am slot witnesses 16 services, 11.30am-4.30pm 23 and 4.30pm-7pm 16. After that, there are 15 services till the last train from Dakshineswar at 9.18pm. Joshi said, “The new rake will make it easier to add services .” This will be Metro’s 27th AC rake. In the pandemic, Metro has been running AC trains. Of them, 13 are from ICF’s Perambore unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dakshineswar-services-to-go-up-with-new-rakes-in-march/articleshow/81249936.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
February 28, 2021||Agra||Eight swept away by Ganga, five rescued, 3 still missing in Kasganj||Agra: Eight people were swept away by the Ganga when they were taking a holy dip on the occasion of Magh Purnima at two different locations in Kasganj district on Saturday. Though divers rescued five of them, three were still missing, said police, adding that a rescue operation for the missing people is still on. According to locals, a large of devotees thronged different ghats to take a holy dip in the river amid “poor security arrangements” by police and the local administration. A group of five men were swept away by the river at Kadarganj ghat. Divers rescued three of them, but Badola village resident Govind (30) and his nephew Anuj (17) were still missing, said police. Similarly, two people were swept away at Sehwajpur Ganga ghat. Police said Khijarwapur village resident Bhupendra (25) was rescued, but his younger brother Prashant (20) was still missing. Superintendent of police Manoj Kumar Sonkar said, “The three missing people had gone deep into the water and were swept away. A Provisional Armed Constabulary (PAC) flood unit, two steamers and a team of six divers have been searching for them, while five people were rescued from both the ghats. We are monitoring the rescue operation. Adequate police deployment was made at the river.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/eight-swept-away-by-ganga-five-rescued-3-still-missing-in-kasganj/articleshow/81248466.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: Overall better but sees rise in pollution peaks||KOCHI: The pollution levels stayed well under control in the city for almost six months from April-September during the lockdown period, but the city recorded more pollution peaks during the winter season compared to the same period previous year, according to a study conducted by Centre for science and environment (CSE). Track the pollution level in your cityIt means that the city recorded more “severe” days with high PM 2.5 levels compared to the same period previous year. According to the study, which was conducted in 99 cities based on real time data from various monitoring stations, Kochi ranks third in the country with the cleanest air quality with Mysuru and Satna claiming the first and second positions, respectively. The average PM 2.5 levels in the city declined 19% during the 2020-2021 winter compared to the 2019-2020 winter. “The seasonal average PM 2.5 levels from November-January 2021 is very good but the point of concern is that the average peak pollution has gone up by almost 40%,” said Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager in CSE’s Urban Lab team, Sustainable Cities Programme. He said the city should start taking precautions so that it does not reach the kind of pollution levels being noted in other cities. According to the study, winter pollution is only an indicator of what is going wrong across regions. To curb the rising pollution levels, overall annual average levels have to reduce substantially on a year-on-year basis. The good news has been that cities in Kerala including Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode have been recording stable or declining seasonal average. “The winter PM2.5 concentration has risen compared to the 2019-20 winter in many cities across regions. This bouncing back of pollution post-lockdown unmasks the high impacts of local and regional pollution. This demands quicker regional reforms to curb pollution from vehicles, industry, and waste burning to curb the winter pollution and also sustain annual improvement at a regional scale with speed,” says Anumita Roychowdhury, CSE’s executive director in charge of research and advocacy. Overall winter PM2.5 levels have worsened significantly in 43 cities out of 99 cities that have valid daily PM2.5 concentration data for over 75% of days for this and previous winter seasons. Pollution board officials said while Vyttila station recorded the highest levels of pollution in the state, PM2.5 levels have been rising in areas around MG Road and Eloor during the post-lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-overall-better-but-sees-rise-in-pollution-peaks/articleshow/81249076.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||Hotel employee found dead||Kolkata: A staffer, Abhoy Mondal, was found dead in a Bhowanipore hotel on Saturday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hotel-employee-found-dead/articleshow/81249942.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kochi||Kerala assembly elections: CPM to concede 8 seats to accommodate all allies||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The CPM state secretariat that met here on Saturday directed all district committees to convene meetings from Monday to Wednesday and forward draft candidate lists to the state committee. The state secretariat and state committee will meet here on March 4 and 5 to discuss the candidate lists from districts. CPM will start seat sharing talks with other LDF constituents on Sunday. The secretariat, which reviewed the political situation, decided to yield five to eight seats the party had contested last time for accommodating new constituents. In 2016, CPM had fielded candidates, including independents, in 92 seats. Sources said the party has decided to accept a tally of around 85 seats this year and the CPM has hinted the CPI to make some compromises too. CPI, which had contested in 27 seats, is willing to concede two to three seats, it is learnt. Accommodating Kerala Congress (M) will be the biggest challenge before the LDF leadership. KC(M) expects a dozen seats but CPM feels that they will be content with eight or nine. Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) led by M V Shreyams Kumar has demanded eight seats. CPM had mooted merger of Janata Dal (S) and LJD ahead of polls but that didn’t materialize. The plan of the CPM is to set apart 10 seats for both parties. The Democratic Kerala Congress, which contested three seats and lost all last time, will be given only one seat. If Ramanchandran Kadannappally keeps out of contest, Congress (S) may not get a seat. Another constituent, NCP, which has surrendered Pala seat to KC(M), is demanding the same number of seats four it had contested last time. The target of LDF is to announce candidate list before March 10. Meanwhile, the Congress state leadership has also intensified efforts to finalize candidate list. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said that the aim of the party is to finalize candidate list in the coming week itself. The draft list prepared by the KPCC election committee will be forwarded to high command for clearance. Asked whether he would contest, Ramachandran said his focus would be to ensure a thumping win for UDF. “There are demands from Wayanad, Kannur and Kozhikode district committees to contest,” he said. UDF seat sharing talks are in the final stage and leaders hope to resolve the issues by Monday. The demand by Kerala Congress (Joseph) for at least 12 seats is the biggest challenge before the UDF. Congress and Muslim League plan to restrict Joseph group in eight seats. There is a consensus among leaders not to accommodate P C George in the front. Nationalist Congress Kerala led by Mani C Kappan is likely to find a berth in the UDF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-to-concede-8-seats-to-accommodate-all-allies/articleshow/81249077.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||80:20 Covid bed scheme now extended till May-end||Mumbai: With the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state and resulting rise in the number of hospitalisations, the state public health department has extended the 80:20 scheme till the end of May. The scheme, which was first notified in May last year, allows the state to control 80% of the Covid-19 beds in private hospitals and even regulate the prices. The scheme is now under litigation and is being extended for the fourth time. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas on Saturday issued an order saying the scheme would be in effect till May 31, 2021, as the state is witnessing a surge in cases. “Looking at the current load of patients, we had to extend the scheme,” said Dr Sudhakar Shinde, CEO of State Health Assurance Society who was instrumental in drafting the scheme. The number of hospitalisations have been rising, though it is not as high as it was in September 2020. “Private hospitals have been cooperative for the last many months and we look forward to their extended cooperation,” Dr Shinde added. The state, on May 21 2020, had assumed control of 80% of beds in private hospitals. After the initial scheme lapsed on August 31, the government tweaked it for Mumbai hospitals by bringing down control of non-Covid beds from 80% to 50%, whereas for the rest of the state it continued to control 80% of Covid and non-Covid beds. The state won widespread praise for this scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/8020-covid-bed-scheme-now-extended-till-may-end/articleshow/81249950.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Kochi||Load test commences on Palarivattom flyover||Kochi: As the reconstruction works of Palarivattom flyover enters the final phase, a load test is being carried out on the structure. The flyover can be thrown open for traffic on the successful completion of the load test, which began on Saturday. It is done to analyze the strength of the bridge and its capacity to carry the vehicles. “It will take around 72 hours to complete the load test on a single span. The entire activity is expected to be completed by Friday,” said an official who is monitoring the work. The flyover had 19 spans, and out of these 17 have been reconstructed. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and the Uralungal Labour Contract Co-operative Society (ULCCS) are targeting to complete the entire reconstruction works by Friday. At present, four vehicles are used for load test. Two tucks weighing 30 tonnes each and two other trucks weighing 25 tonnes each are parked on both sides of the flyover for examining the load capacity. Eventually the number of vehicles will be increased to six. Similarly, a weight of 220 tonnes will be placed on the bridge and removed multiple times as part of the test. After the completion of the load test, DMRC will hand over the flyover to Road and Bridges Development Corporation-Kerala (RBDCK). Meanwhile, the declaration of assembly polls in the state could further delay the opening of the flyover. As the model code of conduct has come into force, the state government will not be able to go ahead with the inaugural events. However, officials with DMRC said that RBDCK, which owns the flyover, can throw it open for public “without any fanfare” once it is handed over to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/load-test-commences-on-palarivattom-flyover/articleshow/81249083.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Covid-19 more severe for autoimmune rare disorders’||Ahmedabad: The patients of rare diseases – primarily affected by genetic disorders – are more prone to Covid-19 infection, said city-based experts. February 28 is marked as Rare Diseases Day globally to create awareness about the diseases which are difficult to diagnose and some of which are difficult to treat.Dr Harsh Sheth, head of advanced genomic technologies at city-based Institute of Human Genetics (IHG) said that international studies have indicated that the viral infection is more severe for patients with autoimmune disorders both in terms of mortality and morbidity. “Another impact of the pandemic was fewer screenings of children and expecting mothers last year,” he said.The Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) in association with IHG is developing a DNA sequence-based technology called single-molecule molecular-inversion probes that can rapidly screen gene mutations. “It can diagnose 23 lysosomal storage disorders at nearly half the current rate,” said Dr Sheth, adding that the project is funded by the Gujarat State Biotechnology Mission for cheaper and quicker screening of such disorders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-more-severe-for-autoimmune-rare-disorders/articleshow/81251208.cms||Parth Shastri
February 28, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: BJP leaders blow hot and cold on IUML ties||THRISSUR: BJP state vice president Sobha Surendran on Saturday reiterated her position that the BJP will welcome Muslim League if the latter discards its communal stance and upholds the leadership of Narendra Modi. Speaking at a reception accorded to the ‘Vijaya Yatra’, led by BJP state president K Surendran, at Chelakkara, she said BJP has a history of aligning with previously hostile parties, when they change their policies. She cited BJP’s alliance with National Conference in the erstwhile Jammu & Kashmir state as a case in point. Taking a more belligerent stance, Surendran said Muslim League was the most communal political party in the country, and as of now there is no possibility of BJP tying up with it. IUML issues membership based on religious identity, so it cannot be called a secular party, Surendran said. He, however, conceded that BJP may accept League if it shuns its communal positions and accepts Modi’s leadership. But will it be ready for such a change? Surendran quipped. Union minister and party leader Prahlad Joshi also ruled out any truck with IUML. Yatra to continueMeanwhile a meeting of the BJP core committee, here, decided to continue the ‘Vijaya Yatra’, though some sections had suggested its termination against the backdrop of the announcement of assembly elections. “The yatra will not affect election preparations,” said V Muraleedharan, Union minister of state for external affairs and party leader. NDA’s candidate list is likely to be finalized within a week, Muraleedharan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bjp-leaders-blow-hot-and-cold-on-iuml-ties/articleshow/81249081.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||Indie breed Mudhol Hound not an ideal police dog, find trials||NEW DELHI: Mudhol Hound, the Indian dog breed being eyed by central para-military forces for their canine squads, has not been found to be an ideal police working dog breed in trials ordered by the home ministry. As per conclusions of field trials of the breed conducted by ITBP and SSB on the directions of MHA’s Police K9 cell, Mudhol Hound, though loyal, agile and healthy, is essentially a sight-hound breed with a nervous temperament that tends to get easily distracted by the presence of any moving object, preferring to chase it rather than concentrating on following scent, a key requirement for any police dog. “This breed doesn’t fulfil the requirement of a police dog due to its temperament and poor trainability,” was the conclusion drawn by ITBP and SSB experts and submitted to the MHA police K9 cell, which is said to have shared it further with the PMO. Meanwhile, the field trials of three other Indian dog breeds are still underway. While CRPF is doing the trials for Combai and BSF for Rampur Hound, different versions of the Himachali Hound or mountain dog breed – Gaddi, Bakarwal Hound and Tibettan Mastiff – are being assessed by ITBP, SSB and BSF. Some interesting findings from Mudhol Hound trials – recorded by Assistant Commandant (vet) Pankaj Kumar Teotia from SSB’s Dog Training and Breeding Centre, Alwar and Commandant (vet) Pankaj Kumar from ITBP headquarters in an article published in National Police K9 Journal released in January 2021 -- that the breed has the tendency to forget past training and tends to run away if kept off-leash during training/practice. ITBP and SSB had inducted 8 Mudhol Hound pups in 2018 and after giving them basic obedience and training in detection of explosives and narcotics, deployed them in the anti-Naxal grid in Chhattisgarh and on the Indo-Nepal border. After studying the behaviour, performance and utility of the breed in the field, it was found that the Mudhol Hound is hard to be trained, has less grasping power, is temperamental and always in a hunting mood and essentially a one-man dog who does not take well to strangers, which makes the breed unreliable for police duties. Also, due to its long and narrow head, it can easily remove the neck collar and escape from the handler's control. The breed has its positive traits too. It is loyal to the master; easy to groom; low maintenance; resistant to most diseases; well-adapted to hot climatic conditions, particularly in South India; and can run long distances without any difficulty. Mudhol Hound, also known as Caravan Hound, is a common pet among villagers in Karnataka, who use it for hunting and guarding. The breed is said to have been revived and brought recognition by Shrimant Rajesaheb Malojirao Ghorpade of the erstwhile princely state of Mudhol (1884-1937).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indie-breed-mudhol-hound-not-an-ideal-police-dog-find-trials/articleshow/81251962.cms||Bharti Jain
February 28, 2021||Gurgaon||Panel set up to resolve Gurugram school fee dispute||GURUGRAM: The district education department has set up a special committee to resolve a dispute between the parents of Lotus Valley School students and the school administration over fee payment. The department has asked the committee to ensure that the orders issued by the Punjab and Haryana high court and the government are followed. Following protests by the parents, the committee had heard the arguments of both parties on Friday and scheduled a meeting on March 4 for the final hearing. It has given one week to the school to submit its response. “The schools are bound to follow the orders of the court. They have been permitted to charge only tuition fees,” said Sunil Kumar, the enquiry officer appointed by the department. Though the parents allege that the school is charging inflated fees after clubbing different sub-heads, the school has denied the charges. Lotus Valley School Principal Anita Malhotra told TOI, “We are complying with the high court’s order and anybody who reads it completely will understand that the hue and cry over school fees is baseless. We’ll submit our response to the committee on Friday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/panel-set-up-to-resolve-gurgaon-school-fee-dispute/articleshow/81251204.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Goa||Goa: 200 volunteers to get emergency training||PANAJI: The directorate of fire and emergency services will soon train 200 volunteers in each district under the central government’s Aapada Mitra Scheme, said director of fire and emergency services Ashok Menon. He was speaking at the 33rd annual inspection parade held in Panaji, on Saturday, by the fire and emergency department to test the operational fitness of the fire personnel for prompt response in times of emergency. Aapada Mitra Scheme aims to provide the community volunteers with the skills that they would need to undertake basic relief and rescue tasks during emergency situations such as floods, flash-floods and urban flooding. The fire and emergency department is the nodal authority for implementing the scheme in the state. Talking about the annual inspection, Menon said the administrative superior gets an opportunity to critically scrutinise the performance efficiency of the department’s operational units. The department has revamped its website www.dfes.goa.gov.in wherein the progress of response to live incident calls can now be monitored online by the citizens. Chief secretary Parimal Rai said the department, being the first responder to disasters in the state, should enhance its physical and IT skills for it to reduce the response time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/200-volunteers-to-get-emergency-training/articleshow/81251207.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Vadodara||18-year-old dies in elevator accident||Vadodara: An 18-year-old boy died after his head dashed against a wall while coming down in an elevator at a fruit wholesaler’s shop behind Khanderao Market on Saturday. The youth Kanha Bharwad was coming down to the ground floor from the third floor in an open elevator when the mishap happened. Bharwad was working as a daily wager at the wholesale firm named RR Fruits for a fortnight. “The boy had gone to the third floor to place empty fruit baskets in the cold storage. We investigated the CCTV footage and he is seen coming down a few staircases to board the elevator,” said a police official. However, there are no CCTV cameras placed in the shop showing the movement of the elevator, so the police are still finding out how Bharwad’s head dashed against the wall. Two other labourers working on the ground floor noticed blood dripping from the upper floor and alerted the owner. The owner called 108 GVK-EMRI ambulance but by then Bharwad had succumbed. “The boy died of severe blood loss,” the cop said. The firm’s owner had informed the police control room and Bharwad’s family about the incident. Before police reached, Bharwad’s family members came and took away his body. Cops had to then go to his home in Danteshwar and convince his family to hand over the body for legal procedures and then conduct the final rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/18-year-old-dies-in-elevator-accident/articleshow/81249491.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kochi||NSS slams LDF ‘double standard’ on Mannam||Kottayam: The Nair Service Society (NSS) slammed the LDF government for its double standards while dealing with Mannath Padmanabhan, the founder of NSS. The NSS general secretary G Sukumaran Nair on Saturday said that the government lauds Mannath as a champion of renaissance when they need him to gain the support of his followers and ignores him whenever they get a chance. Nair cited the example of the article which appeared in the editorial page of the party organ ‘Deshabhimani’ on Mannam Samadhi day which lauded him, and the omission of Mannath’s name from the Guruvayur Satyagraha memorial constructed by the LDF government at Guruvayur. Nair warned “those concerned” that NSS and supporters of Mannath have understood this “double standard policy” of the LDF government. Nair, without mentioning the Sabarimala issue, said that everyone knows the origin of the LDF leadership’s enmity towards NSS and its founder. Nair said that Mannath’s role in the historic Vaikom and Guruvayur satyagrahas, savarna procession and temple entry of avarnas are known to all. Standing firm on secularism, democracy and theism, Mannath has fought for social justice, he said. However, the LDF government was not willing to add his name in the memorial which was inaugurated on May 8, 2018, by Pinarayi Vijayan. It has to be treated as unjust and being ignored intentionally, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nss-slams-ldf-double-standard-on-mannam/articleshow/81249084.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kochi||Waste removal: Left union against direct fee collection||Kochi: The plan by the municipal corporation to directly collect fee for waste collection after standardizing rates and to induct 400 additional workers for waste collection has run into rough weather with CITU-affiliated union of refuse collectors in the city conveying its opposition.Though the Kochi corporation has around 750 permanent employees engaged in waste removal, in most divisions, door-to-door collection of waste is carried out by workers who collect monthly fee from houses. Most of these workers, who are not even contract workers, are affiliated to Malinya Nirmarjana Thozhilali Union, affiliated to the CITU.According to the union representatives, they were open to idea of the local body absorbing them by adding them to the rolls on fixed salaries but without any other statutory benefits like pension is not justifiable. “We read in papers that daily wage would be around Rs 400. No one would work in a sector like waste collection, which involves night work, for such a low salary,” said a worker. At a meeting held last week, the scheme for direct collection of fee from households was vehemently opposed by union workers except two district leaders who represent the party.Mayor M Anilkumar said the corporation would not go ahead with the plan if the workers don’t want it. “What we tried to bring is a standardization of rates. Now they collect money from households as they wish and it may go up to Rs 500,” said Anilkumar.Workers of the union, while admitting that the rate varies, said the earnings of workers are also different. “Some of them collect waste from 100 houses, some others from 300 houses. The amount collected also varies from Rs 100 to Rs 200 based on the potential. Some people would have more waste on certain days and would give additional money. We do this to help them and avoid waste dumping in open areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/waste-removal-left-union-against-direct-fee-collection/articleshow/81249087.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||From info on food supplies to grief counselling, crisis line lends a big hand||It’s been a cascade of 10,000 cries for help from Nashik and Navi Mumbai to MP and UP, since the pandemic-mandated lockdown measures last year. And Samvaad — a state helpline manned by 60 psychological counsellors — has been able to keep up with the need to respond promptly to not just distress in coping with stress and suicidal thoughts but in hand-holding callers to procure food supplies, handle health scares, access transport and other drastic changes in lifestyle brought about by the virus.  Set up by Project Mumbai, a non-profit that works with the government on various civic issues and launched in April 2020 by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray “to provide emotional support to people of Maharashtra”, the need for a crisis line was acutely felt after the Covid-19 outbreak with home isolation triggered financial concerns, disruptions and worries about the virus infecting themselves or loved ones.  “The first helpline was launched on March 19. Within a week, we launched a second one to address special needs of students who were facing difficulties in learning and coping with academics. In April, we launched Samvaad merging the two facilities into one comprehensive toll- free number and saw over ten thousand calls coming in from 24 states mainly Maharashtra followed by Gujarat and Bihar,” said Shishir Joshi, CEO and founder of Project Mumbai.  According to data compiled by the helpline measuring Covid-19’s impact in almost real-time spanning April 2020 to January 2021, a majority of distress calls centred around “stress” related to loss of job, lack of finances and how their life would shape up post-lockdown with close to 30.8% of callers expressing that they were feeling “stressed”. This was followed by 15.4% of callers wanting information on how to procure food supplies sanctioned by the government. “Callers expressed great emotional distress caused by the lack of food in their area. The reasons were multidimensional. On one hand some callers did not find a place to buy ration from, on the other, the struggle was due to lack of money, since most of the callers looking for ration were daily wage earners,” informed Joshi, while 8.8% called the helpline to understand if they could get any financial assistance since many had not received their salaries but had bills to pay. “Subsequently, we also started a special service called ‘grief counselling’ for families.”  Active from 8am to 8pm, seven days a week, counsellors qualified in clinical or counselling psychology and with at least a year’s experience have been fielding calls in different languages — primarily Marathi, Hindi and English.  If a 29-year-old pregnant woman from Pune was desperate to travel to her hometown Ratnagiri after Pune hospitals stopped admitting non-Covid patients, a 33-year-old woman called from Gwalior after she tested positive for Covid, not knowing how to navigate a new city. A 40-year-old man wanted a resolution to bouts of panic attack after being laid off while a number of young people in their teens and twenties were deliberately hurting themselves — punching walls, cutting themselves or skipping meals — and sought someone to talk to, to fight suicidal thoughts.  “With people’s support system in the form of friends or colleagues lower than usual coupled with anxiety about the healthcare system and access to food, transport and other emergencies, it was an unprecedented high crisis state unlike any other time for which counsellors had to be prepared with not just emotional response but also a robust list of referrals and emergency numbers to contain people’s difficulties,” explained Devika Kapoor, mental health counsellor at the helm of streamlining counsellor support on the helpline that has seen more females than males reach out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/from-info-on-food-supplies-to-grief-counselling-crisis-line-lends-a-big-hand/articleshow/81250004.cms||Mohua Das
February 28, 2021||Kochi||Kerala polls: DCC general secretary resigns, joins LJD||KOZHIKODE: Wayanad district Congress committee (DCC) general secretary and INTUC state general secretary P K Anil Kumar resigned from the party and joined Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD). Kumar, who had previously served as a member of the Wayanad district panchayat and president of Kalpetta block panchayat, said on Saturday that the decision was taken as he was being sidelined in the party for the last two years and also in protest against the failure of the party to consider local sentiments. He said that even Congress workers who were close to him were being targeted and denied tickets in the recent local body elections. Kumar is likely to be considered for the Kalpetta assembly seat if LDF gives the seat, which is currently represented by CPM’s C K Saseendran, to the LJD. LJD state president M V Shreyams Kumar handed over the party membership to Kumar. Posters against fielding ‘imported’ candidates in Kalpetta, which is the only general seat in the district, had appeared in front of the Wayanad DCC office a week ago. Kumar had been active in the plantation trade union sector in Wayanad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dcc-general-secy-resigns-joins-ljd/articleshow/81249089.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||Protein Day celebrated on Feb 27||Nagpur: Non-profit education network ‘Teach For India’ is collaborating with the ‘Right To Protein’ to create awareness about the importance of proteins in children's diet and celebrated Protein Day on February 27. In association with nutritionist Pooja Makhija, Right To Protein and Teach For India interacted online with children and their parents about the importance of consuming adequate protein in their daily diets for overall better health and nutrition. The educational webinar saw participation of children from around the country; especially those that are a part of the Teach For India network in Mumbai, Pune, New Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Bangalore participated along with their parents. Topics such as protein consumption for the development of the human body, common errors with protein consumption, identification of easily affordable and accessible plant and animal protein sources, and methods of including all types of protein in daily diets, was the focus on Protein Day 2021. Abhik Bhattacherji, national director of marketing and communications at Teach For India said, “Teach For India has always believed that an excellent education is a balance of academics, holistic development, strengthening values and mindsets and overall well-being of children. Through this collaboration with Right To Protein, we were presented with the opportunity to educate our students about the importance of nutrition in their development. Children and parents understanding the role of nutrition is a great step towards raising leaders with healthy bodies.” Nutritionist Pooja Makhija added, “A well-balanced nutritious meal is indeed important for the overall health and growth of children. Quite often parents and children find it difficult to identify healthy food options. The Protein Paradox study itself found that mothers in most Indian households were unable to identify top protein sources. What better occasion than our country’s Protein Day to educate children themselves about adequate protein consumption for better health and nutrition. These joint efforts by Right To Protein and Teach For India on this monumental day are one of the most important first few steps in preparing India’s next generation to be protein sufficient." Earlier this month, Right To Protein announced the theme of Protein Day 2021 — ‘Powering with Plant Protein’ to help shine the spotlight on plant-based sources of protein as accessible, affordable, acceptable, and versatile protein sources that are often ignored in a country. According to the Protein Paradox Study (2020), 76% Indian mothers believe that there aren't enough high-protein vegetarian food options, and most Indian households rely only on lentils for daily protein intake. Protein Day 2021 therefore aims to grow the knowledge of citizens about different types of sources and their importance in daily meals for better nutrition and health. In 2020, Right To Protein launched India’s first Protein Day to draw public attention, raise awareness, and educate Indians on the significance and importance of consuming proteins in their everyday diets. Several like-minded citizens, organizations, nutritionists, food industry experts, and brands joined the movement last year to raise awareness on protein sufficiency in the country, including US Soybean Export Council, Poultry Federation of India, Assocom Institute of Bakery Technology & Management, NutriTech Consulting Services, LabelBlind and Nmami Life by nutritionist Nmami Agarwal, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/protein-day-celebrated-on-feb-27/articleshow/81258840.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
February 28, 2021||Kochi||Local bodies should widen approach roads to bridge: Cial||Kochi: With the local residents raising allegations of unscientific construction of the Chethikode Bridge, Cochin International Airport Ltd (Cial) has come out with a statement denying the allegations and said that it is the responsibility of local bodies to widen the approach roads to the bridge.The bridge, which connects Thuravunkara and Chethikode, was constructed across Chengalthodu by Cial at a cost of Rs 6.88 crore as part of its flood-mitigation measures in the airport region. The approach road is disproportionate with the bridge in terms of width and there have been demands that Cial should widen the approach roads on both sides to ensure smooth traffic through the bridge. However, Cial said that the bridge was constructed with enough width foreseeing the possibility of widening the roads in the area in future. As the roads on both sides come under the local bodies, they are responsible of widening them.“There are no defects in the construction of the bridge. Roads on both sides are narrow and local bodies can widen them after doing the required acquisition of lands. Once the roads are widened the bridge’s width cannot be increased. So at the time of construction, it was given a width of 7.5m along with 1.5m wide footpath. The roads on both sides are under the authority of Angamaly municipality and Kanjoor panchayat and widening of the approach roads will solve the present issues,” said the statement.Cial said that the studies conducted by KITCO and irrigation department have recommended the construction of a bridge with a width of at least 7m in the area. Cial has implemented a comprehensive project of flood-mitigation measures at Angamaly municipality and four panchayats surrounding the airport in 2019. As part of the project, Cial has constructed several roads and bridges in the area.The Chengalthodu is considered the main reason for the flooding in the area due to its overflowing nature during heavy rains. The free flow of the stream was hindered due to the existing culverts in the stream, which led to the overflowing of Chengalthodu during monsoons. These culverts were demolished and two bridges were constructed, which will not only allow free flow of water through the stream but also prevent isolation of low-lying residential areas in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/local-bodies-should-widen-approach-roads-to-bridge-cial/articleshow/81249090.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||700 CCTV cams and 25 people yield little in SUV investigation||Mumbai: The crime branch said it had questioned 25 people so far and scanned over 700 CCTV cameras for clues in the case of the SUV laden with 20 gelatin sticks and a threatening note that was found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence on Carmichael Road. No arrest has been made yet. While the SUV, a Scorpio, was stolen on February 17 from the Mulund-Airoli stretch and brought to south Mumbai early on February 25, another car, an Innova, came with it till south Mumbai was last seen on the Bhiwandi-Nashik highway after the suspect had parked the SUV. “We are trying to get details about the Innova. Police teams are also searching garages and trying to collect information about the cars,” said Milind Bharambe, joint commissioner of police (crime branch). The number plate on the Scorpio was the same as that of a Range Rover from the Ambanis’ security detail. The police have seized four more fake number plates from the Scorpio. The gelatin sticks were made by a Nagpur company. The police have not ruled out a terror angle yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/700-cctv-cams-and-25-people-yield-little-in-suv-investigation/articleshow/81250083.cms||Mateen Hafeez
February 28, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: INS Venduruthy to develop second Miyawaki forest||KOCHI: INS Venduruthy, which bagged the Vanamitra Award for Ernakulam district in January this year, is setting up a second Miyawaki forest within its premises. In 2020, the Naval Base depot had created a Miyawaki forest in a 10-cent plot near the Navy Children School with help from Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council (K-DISC), which successfully piloted urban micro-forest project in 10 districts in the state. “The second Miyawaki forest, to be developed with help from private institutions, would be inside Katari Bagh and would have a concentration of plants and trees of medicinal value,” the Navy spokesperson said. “The first set of saplings are planned to be planted in March along with Butterfly Garden, which is an in-house project undertaken by the residents inclusive of the women and children of Katari Bagh. The project is being funded by IOC as part of the corporate social responsibility,” the official said. In 2020, K-DISC had also partnered with the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) at Kalamassery to set up a Miyawaki stretch — a miniature but dense plantation of native species using potted seedling method. Miyawaki forests help lower the temperature, make the soil nutritious, enhance the capacity for retention of water and carbon sequestration. “In INS Venduruthy, they have maintained the first plantation well but it has not grown on expected lines. There are around 1,800 plants in ten cents and they have been all labelled to create awareness among school children,” said a K-DISC official. The second plot is the Navy’s own initiative. “The Miyawaki forest at Cusat campus has also registered good growth,” she said. “The fastest and most dense growth was seen at Government High School at Chalai, Thiruvananthapuram, Munakkal beach at Azhikode and Cusat,” she said. While planting in 10 Miyawaki forests have been completed, two projects at Malappuram and Kozhikode would be completed in a month or two. “We are also planning to undertake an environmental evaluation of these sites, including their impact on air quality and sound pollution, next year,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ins-venduruthy-to-develop-second-miyawaki-forest/articleshow/81249095.cms||Binu Karunakaran
February 28, 2021||Delhi||ASI kills self inside PCR van in west Delhi||NEW DELHI: An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Delhi Police allegedly shot himself dead with his service pistol in a Police Control Room (PCR) van while he was on duty at Zakhira flyover in west Delhi on Saturday morning, officials said. The ASI, Tej Pal (55), was attached with the PCR unit. He was residing in Rajnagar in Ghaziabad, they said. Police were informed about the suicide around 7am, they said, adding no suicide note was recovered from the incident spot. The assistant sub-inspector allegedly shot himself in the chest, a senior police officer said. He was rushed to ABG hospital by the PCR van driver where he was declared brought dead. The PCR van in which the ASI shot himself was examined by the crime team, police said, adding further investigation is going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/asi-kills-self-inside-pcr-van-in-w-delhi/articleshow/81250049.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Agra||Protests on AMU campus as student goes missing||AGRA: Four days after Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) student Mohd Ashraf Ali went missing under mysterious circumstances, a large number of students along with the missing youth’s brother staged a protest on the campus on Saturday, urging the varsity administration to trace his whereabouts. According to the AMU administration, vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor has spoken with the IG and officials of the state and central governments regarding the missing student. The university is making every effort to trace him. The same was conveyed to a delegation of students led by student leader Farhan Zuberi and Ashraf’s brother when they met registrar Abdul Hamid on Saturday. After the meeting, Zuberi said, as per information, Ashraf spoke to someone on the phone for over an hour before he disappeared. Police are trying to trace that number, he added. The student’s brother, Mohd Ayaz Aalam, who was in Aligarh, told TOI that Ashraf spoke to his mother on February 22, a day before he went missing. He said, “He didn’t show any kind of stress or problem. In fact, he was coming to Bihar to appear in an exam of Urdu translators scheduled on February 28.” He had booked his train ticket for Patna for February 26, he added. Kuldeep Singh Gunawat , SP (city), told TOI that Ashraf’s last location has been traced in Delhi and he was in touch with a person whose identity is being established. A police team has already been sent there. Ashraf, who hails from Bihar’s Araria district, has been missing since 3 pm on Tuesday. The CCTV footage of the main gate of Aftab Hall of the university shows him walking out around 3:30 pm. He was last spotted by some university students at Shamshad market in Aligarh. He is pursuing BA (Honours) in Spanish and stays at the university’s SS South hostel. Ashraf’s roommate, Amzad Ali, who spoke to him when he was going out of the hostel on that fateful day, said his mobile phone has been switched off since he went missing. However, his cell phone was switched on for a few seconds around 3 am on Wednesday but was again turned off, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/protests-on-amu-campus-as-student-goes-missing/articleshow/81248510.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Agra||Tikait looks southward for support against farm laws||Agra: After drawing huge crowds at 'kisan panchayats' in Haryana, Rajasthan and western Uttar Pradesh, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait is planning to look south for support against the three farm laws.The farm leader is expected to hold at least 15 'kisan mahapanchayats' in six states, including Telangana and Karnataka, in the next 23 days, according to a schedule released by BKU on Saturday. On March 6, Tikait will address farmers in Telangana, while from March 20 to 22, he will lead three 'kisan mahapanchayats' in Karnataka. BKU leadership has set a target to ensure participation of farmers from all states in the ongoing stir. Tikait had also asked farmers to be prepared for the “Delhi march”.BKU member Dharmendra Malik said, “We have finalised the schedule for 'kisan mahapanchayats' till March 22. Senior leaders from southern states had requested Rakesh Tikait’s visit to boost the morale of local farmers. They had come to Ghazipur border and handed over a formal invitation. For now, we have chalked out plans for Telangana and Karnataka. Other states such as Tamil Nadu and Kerala will be covered in the next phase.” Malik added, “The government tried to divide farmers. Our unity is intact. We will make it a pan-India movement. Farmers from across the country will mark their presence in the next 'Delhi march'. The dates will be finalised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha." Tikait had said on Wednesday that if the Centre does not repeal the agri laws, farmers will bring in 40 lakh tractors to Delhi and lay siege to the Parliament complex. “Harvest your crops in 20 days and get your tractors ready. Call for a ‘Delhi march’ can be given anytime now,” Tikait had said at a 'mahapanchayat' in Agra.Besides Telangana and Karnataka, Tikait till will hold four 'kisan mahapanchayats' in UP, including one at Ghazipur border on March 7, three in Rajasthan and three in Madhya Pradesh till March 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/tikait-looks-southward-for-support-against-farm-laws/articleshow/81248518.cms||Deepak Lavania
February 28, 2021||Madurai||South Tamil Nadu reports 45 fresh cases, central districts 56||MADURAI/TRICHY: The ten southern districts of the state reported 45 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the tally to 1,37,470, which include 362 active cases. With no deaths the toll remained at 2,139. Meanwhile, in the central districts, the number of fresh cases jumped from 43 on Friday to 56 taking the tally to 77,189, which include 313 active cases. The toll climbed to 960 as Thanjavur district recorded one death. Dindigul reported 13 infections, followed by Madurai (9). Dindigul (60) also has the most number of active cases in southern Tamil Nadu, followed by Kanyakumari (50) and Madurai (50). Except for Tenkasi (6), all other districts in the southern region reported less than five fresh cases, while Theni and Tuticorin reported only one case each. Sivaganga (4), Tirunelveli (4), Virudhunagar (3), Ramanathapuram (2), Tenkasi (2), and Kanyakumari (2) also reported Covid-19 cases. Thanjavur reported 28 fresh cases, 50 % of the total fresh cases in the central region. The tally of the positive cases of the district touched 18,098. Trichy reported 11 fresh cases taking the tally to 14, 974, the second highest tally after Thanjavur. Covid cases were also reported in Karur (five), Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam (four cases each), Pudukottai (two), while Ariyalur and Perambalur (one case each). No districts recorded zero fresh infections on Saturday. Thanjavur’s toll climbed to 256 as a 70-year-old man from the district died at a private hospital in Chennai on February 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-45-fresh-cases-central-dists-56/articleshow/81254336.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kochi||Cusat students win international recognition||Kochi: The 15th ClassNK BTech Naval Architecture and Shipbuilding (NA&SB) Best Project Award for the final year students in 2020 has been announced by the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat). The award is instituted as per a 2017 MoU signed between Cusat and Tokyo-based ClassNK, the biggest Ship Classification Society in the world that establishes and maintains technical standards for the construction and operation of ships. Raghav Pandey, of the 42 Batch of BTech NA&SB in the department of ship technology (DoST) won the first Best Project Award 2020. Govind R S bagged the second best project award and the third position was shared by Anupam Pathak, Abhinav Aravind and Aspin Raj. “ClassNK Best Project Award is an international award established in 2006. The award carries certificates signed by the chairman of ClassNK and cash prizes of Rs 25,000, Rs 20,000 and Rs 15,000 for the first, second and third best project respectively,” said K Shivaprasad, faculty in charge of ClassNK. The award giving ceremony will be conducted at the Mumbai office of ClassNK on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cusat-students-win-international-recognition/articleshow/81249108.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Trichy||South Tamil Nadu reports 45 fresh cases, central districts 56||MADURAI/TRICHY: The ten southern districts of the state reported 45 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the tally to 1,37,470, which include 362 active cases. With no deaths the toll remained at 2,139. Meanwhile, in the central districts, the number of fresh cases jumped from 43 on Friday to 56 taking the tally to 77,189, which include 313 active cases. The toll climbed to 960 as Thanjavur district recorded one death. Dindigul reported 13 infections, followed by Madurai (9). Dindigul (60) also has the most number of active cases in southern Tamil Nadu, followed by Kanyakumari (50) and Madurai (50). Except for Tenkasi (6), all other districts in the southern region reported less than five fresh cases, while Theni and Tuticorin reported only one case each. Sivaganga (4), Tirunelveli (4), Virudhunagar (3), Ramanathapuram (2), Tenkasi (2), and Kanyakumari (2) also reported Covid-19 cases. Thanjavur reported 28 fresh cases, 50 % of the total fresh cases in the central region. The tally of the positive cases of the district touched 18,098. Trichy reported 11 fresh cases taking the tally to 14, 974, the second highest tally after Thanjavur. Covid cases were also reported in Karur (five), Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam (four cases each), Pudukottai (two), while Ariyalur and Perambalur (one case each). No districts recorded zero fresh infections on Saturday. Thanjavur’s toll climbed to 256 as a 70-year-old man from the district died at a private hospital in Chennai on February 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/south-tn-reports-45-fresh-cases-central-dists-56/articleshow/81250566.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Trichy||Customer attacks shopkeeper who asked for money||(cleared - 144 words) Madurai: A 63-year-old grocery shop-keeper from Nagamalai Pudukottai, Madurai was attacked by a customer for asking him to pay for a recent purchase. The injured person, identified as S Selvi, 63, from NGO Colony, Nagamalai Pudukottai, runs a grocery store attached to her house. M Paramasivam,30, purchased some items worth Rs 400 on credit a few days ago and did not settle the money, despite her requests. Selvi lost patience and scolded him on Friday. Following this, Paramasivam left the place, came back with a knife and attacked her. She suffered injuries on neck, chin and chest. On hearing her scream, the neighbours rushed there and admitted her to a hospital. Based on a complaint from Selvi, a case was registered under various sections of IPC including 307 (attempt to murder) with the Nagamalai Pudukottai police station. The accused was arrested the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/customer-attacks-shopkeeper-who-asked-for-money/articleshow/81250657.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC directs animal welfare board to identify spot for feeding strays||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has directed the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) to intervene in a dispute between animal lovers and Vasant Kunj residents over the feeding of stray dogs and help identify a feeding spot not used by children, senior citizens and other residents. Justice Prathiba M Singh was acting on a petition filed by three animal lovers against the “hindrances” created by the Residents Welfare Association (RWA) of E-2 Block of Vasant Kunj, in the feeding and taking care of stray dogs. The petitioners’ lawyer advocate Abhik Chimni submitted that his clients faced “enormous resistance” from the local residents whenever they tried to feed strays. Appearing for the RWA, advocate S K Pandey referred to a 2009 HC order in respect of taking care of street dogs with consensus by both the parties. He submitted that according to the order, a specified spot has to be identified by the parties and in those identified sites, the street dogs are to be fed by the petitioners. Justice Singh observed the 2009 order had directed the AWBI, in consultation with RWAs, to identify suitable spots or sites in colonies for feeding strays. “It, however, appears that there has been no consensus in identifying a suitable spot. The RWA appears to have been having apprehensions in view of the fact that children and senior residents also roam around in the open area of the block, for their own recreation,” the judge noted. The court noted that the residents of the area were also concerned towards the safety of the children and others living there. Therefore, it said, “The residents and the members of the RWA as also the petitioners have to act in harmony with each other and not in a manner that shall lead to unpleasant circumstances in the colony.” The court directed the AWBI to send two representatives on March 8 to hold a meeting with the RWA and the petitioners and said that during the meeting, the AWBI and the RWA shall interact with residents and the petitioners and identify a spot, not used by children, senior citizens or others. “Once the said spot is identified, the petitioners would feed and take care of the street dogs at that particular spot, and no hindrance, whatsoever, shall be caused to the petitioners in carrying out any activities in respect of the street dogs at the said spot,” it added. Disposing of the petition, the order further stated that SHO concern shall also be present at the meeting in order to ensure peace and harmony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-directs-animal-welfare-board-to-identify-spot-for-feeding-strays/articleshow/81250137.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Displaced migrant workers suffer higher mental health issues||CHANDIGARH: The displaced migrant working population suffer from significantly higher mental health issues than their undisplaced counterparts, according to a multicentric cross-sectional study conducted in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan during the Covid-19 lockdown period. The study associated the higher prevalence of mental health issues with their journey back to their native villages. A high prevalence of substance abuse was also found among the reverse migrant population than the undisplaced migrants as well as the general population. The central government had set up temporary shelter homes with basic amenities free of cost for migrant workers and their families. Despite that, a large number of migrant workers moved out of shelter homes to head back to their native places. Titled ‘psychiatric morbidity and substance use in migrant workers: A population-based study’, aimed at assessing the prevalence and pattern of mental health issues and substance use in the migrant workers who worked for at least six months in four cities — Chandigarh, Bathinda, Panchkula and Jaipur –and were staying at temporary shelter homes and were in the process of returning to their native places. The undisplaced group consisted of migrant workers who were from the same geographical area, but decided to stay back in the city of the workplace. A total of 275 migrant workers and 276 undisplaced migrants from these four cities were included in the study. The analysis of the patient health questionnaire (PHQ) for mental health reveals that at least one diagnosis was found significantly higher among reverse migrants. With respect to other depressive disorders, there were higher chances among reverse migrants as compared with undisplaced migrants. However, the occurrence of somatoform disorders was seen similar in both groups. Tobacco was found to be the most abused substance followed by alcohol among both groups. Cannabis was used by 4.7% of reverse migrants while only 2.5% of other migrant workers used it. The average expenditure incurred on tobacco by reverse migrants and their counterparts was Rs 444.95 and Rs 166.57 per month, respectively. Among reverse migrants and undisplaced migrants 35.3% and 33.3% had used tobacco in the last one year and 10.5% and 19.2% in the last three months, respectively. The pattern of tobacco use was daily in 72.5% and four to six times a week in 13.8% of reverse migrants while 79.3% of undisplaced participants used tobacco daily and 7.5% 4 to 6 times a week. Use of oral and inhalational of tobacco use was found in 71.7% and 6.1% in reverse migrants while in their counterparts, the corresponding figures were 59.8% and 40.2%, respectively. The average expenditure among reverse migrants and undisplaced workers for alcohol was Rs 324.41 and Rs 457.24, respectively. About 88.2% of reverse migrants and 89.7% of undisplaced workers had consumed alcohol in the last one year and 55.9% of reverse migrants and 74.1% of undisplaced workers in the last three months respectively. The mean age of alcohol use among reverse migrants was 22.15 years while in nondisplaced migrant it was 21.76 years. The study, conducted by B S Chavan, Ajeet Sidana, Priti Arun, Gurvinder Pal Singh and Ravi Rohilla of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Chandigarh; R K Solanki, Himanshu Sharma, Raviprakash Sharma of SMS Medical College, Jaipur; Jitender Aneja and Madhur Verma of AIIMS, Bhatinda; Mankirat Kaur Murara, nodal officer Covid volunteers health, Panchkula; Saikat Chakraborty, Sanjay Bahri (Retd) and Dushant, volunteer with Corona Sena Volunteer Group, Panchkula. “To understand the need of migrant workers for providing them holistic services so that their suffering can be minimised, there is a need for close collaboration and interaction between central and state governments, health organisation, non-governmental organisation and the migrant population,” said Dr Ajeet Sidana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/displaced-migrant-workers-suffer-higher-mental-health-issues/articleshow/81250169.cms||Vinod Kumar
February 28, 2021||Goa||Churchill Bros wary of Gokulam Kerala threat||Churchill Brothers FC will look to stretch their lead at the top when they face Gokulam Kerala FC in the final match of the I-League’s first phase at the Kishore Bharati Krirangan in Kolkata on Monday. Churchill are leading the standings with 19 points and are unbeaten in nine games. Kerala are not far behind in fourth place with 16 points. Real Kashmir FC, the only other unbeaten team in the league, lost 0-2 against Mohammedan SC on Saturday. They are second with 17 points. “Gokulam are a tough team with good Indian and foreign players. We have to be careful and stick to our philosophy to get three points. They are good in attack and we must not make any mistakes in defence,” Churchill head coach Fernando Varela told TOI in an online interaction on Sunday. Having coached Kerala last season, Varela knows their mentality. Churchill won their last game 1-0 against Neroca FC but had a lucky escape after the opposition were denied by the crossbar in added time. “Last game against Neroca was very good. It was one of the best games of the season. We have to continue in the same way to achieve our goal,” said Varela. Churchill will be happy to see Honduran striker Clayvin Zuniga scoring again after a lull of four matches, but the former champions will have to be more clinical in front of goal. Kerala come into the fixture after a three-match winning run and will look to upset Churchill’s momentum. Clayvin is the league’s top scorer with six goals and has formed a strong partnership with his Slovenian strike partner Luka Majcen. Kerala will have to come with a plan to keep them quiet. “They (Churchill) have a very good team but we are also a good team. We are training all the time to attack, to push. We want to defend forward, and this is the mentality in our game,” said Kerala head coach Vincenzo Annese. Churchill’s defence has been marshalled by Lebanese centre-back Hamza Kheir. They have only conceded four goals which is the best record in the league. Kerala knows their chances will be few and have to make them count. “In psychology, some things can change in the game. It is important we score first then I want to see what they will do. We will not get too many chances, but we hope we create opportunities and score against Churchill Brothers,” said the Italian coach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churchill-bros-wary-of-gokulam-kerala-threat/articleshow/81264056.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Amritsar||Bathinda: Man robbed of Rs 5 lakh on lure of Covid cure, accused held||BATHINDA: In a curious case, Bathinda police arrested two persons on charges of duping a man on the lure of selling him red mercury supposedly to cure Covid-19. They fled with Rs 5 lakh. Police have recovered Rs 4.5 lakh from the arrested persons. Red mercury is reportedly used in nuclear bombs but in the past, social media buzzed with rumours of its use in curing Covid-19. Cases of people being duped in the name of red mercury were reported across the country. One Surjit Singh of Beed Behman village in Bathinda learnt about scams going on in the name of red mercury and its demand on social media. He contacted one Balraj Singh of Mandi Kalan village, Bathinda and asked him to find a buyer. They pulled a tube from an old TV and painted it red, after which they poured cough syrup into the tube and sealed it. Then they spread word on social media that they had red mercury and wanted to sell it cheaply. They prevailed upon one Swaraj Singh of Bathinda to buy the red mercury for Rs 5 lakh to sell it further at higher rates as “it was very much in demand”, said Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP), Bhupinderjit Singh Virk. Both Surjit and Balraj called Swaraj near Rose Garden on February 25. When Swaraj reached, they took the money from him and said that the red mercury was with someone at the nearby Green City Colony. They asked Swaraj to accompany them to Green City but fled on their motorcycle with the money. Swaraj approached the police and a case of snatching was registered. “After the two accused were arrested on Saturday, we came to know about the issue where both had tried to dupe Swaraj but fled upon getting the money. Police have recovered Rs 4.5 lakh and the motorcycle used in the crime and now we will investigate why they fled without providing even fake red mercury,” said the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/man-robbed-of-rs-5-lakh-on-lure-of-covid-cure-accused-held/articleshow/81250174.cms||Neel Kamal
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra says no worrying mutations but geneticists question sampling method||MUMBAI: State health officials on Saturday said genome sequencing conducted on 52 Covid-19 samples had not shown any particular mutation that could have led to the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. Experts, though, fear the state’s method of drawing samples randomly is a problem and that it isn’t scientific enough to draw the right conclusions. On Saturday, state health services director Dr Archana Patil told TOI that 52 samples tested by the National Institute of Virology in Pune had not found any predominant mutation in the SARS-CoV-2 virus that was triggering the present surge in cases in the state. Dr Nerges Mistry of the Foundation for Medical Research (FMR), though, questioned the state’s decision to randomly select Covid-19-positive samples for genome sequencing. Earlier in February, as cases rose in Amravati and Yavatmal, samples were randomly selected for whole genome sequencing; the results showed mutations that had been in circulation in India for a few months. “Cluster-based sampling will provide a more robust picture,” said Dr Mistry, who was the first to discover totally drug-resistant TB strains in circulation in Mumbai more than a decade ago. For example, 229 students and teachers from a school in Washim district should be looked at as a super-spreader event that led to a cluster. “We need to pick up 80% of these samples for genome sequencing and then relate the findings with epidemiological tracking of affecting persons,” she said. Genome sequencing hasn’t been widely used in India, with around 6,000 out of the 1.1 crore Covid-19 cases sequenced so far. “That is only 0.054%,” said Dr Kayzad Nilgiriwala who specializes in whole genome sequencing. He said while all viruses mutate, the Covid-19 situation in the state pointed to two possibilities vis-a-vis the theory that variants are the cause for the surge. “The surge could have been caused by an influx of external (from foreign countries) variants or it could be the occurrence of new mutations within Indian viral strains,” he said. To be able to analyse to such an extent, India should have conducted studies to identify a standard Indian viral strain. “One of the main problems in India is most samples are still tested against the Wuhan strain that caused the pandemic in 2019,” said Dr Nilgiriwala. Dr Mistry concurred it is time to identify a standard Indian viral strain to understand the evolution of Indian variants. In districts such as Amravati, where the surge was first noticed, the state should have picked up between 1,000 and 1,500 samples for whole genome sequencing to get the right answer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-says-no-worrying-mutations-but-geneticists-question-sampling-method/articleshow/81249149.cms||Malathy Iyer
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||BMC has a cash crunch but it’s not for Sena corporators?||MUMBAI: BMC is facing a massive financial crisis but political parties are scrambling for funds in an election year. Out of Rs 650 crore funds passed by the civic standing committee, Shiv Sena, which has 97 corporators, bagged around Rs 200 crore. BJP claimed that despite having 83 corporators, it has got only Rs 60 crore. BJP alleged that despite a controversy over arbitrary use of funds in his Byculla constituency, Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav, who is chairman of the standing committee, again got Rs 30 crore. TimesViewAt a time when the BMC is facing a cash crunch, it is surprising that corporators are going on a spending spree using civic funds. The civic body cannot afford to distribute such discretionary funds. It must ensure that these funds are used to create civic amenities and focus on providing basic requirements like good roads and open spaces.Jadhav denied he got Rs 30 crore this year. He faced flak for getting Rs 33 crore last year and spending it on freebies like computers, food and vegetable trucks, indoor gym equipment, solar lights and jute bags. “We given BJP corporators Rs 1 crore each, and we also allocated Rs 60 crore for them. Their total is Rs 143 crore. This allocation was done in consultation with civic group leaders. BJP was part of the consultations and it agreed to the amount. I distributed funds fairly. Sena has 97 corporations, but I only allocated around Rs 200 crore extra for it. Most funds in Sena’s kitty are for manifesto items,” Jadhav said. This year, the civic administration slashed the civic standing committee’s amendment fund in the budget by Rs 100 crore. The committee was allocated around Rs 650 crore compared to last year’s Rs 750 crore. “Funds were cut because of BJP. Instead of getting Rs 1,000 crore, this year we got only Rs 650 crore. Had BJP not raked up the issue of funds, corporators would have got more development funds. Let them show I got Rs 30 crore this and I will resign. If it is untrue they must blacken their faces,” Jadhav said. BJP alleged that fund distribution was arbitrary. “This is a scam. By not allocating enough to BJP (83 corporators), Sena is making 30% of Mumbai suffer. It must remember people from all constituencies, including where BJP has won, are Mumbaikars, and it is their money too,” said BJP corporator Vinod Mishra, party leader in BMC. Once the budget is laid out, the standing committee makes amendments and sets aside funds for corporators for work in their constituencies. This becomes part of a corporator’s development fund. “The mechanism of area development funds must be re-examined. Not more than 2% of the budget must be given for unplanned funds. We should aim at a 100% planned budget. All corporators’ funds must only be used for creating civic amenities and be part of planned expenditure. Their use must be strictly regulated and monitored,” said Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party MLA and corporator. ‘...Does BMC mean Yashwant Jadhav Pvt Ltd Company? Remember, you are discriminating against Mumbaikars!,’ BJP MLA Ashish Shelar tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-has-a-cash-crunch-but-its-not-for-sena-corporators/articleshow/81250210.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||199 +ve in Haryana, 3 die of Covid||Chandigarh: Haryana on Saturday saw yet another rise in Covid-19 cases as 199 people were found infected with the virus in the state and three died of it. After long, the number of new cases outnumbered number of fresh recoveries, which were 94 during the day, in the state. With this, the number Covid cases in the state rose to 2,70,610 cases. Of these, 2,66,358 are recoveries, 3,047 deaths and 1,205 active cases. The state’s Covid recovery rate is 98.43%. A death each was reported from Gurgaon, Ambala and Karnal districts. Gurgaon topped the state in terms of new cases as 62 people tested positive. It was followed by 33 new cases in Karnal, 29 in Kurukshetra, and 20 each in Panchkula and Ambala. The remaining 17 districts reported less than 10 new cases. These included eight districts — Rohtak, Rewari, Mahindergarh, Jhajjar, Palwal, Fatehabad, Nuh and Charkh Dadri — which did not report any new case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/199-ve-in-haryana-3-die-of-covid/articleshow/81250188.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Aurangabad||Field survey for rail line begins today||Aurangabad: A team of senior railway officials is scheduled to begin its field survey for the proposed 120-km rail line between Aurangabad and Ahmednagar from Sunday. The crucial exercise, which is expected to be completed by March 6, will see officials visiting Aurangabad city, Gangapur taluka in Aurangabad district, Nevasa and Shani Shingnapur in Ahmednagar district and Manmad in Nashik district among other locations. “The survey team is required to establish contact with the divisional railway officials, district collector offices, local agricultural produce market committees, bus depots, railway station officials and transport operators to collect the necessary data to study the trends and pattern of existing traffic and prospect of traffic generation,” S C Jain, the deputy chief operations manager of Central Railway, said in an official communication with competent authorities. Anant Borkar, president of the advocacy group Marathwada Railway Action Committee, said the proposed rail route has tremendous potential not only for passenger traffic but also freight transport. “Aurangabad and Jalna are two major industrial hubs in Maharashtra, which can offer target freight carrying for Indian Railways. Besides, the route witnesses huge passenger traffic as it further connects to Pune. It is up to the government authorities and public representatives to present necessary facts and data before the survey team,” he said. Rajya Sabha member Bhagwat Karad, who had raised the demand for the rail route, said, “Upon our request, Union railway minister Piyush Goyal has expedited the necessary formalities, including completion of a traffic survey. As regards to further route from Ahmednagar to Pune, the railway ministry is expected to take an official decision soon,” he said. Currently, there is no direct rail connectivity from Aurangabad and Ahmednagar to Pune except going via Manmad, which requires additional time and money. Notably, Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure DevelopmentCorporation (MRIDC) Limited, a joint venture of the state government and the railway ministry, had given a go-ahead for the rail route from Aurangabad to Pune via Ahmednagar in November last year. It had ordered various checks, including the traffic survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/field-survey-for-rail-line-begins-today/articleshow/81248547.cms||Prasad Joshi
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Former BMC boss Sitaram Kunte to occupy chief secretary’s chair||MUMBAI: Veteran bureaucrat Sitaram Kunte will be the new chief secretary, Manukumar Srivasatava the new additional chief secretary (home), and metropolitan commissioner R A Rajeev, whose retirement is due by the end of the month, may get a three-month extension. It is learnt that an MVA minister has opposed Rajeev’s extension and now chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a decision on the matter. Kunte will take over the reins of the state bureaucracy on Monday, the first day of the budget session of the legislature. He will retire on November 30. Besides Kunte, former municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi was in the zone of consideration for the chief secretary’s post. While Pardeshi and Kunte belong to the same batch, of 1985, the former is senior to the latter. After his unceremonious exit from the BMC over the handling of the Covid-19 situation, Pardeshi was appointed to the urban development department. Pardeshi did not join his new posting but immediately took up an assignment with the UN, which irked a prominent person in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) led by Uddhav Thackeray. If a bureaucrat is to be believed, on that very day the MVA leadership decided to appoint Kunte the new chief secretary. Kunte, currently the additional chief secretary (home), replaces Sanjay Kumar, who will retire on February 28. The low-profile and soft-spoken Kunte was collector of Dhule from 1993 to 1995 and later, for a brief period, of Beed. In his bureaucratic career spanning more than three and a half decades, Kunte held several key assignments. He was in the BMC for a long period in different capacities. He was deputy municipal commissioner for a year in 2001, additional municipal commissioner from 2001 to 2005, and finally municipal commissioner from 2012 to 2015. He was replaced by Ajoy Mehta, who was senior to Kunte. A product of the Delhi School of Economics, Kunte was secretary to governor S M Krishna from 2006 to 2008. Besides occupying the post of Mhada managing director, Kunte was housing secretary for two years, from 2008 to 2010. Kunte was instrumental in preparing the draft document for the Maharashtra Housing Regulatory Act. Kunte also worked in the departments of forest, finance and environment and services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/former-bmc-boss-kunte-to-occupy-chief-secys-chair/articleshow/81250232.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Dehradun||Vijay Hazare Trophy: U'khand continue winning streak, beat Mizoram by 8 wickets||Dehradun: Uttarakhand secured its fourth consecutive win on Saturday in the ongoing Vijay Hazare Trophy tournament. The state cricket team defeated Mizoram in a one-sided encounter by 8 wickets in Chennai. Mizoram won the toss and chose to bat first. However, the team's batting line-up crumbled. For Uttarakhand, part-time medium-pacer Dikshanshu Negi grabbed a six-wicket haul. The 30-year-old cricketer achieved his career-best figures of 5-0-21-6. Mizoram could manage to put up just 117 runs on the board. For Mizoram, Taruwar Kohli played a defiant knock of 62 runs even as eight of its batsmen got dismissed for a single-digit score. In response, Uttarakhand chased down the target within just 11 overs. Skipper Kunal Chandela scored 58 runs off 30 deliveries. His knock included 10 boundaries. The List A game saw less than 50 overs being bowled across both innings. Uttarakhand’s next match is against Sikkim on Monday. The side will look to win its fifth consecutive game in the tournament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/vijay-hazare-trophy-ukhand-continue-winning-streak-beat-mizoram-by-8-wickets/articleshow/81248556.cms||Mohammad Anab
February 28, 2021||Gurgaon||Youth dies as tractor rams SUV near Rajiv Chowk||GURUGRAM: A youth was killed after an SUV and a tractor collided near Rajiv Chowk on NH-8 late on Friday night. The incident happened on the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway. An FIR has been registered against the driver of the tractor, who has been detained. The man who died has been identified as Praveen Nasa. He had gone out with his friends on Friday night in his Mahindra Scorpio. While Praveen was driving the car, his friend Deepanshu Lalit was sitting in the front seat and two others, Parul and Harshpreet, were sitting in the back. They had started from Shivaji Nagar towards IFFCO Chowk. Near the Rajiv Chowk flyover, a tractor-trolley hit the SUV, which rammed into the divider, injuring all four inside. Praveen died on the spot. “The driver of the tractor was driving very rashly,” Lalit told police. According to police, they were informed about an accident on the national highway around 10pm. A team from the Sector 40 police station rushed to the spot and detained the tractor driver. The injured were taken to Medanta hospital for treatment, where they are currently undergoing treatment. “As soon as we received the information, two PCRs rushed to the spot, one from Sector 40 police station and another from Civil Lines police station. They reached in time to save the lives of the three others in the SUV,” police spokesperson Subhash Boken said. An FIR has been registered against the tractor driver under sections 279 (rash driving) and and 304A (negligence causing death) of the IPC. “We have detained the driver from the spot and also confiscated the two vehicles involved in the accident,” Boken added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/youth-dies-as-tractor-rams-suv-near-rajiv-chowk/articleshow/81250230.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Dehradun||Seven lakh devotees take holy dip in Ganga on Magh Purnima||HARIDWAR: Nearly seven lakh pilgrims took a holy dip in the Ganga in Haridwar on the occasion of Magh Purnima bathing festival on Saturday. Mela IG Sanjay Gunjayal told TOI, “We ensured that all Covid-19 norms were being followed. No untoward incident was reported.” Meanwhile, the health department, during random testing at district borders, found 15 devotees coming towards Haridwar to be infected with Covid-19. The infected were taken to local hospitals and isolated there. DM Haridwar C Ravishankar told TOI, “A total of 15 pilgrims were found Covid-19 positive during random testing. Some of them were isolated in local hospitals and others were not permitted to enter the city.” In another significant development on the day, a 52-foot-long religious flag (Dharma Dhwaja) was installed in the premises of Shri Panchayati Niranjani and Aanand akhadas on the occasion of Magh Purnima. Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Swami Narendra Giri, who comes from Niranjani Akhada, told TOI, “The installation of the flag marks the commencement of the Kumbh Mela. The Ramta Panch (a group of five senior seers) and the Peshwai (a procession) will enter the akhadas on March 3.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/seven-lakh-devotees-take-holy-dip-in-ganga-on-magh-purnima/articleshow/81248570.cms||MS Nawaz
February 28, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Estate manager accused of sexual abuse||GURUGRAM: The estate manager of Sector 57’s Aloha Apartments has been booked for allegedly sexually harassing a resident on Friday. The complainant said she had gone to see him with her husband regarding a seepage issue damaging their car. According to her complaint, the woman had gone to maintenance office to see Manoj, the estate manager. “We asked him for a letter of acknowledgement of our complaint, but he refused,” she told police. “At this point, he came near me and started touching me inappropriately on the back and neck. He also pushed me. My husband pushed him back. We then called the police as well as other residents,” she said. An FIR was filed against Manoj under section 354A (sexual harassment) of the IPC at Sector 56 police station on Friday night. “We have registered a case and are investigating the matter,” said a police officer. Meanwhile, residents alleged that the estate manager is a “repeat offender” who has harassed other women in the society as well. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/estate-manager-accused-of-sexual-abuse/articleshow/81250251.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||Tests increasing, cases down, restrictions proving effective||Nagpur: Increased testing, strict restrictions on public movement and semi-lockdown like conditions in Akola, Amravati and Buldhana have started showing results.On Saturday, Vidarbha region reported 2,896 new cases, less than the 3,000 mark for the first time in the last three days. Moreover, 11 districts in the region together conducted more than 27,000 tests on Saturday which itself is a record.Despite more tests, the number of new cases has gone down as compared to the last three days, which could be a positive indicator that the infection is coming under control. With Akola and Amravati extending their semi-lockdown situation up to March 8, and the other 5 districts — Nagpur, Yavatmal, Washim, Wardha and Buldhana imposing weekend shutdowns, Vidarbha is likely to reduce cases in the coming week.On Saturday, 2,896 Covid-19 cases came from Nagpur 984, Amravati 640, Buldhana 349, Akola 280, Yavatmal 233, Wardha 155, Washim 126, Chandrapur 46, Bhandara 40, Gadchiroli 21 and Gondia 22. The total reached 3,16,591. In all, 1,637 patients have recovered. The recovery rate of Vidarbha is still above 90%.Nagpur alone conducted 13,027 tests in a day, which is a record. Out of them, 984 tested positive. The sample positivity rate in Nagpur is just 7.55%. The other districts also ramped up testing. Amravati (2271), Buldhana (2979), Akola (1650), Yavatmal (1681), Wardha (1604), Bhandara (1155), Chandrapur (841), Gadchiroli (542) and Gondia (378) conducted more tests on Saturday.As the number of new cases are on the rise, the number of under-treatment patients is also increasing daily. On Saturday, 23,318 patients were under treatment in Vidarbha.Cases in the month of February surpassed the 40,000 mark on Saturday and reached 42,883. Deaths due to Covid-19 touched 398. Out of these, 234 were reported in the last ten days.The increasing number of deaths has raised concerns. Total 25 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported. These include 10 from Nagpur district, 8 from Amravati and 3 from Akola. Yavatmal and Wardha reported 2 deaths each. The overall toll of Vidarbha region reached 7,366. Case fatality rate is 2.32% which is still better than the state average. But, a sudden surge in deaths in the last 10 days has raised concerns.Akola: With 280 new cases in a day, Akola has reported 3000 plus cases in last 10 days. (from Feb 17 to 27). Three senior citizen patients died during treatment on Saturday. This took total death toll to 366 in Akola. Now, 15672 total cases, 11938 recoveries, and 3368 patients are under treatment in district.Buldhana: The district reported 349 new cases on Saturday. Total 234 patients recovered in a day while no death was reported. Buldhana now has 18328 total cases, 15492 recoveries, 192 fatalities and 2644 patients under treatment.Washim: With 126 new cases in a day, Washim district now has 8747 total cases of Covid-19. These include 229 students from a residential school in Degaon village. They are recovering fast. Total 7313 patients have recovered in Washim till date. With 157 deaths reported till date, Washim has 1276 patients under treatment.Gondia: The district has reported 22 new cases, 07 recoveries and no death. Total reached 14422 including 14116 recoveries, 185 deaths and 121 patients under treatment.Gadchiroli: The district now has 98 patients under treatment. This is due to the increase of 21 new patients on Saturday. Only 9 patients recovered in a day. Now, Gadchiroli has 9535 total cases, 9331 recoveries and 106 deaths.Bhandara: With 40 new cases, 14 recoveries and no death, Bhandara now has 13652 cases, 13093 recoveries and 231 patients under treatment.Yavatmal: Despite several stringent measures, there is no let up in the surge of Covid cases for the last 8-10 days in Yavatmal district. The death toll went up to 462 with two deaths on Saturday. The deceased comprise a 68-year-old man from Pandharkawda and a 40-year-old man from Digras. 1,681 test reports were received on Saturday, of which 233 (139 male and 94 females) were found positive. Currently there are 1,502 patients undergoing treatment in various Covid-19 care centres across the district. Out of the 17,330 Covid patients in the district so far, 15,369, including 156 on Saturday, have recovered and been discharged from hospitals.Amravati: Even as the lockdown in Amravati and Achalpur cities has been extended for another week and Anjangaon Surji town, too, now declared as a containment zone, Covid deaths in the district crossed the 500-mark and reached 503 with eight deaths on the second successive day on Saturday.640 new cases took the caseload to 34,225, while discharge of 498 patients took the recoveries tally to 28,856, leaving 4,866 under treatment.Wardha: The district once again crossed the 1000-mark of active cases after 155 new patients tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. 119 patients were discharged and recoveries reached 10,836. Active patient count is now 1,010.The caseload increased to 12,187 cases and with two Covid deaths, a 70-year-old and an 85-year-old man from Wardha, the toll reached 341. New cases were reported from Wardha (87), Hinganghat (19), Deoli (16), Selu and Arvi (9 each), Ashti and Karanja (6 each) and Samudrapur (3). 1,604 test reports were received on Saturday.Chandrapur: There were 46 new cases, while 22 patients were discharged on Saturday, leaving 269 active cases. No death was reported and the toll remained at 398. The Covid-19 caseload has climbed to 23,604, while recoveries amount to 22,937.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tests-increasing-cases-down-restrictions-proving-effective/articleshow/81249182.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 28, 2021||Aurangabad||Trains to Nanded, Shirdi restored||AURANGABAD: The South Central Railway (SCR) will restore the weekly trains from Aurangabad to Nanded and Renigunta from April for the convenience of passengers. The weekly train to Shirdi via parts of the region, including Aurangabad, has also been restored. The Aurangabad-Renigunta weekly train (07621) will run every Friday from April 2 and in the return direction, on every Saturday from April 3. The Nanded-Aurangabad (07619) and Aurangabad-Nanded (07620) weekly will ply every Friday and Monday, respectively, from April. The train connectivity to Shirdi, Vijayawada-Sainagar (Shirdi) and Sainagar-Vijayawada weekly train will run every Tuesday and Wednesday respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/trains-to-nanded-shirdi-restored/articleshow/81248569.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||How India retained Ferozepur headworks||NEW DELHI: The alertness and diligence of Indian civil engineers, such as erstwhile Bikaner state chief engineer Kanwar Sain, in realising the strategic importance of Ferozepur headworks of the Sutlej remaining in Indian hands led to an urgent intervention that moved the Radcliffe line a few crucial kilometre west. A last hour plea by Jawaharlal Nehru to Lord Louis Mountbatten, India’s last viceroy, on Ferozepur, among other issues, might have held back the Radclifffe award by a few days. When the award was announced on August 17, 1947, the entire area on the left bank with the Gang(a) canal was Indian territory, reveals a new book — ‘Indus Basin Interrupted’ by Uttam Sinha, currently with the IDSA. Using original correspondence and memoirs of key persons, Sinha, who holds a Phd from JNU, says the situation was not so sanguine just a week earlier. The chief engineer of Punjab, Sarup Singh, discovered on August 8 that the DC of Ferozepur had been asked to select tehsil headquarters outside the area also excluding Zira and Fazilka — a strong hint the area was going to west Punjab. Singh sent a secret sealed letter to Sain explaining the gravity of the situation. Disturbed by the prospects of the headworks being lost to Pakistan, Sain lobbied a key official, Sardar Pannikar, who had the ear of the Bikaner royal Sadul Singh. The maharaja was urged to use his excellent contacts with Mountbatten as disruption of the canals would be catastrophic for the state. The royal wrote to Mountbatten that he greatly feared an adverse award will “gravely prejudice the interest of Bikaner as its economic life is greatly dependent on water supply from the Gang canal.” He further threatened that he would join Pakistan if his concerns were not heeded. The Viceroy was cold to Pannikar, who was deputed to meet him, but the official along with Sain spoke urgently with Nehru and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. The consultations on the fateful day of August 11 saw Nehru vigorously informing Mountbatten that from the strategic and irrigation point of view, it will be “most dangerous” to let Ferozepur go to Pakistan. No area east of the Sutlej should be part of Pakistan and there should be no joint control of electricity. The same evening it was made public that the award will be delayed by a few days. Matters were aided by Radcliffe’s initial draft being shown to Lala Adjudhia, chairman of the central waterways commission, who tipped off Patel. Radcliffe was summoned by Mountbatten and the map changed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-india-retained-ferozepur-headworks/articleshow/81251973.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Dehradun||Services at Doon Med College remains affected as contractual workers continue with their strike on Day 6||Dehradun: Doctors are being forced to treat people in emergency rooms and wards while MBBS passouts are making OPD bills at the Government Doon Medical College (GDMC) since 300 contractual staffers, whose contracts are expiring today, are on a strike to renew the same. As per sources, over 50 major surgeries were postponed due to lack of manpower and even the blood bank services were badly impacted. As per the estimate, 150 staff nurses were hired via a third party agency in GDMC in March last year along with 8 computer operators, 71 ward boys, 20 ward attendants (females), 20 lab technicians, 4 pharmacists, 4 OT technicians, 3 X-ray technicians, etc. These staffers were employed through Uttarakhand Purv Sainik Kalyan Nigam Limited (UPSKNL) or Prantiya Rakshak Dal (PRD). According to GDMC sources, doctors are forced to dress wounds of the patients on their own as nurses and ward boys are on strike. “The hospital only admitted 42 patients since Monday as there is an acute staff shortage. Many major surgeries have been postponed as nurses are on strike and no one is there to assist doctors,” said a senior doctor at GDMC, who also confirmed that JRs are clearing bills in the hospital as over 300 contractual staffers refuse to work. Rohit Verma, a striking healthcare worker who was in GDMC since March last year, told TOI that the government has recently issued notification of new recruitments of nurses in government medical colleges and hospitals but it is not ready to appoint the already working nurses as staffers. “Most of the PRD and UPSKNL workers, who were hired at GDMC in March, were earlier working in private hospitals but left their jobs in a hope that if they will serve the government in need, they might be considered for a full time job. We want the government to consider us first when a permanent recruitment notification has been circulated,” he added. Dr Ashutosh Sayana, principal GDMC, said that the hospital is doing all possible things to help the striking workers but certain things are beyond their control. “We have already written to the government about their grievances. The daily operations of the hospital have been impacted, but it’s manageable for now. Patients are being treated in wards and OPDs,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/services-at-doon-med-college-remains-affected-as-contractual-workers-continue-with-their-strike-on-day-6/articleshow/81248578.cms||Ishita Mishra
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||BEST introduces new AC routes||BEST on Saturday introduced new AC bus route A-629 from Samata Nagar bus station to Borivli (East) station. The operation will be from 6.45am to 10pm with a frequency interval of 15 minutes, an official said. Another AC route, A-293, has been extended and will operate between Jay Maharastra Nagar and Shri Krishna Nagar Post office via Borivli station, the official added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-introduces-new-ac-routes/articleshow/81250281.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana excise department in a fix over fresh policy||CHANDIGARH: The Covid-19 lockdown may be over but its impact has left the Haryana excise and taxation department struggling to decide the next financial year’s excise policy. Because the liquor outlets had a delayed opening in the pandemic, this license year will end on May 18 instead of March 31, so the department is in a fix on the policy tenure for the next fiscal. The process is on with the constituting of two subcommittees to interact with the stakeholders such as vendors and companies but the final call will be taken in May. The practice is to unveil the excise policy before the presentation of budget, so that estimates could be made. The financial year used to run from April 1 to March 31. Due to the outbreak, the sale of liquor was suspended in the last week of March 2020, so the excise year began from May 1 and the policy came into force on May 19. The liquor contractors want the current policy renewed till March 2022 to avoid additional taxation exercises, while the department explores three options—announcing policy till March 2022, renewing it till March 2022, or continue with the May 19 to May 18 cycle. Haryana allied liquor association president Joginger Singh said: “The government should be lenient with the contractors and the companies. Earlier, we filed our returns and maintained our books for one financial year only but now the work is double, so renewing the policy is in the interest of all and burden on none.” The excise and taxation department confirmed exploring the three options. When asked, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who looks after the excise and taxation department, said the government will come out with the “best option for all”. He said: “We have more than two months. We shall have routine discussions with all the stakeholders. Our officers are on the job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-excise-dept-in-a-fix-on-next-policy/articleshow/81250268.cms||Manvir Saini
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||1,100 cases of power theft detected, defaulters will not be spared: Minister||Chandigarh: The operations wing of electricity distribution companies in Haryana, on Saturday, detected 1,100 incidents of power theft during the special drive conducted in industrial areas of five cities. A total of 236 teams of the 1,000 strong force of technicians and employees raided industries in Gurgaon, Faridabad, Dharuhera, Rewari and Hisar. The operations were headed and supervised by two director-level officers, a chief engineer, six executive engineers and sub-divisional engineers. Power and jails minister Ranjit Singh Chautala said electricity distribution companies expect a revenue of Rs 100 crore from fine imposed on defaulters. He said special prosecution of such defaulters could not be ruled out. Besides, the power minister hinted at a probe against field staff of the area where theft was detected. He said departmental action could be taken against them. Chautala said most of the defaulters punctured high tension cables before electricity metres. Also, there were cases of defaulters bypassing the connections and using alternate ones. Haryana’s electricity distribution companies are already facing criticism over AT&C losses over the past three days. After an audit, the central power authority hauled up state discoms over their failures. Senior bureaucrat Ashok Khemka also expressed suspecions of foul play in electricity distribution and billing under the guise of supply to the rural sector. The power minister confirmed that he had been receiving complaints about power theft across the state. “This is the reason that we secretly worked on this drive and identified particular areas and the default. It was after complete planning that the plans were executed. We shall carry out such drives in the future as well,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1100-cases-of-power-theft-detected-defaulters-will-not-be-spared-minister/articleshow/81250282.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Flashing is a crime even if no harm done, man gets 1 yr||Mumbai: Observing that even if no physical harm is caused, flashing one’s private parts is still a crime, a special Pocso Act court convicted and sentenced a 29-year-old man to a year’s imprisonment. The court held that it was not acceptable for any person to behave in such an indecent manner which makes a girl feel ashamed, causes her agony, disturbs her and scars her mind for the rest of her life. The accused had flashed a 17-year-old on her way to college in 2016. “...the testimony of the victim is trustworthy. There is no reason for her to make false allegation against the accused,” the court said. The court refuted the accused’s claims that he was falsely implicated at the behest of her aunt over prior enmity. “But this defence cannot be accepted without reasonable proof. It is not logical defence. Prudent persons in cultured society will not work out such plan to implicate any person falsely by putting character of female members of their family at stake,” the court said. While the maximum sentence attracted in the case was three years imprisonment, the accused was sentenced to one year in jail. The court reasoned, “As no actual assault has been caused by the accused to the victim so grievance of the prosecution is lesser in comparison with other matter of sexual assault so the learned public prosecutor put up that appropriate order be passed.” —Rebecca Samervel||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/flashing-is-a-crime-even-if-no-harm-done-man-gets-1-yr/articleshow/81250316.cms||Rebecca Samervel
February 28, 2021||Dehradun||Niti Aayog VC suggests creation of monitoring cells for SDGs in U’khand||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat met Niti Aayog vice chairman Rajiv Kumar in Dehradun on Saturday. During the meeting, Kumar asked the CM to create monitoring cells for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the state. Meanwhile, the CM requested Kumar for simplification of norms for forest clearances and sought similarity in the norms for the Centre and state for compensatory tree plantation on degraded forest land. Kumar said that the Chir pine trees were not conducive to the conditions and they should be replaced with local varieties and further added that traditional farming should be encouraged in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/niti-aayog-vc-suggests-creation-of-monitoring-cells-for-sdgs-in-ukhand/articleshow/81248587.cms||Kautilya Singh
February 28, 2021||Nashik||Nashik MLA Seema Hire booked under Bombay Police Act||NASHIK: The Ambad police detained BJP’s Nashik west MLA Seema Hire along with 15 party workers on Saturday after they tried to obstruct the movement of vehicles at the Trimurti Chowk The MLA had led a group of women BJP workers to register their protest and demand the immediate arrest of state forest minister Sanjay Rathod for his alleged involvement in a case related to the death of a young girl. They were staging demonstrations at the Trimurti Chowk, when the party workers jumped on the road attempting to block it. Subsequently, the police rounded up all the agitators and brought them to the police station. They were released after a stern warning. Police inspector Kumar Chaudhari said permission was given for a peaceful agitation. “Since they jumped on the road, we had to take action. We have registered the case under sections 66 and 67 of the Bombay Police Act (BPA),” he said. Meanwhile, Chitra Wagh, the state vice-president of BJP, who was in the city, said: “The duty of the police at the control room is to take note of the calls received and send police teams to the spots for verification and take further action. Instead, the caller – in the case of the deceased girl — is given some private mobile number and asked to take directions from the person.” Wagh alleged the government was harassing her and her family for being vocal against Rathod. A disproportionate asset case was registered against her husband in 2016 anti-corruption case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-mla-hire-booked-under-bombay-police-act/articleshow/81248581.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Goa||Goa knock out Hyderabad for last playoff spot||FC Goa’s much-criticised defence measured up to the challenge as they stuck together for a goalless draw against Hyderabad FC, enough to grab the last available spot in the Indian Super League (ISL) playoffs. Goa finished their league engagements with 31 points and settled for the fourth spot, behind NorthEast United (33 points). As Mumbai City and ATK Mohun Bagan jostled for the top spot and a place in the AFC Champions League, fifth-placed Hyderabad (29 points) were left behind. Hyderabad will be terribly disappointed. One of the league’s more-attractive sides and among every neutral’s favourite for the way Manolo Marquez kept faith in youngsters – and fielded the least number of foreign players – Hyderabad could not find a way past a stubborn Goa defence. At the heart of the Goa defence, quite intriguingly, was Adil Khan. Unwanted at Hyderabad, the India defender sought a loan move to his home club in January and came up with a Man-of-the-Match performance in the decisive clash. Adil almost scored an own goal in the sixth minute of added time, but Goa goalkeeper Dheeraj Singh rose to the occasion with a brilliant save. A minute earlier, Dheeraj, who hasn’t looked assured in goal since his January transfer, had made another save to deny Roland Alberg, although it needed a timely clearance from Spanish defender Ivan Gonzalez to deny Liston Colaco. Needing a win to qualify, Hyderabad had more shots on target, more crosses, more corners – Goa had two only in the last minutes – and more intent. But they lacked the quality in the final third. With captain Aridane Santana suspended and Fran Sandaza subdued, there was nobody to turn the corner. Goa needed just a point, and despite strong assurances from coach Juan Ferrando and defender Gonzalez that they will attack from the start, the two-time finalists showed they knew another way too. Goa rarely attacked. Star striker Igor Angulo didn’t have a shot on goal. Far too many times, he was isolated upfront as the team looked to keep things tight at the back, risky given Goa’s reputation of having kept just two clean sheets in 19 matches. Hyderabad goalkeeper Laxmikant Kattimani didn’t really have to make a save. The only time Kattimani was forced into action was late in the game as he stepped out of his zone to clear danger. The clearance didn’t go as planned, allowing Jorge Ortiz to try his luck from distance. Hyderabad escaped as the ball took a touch and sailed for a corner. At the other end, Hyderabad’s best chance came in the 84th minute. Joao Victor chipped in a delightful ball into the box where Joel Chianese and Liston made runs but failed to head in from close range. The draw was Goa’s 13th unbeaten game, a record in the ISL. They are now the only team to qualify for the semifinals for six of the seven editions, including the last four. If there was any disappointment for Goa, it were the bookings in the end. Alberto Noguera, already substituted, picked up a red card after a tiff with the rival bench, while Gonzalez was also booked. Both will miss the first leg semifinal. Goa, though, won’t mind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-knock-out-hyderabad-for-last-playoff-spot/articleshow/81264108.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||‘KU VC threatens to fire employees protesting against non-implementation of enhanced salary’||CHANDIGARH/KURUKSHETRA: Four female contractual assistant professors of Kurukshetra University (KU) on Saturday accused KU vice-chancellor (VC) of allegedly threatening to fire them from their jobs if they continue to insist on demands regarding implementation of enhanced salary. As per the information, during the working hours, contractual assistant professors under the banner of KU Contractual Assistant Professors Association (KUCAPA) held a demonstration in varsity campus on Thursday. Following a delegation of KUCAPA including four contractual faculty members Chander Rekha, Shewta Kashyap, Yogita Sangwan and Sangeeta went to meet KU VC at his office, after it was called by the official a day later on Friday. Sources told KU VC asked the delegation of protesting faculty to refrain from holding any protests in the varsity during the working hours and adopt restrain as their matter related to giving enhanced salary is already under consideration and in communication with the Haryana state government, else they could face action against them as per the varsity’s service rules. On Saturday, a delegation of KUCAPA reached Haryana Raj Bhawan to meet Governor Satyadeo Naryan Arya, who is also chancellor of KU and lodged a written complaint at his office, and he could not meet them due to holiday on Saturday. The contractual staff is demanding the implementation of the enhanced salary as per 7th central pay commission (CPC). Prof Brajesh Sawhney, director public relations KU, said “There was no such issue of threatening any faculty. The university suggested the protesting teachers not to hold a protest march during the working hours as the campus has been reopened after a long time and new students are coming for classes. The university has sympathetically considered their demand and has already requested the government for financial aid. We are expecting the aid in March and their dues will be released immediately. There was a warning to follow the varsity rules.” "Instead of paying heed to our demand, KU VC threatened us with firing from our existing job if we continue to demand the same. He even warned us of strict action if we carried out a protest march on the campus. We were astonished to see the reaction as the same salary enhancement has been implemented in almost all state universities of Haryana", said Sangeeta. "With the hope that the government of Haryana will take the insult of women teachers seriously, we have immediately conveyed the matter to the education minister at his resistance at Jagadhri and same to our university chancellor at Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh on Saturday", added Sangeeta. "This is not the way to treat female teachers. We are painful to see this odd reaction from an official sitting on constitutional post", said Chander Rekha. Yogita alleged that VC has instilled fear of losing jobs in us and it seems their dignity has been crushed. The delegations of contractual assistant professors from various departments of KU who reached education minister Haryana Kanwar Pal at his residence in Jagadhri and later at Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh include Abhinav Kataria, Gyan Sagar, Pradeep Rai, Deepak, Tapesh, Imtiaz Ahmed, Gaurav, Sachin, Surender Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ku-vc-threatens-to-fire-employees-protesting-against-non-implementation-of-enhanced-salary/articleshow/81253959.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Delhi||‘Same-sex marriage key step towards equality’||New Delhi: Members of the LGBTQ community are unhappy with the central government saying same-sex marriage was “against the Indian ethos” in Delhi High Court. Marriage, they insisted, was not about culture or religion, but about fulfilling a basic human need between two consenting adults. TOI spoke to some same-sex couples who wished they could marry, not only to be accepted by society, but also to be legally able to adopt children and form a family. Deepal*, 30, non-binary PhD student, described the Centre’s definition of a family unit as short-sighted. “The definition of a family for the LGBTQ community is not constrained by biological ties. Our families are made up of people who love us and support us, not just blood relatives,” they said. “Even the term ‘same-sex marriage’ is not inclusive of the trans community. Non-binary people like me do not identify as a man or a woman, so any person we marry won’t be recognised by law.” Nandini Sen* has been in a happy relationship with her partner of many years and was naturally disappointed — though not surprised — by the government’s stand. “Our government considers mandirs sacred, so they should take a hard look at the sculptures on Khajuraho temples, many of which depict homosexuality,” she said. In an affidavit in the high court on Thursday, the Centre said that the Indian family unit concept consisted of a husband, wife and children, necessarily presupposing a biological man as ‘husband’, a biological woman as ‘wife’ and the children the result of the union between them. Rachel George*, 28, asked whether cis-het couples, who do not or cannot have biological children, can then be considered married under law. “We have an Act to protect the rights of trans people, but the Centre has clearly stated it does not consider their marriage a fundamental right. Reproduction is not the only reason people marry. I want to marry my partner because I love her,” she said. Several online petitions demanding legal status for same-sex marriages in India have come up in the last 24 hours. One on change.org has gathered over 7,600 signatures. It reads “On 6th September 2018, the Supreme Court decriminalised homosexuality in a historic judgement. But this is not where the struggle ends, the LGBTQ+ community of India says the next step in the legal fight will be for civil rights, the most important of them being same-sex marriage.” Another petition with 58,341 signatures argued, “It’s 2021 and we need to make a change and we need to make it happen now. My request is to the government and the Supreme Court to look into this and consider the fact that at the end of the day we just want to be able to love and live a normal life.” Chirag Sharma*, a 24-year-old Delhi resident, felt that some form of domestic partnership should be legally recognised. “The decriminalisation of Section 377 of Indian Penal Code dealing with unnatural offences was just the first step in helping LGBT people become an open and functional part of society,” he said. “We are still being forced to live in a closeted manner. Decriminalisation without other rights is like permitting us to just exist without living a normal life. When people see marriages between people of the same sex and LGBT people living normal lives, it will be easier for families to accept the sexuality of their wards.” Roop and Anurag, a same-sex couple, recalled how while other countries have acknowledged the relationship created by same-sex marriage, India is still lagging in that regard. “Families in India have begun accepting these relationships and they too want their children to have a legal relationship,” said Anurag. “This will make it easier to reduce the social stigma in the days ahead.” Roop pointed out that couples and individuals whose sexual orientation prohibited them from marrying faced the risk of being driven to severe depression. *Names changed on request||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/same-sex-marriage-key-step-towards-equality/articleshow/81250311.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Aurangabad||BJP workers detained for protesting against Shiv Sena minister||Aurangabad: A large group of BJP workers, including women, was detained by the city police on Saturday when they tried to stage a demonstration protesting against the alleged delay in action taken against state forest minister Sanjay Rathod, who is allegedly linked to the suicide case of a 22-year-old woman from Beed district.The workers had gathered in large numbers despite prohibitory orders that are in place following the surge in Covid-19 cases across Maharashtra. The protesters also tried to disrupt movement of vehicles on the busy Jalna road before the police used force. The protesters were taken to the Kranti Chowk police station. Speaking with the media before her detention, president of BJP’s local women’s wing Amruta Palodkar accused the MVA government of shielding Rathod.“The police have not taken any action in connection with the death of Puja Chavan due to pressure from the state government. On the contrary, it is supressing protests against Rathod in the name of outbreak of Covid-19. We demand that the Shiv Sena minister step down and face police inquiry,” she said. It was not clear till Saturday evening if the city police have registered any offence against the BJP workers for holding a protest. Puja Chavan, who hails from the Parli taluka in Beed district, is suspected to have died by suicide in the early hours of February 7 by jumping from the first floor of a building in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bjp-workers-detained-for-protesting-against-shiv-sena-minister/articleshow/81248598.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Chennai||Ragas at a click||CHENNAI: How many hours should a musician practise every day? Should you follow any particular diet before an upcoming concert? Does the volume at which you speak normally affect your voice? These are but a few of the many questions eminent Carnatic vocalists such as Sudha Ragunathan are asked frequently by enthusiastic rasikas. And that’s why, during the lockdown, Sudha came up with a series, Abhyasam, in which she not only shares her experience and learning but also gets other musicians to share their knowledge. "Whenever people interview me or I conduct lec-dems and open up the session to the audience, many ask me questions about practice methodology," says Sudha who launched ‘Abhyasam’ on her YouTube channel on October 31, the death anniversary of her guru M L Vasanthakumari. With the lockdown, not only did concerts go online, but musicians also got an opportunity to reflect and see how they could reach out to rasikas and share their knowledge with them. And to see how the content on Carnatic music could be packaged for the digital platform. "I experimented a lot to see how Carnatic music can be reinvented in the digital space, in terms of content creation, ideation, or execution," says Carnatic vocalist Rithvik Raja. "Trying to think of ways in which the arts can be presented purely for the digital space is not something we are used to, and we were forced to reinvent the way we think about it." He came out with ‘Tambura 101’, a five-part YouTube series, in June 2020. "There is very little content out there on the instrument, which is an integral part of Carnatic music," says Rithvik, whose series dealt with the making of the instrument, the history, and how to tune and repair it. "These are things I have learned over the years from musicians and my tambura craftsmen," he says. In ‘Abhyasam,’ Sudha has also shared her learnings and tips. "I have spoken about what you should avoid on the day of the concert as the stomach is your second brain and anything that upsets it can affect your voice," says Sudha, adding that she avoids having cold drinks or ice cream a few days before and on the day of the concert. "I have also shared how to stretch the voice, do warm up exercises, and how music can be practiced without singing out aloud. Even spending 15 minutes thinking about music and how you can improve it is practice." ‘Abhyasam’, which has a different guest every fortnight, has featured musicians such as Gayathri Venkataraghavan, Gayathri Girish, Aishwarya Vidhya Raghunath, Nisha Rajagopal, Aishwarya Shankar Amritha Murali, K Gayatri, and Brindha Manickavasagam. "I wanted to get the perspective of artists from different schools of music," says Sudha. Though the lockdown has eased since then, the musicians continue to host their programmes online. Rithvik, for instance, is now busy working on another 10-part series, which will be launched in a month. "It will talk about the different creative aspects of Carnatic music, and how what we learn in the initial three or four years can be used even 20 years down the line to improve ourselves," says Rithvik, who feels that ideating for the digital space and repackaging Carnatic music for an online audience has fuelled his growth as a musician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ragas-at-a-click/articleshow/81249230.cms||Priya Menon
February 28, 2021||Jaipur||March 4 ultimatum for urban local bodies to implement building bylaws||JAIPUR: After many urban local bodies (ULBs) failed to implement the Rajasthan Urban Area Building Regulation, the directorate of local bodies (DLB) issued a final warning to implement the Rajasthan Urban Area Building Regulation, 2020 before March 4. A letter has been sent to the development authorities and Urban Improvement Trust (UIT) to issue the notification on the given date. An official at DLB said, “The department had earlier released the regulation, but implementation is still pending. We have issued the direction. If ULBs still do not act, it will automatically come into existence on March 5 as per Section 337(4) of the Rajasthan Muncipal Act,” he said. On November 12, civic bodies were given 15 days’ time for implementation of the regulation. However, majority of them failed. Once implemented, a developer can construct a structure up to a height of 18 metre (five storeys) on a plot sized 500 square metre or more. The minimum height for a building under the high-rise category has been amended to 18 metre from the earlier 15 metre. Multi-storey buildings will be permitted only if the road width is at least 40 feet wide. For the construction of flats, the plot size should be at least 750 square metre and the road width at least 12 metre (40 feet). Similarly, the minimum width of the road should be at least 60 feet for construction of a coaching centre in big cities of the state. The requirement is 40 feet in smaller cities. The minimum plot size for the construction of a coaching institute should be 300 square metre. The process for obtaining approvals of maps has also been simplified for plots of area up to 500 square metres. Now, an owner can begin construction immediately after submitting the respective site plan and fees to the local bodies. Previously, this provision was only available for owners who had a plot size of 250 square metre. The department has permitted small plot owners having a 90 square metre sized plot to build an additional floor. “This would facilitate more space within the same property and is beneficial since more than 60% of the plots are up to 90 square metre in area,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/march-4-ultimatum-for-ulbs-to-implement-bldg-bylaws/articleshow/81249231.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Vadodara||Phone thief forges invoices to sell online||Vadodara: A man from Uttar Pradesh was arrested by the local crime branch of government railway police (GRP) for stealing mobile phones of passengers in train and then selling it on an online marketplace. The accused Gyankumar alias Vicky alias Vikas Gupta, who is from Sultanpur, was nabbed from a travellers’ lodge at Vadodara railway station on Friday. Police said that Gupta, who keeps travelling between Vadodara and Surat, steals passengers’ mobile phones in trains. Gupta forges invoices of the stolen mobile phones and sells them on OLX. Police said that so far Gupta admitted to stealing and selling three mobile phones. Gupta’s crime records revealed that he was arrested by Surat police in 2010 in connection with a murder case registered at Amroli police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/phone-thief-forges-invoices-to-sell-online/articleshow/81249514.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ranchi||42 fresh Covid infections, 41 recoveries, 1 death in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Saturday recorded 42 new cases of Covid-19 and 41 recoveries while the number of active cases stood at 492. Meanwhile, one person died from the infection, taking the death toll to 1,088. As many as seven districts reported fresh cases, with Ranchi reported the highest, 33, while the rest witnessed cases in single digit. As per government data, as many as 1,19,905 people have been infected by the virus and 1,18,325 have recovered till date, taking the recovery rate to 98.68%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand is 0.04% against the national average of 0.10%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 1880.36 days against the national figure of 715.25 days. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state stood at 0.90%. Meanwhile, the Ranchi District Bar Association (RDBA) on Saturday sealed the new bar building in Ranchi district court for a week after several lawyers tested positive for Covid-19. RDBA president Shambhu Prasad Agrawal said that both the gates of the building would be closed in order to sanitise the entire premises. The courts would, however, continue to function as usual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/42-fresh-covid-infections-41-recoveries-1-death-in-jharkhand/articleshow/81248699.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ranchi||Stop playing politics over dead, says Congress after BJP attacks government||RANCHI: A day after a tribal couple were found murdered in their house in Kanke, barely four kilometres from chief minister Hemant Soren’s official residence, opposition BJP on Saturday once again attacked the state government over “the poor law and order situation ever since the grand alliance has come to power”. A team of the state BJP leaders, comprising party president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash, Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marandi, Kanke MLA Samri Lal among others, visited the couple’s ancestral village, Tikli Tola, in Konge under Kanke block to meet the family members of the victims on Saturday. On Friday, city police found bodies of Tetru Pahan and his wife Lakhia lying in a pool of blood with their necks slit at their house. The mystery over the deaths is yet to be probed, but police said investigations are underway from different angles, including a witch-hunt or a domestic tussle between the couple among others. Speaking to the media after meeting the family, Prakash said the incident is yet another testimony of the lack of administrative control over the law and order in the state. “Soon after the JMM-led government came to power, the state witnessed a shocking massacre of tribals in Chaibasa. Recently, five of a family in Gumla were hacked to death and within days, a couple in Ranchi was killed under mysterious circumstances. There is no policing at all,” Prakash claimed. Marandi said under the current rule, the tribals are the worst affected. “We have tribal CM’s regime, but the murder of tribals is going on unabated. Meanwhile, the government is busy facilitating acts of corruption like illegal mining and the transfer-posting ‘industry’,” said Marandi, adding that BJP will soon plan another round of agitation both in the assembly and on the streets to demand safety for the people of the state. However, Congress, an ally in the alliance government, criticised BJP for playing politics over the dead. In a statement, party spokesperson Alok Dubey and Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo said, “The state police are sensitive towards any heinous crime. Ranchi police are probing the incident and will crack it soon. In Gumla, police cracked the case within 48 hours of the incident. BJP should stop playing dirty politics over the dead.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/stop-playing-politics-over-dead-says-cong-after-bjp-attacks-govt/articleshow/81248665.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ranchi||Bokaro industries asked to submit safety reports||BOKARO: The district disaster management authority (DDMA) of Bokaro ordered all companies operating in its jurisdiction to submit a comprehensive report within a month on the industrial safety mechanism put in place. Officials on Saturday said the move is a part of the hazard risk vulnerability analysis to ascertain the preparedness of industrial units to curb mishaps. There are four industries in the district that are identified as extremely hazardous units as they use a huge amount of chemicals. Besides, there are 30 industries classified as simple hazardous units as they don’t have any chemical storage areas. The district is also vulnerable to many kinds of natural disasters like lightnings, fires, gas leaks, epidemics and accidents among others. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) had earlier put the district in Zone-3, which meant it is prone to earthquakes. Bokaro DC Rajesh Singh, who is also the DDMA chairman, said Section (30) (1) of the Disaster Management Act (DM Act), 2005, envisages that the authority is responsible for district planning, coordination and implementation for disaster management and take all necessary measures for disaster management in the district. It is also responsible for ensuring the prevention of disasters in vulnerable areas of the district and giving directions to the authorities concerned to take up adequate measures. He said, “In that context, I have asked the companies to submit a report about the industrial safety mechanism at their units.” District disaster management officer Shakti Kumar said, “The companies have been asked to submit documents on 17 different points related to industrial safety that deals with preparedness, prevention and mitigation. The companies have also been asked to conduct an immediate safety audit of their entire installation and waste storage units and submit reports of the exercise within three weeks." He added, "The units have also been directed to organise monthly mock drills to check and improve the existing emergency plan. Further, we have asked them to submit reports on all incidents and disasters which had occurred at their units in the last three years along with details of any loss of life or property.” Some of the companies to which the administration has sent the order included Vedanta’s ESL Steel Limited, Bokaro Steel Limited, Bokaro Power Supply Company Limited, Oil Natural and Gas Corporation, Chandrapura and Bokaro Thermal Power plants of Damodar Valley Corporation, Tenughat Thermal Power Station, Central Coalfield Limited, Dalmia Cement, Indian Oil Corporation and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-industries-asked-to-submit-safety-reports/articleshow/81248644.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ranchi||105 Adivasi couples to tie nuptial knot in mass marriage today||RANCHI: As many as 105 tribal couples, who are currently in live-in relationships in several villages under the Dhuku tradition, will tie the knot in a mass marriage function which will be organised by an NGO at Murhu in Khunti on Sunday. Governor Droupadi Murmu is scheduled to be the chief guest on the occasion. Nimitta secretary Nikita Sinha said, “Several rural couples are often unable to get married due to multiple reasons, including not being able to afford the wedding cost, and others. Such couples have no option but to live-in but the women and the children face several disadvantages because of this.” She added, “The women are branded as dhuku and held with disdain by the villagers. They, along with their kids, do not get a share of ancestral land in case of the male partner’s death. They are also deprived of benefits provided by government schemes. The women are also deprived of a burial in the community cemetery while the children are prohibited from piercing their ears.” The dhuku system is prevalent in south-western parts of Jharkhand, including Ranchi, Khunti, Gumla, Simdega and West Singhbhum. Speaking on the issue, Hari Oraon, who is a faculty member at the tribal language department in Ranchi University, said, “The dhuku system is adopted by couples when their formal marriage is not possible for various reasons. There is no social acceptance of such marriages in the Adivasi community.” Since 2017, the NGO has reportedly facilitated marriages of over 500 such couples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/105-adivasi-couples-to-tie-nuptial-knot-in-mass-marriage-today/articleshow/81248630.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Jamshedpur||42 fresh Covid infections, 41 recoveries, 1 death in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Saturday recorded 42 new cases of Covid-19 and 41 recoveries while the number of active cases stood at 492. Meanwhile, one person died from the infection, taking the death toll to 1,088. As many as seven districts reported fresh cases, with Ranchi reported the highest, 33, while the rest witnessed cases in single digit. As per government data, as many as 1,19,905 people have been infected by the virus and 1,18,325 have recovered till date, taking the recovery rate to 98.68%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand is 0.04% against the national average of 0.10%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 1880.36 days against the national figure of 715.25 days. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state stood at 0.90%. Meanwhile, the Ranchi District Bar Association (RDBA) on Saturday sealed the new bar building in Ranchi district court for a week after several lawyers tested positive for Covid-19. RDBA president Shambhu Prasad Agrawal said that both the gates of the building would be closed in order to sanitise the entire premises. The courts would, however, continue to function as usual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/42-fresh-covid-infections-41-recoveries-1-death-in-jharkhand/articleshow/81254255.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra Pollution Control Board underlines high pollution in Ramala Lake||CHANDRAPUR: With the hunger strike held by Eco-Pro organization for conservation of Ramala Lake gaining momentum, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) here on Saturday dashed off a letter to the district collector, detailing the presence of high quantities of hazardous chemicals in the historic lake’s water. The letter points out that the water samples collected twice from the lake — in the first and second week of February respectively — have excessively high biological oxygen demand (BOD). BOD is a measure of the amount of oxygen required to remove waste organic matter from the water in the process of decomposition by aerobic bacteria. The letter states that the samples of water taken from the lake show the BOD to be in the range of 190 to 112 milligrams/ per litre, as against the standard of 2 milligrams per litre. Fish have been dying in the lake since quite some time and MPCB had earlier blamed poor content of dissolved oxygen for their deaths. MPCB has said that the excessively high BOD in water is due to washing of sewage water into the lake. Suspended solids, total dissolved solids (TDS), iron, cadmium and lead have also been found higher than normal. The lake water percolates into the ground and the same hazardous water finds its way into the wells and borings nearby. People living in the area around the lake have been complaining about foul smell and contamination in the water from their borings and wells since many years. MPCB has further stated that this contaminated water from the lake overflows into the adjoining Jharpat river and then washes ahead into Irai river, spreading the pollution far and wide. MPCB has claimed that the National Green Tribunal, New Delhi, on August 28, 2019, had directed the local self-governing bodies to set up a processing plant to treat all the domestic wastewater generated from the city, and to construct a closed sewer system in their jurisdiction. However, presently the Chandrapur Municipal Corporation (CMC) does not have a complete network of sewerage system in the city. The underground water in the area and the rivers around is being polluted due to discharge of non-treated sewage into the lake, and MPCB told the collector that it has already directed CMC to set up a sewage treatment plant to treat the sewage water entering the lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mpcb-underlines-high-pollution-in-ramala-lake/articleshow/81249268.cms||Mazhar Ali
February 28, 2021||Ranchi||JMM, Congress left with little time to prepare for Bengal, Assam polls||RANCHI: With the announcement of election dates for West Bengal and Assam, the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) has found itself in a tight spot mainly due to lack of time as it was eyeing a cut in the tribal districts of the poll-bound states. Meanwhile, the state unit of Congress, which is also part of the ruling alliance, is also looking to play the Adivasi card in the two states and has fielded party leaders and ministers Rameshwar Oroan and Alamgir Alam as campaign managers to realise their dreams. While JMM is targeting to contest in five districts of West Bengal — Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram, East Midnapore and West Midnapore — for their Adivasi background and proximity to Jharkhand, the Election Commission’s announcement on Friday said the seats in all the five will go to polls in the first two phases, left little time for the tribal party to prepare. In the first phase, the polling date of which is fixed on March 27, the window for filing nominations ends on March 9. For phase-II, the polling date has been fixed for April 1 while the filing of nominations will end on March 12. However, the party is still putting up a confident face. “Our preparations are underway for a few months now. The announcement, in our opinion, came a bit early, but we are confident of winning many seats this time,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said. Meanwhile, a senior JMM leader, who is also an executive committee member, told TOI on condition of anonymity, “We were still finalising our seats when the announcement was made by the Election Commission. We are yet to choose our candidates. In fact, on Friday itself, several office bearers of our West Bengal unit were summoned in Ranchi to finalise the aspects.” Riding high on its poll victories in Jharkhand, JMM was aiming to field its candidates in at least 40 assembly constituencies in West Bengal. However, a formal decision is yet to be taken by the party leadership and the names of candidates will be announced by next week. In January, JMM working president Hemant Soren had wooed the tribal voters of Jhargram at a public meeting and two more pre-poll meetings had been planned in Purulia’s Raghunathpur and Bankura in March. JMM patriarch Shibu Soren was also scheduled to address the meetings, but with little time left, the party will have to plan differently. “The meetings were supposed to be held after finalising the seats, but now we will have to go back to the drawing board and start the planning afresh,” a senior JMM leader, who is also an incumbent legislator, told TOI. While the bordering districts of Jharkhand are JMM’s mainstay, the party was also looking to expand its footprints in the northern districts of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar which comprise tribal families working in the tea estates. Though the seats in these districts go to vote in the fourth and fifth phases, scheduled on April 10 and April 17 respectively, the party’s groundwork there is in the nascent stages. JMM is also looking to spread its wings in Assam and Bhattacharya said, “In Bengal and Assam, our issues will broadly be on the implementation of the Fifth Schedule, minimum wages to workers in the tea gardens and setting up of an autonomous council in Jangalmahal area of Bengal.” Admitting that the long-drawn election is also posing problems, he said. “Voting will be held in eight phases. Not only will the campaign be long drawn and gruelling, but it will also pose problems in terms of resources for a regional party like ours,” Bhattacharya said. JMM sources said the announcement for the party candidates on the chosen seats is likely to be made by next week. Meanwhile, JMM’s ally in Jharkhand and opponent in West Bengal — Congress — is banking heavily on its party president Rameshwar Oroan and Pakur MLA Alamgir Alam to foray into the bordering areas. The party has made Alam a part of the three-member committee appointed by AICC to manage the campaigns in West Bengal. Earlier, Oraon had said, “Jharkhand Congress workers will be playing key roles in Bengal and Assam. Both have tribal populations and have many things in common where we can play an important role to convince voters based on their governance model in the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-cong-left-with-little-time-to-prepare-for-bengal-assam-polls/articleshow/81248562.cms||Dhritiman Ray
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||High Court Bar Association’s polls of Maharashtra: 4 in race for prez post, 2 for secy||NAGPUR: The High Court Bar Association’s (HCBA) election committee has finalized names of 37 lawyers for contesting its much awaited polls on March 12 that were deferred by about a year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Their nominations were cleared after a scrutiny by panel members on Thursday. The candidates can still withdraw their nominations till March 3 and the final list would be declared on the same day at 4.45pm. A multi-pronged fight is on the cards for most of the posts, except treasurer and secretary where only two candidates have filed their nominations. However, unlike the 2017 polls, none of the big names are keen to contest this time around. Many groups and individuals have already started campaigning clandestinely since one year. The contesting candidates are either from various groups or are in the fray as independents. For the president’s post, four candidates are in contention. They included VG Bhamburkar, Atul Pande, Shridhar Purohit and Sameer Sohoni, who’s being projected by a group led by Shreeerang Bhandarkar. Bhamburkar has contested many polls, albeit unsuccessfully. He is throwing his hat in the ring this time as well. For the secretary’s post, Amol Jaltare and Rugved Dhore would have a straight contest while Mangesh Bute and Madhav Lakhe would battle for the treasurer’s post. For the two posts of vice presidents, there is a battle between Shreeganesh Abhyankar, Sharad Bhattad, Rajesh Nayak and Pankaj Tidke. THE CONTENDERS * President — VG Bhamburkar, Atul Pande, Shridhar Purohit & Sameer Sohoni * Vice President — Shreeganesh Abhyankar, Sharad Bhattad, Rajesh Nayak & Pankaj Tidke * Secretary — RB Dhore & Amol Jaltare * Treasurer — Mangesh Bute & Madhav Lakhe * Joint secy — PS Chawhan, Shriram Deoras & Bhanubhushan Kumar * Library in-charge — HM Bobde, Kaustubh Deogade & VC Uberoi * Executive members — Anirudh Anathakrishnan, Bosco Anthony, P Awathale, Rushak Bawiskar, BA Bhendarkar, U Bhuyar, Abhishek Deshpande, Nishant Gurnani, Aquib Haque, Amol Hunge, MM Kalar, Sagar Katkar, Gaurav Khond, Apurva Kolhe, Akshaya Kshirsagar, Sagar Mhaiske, D Padmagiriwad, Sunita Paul and Ananta Ramteke||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hcba-polls-4-in-race-for-prez-post-2-for-secy/articleshow/81249292.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Like the summer of 2020, but in the spring of 2021!||NAGPUR: Streets were deserted, vehicular movement was thin and marketplaces were empty on Saturday, the first day of the two-day weekend restrictions to curb the spread of Covid. The scenario somewhat appeared like the summer of 2020 when the scorching sun sent citizens ducking for cover. Only shops dealing in essential commodities were open after district guardian minister Nitin Raut, mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, collector Ravindra Thackeray and commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar appealed to citizens to remain indoors. Central Avenue, Wardha road, Amravati Road, North Ambazari Road, Kamptee road, Automotive Square, Indora Chowk, Variety Square, Rani Jhansi Square, LIC Square were silent for most part of the day. The Sitabuldi main road, Kelibagh road, which are abuzz with activities due to hawkers, too wore a deserted look. A few, who violated the restrictions, were penalized by both NMC’s nuisance detection squad and city police. Police personnel were on the streets to ensure that people didn’t venture out without a valid reason. Some men in khaki were struggling to convince people who were out on the streets for unimportant reasons. The police and civic cops got into verbal spats with some shopkeepers, but the situation didn’t escalate. In one incident, the owner of a cooler shop in Nehru Nagar zone started arguing with the civic cops after being told to down his shutter. “We somehow managed to convince him,” said an official. Even though the instructions regarding the weekend restrictions were clear, many seemed ignorant. In Hanuman Nagar zone, an insurance company was found open but the zone’s assistant municipal commissioner Sushma Mandge prevented the NDS team from taking action. Public transport, including Aapli Bus and autos, was in operation. Against the fleet of 250 Aapli buses that the NMC plies on normal days, only 183 were used on 60 routes. As most of the markets were closed, buses too witnessed less commuters. Raut, Radhakrishnan and top cop Kumar toured many areas to review the situation. Mayor Tiwari too was on the streets to ensure that Nagpurians stayed indoors. While visiting vegetable markets in Itwari and Gokulpeth, Tiwari was seen requesting both vendors and buyers to use masks and follow physical distancing. The weekend restrictions were imposed in view of the crowded markets on Saturdays and Sundays. In separate statements, Raut and Tiwari, thanked traders and citizens for supporting the weekend curbs. Kumar, who visited market areas like Itwari, Mahal and Sitabuldi, said that on the whole, citizens followed instructions. “On Sunday, police personnel would facilitate the movement of students who have their exams at different centres. The district administration has also undertaken some plans to support students by making provision for refreshments to be facilitated by the police,” said Kumar. “On day one, we deployed a large numbers of cops on the roads. We acted against violators and also ensured that markets remained shut,” said Kumar. Zonal DCP Vinita Sahu, who accompanied guardian minister Raut and CP Kumar in Sitabuldi market, said the early hours had witnessed some additional movement of the masses due to some confusion that their offices would be open. Mayor calls for better coordination after wine shops remain open Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari received calls from some citizens who informed him that wine shops in the city were open. Later, Tiwari had a word with district collector Ravindra Thakre, who clarified that home delivery of liquor was permitted. “When the civic administration has ordered the closure of all shops except essential services then wine shops too should be closed,” said Tiwari. He added that the district collector should take decisions in coordination with the civic administration. Thakare said liquor shops will remain closed on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/like-the-summer-of-2020-but-in-the-spring-of-2021/articleshow/81249294.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
February 28, 2021||India||700 species will lose habitat to warming by 2070, finds study||What climate change pushes, human activity aggravates. In another 50 years, high emissions could push most of the habitats of 35% of mammals and 29% of birds outside the spaces they live in now and into different countries. But if they tried to move to these new spaces, political boundaries might not let them. A new and recent study by researchers from Durham University, BirdLife International and Newcastle University, published in the ‘Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the USA’, has mapped the impact of the 32,000km of fortified international borders on wildlife and found that 696 species of non-flying mammals would be affected. And three political barriers pose the biggest conservation challenges — along US-Mexico, India-Myanmar and China-Russia. “For the India-Myanmar border we estimate that 128 species of non-flying mammals could be unable to cross if barriers were completed along much of its length,” joint study lead Mark Titley told TOI. That includes the endangered Indian pangolin, banteng, large-spotted civet, and vulnerable sloth bear. It is difficult to estimate just how many have already been affected. “But we calculated that 783 species of birds and mammals live around this border, including 44 that are threatened with extinction according to the IUCN Red List.” Of the 12,700 species of terrestrial mammals and birds they studied, 60% of mammals and 71% of birds occur across national boundaries. And poorer countries, with lower CO2 emissions, could face greater losses. “The stark inequities between those who contributed most to climate change and those who will be most impacted raise really important questions of international justice,” Titley said. Areas where mammals are most likely to have to move and find new homes are in the US-Mexico border, western Amazonia, the Andes, central and eastern Africa, the Himalayan region, and the China–Russia border. For birds, western Amazonia was found to be most vulnerable. Border fencing is problematic from a conservation point of view to begin with. Adding political barriers would mean a species would be facing different kinds of threats on either side of a border, “especially in areas of conflict,” the study said. “The Himalayan region … is a globally important biodiversity hotspot that also spans a range of altitudes and different climate zones. That means a lot of species can move to higher elevations to stay cool as the climate gets hotter, and may need to cross political borders as they do so,” Titley explained. A Himalayan goral, for instance, can be found at an elevation between 900m and 4,000m. But if the shrublands and temperate forests it lives in were no longer where they used to be, because of climate change, it would have to move. If it did, in China and Nepal, it would face the threat of hunting. In Bhutan, the challenge would be overgrazing. And in India, its habitat is being altered in the lower reaches of the Himalayas and northeast India, the IUCN says. Joint study lead Professor Stephen Willis said, “If we’re serious about protecting nature, expanding transboundary conservation initiatives and reducing the impacts of border barriers on species will be really important – although there’s no substitute for tackling the greenhouse gas emissions at the root of the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/700-species-will-lose-habitat-to-warming-by-2070-finds-study/articleshow/81251982.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
February 28, 2021||Business||Power to block net content around for last 11 yrs: Govt||NEW DELHI: The government said on Saturday that it has not accorded any special emergency powers to the information and broadcasting secretary regarding interim blocking directions of content on internet platforms. An official statement said that the emergency blocking provision had existed for around 11 years, but was previously a mandate of the IT secretary which is now being shifted to the I&B secretary for OTT platforms and digital media ecosystem as part of the IT (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. “Certain misgivings are being raised regarding Rule 16 under Part III of the rules, which mention that in a case of emergency nature, interim blocking directions may be issued by the Information and Broadcasting Secretary. It is to inform that this provision is exactly the same as being exercised by the Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology since the past eleven years under the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009. Since Part III of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 would be administered by the Information & Broadcasting Ministry, that is why the reference to Secretary MeITY has been replaced by Information & Broadcasting Secretary. There is no new provision which has been made,” an official statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/power-to-block-net-content-around-for-last-11-yrs-govt/articleshow/81251983.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Man gives supari for family, but hitman sees kid, changes mind||GHAZIABAD: To claim insurance money, a man identified as Ajay Yadav hired a contract killer to eliminate his wife and four-year-old son. But Gajraj, the hitman, had a change of heart when he saw Yadav’s family, especially the kid, the day he went to the house to execute the contract. Instead, he had a conversation and told her everything. Yadav’s wife then went to Kavi Nagar police station and got an FIR filed. On Saturday, Yadav was arrested with his accomplice Ram Prakash from near Diamond bridge. Gajraj, however, is absconding. Police said while Yadav is from Azamgarh and worked as a medical representative, his wife, Rakhi, is from Bihar. “The couple had a love marriage four years ago. However, soon after marriage, they started having differences. Rakhi suspected Yadav of having an affair. Frustrated with regular fights and to claim the insurance money in Rakhi’s name, Yadav hatched the plot to get rid of her and their son,” a police officer said. Yadav sought the help of his friend, Ram Prasad, who allegedly contacted Gajraj. “Yadav told Gajraj to commit the crime in such a manner that it looked like an accident and promised to pay him Rs 10 lakh for the job,” the police officer added. On February 25, Gajraj, posing as a salesman, entered Yadav’s house. “He had a change of heart after seeing the four-year-old child and came clean. He showed Rakhi a video in which Yadav was seen giving instructions on how to kill Rakhi,” the police officer said. Based on evidence, police on Saturday arrested Yadav and Prasad from near Diamond bridge. “We still are not aware about the whereabouts of the contract killer. But we have got information from the two accused and hope to nab Gajraj soon,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/man-gives-supari-for-family-but-hitman-sees-kid-changes-mind/articleshow/81250649.cms||Abhijay Jha
February 28, 2021||Business||Eco affairs secy Tarun Bajaj gets extra charge of revenue dep||NEW DELHI: Economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj has been given additional charge of the department of revenue after the superannuation of Ajay Bhushan Pandey, an official order said on Saturday. Pandey, a 1984 batch Maharashtra cadre IAS officer, who was also the finance secretary will retire on February 28. The budget process is still underway with discussions on the finance bill set to begin after Parliament reconvenes on March 8. Prior to his appointment as economic affairs secretary, Bajaj was an additional secretary in the PM’s office. Pandey, who took over as revenue secretary in 2018, undertook sweeping reforms in the country’s taxation system and also steered the universalisation of Aadhaar. He was instrumental in bringing reforms in income tax and indirect taxes, including corporate tax reduction, DT abolition and faceless assessment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/eco-affairs-secy-tarun-bajaj-gets-extra-charge-of-revenue-dep/articleshow/81251985.cms||---
February 28, 2021||India||India, B’desh vow to boost ties on border issues, security||NEW DELHI: India and Bangladesh held home secretary-level talks via virtual mode on Saturday, during which they reaffirmed not to allow the territory of either country to be used for any activity inimical to each other’s interests. At the 19th home secretary-level talks held in the backdrop of ‘Mujib Barsho’ and 50 years of Bangladesh liberation war and establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries, Indian home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla and Mostafa Kamal Uddin, senior secretary, public security division in the ministry of home affairs of Bangladesh, reiterated their commitment to further expand and strengthen mutual cooperation in security and border-related issues. They discussed early completion of pending fencing along the Indo-Bangladesh border, as agreed by the PMs of the two countries. Both sides appreciated the cooperation between the two countries and the action taken to address the menace of terrorism and extremism in an effective manner. The effective functioning of the Coordinated Border Management Plan (CBMP) to control the illegal cross border activities was appreciated by both sides. Both sides agreed to further enhance the level of cooperation to prevent smuggling of Fake Indian Currency Notes and contraband. Bangladesh appreciated assistance provided by India in the field of training and capacity building for various security agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-bdesh-vow-to-boost-ties-on-border-issues-security/articleshow/81251997.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Gurgaon||How to manage social distancing for junior classes? Schools in a fix||GURUGRAM: With the Haryana government announcing the resumption of physical classroom sessions for students of standards I and II from March 1, state-run primary schools in the city are worried about the preparations due to lack of resources. From space constraint to ensuring physical distancing in classrooms to lack of sanitation staff, the schools have expressed their helplessness in adhering to the Covid-19 norms. Teachers said if all students from classes 1 to 12 started coming to school, they would be forced to accommodate over 50 students in each classroom, which would again compromise physical distancing. In many schools, they said, there’s no way that the one-student-per-bench norm can be followed. Moreover, most government schools don’t have enough sanitation staff. There are 365 primary schools in the city. For instance, at Nathupur Government School, there are only eight rooms to accommodate over 400 students. The school doesn’t even have a playground to hold classes in the open. The school authorities claim that even if over 70% students start coming to schools, they won’t be able to ensure physical distancing as mandated by the government. Similarly at Jacobpura school, where there are only 37 classrooms for over 1,800 students, the administration is holding classes in two shifts even as around 1,000 students are coming daily. If the number increases, the school plans an odd-even formula to call students. The situation is worse in Nuh, where many schools told TOI that they were forced to accommodate 60 students in small classrooms. “With schools opening in full capacity now, lack of space is emerging as a major impediment in ensuring physical distancing. Even with less than 60% of total students coming for classes now, we are struggling to segregate the children. If all students start coming, things will become worse,” said a school teacher at Nathupur Government School. Besides lack of space for the accommodating students as per one-child-per-bench basis, schools have also cited lack of staff to manage school operations. Teachers and principals of several schools have revealed that over 70% primary schools in the city lack sweepers and sanitation staff, forcing sometimes the teaching staff members to sanitise the campus. Many a time, even students are tasked with sweeping and sanitising the premises. For instance, at Panwala Government Primary School in Sector 106 and Kadipur Government School, teachers and at times even students are forced to clean and mop floors and sanitise the campus due to lack of sweeping staff. “While at times the school administration manages to get help from MCG sanitation employees, most of the time teachers and students have to be ‘atmanirbhar’ for cleaning the classrooms and even toilets. We have been asking the department to allot sweepers at least now when sanitation is mandatory during the pandemic,” said a school teacher of Panwala primary school. Moreover, many schools lack peons to ensure staggered entry and exit of students. “It’s been five years that schools have been demanding the appointment of sweepers and peons. But now, if the government wants to reopen schools it should do so by providing basic facilities at the schools,” said Dushyant Thakran, district head of Haryana Prathmik Shikshak Sangh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/how-to-manage-social-distancing-for-junior-classes-schools-in-a-fix/articleshow/81250874.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
February 28, 2021||India||Crowdfunding brings Rs 2,100cr to Ram Mandir coffers||Ayodhya: The Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust coffers brimmed with Rs 2,100 crore on Saturday evening — the last day of the 44-day fund-raising campaign launched by Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) for building a grand temple in Ayodhya. Before the launch of the crowdfunding campaign on January 15, the Trust had projected an estimate of Rs 1,100 crore for building of the Ram temple complex. But an overwhelming response from people gave the project a head-start with the Trust receiving Rs 1,000 crore more than the estimate. Treasurer of the Teerth Kshetra Trust Govind Dev Giri said, “The fund-raising campaign has ended with generous contributions from crosssections of people, including residents of far-flung villages of India, blurring religious barriers. Total donations received has crossed Rs 2,100 crore on Saturday evening.” Giri had pegged the construction cost of the temple at Rs 300-Rs 400 crore, while making an estimate of Rs 1,100 crore for building the entire complex on Ramjanmabhoomi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/crowdfunding-brings-rs-2100cr-to-ram-mandir-coffers/articleshow/81252005.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
February 28, 2021||Meerut||After encounter, 3 held for Noida woman gang rape||MEERUT: Almost 48 hours after the abduction and gang rape of a Noida woman returning from work, all the three suspects involved in the crime were arrested following a brief encounter with Hapur police on the intervening night of February 26-27. According to the police, all the arrested accused are repeat offenders and one of them, Ankit, was booked and arrested in a similar case of abduction and rape at Masuri police station in Ghaziabad. The three arrested accused - Aakash, Ankit and Aakil, all in their 20s - hail from Gaaland village in Hapur's Pilkhuwa area and work as autorickshaw drivers."The accused used to target working women returning late from work. The trio has been behind several such crimes, which went unreported as the complainant didn't come forward," Sarvesh Mishra, additional superintendent of police (ASP) told TOI. The 30-year-old woman, who is a resident of Noida, was allegedly abducted by three suspects in an autorickshaw on the night of February 24, forcibly taken to a desolate spot and gang-raped. An FIR under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Pilkhuwa police station in Hapur district. In another development, the station house officer (SHO) of Ghaziabad's Masuri police station, Raghvendra Pratap Singh, has been suspended over charges of dereliction of duties. "Raghvendra Pratap Singh who was the station house officer of Masuri police station has been suspended and Shailendra Pratap Singh who was serving as the station house officer of Link Road police station have been transferred to Masuri" said Iraj Raja, Ghaziabad superintendent of police (Rural). "Singh was a repeat offender as he remained absent from police station most of times and there were complaints against him but the primary reason behind his suspension was because he turned away the rape survivor when she approached the police station for lodging a complaint," added Raja. According to sources in the police department, the case was initially caught in a jurisdiction dispute as cops at Masuri police station in Ghaziabad where the woman had initially approached with her plea allegedly didn't register her complaint and was directed to Pilkhuwa police station in neighbouring Hapur district. The FIR was finally registered on Thursday morning, almost 12 hours after the crime and a probe was initiated. "Our control room received an alert about the crime around 3 am on Thursday from our counterparts at Masuri police station in Ghaziabad. We immediately registered an FIR and sent the woman for medical examination," Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, Hapur superintendent of police, had said. Meanwhile, the auto-rickshaw used in the crime and the mobile phone of the rape survivor were also recovered from them. "We began scrubbing old cases to find a pattern and found one such case of 2013. We began tracing all the suspects in that case and found the location of one of them near the crime spot," assistant superintendent of police Mishra said. (With input from Abhijay Jha in Ghaziabad)(The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-encounter-3-held-for-noida-woman-gang-rape/articleshow/81252022.cms||Piyush Rai
February 28, 2021||Gurgaon||Vax Phase-3: 20 session sites will be set up on Day 1||GURUGRAM: As many as 20 session sites will be set up on the first day of the much-awaited third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive that will roll out tommorrow (March 1), officials said. The government and private facilities in the city will have 10 sites each on the day and every site will get 100 doses of vaccine from the health department on Monday morning. Notably, the session sites will operate from 12pm to 5pm. The cost of the vaccine at the private facilities has been set at Rs 150 per shot. Additionally, they can charge Rs 100 per person as the processing fee for the inoculation, according to sources in the state government. The private facilities, where people can walk-in with their Aadhaar card, electoral photo ID card, certificate of comorbidity for citizens in the age group of 45 to 59 years, include Artemis, Kalyani, Mayom, Medanta, Paras, Park, Sunrise, W-Pratiksha and Narayana hospitals. Also, the 10 government facilities where people can get inoculated are Civil Hospital in Sector 10, Poly Clinic in Sector 31, and primary healthcare centres (PHC) in Farrukh Nagar, Wazirabad, Sohna, Pataudi, Chumma, Manesar, Tigra and Chandralok. “We will plan to increase the number of sites up to 50. The sites will inoculate recipients at a ratio of 40:60 for the third phase and the second dose for the first phase recipients. A total of 2,000 doses will be distributed on Day 1 at thes session sites,” said Dr Virender Yadav, CMO (Gurgaon). He added: “Initially, we will conduct on-spot registrations. Online registration is likely to begin after March 4.” Meanwhile, a new role of ‘CVC manager’ has been created for this phase and have been trained on the Co-WIN 2.0 portal. The manager will be responsible for verification, vaccination, observation and AEFI reporting. Furthermore, persons over 45 years with comorbidities will have to carry a certificate from a registered medical practitioner with an MBBS degree. Some of the criteria to get the vaccine shot include heart failure (with hospital admission in past one year), post-cardiac transplant, moderate or severe valvular heart disease, hypertension or diabetes on treatment, end-stage kidney disease, leukaemia, bone marrow failure, HIV infection, acid attack with the involvement of respiratory system, muscular dystrophy and more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/vax-phase-3-20-session-sites-will-be-set-up-on-day-1/articleshow/81250909.cms||Ipsita Pati
February 28, 2021||Gurgaon||After nearly 2 months, Gurugram reports over 60 new cases||Gurugram: The daily Covid-19 cases in the city are again showing an upward trend. As many as 62 cases were reported on Saturday. The city’s total tally has now gone up to 58,937. The last time the city reported more than 60 cases on January 11, when 72 people tested positive. After that, there was a downward trend. Since November 21, when 939 people tested positive, the city’s cases had been declining. “The new cases are 48, of the total 62, while the other 14 cases are last week’s pending cases that were on hold because their phone numbers and addresses were incorrect. We received the verification from Gurugram police regarding these cases on Saturday and thus they are added to the list. We are expecting a surge soon. We have also collected more than 1,000 samples for Ireo Victory Valley an upscale condominium in Sector 67 on Thursday after 19 residents tested positive for Covid-19,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/after-nearly-2-months-gurgaon-reports-over-60-new-cases/articleshow/81250920.cms||Ipsita Pati
February 28, 2021||India||Given up on babus, will rope in pvt sector: Mantri||NEW DELHI: Taking a dig at “some” non-performing officers who are not ready to change, highways minister Nitin Gadkari has said a committee of experts from private and government sectors would be appointed to recommend norms for new designs, quality of work and promote new technologies in highway and bridge construction. “After my six years’ experience I have found that in this system people won’t change. I am coming to the conclusion that it is very difficult to change them. I have given up on these people and now,” the minister said at a web-based event. He said there is need to classify good and bad performers. Gadkari said now they have decided to take people from state governments and the private sector to give a big push to innovation and adoption of new technologies in road construction. The minister said, “There are many good personnel who are working day and night. It’s because of their hard work we are achieving new records in highway construction. The credit goes to the engineers and officials.” He said there has been remarkable progress in the construction of Delhi-Mumbai expressway and due to the best efforts put by officials from his ministry, the government saved Rs 5,000 crore in the Zojila tunnel project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/given-up-on-babus-will-rope-in-pvt-sector-mantri/articleshow/81252031.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Gurgaon||Numbers say it all or creativity? The 3-litmus test for your brand||By Shivanand Mohanty “Half of my advertising budget is wasted. The problem is I don’t know which half” - John Wanamaker’s 19th century predicament will feel familiar to many in advertising and marketing right now. In the age of “Big Data”, it would seem strange. After all, intelligent machines designed by smart engineers are watching us all the time, noting what we look at, what we share, how we comment. How these machines map our attention is also shaping how we measure the success of a campaign. So, we take to heart every dietician’s favourite mantra: “You can’t improve what you can’t measure.” Numbers prove a campaign’s worthiness. So, we keenly track the things that machines have made easy to follow. Responses, views, likes, shares, comments, follows. The higher the score, the better. If Rihanna’s tweet, or the Reddit post that started the Gamestop stock buying frenzy had been ads, they would already be in the running for a slew of awards next season. Think about it. Number of impressions gained. Unpaid media coverage earned. The conversations started. The engagement! The numbers say it all. And yet… Numbers can only tell us who’s winning the numbers game. They don’t always reveal who is winning hearts and minds. And that’s the mission of advertising. At its best, it’s not just about getting your attention – it is about changing your mind. Great ideas change something – belief, behaviour, feeling. In this mission, advertising still is alchemy. It is a mix of data, insights and creativity, somewhat mysterious and extremely messy at the same time. No one can explain while they are at it what each step is about. But when the end result emerges, well, we all know gold when we see it — an idea that inspires love and creates sustainable growth for the business. But how do you measure this achievement? Research, of course. And while an entire industry is ready to take on the challenge, here are three tests that can help. Full disclosure: they are highly subjective, randomly tested and completely unproven. But they could throw up some interesting results. Given time, I’m sure we can also find testimonials from a university run on a popular messaging platform. The landlord testThis is ideal for corporate brands, to check their scores for trustworthiness, awareness, familiarity, esteem and other such values. The way it works is simple. Pretend you are a tenant and meet a bunch of landlords who want to offer only “company lease”. Then note the response when you mention the company name. An enthusiastic smile means that the brand is not only known, but is also respected and admired. It is the equivalent of a Cannes Gold Lion – rare and prized. A satisfied nod shows the brand is familiar and there are no major negatives. A flinch? The brand needs urgent care. Call for a pitch immediately. (A variant of this is the “In-Law Test”, conducted among prospective in-laws from time immemorial.) The bachcha party testThis is an extreme test, not recommended for the weak of heart and the frail of hearing. It is perfect for brands that want to check their “cool” quotient. It involves getting invited to a birthday party of pre-teens. Or crashing it. Carry a gift voucher or a product of the brand in question. Then make it a point to catch the conversation when the presents are unwrapped. That’s the litmus test. This is a highly engaged and opinionated audience, and it redefines “cool” on an hourly basis. A lot of the lingo they use will be gibberish to your ears, but strive to catch the tone when they talk about your brand. Steel your soul for devastating putdowns – much more life-sapping than the dreaded “mazaa nahi aaya”. If however, you do get some positive buzz, pop open the champagne. You’ve earned it. The out of bounds testThis is meant for overachievers only. Brands and campaigns that strive to not just sell products but also be an active part of the culture. The test is simple – how many people not in your industry or category are talking about your brand? For example, can a new car go beyond petrol heads and get fashion pundits talking? Can an appliance not only delight homemakers, but also be the subject of a design blog? When a brand spills over beyond the confines of its segment, it is on its way to iconhood. Of course, our focus on measuring must keep in mind that even at its best, it is at best a guide to thinking. BARC controversy aside, numbers can be trusted only so far. They can aid, not replace, the human imagination. As Einstein himself said: “Not everything that can be counted counts, not everything that counts can be counted.” (The author is Creative Partner, Daiko FHO Communications)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/numbers-say-it-all-or-creativity-the-3-litmus-test-for-your-brand/articleshow/81249659.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||No mask, no case hearing: Bombay HC to counsel||MUMBAI: The Bombay HC removed a matter from board after seeing that a counsel for the appellant had taken off his mask. Justice Prithviraj Chavan was on February 22 hearing a first appeal with a civil application pending since 2018 when he observed, “Counsel for the appellant has removed the mask despite guidelines.’’ He then passed an order for removal, pointing out that SOP for resumption of physical hearing contemplates “wearing of mask at all times, even during arguments’’ as mandatory. Entry for one advocate per party: SOPThe SOP also requires strict compliance of social distancing and says entry to court rooms for physical hearing stands restricted to: “one advocate per party whose vakalatnama is on record or who has been duly authorised and whose case is listed for hearing on board of concerned court.’’ It also makes entry into court rooms permissible to advocates and party-in-person whose matter is called for hearing. The rest of the advocates may wait outside the courtroom or in the Bar Room, while maintaining social distancing norms, the SOP stipulates. Observing the lawyer mask-less, Justice Chavan said, “the matter be removed from the board.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-mask-no-case-hearing-bombay-hc-to-counsel/articleshow/81252092.cms||Swati Deshpande
February 28, 2021||Vadodara||Rally held to mark Godhra train carnage anniversary||Vadodara: The 19th anniversary of the Godhra Sabarmati Express carnage may have fallen on the municipal polls eve in Godhra, but there was no major tension in the town. Members of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) brought out a rally in the town to pay homage to the 59 victims of the carnage that took place on February 27, 2002.Police security was maintained in the town in wake of the elections as well as the carnage anniversary. Security was also maintained at the S-6 coach that was charred by miscreants in the carnage. The S-5 coach of the ill-fated train is also lying in the Godhra railway yard.Besides VHP workers, three women also came to the coach to pay tributes to the victims. They claimed that they were not affiliated to any outfit or political party. A ‘Sundarkand’ recital was also organized in Godhra to mark the anniversary. It is being held since 2003 in Godhra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rally-held-to-mark-godhra-train-carnage-anniversary/articleshow/81249580.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Visakhapatnam||With reservation in 49 wards, women may hold GVMC reins||VISAKHAPATNAM: The new council of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) would be women-dominated as 49 wards (of the 98-ward council) have been reserved for women. Apart from these reserved 49 wards, tens of women candidates are contesting from other general wards. In zones such as Bheemili and Anakapalli, all the wards have been allocated for women. The women voters of the city also constitute about half of the (49.7%) of the electorate, becoming a crucial factor in the municipal poll dynamics. Considering all these factors, the political parties have been going door to door to reach out to their prospective women voters. In fact, the random reservation process has become a herculean task for the principal political parties to find suitable women candidates from a particular category or community. Several wards have gone to a different category in the reservation process than that of the long-term aspirants or in-charges of that particular ward. Left with no option, some politicians have fielded their wives or women kin to tide over the 50% reservations for women. Several women candidates, who were part of the earlier elected council in 2007, are also in fray from various wards this time too, but from a different political outfit. YSRC has released its first list of candidates for 78 wards on Friday, while TDP is expected to announce its candidates on March 1. The parties are figuring out what to do with those candidates who shifted loyalties to other parties after filing the papers in the last one year. City secretary, AIDWA, RN Madhavi, said that reserving 49 wards for the women would obviously strengthen their political participation. “But, as we see, in many cases, their brothers and husbands run the show making the elected representatives dummies. This should not happen for betterment of the city,” Madhavi said. The women candidates have been seen rigorously campaigning in the wards for the last few days. The seasoned leaders are helping the newcomers, while the senior women politicians are canvassing on their own. The multi-cornered contest and campaigning has made the city streets buzz with activity in the last few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/with-reservation-in-49-wards-women-may-hold-gvmc-reins/articleshow/81249140.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
February 28, 2021||Vijayawada||Teachers’ MLC fight looks one-sided||VIJAYAWADA: The ongoing battle for the two MLC seats in the teachers’ constituency appears to be one-sided with the teachers’ unions standing firm behind the two candidates in the two Godavari districts and Krishna-Guntur district, where the withdrawal of nominations is over. After the withdrawals, the officials have held 11 nominations valid for the East and West Godavari constituency and 19 nominations for the Krishna-Guntur constituency. The Left-sponsored teachers’ unions have fielded Shaik Sabjee for the East-West Godavari districts and Boddu Nageswara Rao for the Krishna-Guntur constituencies. In Krishna-Guntur, sitting MLC, A S Rama Krishna, backed by TDP is seeking re-election and is set to give tough fight to the Progressive Democratic Forum (PDF) nominee Boddu Nageswara Rao. The ruling YSR Congress opted out of contest and had left this round of MLC elections to the teachers’ unions. This made the victory of the two PDF nominees much easier. Gandham Narayana Rao is in the fray backed by the State Teachers’ Union, while the rest are testing on their own strength and popularity. Shaik Sabjee has the support of the United Teachers’ Federation (UTF) and the AP Teachers’ Federation (APTF), giving him edge over his rivals. While Sabjee in the Godavari districts is a strong leader in the teachers’ unions, Nageswara Rao in Krishna-Guntur had earlier won the MLC seat in the graduates’ constituency. Nageswara Rao is also backed by the UTF and the APTF, which have together greater support among the teachers. TDP, which is backing the sitting MLC Rama Krishna is trying its luck in the toughest battle. Sources say that Nageswara Rao has comfortable support among the teaching community, despite some individual teachers are in the fray. Sources also indicate that the ruling YSR Congress is backing the PDF candidates in the two constituencies thus making the victory of Sabjee and Nageswara Rao easier. The ruling YSR Congress opted out of contest and had left this round of MLC elections to the teachers’ unions. Sources indicate that the ruling YSR Congress is backing the PDF candidates in the two constituencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/teachers-mlc-fight-looks-one-sided/articleshow/81249143.cms||Gopi Dara
February 28, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Contaminated water key issue in Eluru civic polls||ELURU: Eluru Municipal Corporation (EMC) in West Godavari district is getting ready for municipal polls. EMC has been reserved for the general woman category. Shaik Noorjahan is likely to be the mayoral candidate for the YSRC. The BJP-Jana Sena combine will contest all 50 divisions of the corporation. The TDP, according to sources, is yet to finalise its candidate for the mayor post. A city with a rich history, Eluru is struggling with basic infrastructure at the moment. Water contamination is a major concern of residents. People living in Thurpu Veedhi, Dakshina Veedhi, Padmara Veedhi, Kothapeta and Ashok Nagar face severe water contamination related problems. Godavari, Krishna and groundwater are major sources of water for Eluru. Water leakage from pipelines is a major problem which the government is trying to solve. There are 12 water service reservoirs in Eluru. Drainage too is a major problem. Eluru made headlines last year after around 700 people had to be hospitalised because of an unidentified disease. The entire scientific community landed in the city to find the cause, but the disease remains unknown till date. Eluru municipality was formed in 1894 and is the second oldest municipality in the state. It became a municipal corporation in 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/contaminated-water-key-issue-in-eluru-civic-polls/articleshow/81249151.cms||Samson Raj
February 28, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Cops to ramp up safety steps for elderly in DLF-1||GURUGRAM: A group of residents of H block of DLF phase-1 on Saturday held a meeting with the station house officer (SHO) of DLF-1 police station to discuss the security and safety issues that they have been facing in the area. Police and the RWA members agreed upon collecting details of senior citizens, including the elderly couples and old people living alone, in the block to build a safe and secure environment for them. The residents have also demanded frequent police patrolling at sensitive areas and requested to have a bi-monthly meeting between residents and police to improve security. Ajay Malik, SHO of DLF-1 police station said, “We will start the mapping of senior citizens and elderly living in the block by next week. Our officers will personally visit them and share the police station number, nearest PCR number to ensure their well-being and safety.” Moreover, the RWA is planning to install 100 CCTVs cameras, gates and boom barriers in the block. Rahul Chandola, president RWA, H block said, “We have put forth our demand and suggestions during the meeting with the police. We are planning to install 100 CCTV cameras at crucial points in the area, including Champa Marg, Kusum Marg, Kachnar Marg and H block lanes among others, which will not only help us but aid police for better monitoring. Also gates and boom barriers will be put in place to restrict the entry at odd hours as our colony has free access from nearby villages. We have also agreed on mapping of senior citizens in the block as they are most vulnerable and many of them are living alone. Few crime incidents with senior citizens have already been reported in the past.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cops-to-ramp-up-safety-steps-for-elderly-in-dlf-1/articleshow/81250224.cms||Akanksha Gupta
February 28, 2021||Vijayawada||Civic polls: VMC mayor post to see stiff contest||VIJAYAWADA: As political parties get busy campaigning for the upcoming municipal elections, a few candidates have started promoting themselves for the mayor post of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation. Competition for the mayor post may seem stiff, especially in YSRC, where aspirants have reportedly started lobbying with the high command. Winning the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) is a prestige issue for both YSRC and TDP. While YSRC is regarding this election as a referendum on the three-capital proposal, TDP wants to prove that people favour Amaravati. The city’s mayor post is reserved for general category women this time. YSRC is yet to announce its mayor candidate. AP Fibernet chairman P Gowtham Reddy’s daughter Likitha Reddy is being projected as a strong contender for the post of mayor. Former YSRC floor leader Bandi Punyaseela is also reported to be eyeing the mayor seat. Meanwhile, TDP has already confirmed the candidature of MP Kesineni Srinivas Nani’s daughter Kesineni Swetha for the mayor post and has started campaigning for her across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/civic-polls-vmc-mayor-post-to-see-stiff-contest/articleshow/81249185.cms||Venu Lanka
February 28, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: A young scientist’s inventions helping farmers, Covid warriors||NAGPUR: In 2017, nine farmers died after spraying insecticides on cotton plantation in Yavatmal district. Four other farmers lost their vision and 70 were hospitalized due to serious illness. A Std VIII student then, Aniket Kakde decided to design a robot that will help farmers in spraying chemicals without human intervention. This innovation by this young scientist not only won awards and recognition for him on national level, but also provided a major relief to farmers. Recently, during Covid-19 time, his innovation ‘SanAuto’ which ensures contactless sanitization of public places has won him Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Ignited Minds Award for Innovation and Creativity. Aniket was the only young scientist from Vidarbha to get this honour. On the eve of World Science Day, he spoke to TOI about his journey and future plans. “I started exploring Robotics when I was in 5th class. My first robot was made of cardboard. I tried various ways to move it — right from motors, Arduino, motor driver, programming Bluetooth,” said Aniket. While he was still in search of a ‘tech guru’ for his passion, Atal Tinkering Lab (ATL) was introduced to his school in Yavatmal. This project is a part of Atal Innovation Mission (AIM), Government of India’s flagship initiative to promote a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the country. “After this, I didn’t have to wander to fulfil my thirst for technology and innovations,” said Aniket. According to Aniket’s father Prashant, who works with NITI Aayog, his son always had a scientific and innovative approach. “Developing robots is just one aspect of his personality. As Aniket came across computer programming and got intrigued by the functioning and creation of websites, he learnt to create web pages. While taking the web development training, he started his own website www.anfosys.in,” he said. While he was still in school, he was shortlisted for an interview and had a telephonic interview at Big App Technologies Bengaluru. He was asked questions about HTML, the projects he was working on, the software on which he was coding, etc. Aniket was then selected for in-office interview in Bengaluru. “When he entered their office, they were surprised to see a school student. They promised him a web development and artificial intelligence internship at their campus during his Diwali vacations,” his father recalled. Aniket also gave the credit of his success to his mother Ambika, an engineer, and his alma matter — School of Scholars in Yavatmal. Today, a Class XI student of Amolakchand College in Yavatmal, Aniket has registered his start-up with MSME department and also participated in various pitching events. He wishes to start mass production of his robots to help farmers and frontline workers. About ‘SanAuto’ - Operated through a mobile app - Sanitary worker can stand at a safe distance and control the movements of this device - It reaches at the desired place and sprinkles the sanitizer - During Covid-19 onset in May-June 2020, this device had created waves - It won Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Ignited Minds Award for its creator Aniket Kakde||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-young-scientists-inventions-helping-farmers-covid-warriors/articleshow/81249222.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
February 28, 2021||Ranchi||RJD plans large-scale membership drive across Jharkhand||RANCHI: The Lalu Prasad-led RJD is trying to expand its vote base and strengthen its organisational structure in Jharkhand with its state in-charge and former Union minister Jaiprakash Narayan Yadav saying the party will soon take up a massive membership drive. Yadav, who is on a three-day visit to the state, said he would attend district-level meetings of his party in Dhanbad and Deoghar. Speaking to media persons at the state guest house here, Yadav said his focus is on reviewing the status of the party and take measures to improve it. He said RJD aims to build its organisation from the booth to the district level across the state. He said, “So far, reports from many districts on the party’s organisational strength were not satisfactory and instructions have been issued to improve them. However, there are regions like Palamu and Kodema where the party is going strong.” Yadav said a review of the membership drive and ways to increase its mass base will also be undertaken at the upcoming party meetings. He further said the party would raise issues its workers are facing in the Koyalanchal (Dhanbad) meeting to win over their support and redressal of local problems as well as burning issues in the state. On the mahagathbandhan government in which RJD is a part, Yadav said it is performing well under the leadership of chief minister Hemant Soren. Recently, a delegation of the party met Soren at his official residence and congratulated him for the work done during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, the state RJD leadership had said they want the party to perform better in future elections and play a vital role in the formation and running of the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rjd-plans-large-scale-membership-drive-across-jkhand/articleshow/81249073.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Jamshedpur||Covid test for Maharashtra, Kerala passengers at Birsa drome, 6 stations||RANCHI: Even though several states have imposed restrictions -- including mandatory negative Covid test reports and home quarantine -- on travellers from places that are recording a spike in new infections, the Jharkhand government is yet to take a decision on enforcing similar safety protocols. Notably, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Delhi, have imposed similar restrictions to keep new infections in check. Earlier this week, the state health department recommended strict surveillance of people entering Jharkhand from areas with a high burden of new cases, including Maharashtra and Kerala. However, no decision has been taken in this regard as the state executive committee has not met since the recommendations were made. On February 23, health secretary K K Soan had asked the disaster management department to make it mandatory for passengers from these states to carry a negative RT-PCR Covid report not older than 48 hours to enter Jharkhand. The health department has directed deputy commissioners of five districts to set up multiple sample collection points and TrueNat testing facilities at Birsa Munda International Airport and six railway stations to monitor passengers. Specific instructions have also been issued to the Ranchi airport officials to share the details of passengers from these states with IDSP and the Ranchi district administration. In a letter to DCs of Ranchi, Dhanbad, West Singhum, East Singhbhum and Bokaro on Friday evening, Soan asked them to ensure that samples of passengers coming from Kerala and Maharashtra are collected at railway stations and the airport. The railway stations identified for surveillance include Ranchi, Hatia, Chakradharpur, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Tatanagar. The letter also directed the district authorities to ensure that all passengers from any train originating or passing through Maharashtra and Kerala must be subjected to thermal scanning and samples must be collected for all those showing any Covid symptom. Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan said: “The directions will be implemented and I am in touch with the Railways as well as the airport authorities over the arrangements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/cov-test-for-maha-kerala-passengers-at-birsa-drome-6-stations/articleshow/81254179.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 28, 2021||Vadodara||City firm to set up Rs 100-cr tech park||Vadodara: City-based machine tool manufacturer COSMOS will set up Rs 100 crore technology park at Ranu village in Vadodara district. The project will be completed in three phases and is expected to be operationalized by 2022. The technology park on 15 acres land will have various plants producing key components to manufacture CNC machine tools and R&D division. With this venture, the firm is hoping to play a key role in growth of Indian industry in the fields of automobile, infrastructure, power and steel, electronics, aerospace and medical implants. “Technology parks will enable interaction of our group companies to work in harmony to evolve new technologies starting from inventions. A lot of employment generation will take place too due to this park. It will offer single point design, engineering and development solutions to the core sector industry,” said Nagesh Velaga, director of COSMOS which currently has over 800 employees. “The tech-park will take a lead in green initiatives. It will not only be surrounded by greenery but also house a rainforest facility,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/city-firm-to-set-up-rs-100-cr-tech-park/articleshow/81249468.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ranchi||Lawmakers flout Covid safety protocols during Budget session||RANCHI: Even as several cities have recorded a surge in Covid infections with some going back into lockdowns and night curfews, lawmakers in Jharkhand assembly seem to be ignoring all safety protocols. On the first day of the Budget session on Friday, most MLAs were seen sitting close to each other and mingling at entry and exit points either without masks or wearing them below the chin. Instead of addressing media personnel from the podium meant for the purpose, most MLAs were surrounded by a crowd once the session was adjourned. Assembly secretary Mahendra Prasad said they have notified necessary safety norms to be followed during the session. “We have conducted tests and issued instructions. Masks are available and being given to the MLAs, but it (wearing them) is up to the speaker and the honourable members themselves,” he said. Prasad clarified that he has issued instructions to the officials of assembly secretariat and they are ready to take action if lawmakers are found flouting norms. The 80-member Jharkhand assembly has a sizable number of senior citizens vulnerable to infection -- only 13% of the members are in the 25-40 years age group of, 22% of are between 56 and 70, and a 4% (three members) are above 70 years of age. JMM chief whip, septuagenarian Nalin Soren, admitted that there are lapses on part of some MLAs. “The chief minister (Hemant Soren) has repeatedly issued appeals asking members and others to follow all safety norms. There were several awareness drives as well. Now, it is up to the members to abide by these protocols,” he said, pointing that mandatory tests were carried out on lawmakers before the session so that no one with the infection enters the assembly. Though tests were conducted diligently, there is no mechanism in place to cross-check and verify the test reports. Another senior MLA, BJP’s C P Singh, expressed concern about verification of tests reports while submitting his swap samples. “It is good if each and every MLA is being tested ahead of the session, but there should be someone to check the reports before allowing entry to the House,” he had said, indicating that the security guards are not trained to read test reports. As many as 21 legislators, five of them are ministers have already been infected with Covid-19 since the outbreak of the pandemic and most of them have recovered. While education minister Jagarnath Mahto had to undergo a double lung transplant in Chennai, minority affairs minister Haji Hussain Ansari died of heart attack after recovering from the infection in October. Speaker Rabindranath Mahto is the latest among lawmakers to be infected with the virus. The assembly machinery appeared far more serious and concerned about the virus during the previous session. While there was no winter session, the short monsoon session witnessed special sitting arrangements inside the assembly hall and social distancing norms on the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lawmakers-flout-cov-safety-protocols-during-budget-session/articleshow/81248986.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
February 28, 2021||Ranchi||Ajsu-P, BJP to decide on alliance for West Bengal polls soon||RANCHI: If there is something in common between the ruling JMM and the opposition Ajsu-Party, then it is their dream of setting up an autonomous council in the Jangalmahal area of West Bengal after the completion of the upcoming polls in the neighbouring state. However, despite common goals, the warring factions will continue to fight against each other even in West Bengal. Meanwhile, Ajsu-P’s ally in Jharkhand, BJP, said it will press three former chief ministers of Jharkhand — Babulal Marandi, Arjun Munda and Raghubar Das — to campaign in West Bengal. Although an alliance between BJP and Ajsu-P is not confirmed, the latter’s spokesperson, Deosharan Bhagat, said, “Since we are under the NDA umbrella here (Jharkhand), we expect to fight the battle together even in West Bengal. A formal decision will be taken in some time from now.” Bhagat also said, “Ajsu-P will look to address issues faced by the indigenous population and other backward castes (OBCs) in Bengal. We will also demand an autonomous council for the Jangalmahal area.” The party will soon announce its candidates, he said. On the other hand, BJP made it clear that it will fight the  on a national plank and talk about Prime Minister Narendra Modi government’s achievements. Party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “Babulalji, Arjunji and Raghubarji have all held several rounds of rallies in West Bengal and our state party president Deepak Prakash will also actively campaign on the poll turf.” Shahdeo added the saffron party’s organisational secretary, Dharampal, is already camping in Assam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ajsu-p-bjp-to-decide-on-alliance-for-wb-polls-soon/articleshow/81249032.cms||ASRP Mukesh
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||Suvendu accuses CMO of trying to influence polls||Dankuni/Kolkata: BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Saturday stepped up pressure on the chief minister’s office (CMO) at Nabanna, accusing select officials of trying to “influence the election process” and demanding that the Election Commission take steps against them. Earlier in the day, a BJP delegation called on the CEO and lodged specific complaints against a few “serving police officers” for conspiring to aggregate postal ballots from officials on election duty. Addressing a BJP meet at Dankuni ahead of PM Narendra Modi’s Brigade Parade Ground rally on March 7, Adhikari levelled charges on the “election cell running under the chief secretary”. “Two senior WBCS officers in the CMO are making WhatsApp calls to the district magistrates and superintendents of police ahead of the polls in a bid to influence them,” Adhikari said. He also blamed some officials for “phone tapping” of opposition leaders, particularly those from BJP. Adhikari also drew the EC’s attention to the functioning of nominated civic heads of municipalities and corporations. “The government has nominated party leaders as civic heads in the districts. They are acting partisan. The EC should remove them from office while polls are under way,” he added. The delegation led by Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta made specific complaints against a few “serving police officers” to Bengal CEO Aariz Aftab, saying they were conspiring to “aggregate postal ballots” of state officials on election duty. Dasgupta said the BJP team was seeking an appointment with the Kolkata police commissioner over the last four days to apprise him of the matter. “The police commissioner hasn’t given us an appointment yet,” he said. Taking the cue, BJP leader Sisir Bajoria said: “A former officer in charge of Kalighat Police Station and two sub-inspectors are collecting Aadhaar cards and EPIC from state employees to aggregate postal ballots.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-accuses-cmo-of-trying-to-influence-polls/articleshow/81250924.cms||Falguni Banerjee
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||Left-Cong set for ‘rainbow’ meet with ISF at Brigade||Kolkata: The city will be witness to a “rainbow” gathering at the Brigade Parade Ground on Sunday from where Left and Congress and Abbas Siddqui’s Indian Secular Front will launch a joint campaign to break the Modi-Mamata binary in Bengal. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Congress Lok Sabha leader Adhir Chowdhury, Furfura cleric and ISF leader Abbas Siddiqui would share the dais for the first time in the annals of Bengal polls. According to state leaders, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi can’t make it to the rally because he would be touring poll-bound Tamil Nadu. The Congress high command is sending Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel to the rally. Rahul’s absence has raised eyebrows in political circles because the Congress leader had shared the dais with CPM leader Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee at Park Circus Maidan in the 2016 assembly polls in support of jote candidates. The reason could be to avoid controversy in Kerala where Congress has a larger political stake than in Bengal. Political equations between the Left and Congress are just the opposite in Bengal and Kerala. Former Pradesh Congress president Pradip Bhattacharya, however, saw no “political reason” behind Rahul’s absence. “Rahul Gandhi will come to Bengal later,” Bhattacharya said. Former CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, now confined to his Palm Avenue home, sent a message saying: “I am trying to gather information about the rally. I understand that many people have reached Brigade, while many are on the way.” The Brigade gathering this time has broken conventions, making some old-timers feel that the new Left was digressing from its cultural legacy. A “Tumpa Sona” parody uploaded by a young Left sympathiser became a hit on social media that was later picked up by CPM workers and supporters at the grassroots. They played the number during campaign for the rally without waiting for a nod from the higher-ups. While a section of supporters called it a “deviation” from the Left’s rich “ganasangeet sanskriti”, the number went viral among the young Left. A CPM leader stayed non-committal when asked if the parody — “Tumpa Brigade Chol” — will be played at the Brigade rally. Front chairman Biman Bose went to the Brigade Parade Ground on Saturday afternoon to oversee the arrangements. “Sunday’s rally will surpass all records. People say that the highest turnout at the Brigade ground was at Soviet premier Nikolay Bulganin’s meeting in 1955. The rally on Sunday will have more mobilisation,” Bose said. Sunday’s rally will be a debut for Abbas Siddiqui, a popular face in jalsas (religious gathering). “Our party is in alliance with the Left. Talks are going on with Congress,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/left-cong-set-for-rainbow-meet-with-isf-at-brigade/articleshow/81250989.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||Trinamool to field over 30% women, many fresh faces||Kolkata: Nearly 100 women candidates and many of them first-timers — including a retired senior bureaucrat, Tollywood artistes and sportspersons — are likely to figure on the Trinamool Congress list, which chief minister Mamata Banerjee is expected to announce before Tuesday in her signature style, facing south at her Kalighat office. In a departure from the past, Trinamool may announce its candidate list in phases, senior party leaders hinted. “On the first list, the CM may name some obvious candidates, including senior ministers, in addition to those who will contest in Phase-1,” a leader said. “Change of seats” of some key ministers in Kolkata is also being anticipated. The party has already formed a 12-member committee, headed by CM Banerjee, to finalise its 294 candidates. The committee has senior MPs Subrata Bakshi, Sudip Bandopadhyay, C M Jatua and Saugata Roy, along with Abhishek Banerjee, and senior state ministers Partha Chatterjee, Firhad Hakim, Aroop Biswas, Chandrima Bhattacharya and Subrata Mukherjee. It is believed that party leaders have already shared their feedback with the CM for her to take a “final decision”. According to the poll schedule announced by the Election Commission, nomination for the March 27 first phase polling begins on March 2. “Trinamool has always given more representation to women. This time, we expect it will be more than 30% of the total candidates. In other words, over 88 women,” a source said. Several new Tollywood faces have recently joined the party, offering it multiple choices. Trinamool is also likely to give tickets to some prominent industry figures who have been working hard for the party behind the scenes. Actor Soham leads the pack. “Bringing in retired bureaucrats to the political mainstream was started by the party chief when she nominated Manish Gupta,” a source said, refusing to elaborate. The candidate list will reflect a several-month-long research by field workers on acceptability of certain sitting candidates. It is largely believed that several sitting MLAs may not get renominated. Phase-1 kicks off in politically significant zones of East and West Midnapore. These include the two Contai seats and several hemming these battleground constituencies. Suvendu Adhikari’s defection to BJP, along with his younger brother Soumendu, has loosened the party’s stranglehold in these bastions. It is believed that Chandrima, who won the 2016 bypoll from Contai (South), will vacate her seat and return to contest from Kolkata. The party is likely to bring in Soumen Mahapatra back to contest from an East Midnapore seat. The East Midnapore candidate list, sources said, is likely to be packed with seasoned political leaders who have stayed away from spotlight, but have worked hard nonetheless. This pattern is unlikely to be disturbed in West Midnapore and Bankura either. In West Midnapore, Kharagpur and Midnapore seats also go to polls on March 27. The party is likely to field Pradip Sarkar once more from Kharagpur. In Bankura, among reserved seats, Sujata Mondal is likely to debut. The estranged wife of BJP MP Saumitra Khan has impressed party leaders with her grit and sharpness, sources said. (With inputs from Suman Mondal in Tamluk and Sujoy Khanra in Midnapore)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trinamool-to-field-over-30-women-many-fresh-faces/articleshow/81250905.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||My spine not for sale, says Abhishek at Ghatal rally||Ghatal (West Midnapore): “My spine is not for sale,” Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee said on Saturday following a 4.5km roadshow here, 10 days after BJP’s ‘parivartan yatra’ in these parts of the state. Without naming Suvendu Adhikari, he said: “Unlike others, I will not sell my spine on the streets of Delhi, fearing outsiders and their agencies — the ED and CBI.” Reminding his audience of Contai-born freedom fighter Deshpran Sasmal’s famous statement — that when he died he should be cremated upright so that people remembered him as a person who looked up to the stars with his spine erect — Banerjee said, “Even if you lop my head off, you will only hear ‘Jai Hind’, ‘Jai Bangla’, ‘Mamata Banerjee’ and ‘Trinamool Congress’... These Mir Jafars and deserters have sold their souls in Delhi. People will always remember them for it.” Speaking after the model code of conduct came into force in Bengal, the MP questioned the rationale of splitting East and West Midnapore districts that will vote on separate days. “Who will benefit from this? They believe they can conduct the elections with outsiders and central forces. They are mistaken. It is people who’ll vote — the ‘Kanyashrees’, ‘Rupashrees’ and ‘Sabuj Sathis’. It (the result) will be decided by Mamata Banerjee’s soldiers; people for whom Mamata Banerjee has toiled; people whose lives she has touched. They will decide the fate,” he said. The MP added: “Whenever you will ask me to come, I will. Whenever you will ask me to attend meetings or walk, I will. But, I need your word that in every booth you will strengthen Mamata Banerjee. You give me 16 seats in East Midnapore and 15 seats in West Midnapore, and I will give you 250 seats statewide.” Banerjee also invoked one of Bengal’s renaissance icons. “Vidyasagar was born here in Birsingha village. They (the BJP) desecrated his statue. They know little of Bengal, or of its famous sons and daughters. They disrespect them. Our fight is to drive away these outsiders. For that I need your blessings,” he said, urging people to “keep the green abir ready for May 2” when election results would be announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/my-spine-not-for-sale-says-abhishek-at-ghatal-rally/articleshow/81250869.cms||Sujoy Khanra
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||CAPF patrol priority in Jadavpur, Behala||Kolkata: A day after the Election Commission announced dates for assembly elections in Bengal, personnel of central armed police forces (CAPF) began patrolling various parts of Kolkata. On Saturday, three companies of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) arrived in the city from Muzaffarpur and are expected to start patrolling from Sunday. Jadavpur and Behala, which go to polls first, may get priority along with a few sensitive pockets in north Kolkata. The SSB contingent in Baruipur has already started patrolling areas under Jadavpur constituency while the CRPF team will patrol areas in Salt Lake. Across the state, 125 companies of central forces have arrived for the eight-phase polling that begins on March 27. The CRPF has the largest contingent of 60 companies followed by 30 of SSB, 25 of BSF and five each of CISF and ITBP. The largest deployment of forces is nine companies each in Jhargram and Purulia. The next highest is in Darjeeling. The five ITBP companies have been deployed in Chandernagore police commissionerate while the five CISF companies have been deployed in the Asansol Durgapur commissionerate area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/capf-patrol-priority-in-jadavpur-behala/articleshow/81250969.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
February 28, 2021||Ranchi||Gumla man loses leg in IED blast, flown to Ranchi for treatment||GUMLA: A 27-year-old villager identified as Mahendra Mahato lost his left leg after he accidentally stepped on an IED planted by Maoists in Sahdeo Jharia forest near Madwa village in Gumla district on Saturday while grazing his cattle. The incident occurred around 1pm, but police were informed much later, following which, they rushed him to the sadar hospital. Mahato had to be flown to Ranchi in a helicopter for better treatment later. A family member, who accompanied him to the sadar hospital, said Mahato was lying unconscious for hours after the incident. Later, his mother Abhashi Devi found him injured. She then alerted other family members, who in turn, informed police. Family members brought him back to the village in a cot from where he was taken to the hospital in an autorickshaw. Gumla SP Hrudeep P Janardhanan visited the hospital and gave Rs 20,000 cash for his treatment and arranged a helicopter to take him to Ranchi for better treatment. He said, “Now, Maoists are targeting innocent villagers. They extort money and keep their family members safe, but put the lives of villagers in jeopardy.” Three days ago, CRPF jawan Robin Kumar had sustained critical leg injuries in a blast during a search operation in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gumla-man-loses-leg-in-ied-blast-flown-to-ranchi-for-treatment/articleshow/81249086.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Ranchi||Covid test for Maharashtra, Kerala passengers at Birsa drome, 6 stations||RANCHI: Even though several states have imposed restrictions -- including mandatory negative Covid test reports and home quarantine -- on travellers from places that are recording a spike in new infections, the Jharkhand government is yet to take a decision on enforcing similar safety protocols. Notably, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Delhi, have imposed similar restrictions to keep new infections in check. Earlier this week, the state health department recommended strict surveillance of people entering Jharkhand from areas with a high burden of new cases, including Maharashtra and Kerala. However, no decision has been taken in this regard as the state executive committee has not met since the recommendations were made. On February 23, health secretary K K Soan had asked the disaster management department to make it mandatory for passengers from these states to carry a negative RT-PCR Covid report not older than 48 hours to enter Jharkhand. The health department has directed deputy commissioners of five districts to set up multiple sample collection points and TrueNat testing facilities at Birsa Munda International Airport and six railway stations to monitor passengers. Specific instructions have also been issued to the Ranchi airport officials to share the details of passengers from these states with IDSP and the Ranchi district administration. In a letter to DCs of Ranchi, Dhanbad, West Singhum, East Singhbhum and Bokaro on Friday evening, Soan asked them to ensure that samples of passengers coming from Kerala and Maharashtra are collected at railway stations and the airport. The railway stations identified for surveillance include Ranchi, Hatia, Chakradharpur, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Tatanagar. The letter also directed the district authorities to ensure that all passengers from any train originating or passing through Maharashtra and Kerala must be subjected to thermal scanning and samples must be collected for all those showing any Covid symptom. Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan said: “The directions will be implemented and I am in touch with the Railways as well as the airport authorities over the arrangements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cov-test-for-maha-kerala-passengers-at-birsa-drome-6-stations/articleshow/81249018.cms||Gaurav Pandey
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||EC removes ADG (law-order), Trinamool smells ‘politics’||KOLKATA: The Election Commission on Saturday transferred Bengal additional directorgeneral (law and order) Jawed Shamim and replaced him with director-general (fire services) Jag Mohan within a day of the model code of conduct kicking in for the assembly poll. The ADG (law and order) is also the state police nodal officer for coordinating with the EC on police-related issues. The transfer was effected even before the arrival of the two special police observers for Bengal polls, Vivek Dubey and Mrinal Kanti Das, in Kolkata. Shamim was made ADG (law and order) just three weeks back and was coordinating with the central forces now in the process of being sent to locations across the state. He will now be director-general (fire services). Read AlsoWest Bengal assembly polls: BJP looks east, hopes for Southern swingThe poll date announcement on Friday has set the stage in Bengal for an exciting end-game. Three large blocs are in the running but the gradual post-2016 decimation of the Left Front Congress combine indicates a straight fight between Trinamool Congress and BJP. The battle may finally be won or lostTrinamool Congress seniors said they “smelt politics” behind the move but chose not to comment officially on the decision. Party MP Saugata Roy linked the transfer to a BJP complaint on “law and order in Bengal” lodged by party MP Swapan Dasgupta and Bengal leader Shishir Bajoria. The EC also informed the state government that as many as 29 IAS officers and nine IPS officers would be sent to other poll-bound states as poll observers. They include several state secretaries and two ADGs. Shamim, who was Kolkata Police special commissioner, was made ADG (law and order) on Februrary 6 to comply with an EC directive that said officials previously transferred by the EC could not be given “active poll duty” again. Didi had raised questions over EC roleJawed Shamim was among 24 senior officers, including new KP commissioner Soumen Mitra, tasked to handle new assignments just three weeks ago. One of the special police observers, Dubey, may reach Kolkata on Sunday; Das, too, is likely to reach Kolkata “very soon”. Read AlsoMamata Banerjee: Is 8-phase polls in West Bengal as per suggestions of Modi, Shah?NEW DELHI: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday questioned the Election Commission's rationale to coduct assembly elections in the state in 8 phases and wondered if the poll dates had been announced as per the suggestions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah.Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Friday questioned the decision to post Dubey, who was the special police observer for Bengal during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, again. The state government had also complained to the EC against the “arbitrary” transfer of 11 IPS officers at that time. State BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said TMC was being “hypersensitive” to Saturday’s transfers. Panel stalls Assam transfer of IPS menThe Election Commission on Saturday put on hold the transfers of 12 IPS officers and 6 Assam Police Service officers ordered by the state after the model code of conduct came into force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-smells-politics-over-adg-removal/articleshow/81250939.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Day after quota deal, PMK gets 23 seats from AIADMK||CHENNAI: A day after the AIADMK government conceded to the long-standing demand of the PMK and gave 10.5% internal reservation to vanniyars in the MBC quota, the ruling party sealed a formal poll pact with its ally by giving the PMK 23 seats in the assembly election slated for April 6. With battle lines clearly drawn, talks are apace in both the AIADMK and the DMK camps to finalize seats with allies and to identify constituencies. With home minister Amit Shah likely to reach Chennai late on Saturday, AIADMK is expected to hold talks with him on Sunday before he hits the poll trail in Puducherry. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam are expected to hold talks with the BJP leader on Sunday morning to finalise seats. Meanwhile, a ministerial team met DMDK leaders late on Saturday for talks. AIADMK to hold poll talks with smaller parties in next 2 daysThe AIADMK will hold talks with other allies like TMC and smaller parties in the next two days. “The AIADMK is likely to offer 21 seats for the BJP, 9-10 seats for the DMDK and 4-5 seats for the TMC. PMK wants to be the second ally,” said a senior AIADMK leader. In the DMK camp, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who began his three-day southern tour on Saturday, seat sharing talks are expected to resume on March 2. The DMK would subsequently wrap up seat allocation for other allies, including MDMK, VCK, CPI and CPM besides smaller outfits. Late Satuday evening, AIADMK deputy coordinator KP Munusamy, ministers P Thangamani and S P Velumani met with DMDK leader Vijayakanth in his Saligram residence in Chennai. DMDK leader Premalatha was, however, out of town and his L K Sudheesh was not present during the ministers’ visit. The ruling party is also scheduled to hold talks with G K Vasan’s TMC on Monday. In the evening, AIADMK coordinator Panneerselvam announcing the singing of a seat sharing deal with PMK at a private hotel in the presence of CM Palaniswami and PMK leader S Anbumani Ramadoss. “The AIADMK and the PMK decided to firm up an alliance for the assembly election. As per the agreement today, the PMK will be allotted 23 seats in Tamil Nadu under the AIADMK-led alliance,” Panneerselvam said. The number of seats had been decided but functionaries on both ends would discuss and decide on the constituencies, the deputy CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-day-after-quota-deal-pmk-gets-23-seats-from-aiadmk/articleshow/81252179.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Vadodara||SMP exports to help GCMMF pay better price to members||Vadodara: The Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) that markets the brand Amul, was under pressure to pay a good price to Gujarat farmers following a glut of liquid milk during the pandemic over the past year. However, the export orders for skimmed milk powder (SMP) the dairy giant received over the past two months, will allow GCMMF continue paying a better price to its members.On Friday, a train fully loaded with Amul milk powder chugged off from the inland container depot (ICD), Viramgam to reach the country’s largest container port — the Nhava Sheva Port also known as the Jawaharlal Nehru Port (JNP) in Maharashtra. In terms of quantity, this was the biggest shipment for export of dairy products dispatched by home-grown dairy giant in a single day through a train. Milk powder manufactured and packaged at AmulFed Dairy, Gandhinagar — a unit of GCMMF will be exported to Malaysia. Trains with eight to 15 containers loaded with Amul products have chugged off from ICDs like Sanand and Khodiyar in the past. But the train that chugged off on Friday had 45 containers each loaded with 25 metric tonnes of milk powder counting for 1,124 metric tonnes of milk powder in one single rail rake through Gateway Rail Freight Ltd which provides exim operations at ICD Viramgam. From JNP, the shipment will be loaded in Malaysia-bound vessel. “We were under pressure because of more milk that we had received during the pandemic,” said R S Sodhi, managing director of GCMMF that markets brand Amul.“Because of this export, we will be able to provide a good price to Gujarat farmers. In fact, during the last two months, we have exported more than 12,000 tonnes of milk powder to Bangladesh, Afghanistan, UAE, Oman and Malaysia among others,” he said. GCMMF and its member milk unions put together had achieved peak milk procurement in mid-February when milk collection had touched a record 300 lakh litres per day (LLPD). Sources said that since then milk collection has gradually started reducing. Currently, the total milk collection stands at 290 LLPD. Dairy farmers in Gujarat are currently paid procurement price in the range of Rs 670 to Rs 720 per kg fat by the milk unions, who will be also paying the price difference to their registered members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/smp-exports-to-help-gcmmf-pay-better-price-to-members/articleshow/81249384.cms||Prashant Rupera
February 28, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu sees 486 fresh Covid-19 cases, 5 more deaths||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu on Saturday reported 486 fresh Covid-19 cases, five more than on Friday, and five deaths, taking the case tally to 8,51,063 and the death toll to 12,493. The number of active cases stood at 4,036, ten less than the previous day. Tamil Nadu vaccinated 12,709 people on Saturday, including 5,354 who were administered the second dose. Saturday's vaccination figures are 3,364 less than Friday's. As of Saturday, the state has vaccinated 4,57,951 persons, the majority of them health care workers, 3,55,829. Frontline workers including police account for more than a lakh. The government has also vaccinated 1,419 election staff so far. On Saturday, from the 659 sessions held across the state, the state had the capacity to vaccinate 65,088 people, but only 19.5% of the beneficiaries turned up. Chennai reported the most cases, 187, on Saturday, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (35), Chengalpet (36), and Kancheepuram (21) together reported 92 cases. Barring Dharmapuri district, fresh cases were reported in all other districts with Ariyalur, Perambalur, Theni, Thirupathur, Tiruvannamalai and Thoothukudi registering only a single case. So far, the capital city has recorded 2,35,350 cases, 27.5 % of the total positive cases in the state. The death toll in Chennai as of Tuesday is 4,152. The city also has the highest number of active cases in the state, 1,774. In the western region, Coimbatore accounted for 40 cases, followed by Tirupur (14) and Salem (12). Coimbatore also has the second most number of active cases, 388, in the state after Chennai. In the southern region, Madurai recorded nine cases while most other districts such as Theni, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi recorded less than nine cases. According to the bulletin, between January 8 and Saturday, 2,732 people arrived from UK, of whom 2,191 were traced and tested. Among them 12 tested positive and the remaining tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-sees-486-fresh-covid-19-cases-5-more-deaths/articleshow/81252224.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Salem||Tamil Nadu sees 486 fresh Covid-19 cases, 5 more deaths||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu on Saturday reported 486 fresh Covid-19 cases, five more than on Friday, and five deaths, taking the case tally to 8,51,063 and the death toll to 12,493. The number of active cases stood at 4,036, ten less than the previous day. Tamil Nadu vaccinated 12,709 people on Saturday, including 5,354 who were administered the second dose. Saturday's vaccination figures are 3,364 less than Friday's. As of Saturday, the state has vaccinated 4,57,951 persons, the majority of them health care workers, 3,55,829. Frontline workers including police account for more than a lakh. The government has also vaccinated 1,419 election staff so far. On Saturday, from the 659 sessions held across the state, the state had the capacity to vaccinate 65,088 people, but only 19.5% of the beneficiaries turned up. Chennai reported the most cases, 187, on Saturday, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (35), Chengalpet (36), and Kancheepuram (21) together reported 92 cases. Barring Dharmapuri district, fresh cases were reported in all other districts with Ariyalur, Perambalur, Theni, Thirupathur, Tiruvannamalai and Thoothukudi registering only a single case. So far, the capital city has recorded 2,35,350 cases, 27.5 % of the total positive cases in the state. The death toll in Chennai as of Tuesday is 4,152. The city also has the highest number of active cases in the state, 1,774. In the western region, Coimbatore accounted for 40 cases, followed by Tirupur (14) and Salem (12). Coimbatore also has the second most number of active cases, 388, in the state after Chennai. In the southern region, Madurai recorded nine cases while most other districts such as Theni, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi recorded less than nine cases. According to the bulletin, between January 8 and Saturday, 2,732 people arrived from UK, of whom 2,191 were traced and tested. Among them 12 tested positive and the remaining tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tamil-nadu-sees-486-fresh-covid-19-cases-5-more-deaths/articleshow/81252238.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Erode||Tamil Nadu sees 486 fresh Covid-19 cases, 5 more deaths||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu on Saturday reported 486 fresh Covid-19 cases, five more than on Friday, and five deaths, taking the case tally to 8,51,063 and the death toll to 12,493. The number of active cases stood at 4,036, ten less than the previous day. Tamil Nadu vaccinated 12,709 people on Saturday, including 5,354 who were administered the second dose. Saturday's vaccination figures are 3,364 less than Friday's. As of Saturday, the state has vaccinated 4,57,951 persons, the majority of them health care workers, 3,55,829. Frontline workers including police account for more than a lakh. The government has also vaccinated 1,419 election staff so far. On Saturday, from the 659 sessions held across the state, the state had the capacity to vaccinate 65,088 people, but only 19.5% of the beneficiaries turned up. Chennai reported the most cases, 187, on Saturday, while the three neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (35), Chengalpet (36), and Kancheepuram (21) together reported 92 cases. Barring Dharmapuri district, fresh cases were reported in all other districts with Ariyalur, Perambalur, Theni, Thirupathur, Tiruvannamalai and Thoothukudi registering only a single case. So far, the capital city has recorded 2,35,350 cases, 27.5 % of the total positive cases in the state. The death toll in Chennai as of Tuesday is 4,152. The city also has the highest number of active cases in the state, 1,774. In the western region, Coimbatore accounted for 40 cases, followed by Tirupur (14) and Salem (12). Coimbatore also has the second most number of active cases, 388, in the state after Chennai. In the southern region, Madurai recorded nine cases while most other districts such as Theni, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi recorded less than nine cases. According to the bulletin, between January 8 and Saturday, 2,732 people arrived from UK, of whom 2,191 were traced and tested. Among them 12 tested positive and the remaining tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tamil-nadu-sees-486-fresh-covid-19-cases-5-more-deaths/articleshow/81252237.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Madurai||Congress-DMK talks to resume after Rahul Gandhi roadshow in Tamil Nadu||TUTICORIN: The next round of seat-sharing talks between the Congress and DMK is expected to resume next week, after Rahul Gandhi's roadshow in the southern districts ends on March 1. While Rahul Gandhi started his latest three-day roadshow from Tuticorin on Saturday, almost all the senior party leaders from the state as well as AICC in-charges are accompanying him on his tour of Tuticorin, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Kanyakumari districts. The preliminary round of seat sharing talks between the DMK and the Congress took place on February 25. The two sides decided to continue discussions later, since the Congress leaders were preoccupied with Gandhi's visit down South. "In the preliminary round, DMK offered two assembly seats for every Lok Sabha seat we got to contest in the 2019 Parliament election. Congress was allotted nine Lok Sabha seats. That turned out to be a mere 18 seats, while we started the discussion with a demand of 50 seats. They later agreed to scale up their offer and indications are that they may be willing to offer three assembly seats per Lok Sabha seat and make it 24," sources in the Congress told TOI. According to sources, the DMK cited the 2021 assembly election as a tough exercise, given the circumstances and hence is keen to contest from the maximum number of seats to have a comfortable majority. DMK leaders also cited that many more parties are part of the DMK-led alliance this time, than in 2016. Hence, even those parties have to be allotted seats in the alliance this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/congress-dmk-talks-to-resume-after-rahul-gandhi-roadshow-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/81252228.cms||D Govardan
February 28, 2021||Chennai||Panipuri seller held under Pocso Act in Chennai||CHENNAI: A panipuri seller was arrested under the Pocso Act for sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl on the promise of marrying her. Police said the accused met the victim, a native of Kerala, when she came to Egmore railway station with her mother to go to Marina beach on February 22. She suddenly went missing at the station and the Egmore railway police registered a missing case. Investigation revealed that John alias Johnson of Tirusulam who sells panipuri near the station took the girl with him and assaulted her on the promise of marriage. The girl was rescued from him and Johnson was booked under Pocso Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/panipuri-seller-held-under-pocso-act-in-chennai/articleshow/81252232.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Pune||Educational institutes in Pune district to stay shut till March 14||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Saturday said all educational institutes, including schools, colleges and coaching centres, in the district would remain closed till March14. “The orders will be issued on Sunday. We will review the situation on March12 and take a further decision,” Rao told TOI. Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh sad the divisional commissioner took the decision after speaking to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, state task force members and local authorities on the current Covid-19 situation in the distrct. The PMC had allowed schools to reopen for standards IX to XII from January 4, while standards V to VIII resumed on February 1. The state reopened colleges and higher educational institutes from February 15. But after the recent rise in the Covid-19 cases, the institutes were ordered to stay shut till February 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/educational-institutes-in-pune-district-to-stay-shut-till-march-14/articleshow/81252292.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kochi||Kerala claims readiness for phase II of Covid vaccination||KOCHI: Even as the health department has said that preparations have been completed in about 300 private hospitals for the second phase of the Covid vaccination programme set to start on Monday, the private hospitals have said no official order has been issued yet. “As the second phase of vaccination drive covers the population of persons above 60 and those with comorbidities in the age group 45 to 59, the involvement of private hospitals is regarded essential for the safe conduct of the rogramme in the stipulated period. "All the district vaccination units have been instructed to build partnerships with private sector hospitals, industries. The details are getting worked out,” said a release from the Health Department. Most of the private hospitals where the arrangements were already done are empanelled hospitals offering Karunya Arogya Suraksha Paddhati (KASP). “We don’t have immediate official confirmation from the state government on the role of private hospitals in the second phase of the vaccination. However, as per Central government guidelines, private hospitals will be involved and we expect that as the second phase progresses we will ultimately be roped in for timely completion of the vaccination drive,” said Dr Jayakrishnan AV, chairman, Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) committee for vaccination promotion and coordination. Though the state government has been conducting meetings with the private hospitals, there is nothing on paper. “Most of the private hospitals with facilities are prepared to be part of the vaccination drive and they were involved in vaccinating HCWs and now government staff selected for election duty. However, we have informed the state government that we should be allowed to charge for the services offered even if the vaccination is offered free by the state government,” added Kerala Private Hospital Association former president Dr PK Mohamed Rasheed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-claims-readiness-for-phase-ii-of-covid-vaccination/articleshow/81252301.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala claims readiness for phase II of Covid vaccination||KOCHI: Even as the health department has said that preparations have been completed in about 300 private hospitals for the second phase of the Covid vaccination programme set to start on Monday, the private hospitals have said no official order has been issued yet. “As the second phase of vaccination drive covers the population of persons above 60 and those with comorbidities in the age group 45 to 59, the involvement of private hospitals is regarded essential for the safe conduct of the rogramme in the stipulated period. "All the district vaccination units have been instructed to build partnerships with private sector hospitals, industries. The details are getting worked out,” said a release from the Health Department. Most of the private hospitals where the arrangements were already done are empanelled hospitals offering Karunya Arogya Suraksha Paddhati (KASP). “We don’t have immediate official confirmation from the state government on the role of private hospitals in the second phase of the vaccination. However, as per Central government guidelines, private hospitals will be involved and we expect that as the second phase progresses we will ultimately be roped in for timely completion of the vaccination drive,” said Dr Jayakrishnan AV, chairman, Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) committee for vaccination promotion and coordination. Though the state government has been conducting meetings with the private hospitals, there is nothing on paper. “Most of the private hospitals with facilities are prepared to be part of the vaccination drive and they were involved in vaccinating HCWs and now government staff selected for election duty. However, we have informed the state government that we should be allowed to charge for the services offered even if the vaccination is offered free by the state government,” added Kerala Private Hospital Association former president Dr PK Mohamed Rasheed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kerala-claims-readiness-for-phase-ii-of-covid-vaccination/articleshow/81252302.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala claims readiness for phase II of Covid vaccination||KOCHI: Even as the health department has said that preparations have been completed in about 300 private hospitals for the second phase of the Covid vaccination programme set to start on Monday, the private hospitals have said no official order has been issued yet. “As the second phase of vaccination drive covers the population of persons above 60 and those with comorbidities in the age group 45 to 59, the involvement of private hospitals is regarded essential for the safe conduct of the rogramme in the stipulated period. "All the district vaccination units have been instructed to build partnerships with private sector hospitals, industries. The details are getting worked out,” said a release from the Health Department. Most of the private hospitals where the arrangements were already done are empanelled hospitals offering Karunya Arogya Suraksha Paddhati (KASP). “We don’t have immediate official confirmation from the state government on the role of private hospitals in the second phase of the vaccination. However, as per Central government guidelines, private hospitals will be involved and we expect that as the second phase progresses we will ultimately be roped in for timely completion of the vaccination drive,” said Dr Jayakrishnan AV, chairman, Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) committee for vaccination promotion and coordination. Though the state government has been conducting meetings with the private hospitals, there is nothing on paper. “Most of the private hospitals with facilities are prepared to be part of the vaccination drive and they were involved in vaccinating HCWs and now government staff selected for election duty. However, we have informed the state government that we should be allowed to charge for the services offered even if the vaccination is offered free by the state government,” added Kerala Private Hospital Association former president Dr PK Mohamed Rasheed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-claims-readiness-for-phase-ii-of-covid-vaccination/articleshow/81252303.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Vadodara||India’s first drama startup grabs attention||Vadodara: At a time when tech startups, e-learning startups or edutech startups are in vogue, a dramatics-based startup, touted to be India’s first is grabbing attention. Incubated at M S University, Aniradichita is leading a new way of reviving the conventional art forms which have depleted over the years. “We want to build a community of aspiring artistes and not only train them but also make them such that they can take the message forward of the beautiful art forms that we have,” says its 28-year-old founder, Aniket Pandya. A 2013 engineering graduate, Pandya had joined a residential course on entrepreneurship and creativity after securing All India Rank 1 in National Creativity Aptitude Test conducted by IIT Delhi. After venturing into the corporate sector, he worked with a private firm during the day, took part in rehearsals during evenings and made films in Ahmedabad during weekends before he finally quit his job to follow his passion. In the first year of its inception, Aniradichita’s research work on depleting art forms has won international recognition under the patronage of UNESCO. Aniradichita theatre and films has gone international with its documentary featuring Harold D’Souza, the Indian American activist, who was member of former US President Donald Trump’s advisory council on human trafficking. It was showcased at “See it, End it” Film Festival, Los Angeles, California. It also has official tie-ups with Eyes Open International, an organization which works extensively for human trafficking and is operational in 50 countries. “We are fighting the perils of human trafficking by creating awareness by the medium of short films, documentaries and street plays,” said Pandya. The startup crafted ‘Abhivyaktitvam’ as special workshops for the mentally retarded adolescents where the children were taught dramatic skills and also ‘navarasa’ through which they could express themselves well. “We also shot a documentary video for Lakshya Trust named “Garima Greh” for the ministry of social justice and empowerment. It became the inaugural video for the shelter home of the LGBTQ community led by Prince Manvendra Singh Gohil,” he said. The startup team has been working on theatre workshops – Abhibhavam – through which smaller towns like Amreli, Jasdan and Morbi among others have been covered for acting and direction workshops. “So far, we have trained over 150 students and our target is to touch 500 mark by March end,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/indias-first-drama-startup-grabs-attention/articleshow/81249369.cms||Prashant Rupera
February 28, 2021||World||US authorizes J&J Covid vaccine for emergency use||WASHINGTON: The United States on Saturday authorized Johnson & Johnson's Covid vaccine for emergency use, giving the nation a third shot to battle the outbreak that has killed more than 500,000 Americans. The single-shot vaccine is highly effective in preventing severe Covid-19, including against newer variants, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said before giving it a greenlight. "The authorization of this vaccine expands the availability of vaccines, the best medical prevention method for Covid-19, to help us in the fight against this pandemic, which has claimed over half a million lives in the United States," said the US regulator's acting director Janet Woodcock. In large clinical trials, the J&J vaccine's efficacy against severe disease was 85.9 percent in the United States, 81.7 percent in South Africa, and 87.6 percent in Brazil. Overall, among 39,321 participants across all regions, the efficacy against severe Covid-19 was 85.4 percent, but it fell to 66.1 percent when including moderate forms of the disease. Crucially, analyses of various demographic groups revealed no marked differences across age, race, or people with underlying conditions. A third vaccine is seen as a vital means to ramp up the immunization rate in the United States, where more than 500,000 people have lost their lives to the coronavirus. The J&J vaccine is the third to be greenlighted in the United States after Pfizer's and Moderna's were provisionally approved in December. Over 65 million people in America have so far received at least one shot of either the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines -- but unlike those, the J&J vaccine requires just one dose, and is stored at fridge temperatures, offering logistical and practical advantages. The J&J shot is slightly less protective than Pfizer and Moderna's two-shot regimens, which both have an efficacy of around 95 percent against all forms of Covid-19 from the classic coronavirus strain. There was a hint, based on preliminary data, that the vaccine might be effective against asymptomatic infection -- though J&J said it needs to do more research to confirm this. The company has announced it aims to deliver a total of 20 million doses by the end of March, with 100 million by June -- though the US is pushing to expedite that timeline. The J&J vaccine uses a common-cold causing adenovirus, which has been genetically modified so that it can't replicate, to carry the gene for a key protein of the coronavirus into human cells.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-authorizes-jj-covid-vaccine-for-emergency-use/articleshow/81252317.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||40 electric buses to hit Chandigarh roads in September||CHANDIGARH: While the Union government has sanctioned 80 electric buses for Chandigarh under Phase-II of the FAME India Scheme, 40 electric buses will hit the roads in September. The UT transport department has issued letter of intent (LoI) to a private firm, shortlisted after proper tendering process. Talking to TOI, UT adviser Manoj Parida said they have issued work to a private firm, and electric buses will start plying on city roads in September. According to the agreement, the company will provide buses within six months. Three companies had submitted bids to run 40 electric buses in the city. However, the lowest bidder was awarded the contract for a period of 10 years on the basis of km scheme. The department will pay Rs 60 per km to the company. All maintenance expenditure, including consumables (except electricity and water charges), expenditure on account of tyres, replacement of batteries, bus charging stations, spare parts, suspension and HVAC system and running, major and minor repairs of contracted buses during the period of the contract will be the responsibility of the company, according to the agreement. Even the driver will be provided by the company. In February 2019, a tender to purchase 40 electric buses was floated but it got delayed. Before that, an earlier tender process was scrapped after the officials found that the bid of running the buses at Rs 74 per km was too high. Transport department officials had visited Pune and found electric buses running there at Rs 56 per km. A suggestion was made in a report to cancel the tender. An agenda to float a fresh tender was approved and accordingly fresh tender was floated in February 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/40-electric-buses-to-hit-chandigarh-roads-in-september/articleshow/81252263.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
February 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Petrol theft on rise, Bengalureans tell top cop||BENGALURU: If you suspect someone is stealing petrol from your vehicle, you are not alone. Several Bengalureans feel fuel tanks of their vehicles have been getting depleted much faster in recent weeks, especially in the backdrop of skyrocketing petrol prices. This came to the fore on Saturday during the Masika Janasamparka Divasa (public interaction) when many citizens urged police commissioner Kamal Pant to intensify patrolling on streets to prevent fuel theft. A majority of such complaints came from central parts of the city, especially Ashoknagar and Viveknagar. “Local youths are stealing petrol from two-wheelers and cars parked in front of houses,” citizens alleged. Pant assured them steps will be taken to heighten surveillance and strengthen the beat system. The top cop said he would issue directions to jurisdictional deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) to increase patrolling at night. “There is no organised network behind petrol theft, it is mostly the handiwork of youngsters. However, keeping in view the soaring petrol rates, we will take all measures so that such cases are not reported in future,” he said. An officer from Viveknagar police station said they have already beefed up patrolling in areas where petrol theft complaints were reported. However, residents maintain police do not take petrol theft seriously. Umesh Kumar, a social activist and resident of Wilson Garden, said: “Petrol was stolen from my motorbike a few weeks ago when it was parked outside my home in Lakkasandra. The incident occurred at night when I was having dinner. On informing police, they did not take serious action and instead advised me to keep the bike safe.” Many youngsters who have bikes but not enough pocket money for petrol take to stealing at night. Police countered by stating they had increased night patrolling. DCP (south) Harish Pandey said almost 240 personnel of different ranks from his division are on night patrol regularly. “We have not received any reports of increase in cases of petrol theft. But yes, night patrolling has increased these days to curb offences like robberies, chain-snatching and brawls. Each night, we set up 10-12 check points at different junctions,” he said. “We request the public to call us in case of petrol theft,” the DCP added. DCP (north) Dharmender Kumar Meena said newly introduced ‘Beat Points’ help in carrying out night patrolling more effectively. “Personnel on night patrolling have to ensure their presence at the beat points allotted to them. This ensures police presence in different parts of a locality. Till now, we have not come across any increase in cases of petrol theft. But we will be on alert as rising prices may lead to miscreants stealing it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/increase-police-patrolling-to-preventpetrol-theft-blureans-urge-top-cop/articleshow/81248956.cms||Nithya Mandyam
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||UT administration to frame rules for electric vehicle charging stations||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has decided to frame guidelines for installing electric vehicle (EV) charging stations on public land in the city. UT adviser Manoj Parida said Debendra Dalai, director, environment, has been made nodal officer to coordinate with departments for setting up stations across the city. “As the process involves different departments, Dalai was made the nodal officer,” he said. Times ViewThe need to minimise carbon emissions and other pollutants call for shift to electric vehicles. However, for this to happen effectively, there is a requirement of installing strategically located charging stations and infrastructure for the ease of consumers. This, in turn, throws up the challenge of managing the increasing electricity consumption and pricing effectively through a self-regulated grid, without making a compromise on network operational performance. All this calls for formulating a comprehensive strategy to make adoption of EVs viable.Dalai, who is also Chandigarh Renewal Energy, Science and Technology Promotion Society (Crest) chief executive officer, said they are receiving request and proposals from public sector undertakings (PSUs) for setting up the stations. The UT is finalising guidelines, which will be completed in a month or two, and accordingly, permission will be given to PSUs and private companies, he said. On already installed charging stations in different parking lots in the city, he said the guidelines will cover them as well. He said Crest will be nodal agency for light vehicles and Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) for heavy vehicles. Recently, the Centre had sent a communication to the administration and had sought progress report on the steps initiated to promote electric vehicles and charging stations. A senior official said the administration had recently succeeded in getting the nod of Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) for fixing power tariff plan for electric vehicle charging stations. This was for the first time that the power tariff plan for electricity vehicle charging stations was fixed, he added. The administration is already working on promoting hybrid and electric vehicles. Recently, Centre had sanctioned 80 electric buses for Chandigarh under Phase-II of the FAME India Scheme. Three years back, a team of transport department had visited Nagpur to study charging stations’ set up in different parts of the city. Nagpur was the first city in the country to have in place electric vehicle charging stations. The ministry has also suggested initiatives to promote vehicles like waiving of toll charges, parking charges and issuing green registration number plates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-administration-to-frame-rules-for-electric-vehicle-charging-stations/articleshow/81252336.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Illegal butcheries back in business near Chandigarh airport||MOHALI: Illegal butcheries are back in the vicinity of the Chandigarh international airport in Jagatpura and Bhabat villages. The administration had banned the setting up of meat shops near the airport in 2020, but as no checks were made during the Covid-19 lockdown, the illegal shops are back in business. The airport authority has once again lodged a complaint with the administration to get such shops removed. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “We will once again get the area checked and SDM will be directed to take action.” The matter was also discussed during the Civil Military Liaison Conference held in January 2020 between armed forces officers and civil administration. Illegal butcheries and garbage dumps in Jagatpura attract eagles and other birds, which while foraging for food interrupt the path followed by an aircraft at the runway, increasing chances of hitting one. Sources said two aircraft had experienced bird-hits while landing in 2016. However, the banning orders have hardly been a deterrent. Earlier, the orders to ban butcheries within 1,000 metre of the airport boundary had been issued in 2018 and 2019. The IAF had raised alarm over butcheries coming up near the airport during a hearing in a case in the Punjab and Haryana high court. It had also pointed out haphazard construction activities were going on in the vicinity of the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/illegal-butcheries-back-in-business-near-chandigarh-airport/articleshow/81252362.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Drunk driver kills party-goer waiting for flat tyre to be fixed||PANCHKULA: A 20-year-old youth was killed after a car rammed into another parked on the Kalka-Zirakpur road on Friday midnight. The victim is Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Saini Vihar, Baltana. Arshnoor Singh (19), a resident of Sadashiv Enclave, Baltana, said he and his friend Gurpreet were going to attend a birthday party of a common friend in their Maruti Alto car. Their friends Mohit, Simranjeet Singh and Shivansh, all residents of Baltana, were coming behind them in a Tata Zest car. On the way, the Zest car got punctured on the Kalka-Zirakpur highway at 12.15 am. All three occupants came out. Arshnoor too stopped his car and both he and Gurpreet went up to their friends. In the meantime, a rashly driven Maruti Swift Dzire car coming from Zirakpur hit the Zest car and Gurpreet standing next to the vehicle. The driver tried to flee but was caught. Arshnoor also called up the police control room. The driver was identified as Sumit Kumar, a resident of Gohana, Sonepat. He was allegedly drunk. Gurpreet was rushed to General Hospital, Sector 6, where he was declared brought dead. Police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-drunk-driver-kills-party-goer-waiting-for-flat-tyre-to-be-fixed/articleshow/81252352.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||PSC agitations: Protesters to meet Kerala minister AK Balan today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the election code of conduct coming into force, the civil police officer (CPO) and last grade servant (LGS) PSC rank holders will decide the future course of their protests on Sunday. Spokespersons of the agitators said minister for welfare A K Balan has invited them for a meeting on Sunday to discuss their concerns. The decision on whether to continue with the agitation will be based on the outcome of the meeting with the minister. LGS rank holders have been staging an agitation in front of the Secretariat since January 26 against ‘backdoor appointments’ of the government. Those on the CPO list started their protest on February 7 demanding extension of their rank list, appointments from which were shelved after some toppers were arrested by police for cheating in the exam. The spokespersons said that even though government representatives, additional chief secretary (home) T K Jose and ADGP Manoj Abraham, met them and assured them of positive results, nothing has transpired. “We have received legal opinion that despite the election code of conduct being in force, the government can still issue a special order on making appointments from our rank list, with retrospective effect, if they have the consent of the opposition. Since the opposition has already lent their support to our cause, we believe that it can be done,” said CPO rank holder M Vishnu. We will continue the agitation if the meeting with minister Balan fails, he added. Meanwhile, unapproved teachers of uneconomical aided schools, who have also been staging an indefinite agitation demanding payment of wages they stopped getting since the lockdown first came in force, ended their protest on Sunday after the government issued an order sanctioning payment of wages from January 2021 onwards, with retrospective effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/psc-agitations-protesters-to-meet-kerala-minister-ak-balan-today/articleshow/81252376.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kolkata||Jesuit priest Bishop Linus passes away||Kolkata: Jesuit priest Bishop Linus Nirmal Gomes, who would have turned 100 in September, breathed his last in the wee hours of Saturday. He was the parish priest of St Teresa Church in Moulali for 20 years and was also the founder of St Peter’s High School, both under the archdiocese of Calcutta. Bishop Linus, as he was lovingly called, breathed his last at 3am. His funeral will take place on Monday at 3pm at the Baruipur Cathedral. The archdiocese has announced that it will be a private funeral which will be live-streamed for the thousands of people, who loved Bishop Linus dearly, said Dominic Gomes, vicar general of the archdiocese. He was the first Bishop of Baruipur Catholic Diocese, when this new diocese was formed, bifurcating from Calcutta Archdiocese in 1977. He remained Bishop there for 18 years. As Bishop Emeritus, he was sent to Dhaka, Bangladesh to serve the Jesuit mission from 1997 to 2014. He spent his last seven years at St Xavier’s College Jesuit community as the senior most clergy. He was born in a village near Dhaka on September 7, 1921 and completed his school education there. He joined St Xavier’s College, Kolkata in 1942 and stayed in the College hostel. He joined the Society of Jesus in 1942. Along with some other Jesuit priests he established the first Bengali medium school of the Catholic order, St Peter’s High School at Taltala, Kolkata and became its first headmaster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jesuit-priest-bishop-linus-passes-away/articleshow/81249546.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 48% increase in active cases in a week||CHANDIGARH: Active cases in the city have risen from 186 on February 21 to 357 till date. There has been an increase of 48% within a week. Cases started increasing since February 22 when there were 38 cases in a day and the numbers started growing. The public health experts attribute it to reopening of educational institutes. “The neighbouring state of Punjab has been seeing a rise in the number of cases on a daily basis. Most people travel here for work. So it is no surprise to see numbers rising,” said a public health expert. Moreover, there were predictions that by March, numbers shall again increase as the natural antibodies would have faded after the peak month of September. “This is the reason why most of us should go ahead with vaccination to acquire additional antibodies and break the chain of transmission,” said an official of the UT health department. The weekly average daily growth in the city has crossed the national average of 0.13% and reached 0.19%. Also, the positivity rate in the city as a weekly average has been more than the state of Punjab and is fourth after Maharashtra, Kerala, and Goa with 2.6% as the weekly average total positivity rate. The national average rate is 2%. However, the testing has not fallen below the national average of 571.6 tests per million per day. Chandigarh’s tests per million per day is 1,660 and is the fifth highest after Telangana, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-48-increase-in-active-cases-in-a-week/articleshow/81252380.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid recoveries in Kerala cross 10 lakh||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Saturday crossed 10-lakhmark in recoveries from Covid-19. With 4,650 more recovering from the infection the total has reached 10,01,164. At least 3,792 new cases were confirmed on the day when the test positivity rate stood at 5.1% following 73,710 tests. The total number of active cases in the state is 50,514. Among the new cases, 3,418 had contracted the virus through local transmission while the sources were unknown in 236 cases. As many as 112 of the new patients had recent travel history while 26 healthcare workers were also among the infected. The Covid toll in the state reached 4,182 after 18 recent deaths were added to the list. No fresh cases were confirmed among returnees from the United Kingdom where a new strain of the coronavirus was discovered in early December. The district-wise split up of the new cases: Kozhikode, 519, Thrissur, 416, Ernakulam, 415, Kollam, 411, Malappuram, 388, Alappuzha, 308, Pathanamthitta, 270, Thiruvananthapuram, 240, Kottayam, 236, Kannur, 173, Kasaragod, 148, Palakkad, 115, Wayanad, 82 and Idukki, 71. As of Saturday, 2,13,247 persons were in quarantine in the state, of whom 7,428 were at hospitals, including 811 that were admitted on Saturday. With the addition of three new places and the exclusion of four areas, there are 369 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-recoveries-in-kerala-cross-10-lakh/articleshow/81252388.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kozhikode||Covid recoveries in Kerala cross 10 lakh||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Saturday crossed 10-lakhmark in recoveries from Covid-19. With 4,650 more recovering from the infection the total has reached 10,01,164. At least 3,792 new cases were confirmed on the day when the test positivity rate stood at 5.1% following 73,710 tests. The total number of active cases in the state is 50,514. Among the new cases, 3,418 had contracted the virus through local transmission while the sources were unknown in 236 cases. As many as 112 of the new patients had recent travel history while 26 healthcare workers were also among the infected. The Covid toll in the state reached 4,182 after 18 recent deaths were added to the list. No fresh cases were confirmed among returnees from the United Kingdom where a new strain of the coronavirus was discovered in early December. The district-wise split up of the new cases: Kozhikode, 519, Thrissur, 416, Ernakulam, 415, Kollam, 411, Malappuram, 388, Alappuzha, 308, Pathanamthitta, 270, Thiruvananthapuram, 240, Kottayam, 236, Kannur, 173, Kasaragod, 148, Palakkad, 115, Wayanad, 82 and Idukki, 71. As of Saturday, 2,13,247 persons were in quarantine in the state, of whom 7,428 were at hospitals, including 811 that were admitted on Saturday. With the addition of three new places and the exclusion of four areas, there are 369 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/covid-recoveries-in-kerala-cross-10-lakh/articleshow/81252389.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Kochi||Covid recoveries in Kerala cross 10 lakh||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Saturday crossed 10-lakhmark in recoveries from Covid-19. With 4,650 more recovering from the infection the total has reached 10,01,164. At least 3,792 new cases were confirmed on the day when the test positivity rate stood at 5.1% following 73,710 tests. The total number of active cases in the state is 50,514. Among the new cases, 3,418 had contracted the virus through local transmission while the sources were unknown in 236 cases. As many as 112 of the new patients had recent travel history while 26 healthcare workers were also among the infected. The Covid toll in the state reached 4,182 after 18 recent deaths were added to the list. No fresh cases were confirmed among returnees from the United Kingdom where a new strain of the coronavirus was discovered in early December. The district-wise split up of the new cases: Kozhikode, 519, Thrissur, 416, Ernakulam, 415, Kollam, 411, Malappuram, 388, Alappuzha, 308, Pathanamthitta, 270, Thiruvananthapuram, 240, Kottayam, 236, Kannur, 173, Kasaragod, 148, Palakkad, 115, Wayanad, 82 and Idukki, 71. As of Saturday, 2,13,247 persons were in quarantine in the state, of whom 7,428 were at hospitals, including 811 that were admitted on Saturday. With the addition of three new places and the exclusion of four areas, there are 369 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-recoveries-in-kerala-cross-10-lakh/articleshow/81252390.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Sealed store fails to return diamond bracelet, fined||CHANDIGARH: The district consumer disputes redressal forum has directed Gitanjali Outlet Articles Store, Sector 22-D, to pay Rs 15,000 as compensation to a customer for failing to return a diamond bracelet she had given for repair in 2016. The shop will also pay her the bracelet's cost of Rs 1.11 lakh with 9% annual interest. Complainant Kerrein Sharma stated that she had handed over a diamond ring and Asmi diamond bangle bracelet at the shop on March 30, 2016, for repair. When after constant followups and regular visits the store returned the ring at last in the first week of January 2017, it still kept the other article, the diamond bracelet, saying the repair wasn't finished. The store lingered the matter and its manager, eventually, informed the customer that the Central Bureau of Investigation had sealed Gitanjali's outlets. The complainant laid the facts before the CBI in a letter dated June 14, 2018, followed by reminder dated November 29, 2018. When nothing came out, she also sought information from the CBI under the RTI Act, vide a letter dated March 11, 2019. The forum said it was now beyond doubt that the complaint was genuine. It observed: “Even if the CBI had sealed the store, the store has the liability to satisfy its customers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-sealed-store-fails-to-return-diamond-bracelet-fined/articleshow/81252387.cms||Kamini Mehta
February 28, 2021||Vadodara||In 21st edition of tech fest ‘Footprints’ to go virtual||Vadodara: Footprints — one of the largest national-level technical events organised by budding engineers of M S University’s Faculty of Technology and Engineering — will be conducted on an online platform this year. Due to the Covid-19 induced pandemic, the 21st edition will be conducted online from March 12 to 21. The event has been segregated into various segments like ‘technotron’, ‘quest’, ‘kaleidoscope’, ‘stock exchange’, ‘virtuosity’, ‘social responsibility’, ‘school events’, ‘entertainment zone’ and many more. Technotron — the technical segment — consists of technical events pertaining to different engineering departments. It includes events like robo war, robocar race for electrical and electronics engineering department, IC engine based car race for mechanical and metallurgical and material science engineering department, Java language-based event and python programming based event for computer engineering department among others. As the event will be held virtually, more events such as ‘mic-kron’, a software and hardware-based event related to embedded system design involving the microcontroller selection have been added. Similarly, ‘design-o -mania’ where students have to show their skills by performing a certain task using AutoCAD and sheets and ‘open-X’ a model making event has been introduced. An innovative product competition, open for all students of MSU, will also, be held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/in-21st-edition-of-tech-fest-footprints-to-go-virtual/articleshow/81249586.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Noida||Noida: One more arrested in dry fruits fraud||NOIDA: One more person has been arrested in connection with the alleged Rs 200 crore fraud orchestrated by Freedom Rs 251 mobile phone seller Mohit Goyal and his accomplices through several firms, including Dubai Dry Fruits Pvt Ltd. The total number of arrests in the case has now reached five. However, 10 others are still absconding, police said on Saturday. The arrested has been identified as Sattan Yadav, who worked as a driver and bouncer for Sumit Yadav, one of the main accused in the alleged fraud. Wanted in as many as 10 cases of cheating, forgery and criminal intimidation, Sattan was arrested from near the D park in Sector 62. “He was also involved in cash collection and depositing the same in banks,” Sector 58 SHO Anil Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/one-more-arrested-in-dry-fruits-fraud/articleshow/81249870.cms||Shikha Salaria
February 28, 2021||Goa||Goa: From tomorrow, senior citizens can walk in for vaccination at government centres||PANAJI: The Covid-19 vaccination programme will enter its third phase on Monday, allowing two more categories of people to walk in and get vaccinated at any government health facility for free. All those above the age of 60 years as well as those between the ages of 45 and 59 years who have comorbidities can get vaccinated from Monday between 9 am to 5 pm, subject to a limit of 100 people at each health centre. “People above the age of 60 years will be able to walk into their nearest government health facility with their Aadhaar card or any photo ID approved by the government and get registered and vaccinated on the spot,” state immunisation officer Dr Rajendra Borkar said, adding that it will be on a firstcome-first-served basis for that particular day as online registrations haven’t opened yet. Age for vaccination is being considered as of Jan 1, 2022The second category of people between 45 and 59 years of age and having comorbidities will be vaccinated only if they carry a certificate in the prescribed format from a registered medical practitioner stating their comorbidities, he added. There will be a cap of 100 vaccinations at each government centre on Monday, which will subsequently be increased depending on the response. The second dose of the vaccine will be administered at the same hospital where beneficiaries received their first dose. The age is being considered as of January 1, 2022, which means that anyone who is 59 years old and will be turning 60 by January 1 next year is eligible to take the vaccine. The same applies for the 45-59 years age group. Online registrations haven’t begun for this category as the Co-WIN portal is closed. It is expected to open on Monday when people can register for vaccination in advance. While only government facilities will offer the vaccine on Monday, empanelled private hospitals will be roped in soon. Private hospitals will charge up to Rs 250 per dose, per person. The Union health ministry has permitted empanelled private hospitals to levy a service charge with a ceiling of Rs 100 per dose per person and in addition, the cost of the vaccine at Rs 150 per dose, per person. “Hence, the financial ceiling of the total amount recoverable by private hospitals is Rs 250 per person, per dose,” stated additional secretary and National Health Mission director Vandana Gurnani, in a communique to all states. Immunisation sessions will be planned according to the stock of vaccines received by the state. Till date, the state has only received the Covishield vaccine. It is unclear whether the GMC, Bambolim will be one of the centres on Monday as its examination hall will be occupied by its students who will be taking their exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-from-tomorrow-senior-citizens-can-walk-in-for-vax-at-govt-centres/articleshow/81252472.cms||Lisa Monteiro
February 28, 2021||Gurgaon||Greens urge state to withdraw bill that lifts PLPA shield from Aravalis||GURUGRAM: The contentious Punjab Land Preservation (Haryana Amendment) Bill was passed by the state government in 2019. Two years on, there is still a growing clamour for scrapping the bill. The bill, which is yet to be notified, was passed by the state government in February 2019 despite vehement objections and without a select committee review. The month after, in a rare public rebuke, the Supreme Court stayed its implementation and said the state would not act on it without the court’s nod. Environmentalists point out that the Aravalis has 60,000 acres of forests notified under the sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) of 1900, and the amendments will pave the way for denotification of most of these areas, opening them up for real estate development and urbanisation. So to save the Aravalis in the region, the bill must be withdrawn at the earliest. Neelam Ahluwalia of NGO Aravalli Bachao movement, told TOI, “The government must consult with experts about the implications of the bill and withdraw the amendment which stands to benefit the real estate sector only.” The activists also claim that the government has been trying to obfuscate the differences between the provisions of the general and special sections of the PLPA, and has been wrongly saying that farmers will have to stop farming, entire cities with lakhs of houses will be razed, and over 11 lakh hectares will be treated as forest in Haryana if the bill isn’t notified. “The bill has been passed without public consultation, and apparently without forest department consultation. Moreover, the problem which the amendment bill wants to solve doesn’t exist at all. The basis on which the bill was passed is faulty and thus the government should withdraw this at the earliest,” said SS Oberoi, another environmentalist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/greens-urge-state-to-withdraw-bill-that-lifts-plpa-shield-from-aravalis/articleshow/81250073.cms||Ipsita Pati
February 28, 2021||Indore||Munawar Faruqui case: Cops have no proof against us, claims Nalin Yadav||INDORE: After spending about two months in jail, the last two accused in the Munawar Faruqui case walked out of the Central Jail in Indore on Saturday. Nalin Yadav and Sadaqat Khan are the last of the six accused in the case against stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui for hurting religious sentiments. They were granted bail by Madhya Pradesh high court on Friday. As they walked out of jail, Nalin and Sadaqat were surprised to see the couple of cameras trying to capture them. The Supreme Court had granted ad-interim bail to Munawar on February 5. While they were rushing to reach their family members and asking the whereabouts of people clicking their pictures, the family members of Khan hugged him around 50 metres from the gate of the jail. Yadav had to walk another fifty meters or so before family members of Khan hugged him mistakenly in the darkness at 7.45 pm. Have faith in the judiciary: YadavYadav immediately disclosed his identity to the man in his forties. But, they hugged him again. When asked about the case Yadav said, “As the case is still pending before the court, it is not appropriate to comment on it. I have complete faith in the judiciary and hope we will get justice.” When Khan was confronted with the same question he responded with a similar answer to it and said, “I also have faith in the judiciary.” But, when asked about allegations made in the police complaint against them, Yadav refuted them completely and said, “If the allegations were true, why the police failed to produce the charge-sheet even after two months of our arrest.” There is no proof with police against us in relation to the case, said Yadav. However, Khan preferred to remain silent and said nothing about it while following Yadav. When asked further about him Yadav said, “I have been doing stand-up comedy for the last four years and run a company in relation to it.” While talking, Yadav provided a little glimpse of their prison life when he said, “We were reading a newspaper to track the case development inside the jail. We read all the newspapers in jail.” Yadav, a resident of Pithampur area in Dhar district, was the organiser of the comedy programme on January1 at a Café. The police arrested them based on the complaint of Hind Rakshak activists for allegedly making derogatory remarks on Hindu deities at a stand-up comedy show there. Sadaqat was arrested the next day from the district court campus, where he went to see Faruqui. They were booked for hurting religious feelings and organising an event without permission of the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/munawar-faruqui-case-cops-have-no-proof-against-us-claims-nalin-yadav/articleshow/81252521.cms||Antriksh Singh
February 28, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Couple tonsured for failing to pay for feast||BHOPAL: Villagers in Chhidwara district of Madhya Pradesh tonsured a couple who they suspected of infidelity and had ostracised. The action was taken after the couple failed to pay for mass feast, as demanded by villagers to accept them in the community. Four villagers were arrested. The incident took place at a village near Damua police station. Superintendent of police, Chhindwara, Vivek Agarwal told TOI that the incident took place on February 19. Villagers had suspected the woman of infidelity and ostracised the couple, he said. “On getting the information four accused who were named by the complainant were arrested and hunt is on for the other unidentified accused,” he said. “As per the complaint, the locals demanded that the couple should pay for ‘bakrai’—a local ritual to accept someone in society. The couple claimed they were not in a condition to pay for it, hence the accused tonsured them in public,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-couple-tonsured-for-failing-to-pay-for-feast/articleshow/81252573.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Indore||Indore: Video of zoo guards beating minor goes viral, 2 booked||INDORE: After facing widespread criticism over dumping destitute elderly outside the city, Indore Municipal Corporation is once again at the centre of public ire. The reason: A video of security personnel thrashing a minor visitor to the city zoo, which is administered by the civic body, went viral on Saturday. A police case has been registered against two persons. In the video, a security guard is seen slapping a minor inside the zoo while the boy was requesting the guard to let go of his shirt collar. “My son had gone to visit zoo with some of his friends on Friday evening when some guards posted there thrashed them after they failed to give them change in coins,” a resident of Dewas Hussain Mansuri told media persons. After the incident, Mansuri took his 16-yearold son to Sanyogitaganj police station, where an FIR was lodged against one Adarsh Yadav and Vishal Bhatia under section 323, 294, 506 and 34 of IPC. Zoo in-charge Dr Uttam Yadav accepted that guards had thrashed a minor, but claimed that the victim and couple of his friends were creating nuisance and had attacked security personnel. “The viral video did not cover the entire incident. It was smartly made just to show that the security personnel had beaten the minor and not the fact that the boy and his friends had created nuisance at the entry gate and attacked and thrashed the guards before they reacted,” Yadav said. “A probe has been launched into the incident. We have apprised the commissioner about the incident and are waiting for further instructions,” he said. On Saturday, Youth Congress leaders staged a protest at IMC’s headquarter demanding strict actions against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-video-of-zoo-guards-beating-minor-goes-viral-2-booked/articleshow/81252603.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Jailor suspended for misbehaving with women staff||BHOPAL: A jailor posted in Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh was on Saturday suspended by director general, jail following complaints by women staff that he used abusive and vulgar language while interacting with them. Assistant jail superintendent J S Bundela was suspended and attached to jail headquarters at Jabalpur. Officials informed that women jail guards have complained of harassment against him. An inquiry was conducted by the jail superintendent who sent his report to the jail headquarters here. A departmental inquiry would be initiated against him, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-jailor-suspended-for-misbehaving-with-women-staff/articleshow/81252648.cms||---
February 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Second wave of Covid-19: Central team to gauge Karnataka’s preparedness||BENGALURU: A team deputed by the central government will visit Karnataka on Monday in the wake of a spike in Covid-19 cases, which has been largely fueled by returnees and travelers from Kerala. The team will take stock of the situation in the state and suggest measures to curb the spread of the virus. “There is a clear sign of a second wave of infections in some parts of the country,” said a member of Karnataka’s Covid-19 technical advisory committee (TAC). “Managing the pandemic in some states is likely to prove problematic and Karnataka is one of these states.” Bengaluru is fueling the surge and the BBMP has declared nine containment zones in the capital city. A huge majority of those who have been infected have travel history to Kerala. As of now, the central team will visit only Bengaluru, but it will review the spurt in cases in Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi and Tumakuru districts. “Over the past week, there have been nine cluster outbreaks in Bengaluru, eight of which have a Kerala link where returnees have carried the virus across the border and spread the infection among their contacts here,” said N Manjunatha Prasad, commissioner, BBMP. “In one apartment in Yelahanka, all five in a family which returned from Maharashtra tested positive. Measures have been put in place to contain the spread.” Prasad said the central government team will visit some containment zones and measures taken to control the spread of the virus will be discussed. “We will take them to some places like apartments and hostels which have been declared containment zones,” said Prasad. A TAC member said he feared assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, which have been scheduled for April 6, could aggravate the pandemic situation in those states and the effect would spillover to Karnataka too. “The need is to follow effective surveillance and tracking strategies, comprehensive tracking, isolating infected people as quickly as possible and ensuring quick quarantine of close contacts,” the member said. At a high-level review meeting conducted by Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba with chief secretaries of all states and Union territories on Saturday, it was revealed that six states have reported a surge in the past 24 hours. The states — Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat — have been advised certain measures, including: To ramp up overall testing in districts reporting a reduction in testing, undertake priority vaccination in districts reporting higher cases, monitor mutant strains and clustering of cases for early hotspot identification and control. On Friday, Karnataka reported 571 fresh cases, 368 or 64% of which were in Bengaluru Urban alone. A day prior to that (Feb 25), the state had logged 453 fresh cases, a sizable increase from the 334 new cases registered in the state on Wednesday (Feb 24).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/second-wave-of-covid-19-central-team-to-gauge-karnatakas-preparedness/articleshow/81252649.cms||Sunitha Rao R
February 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Private hospitals gear up to join vax drive; say cost of dose is reasonable||BENGALURU: Private hospitals empanelled with the state government will work as Covid vaccination centres (CVC) once the vaccine is extended to the masses beginning with senior citizens from Monday (March 1). In Phase 2 from Monday, senior citizens and people above 45 years of age with comorbidities can take the vaccine in private hospitals and government public health centres notified as CVCs. The government has identified 20 comorbidities including heart disease, respiratory diseases, diabetes and hypertension. Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) has welcomed the decision to limit the price of a dose to Rs 250 and to involve the private sector in the drive. Speaking to TOI, Dr HM Prasanna, president, PHANA, said roping in private hospitals will help cover larger sections of society in a much shorter time frame. Those eligible for the vaccine can either use the advance self-registration facility, register on-site at CVCs or use the cohort registration facility. “It is a dream come true to tackle the pandemic through the vaccination process,” said Dr H Sudarshan Ballal, chairman, Manipal Hospitals, who is also a member of the state’s Covid-19 expert committee. “The government’s move to allow walk-in registrations followed by vaccination is hugely appreciated. The price fixed by the government is also reasonable.” Dr Prasanna said Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) had already begun communicating with private hospitals, seeking their willingness to tie up with the government for the mass vaccination drive. “BBMP is keen on engaging with smaller hospitals and nursing homes located across the city,” Dr Prasanna said. “With one private hospital in every ward chosen to administer Covid-19 vaccine doses, the drive can reach every nook and corner of the city.” Treatment for adverse eventsHowever, there has been no confirmation on who will bear charges to treat any adverse events following immunisation (AEFI). “Vaccination is a voluntary process. There is no compulsion,” sources said. “Those who are willing to take it will have understood the importance of vaccination. If the dose is administered in a government facility, the state will bear the cost of AEFI treatment. If it is done in a private hospital, the cost may have to be borne by the individual.” Known mild side effects of the two Covid-19 vaccines in use in the country are nausea, giddiness, fever and myalgia (body pain). A huge majority of the AEFI cases reported so far in the state were people who experienced some, or all, of these conditions and most of them were treated as outpatients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-private-hospitals-gear-up-to-join-vax-drive-say-cost-of-dose-is-reasonable/articleshow/81252669.cms||Sunitha Rao R
February 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Woman sues service provider for 200GB data loss, wins Rs 3,000||BENGALURU: A city woman who took a mobile service provider to court for abruptly discontinuing her internet data plan has been awarded a compensation of Rs 3,000. The firm has also been directed to restore the 200GB data which was supposed to be rolled over to the next billing cycle. Vidhya MK, 46, of Byrasandra in CV Raman Nagar, was shocked when her mobile data service was snapped in August 2019. Realising she had 200GB unused data, she found that her service provider Airtel had discontinued her plan. An infuriated Vidhya contacted customer care representatives via phone and email only to be told that the 200GB data had vanished due to reasons which were not clear. With repeated requests to Airtel yielding no results, she finally approached the Bengaluru Urban 2nd additional district consumer disputes redressal commission in Shantinagar on November 19, 2019 with a complaint against the service provider and decided to argue the case on her own without an attorney. Airtel’s lawyer argued Vidhya’s claim held no value as her Rs 300 monthly postpaid mobile plan, which was a corporate one, was changed to an individual pack and thus didn’t have the option of data being carried over. The court proceedings continued for 15 months, during which the judges examined arguments put forth by both the sides. They noted Airtel had failed to produce any documents for its claim on the change in pack, according to which data wouldn’t be rolled over to the next cycle. The judges slammed the company for not informing the customer about the change and abruptly discontinuing the plan. In the verdict pronounced on February 23, 2021, the court ruled that the nodal officer of Bharti Airtel Limited’s Karnataka Circle is liable to restore Vidhya’s 200GB mobile data and pay her a compensation of Rs 2,000 for the agony caused, apart from Rs 1,000 towards her court expenses, all within 30 days of the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-woman-sues-service-provider-for-200gb-data-loss-wins-rs-3000/articleshow/81252719.cms||Petlee Peter
February 28, 2021||Mumbai||Racing resumes today after a year with crowd limit||MUMBAI: The state’s decision to allow horse racing activities from Sunday at the Mahalaxmi Race Course with a 600-spectator limit has revived Royal Western India Turf Club (RWITC) chairman Zavaray Poonawalla’s hopes of bringing glory days back for racing in the city. RWITC’s cash reserves have almost dried up since racing was halted last March due to the pandemic and the BMC’s decision to house a jumbo Covid-19 facility there aggravated the club’s problems as it put an end to related activities on premises. RWITC banking on online betting, lower commissionMembers of the committee have kept a major portion of their own business responsibilities aside and are working relentlessly to see that our club comes out of its most difficult time ever,” Poonawalla told TOI on Saturday. Proximity to the Covid-19 facility forced restaurants such as Gallops and Tote On The Turf to stop functioning, and there were no takers for the turf club’s lawns for weddings and other social and entertainment events. “Our reserves are badly hit,” Poonawalla said. “There has been virtually no revenue in the past 12 months.” Poonawalla is banking on a slew of measures taken up by RWITC, including securing permissions for online betting and reducing its commissions significantly on betting to attract good collections. Poonawalla has also been working hard to get the goods and services tax (GST) reduced and is hopeful of a favourable cut. “We will come out of these rough waters if my efforts on the GST reform come through, which will help all our clubs in India fly high and add more revenue to the government’s coffers,” he added. Poonawalla further informed bookmakers are expected to return some time in March. The Indian Derby, the most famous race in the country, will be held on March 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/racing-resumes-today-after-a-year-with-crowd-limit/articleshow/81252748.cms||Shailendra Awasthi
February 28, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 25km of single NH lane laid in 18 hours||VIJAYAPURA: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) completed construction of a single lane of the four-lane, 25.5km Vijayapura-Solapur stretch of the national highway in a record 18 hours on Friday. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari tweeted this would soon figure in the Limca Book of Records. “I congratulate workers and NHAI project director, other officials, representatives of the company," he said. राष्ट्रीय राजमार्ग प्राधिकरण (@NHAI_Official) ने हाल ही में सोलापुर-विजापुर राजमार्ग पर 4-लेनिंग कार्य के अंतर्गत 2… https://t.co/SmWUSNYEx6— Nitin Gadkari (@nitin_gadkari) 1614331208000“As many as 500 employees of the contract company have completed this construction. The 4-way stretch of 110km will be completed by October,” he added. This road is part of the high-density traffic corridor — Bengaluru-Chitradurga- Vijayapura-Solapur-Aurangabad-Dhule-Indore-Gwalior. An NHAI official, said: “It is not done end-to-end but they did it in five different places at the same time.” Karnataka deputy CM Govind Karjol said, “This rare feat will definitely set a benchmark in ongoing and upcoming projects.” He said this highway connects southern India with the north and its development will serve as an alternative route to the North-South Corridor of the National Highways Development Programme. "The will reduce travel time and vehicle operating costs as well as help in expediting improvement of infrastructure in Maharashtra and Karnataka," he added. The work was carried out by NHAI, project director Sanjay Kadam, IGM director Venkatesh Rao, and IGM team leader K Siddanagouda. Earlier, a world record set for laying of pavement quality concrete for a four-lane highway of 2,580 metres in 24 hours during construction of the Delhi-Vadodara-Mumbai project. The Union cabinet had approved four-laning of the Solapur-Vijayapur section of the new NH-52 connecting Maharashtra and Karnataka at a cost of Rs 1,889 crore in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-25km-of-single-nh-lane-laid-in-18-hours/articleshow/81252751.cms||---
