01-04-2021||Business||Pakistan rejects proposal to import sugar from India: Report||In a volte-face, Pakistan's Cabinet on Thursday rejected a proposal of the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC) to import cotton and sugar from India, according to a media report. The decision comes a day after Pakistan's new Finance Minister Hammad Azhar on Wednesday announced to lift a nearly-two year old ban on the import of cotton and sugar from India after a meeting of the ECC chaired by him. However, a Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Imran Khan on Thursday rejected the ECC proposal to import cotton yarn and sugar from India, Geo TV reported, citing sources. There was no official word on the decision of the Cabinet. Ahead of the Cabinet meeting, Khan's close aide and Minister for Human Rights Shireen Mazari said that all ECC decisions have to be approved by Cabinet and only then can they be seen as "approved" by the government. "Just for the record - All ECC decisions have to be approved by Cabinet & only then they can be seen as "approved by govt"! So today in the Cabinet there will be discussion on ECC decisions including trade with India & then the govt decision will be taken! Media should be aware of this atleast," Mazari, known for her hawkish stand on Kashmir, tweeted. Azhar's announcement on Wednesday to import cotton and sugar from India had raised hopes of a partial revival of bilateral trade relations, which were suspended after the August 5, 2019 decision of New Delhi to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. India is the world's biggest producer of cotton and the second biggest sugar manufacturer. In May 2020, Pakistan had lifted the ban on import of medicines and raw material of essential drugs from India amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Ties between India and Pakistan nose-dived after a terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base in 2016 by terror groups based in Pakistan. Subsequent attacks, including one on an Indian Army camp in Uri, further deteriorated the relationship. The ties strained further after India's war planes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in response to the Pulwama terror attack in 2019 in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed. India's move to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in August, 2019 angered Pakistan, which downgraded diplomatic ties with India and expelled the Indian High Commissioner in Islamabad. Pakistan also snapped all air and land links with India and suspended trade and railway services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
01-04-2021||Business||Stock markets start new fiscal on a high||Indian equities started the new fiscal year on a strong note on Thursday, with the BSE Sensex surging over 520 points to settle above the 50,000-level on across-the-board buying by participants amid positive global cues. At the closing bell, the 30-share BSE index quoted 520.68 points or 1.05 per cent higher at 50,029.83. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 176.65 points or 1.2 per cent to settle at 14,867.35. On the Sensex chart, 25 shares ended with gains. IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finance and Ultratech Cement were prominent gainers. On the other hand, HUL, Nestle, HDFC Bank, TCS, Titan and Tech Mahindra suffered losses. Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities, said, Domestic equities shrugged-off COVID-19 spikes on favourable global cues and recovered sharply mainly led by strong buying in financials and automobile stocks. Strong monthly volume for March helped auto stocks to attract investors' interest. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.6 per cent lower at USD 63.95 per barrel. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses clocked gains as the announcement of US infrastructure stimulus plan boosted investor sentiment globally. Foreign investors offloaded equities worth Rs 1,685.91 crore in the Indian markets on Wednesday, exchange data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
01-04-2021||Business|| GST collections at record high of Rs 1.23 lakh crore in March||GST collections in March touched a record high of over Rs 1.23 lakh crore, a 27 per cent growth over the year-ago period, the Finance Ministry said on Thursday. "GST revenues crossed above Rs 1 lakh crore mark at a stretch for the last six months and a steep increasing trend over this period are clear indicators of rapid economic recovery post pandemic," the ministry said. Closer monitoring against fake-billing, deep data analytics using data from multiple sources including GST, income tax and customs IT systems and effective tax administration have also contributed to the steady increase in tax revenue over last few months, it added. The gross GST revenue collected in the month of March 2021 stood at Rs 1,23,902 crore, of which central GST is Rs 22,973 crore, state GST is Rs 29,329 crore, integrated GST is Rs 62,842 crore (including Rs 31,097 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 8,757 crore (including Rs 935 crore collected on import of goods). "GST revenues during March 2021 are the highest since introduction of GST. In line with the trend of recovery in the GST revenues over past five months, the revenues for the month of March 2021 are 27 per cent higher than the GST revenues in the same month last year," the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
01-04-2021||Business||Sensex spurts over 390 points in early trade on wide-spread buying||Equity benchmark Sensex rebounded over 390 points to surpass the 49,900-level in opening deals on Thursday, supported by across-the-board buying by participants amid positive global cues. Starting off on a positive note, the 30-share index swung 434 points on the higher side before easing some gains. It was quoted higher by 391.14 points or 0.79 per cent at 49,900.29. Likewise, the NSE Nifty advanced by 113.55 points or 0.77 per cent at 14,804.25. On the Sensex chart, HCL Tech emerged as the top gainer with over 2.61 per cent rise, followed by Titan, IndusInd Bank, NTPC, Bajaj Auto and NTPC. Barring Nestle, ITC, HDFC Bank and HUL, all shares traded in the green. On Wednesday, the Sensex had ended lower by 627.43 points or 1.25 per cent at 49,509.15; while the broader NSE Nifty slumped 154.40 points or 1.04 per cent to close at 14,690.70. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.93 per cent lower at USD 62.98 per barrel. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses were trading with gains as the announcement of the US infrastructure stimulus plan boosted investor sentiment globally. Foreign investors offloaded equities worth Rs 1,685.91 crore in the Indian markets on Wednesday, exchange data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||Govt rolls back interest rate cuts in postal, savings schemes||The government withdrew steep cuts in small savings rates early on Thursday, with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman declaring that the orders that would impact schemes ranging from the National Savings Certificates or NSC and Public Provident Fund or PPF, were issued on Wednesday by “oversight”. “Interest rates of small savings schemes of the government of India shall continue to be at the rates which existed in the last quarter of 2020-2021, ie, rates that prevailed as of March 2021. Orders issued by oversight shall be withdrawn,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted on Thursday morning, reported PTI. The rollback came on a day the second phase of voting was on for assembly elections in Bengal and Assam. On Wednesday night, the government dropped the bombshell that interest rates on postal deposits and schemes had been slashed by 40 to 110 basis points. The interest rate on the popular public provident fund (PPF) scheme was cut from 7.1 per cent to 6.4 per cent, a 46-year low. The PPF interest rate would have  tumbled below 7 per cent for the first time since 1974. The sharpest cut was announced in the one-year time deposit where the rate went down by a whopping 110 basis points to 4.4 per cent. A hundred basis points make one percentage point. The interest rate on the postal savings deposit was slashed to 3.5 per cent. The rate had been steady at 4 per cent since December 2011. The move to pare rates came on top of last year’s sharper rate reduction of 70 to 140 basis points and would have left small savers with no real place to preserve a nest egg as retail inflation stubbornly stays above 5 per cent. The rate cuts were supposedly in line with the fall in the yield on the 10-year government security to which they are linked. Curiously however, the yield on the 10-year gilt ruled at 6.17 per cent on Wednesday. Last year, when the small saving rates were cut, the yield on the 10-year bond was 6.14 per cent. The Shyamala Gopinath committee had suggested that the interest rates on the various small savings schemes should be 25-100 basis points higher than the yield on the government bonds of similar maturity. The government has not always followed that dictum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||Interest rates on postal deposits and schemes slashed by 40 to 110 basis points||Small savers will no longer be able to dodge the falling knife: interest rates on postal deposits and schemes have been slashed by 40 to 110 basis points. The interest rate on the popular public provident fund (PPF) scheme has been cut from 7.1 per cent to 6.4 per cent, a 46-year low. The PPF interest rate will tumble below 7 per cent for the first time since 1974. The sharpest cut is in the one-year time deposit where the rate goes down by a whopping 110 basis points to 4.4 per cent. A hundred basis points make one percentage point. The interest rate on the postal savings deposit has been slashed to 3.5 per cent. The rate had been steady at 4 per cent since December 2011. The move to pare rates comes on top of last year’s sharper rate reduction of 70 to 140 basis points and will leave small savers with no real place to preserve a nest egg as retail inflation stubbornly stays above 5 per cent. The savage cuts mean that interest rates on small savings schemes have been reduced by a total of 120-250 bps during the current financial year. Senior citizens will be hit really hard: the interest rate on the savings scheme specially designed from them will go down by 90 basis points to 6.5 per cent. In April last year, the rate had been slashed by 120 basis points from the 8.6 per cent they earned till March 31, 2020. At the shorter end of the maturity spectrum, the State Bank of India pays more on 1-year and 2-year deposits at 5 per cent and 5.1 per cent, respectively -- an unthinkable proposition until now. The rate cuts are supposedly in line with the fall in the yield on the 10-year government security to which they are linked. Curiously however, the yield on the 10-year gilt ruled at 6.17 per cent on Wednesday. Last year, when the small saving rates were cut, the yield on the 10-year bond was 6.14 per cent. The Shyamala Gopinath committee had suggested that the interest rates on the various small savings schemes should be 25-100 basis points higher than the yield on the government bonds of similar maturity. The government has not always followed that dictum. However, the Modi government has finally decided the bite the bullet under pressure from the banks, which have complained vociferously against the high interest rates on small savings. Bankers like Uday Kotak have often said they are unable to compete against a postal system that is spiriting away people’s deposits. This is not borne out by the facts, with the banks seeing their time deposits swell by 11 per cent over the past year to Rs 139.89 trillion as of March 12. The latest data available with the Reserve Bank of India shows that overall, small savings amounted to a modest Rs 10.46 trillion as of February 5, 2020. The popular Monthly Income Scheme saw the interest rate tumble by 90 basis points to 5.7 per cent. It had been cut last year by 1 percentage point to 6.6 per cent. The Kisan Vikas Patra received a double whammy: the rate was slashed by 70 basis points -- the same as last year -- to 6.2 per cent while the maturity tenure was extended to 138 months from 124 months earlier. The scheme meant for the girl child -- Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana– has been whacked with a cut of 70 basis points to 6.9 per cent. “The reduction in administered interest rates has happened across the board. This is consistent with the prevailing interest rate structure in the financial markets. While this is a market-friendly measure, it could hamper savings which is already low due to various shocks that the economy has been facing over the past four years,” said N.R. Bhanumurthy, vice-chancellor of the Bangalore-based Dr B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics (BASE). Aditi Nayar, principal economist, ICRA, said: “After keeping rates largely unchanged over the last few quarters, the government has effected a substantial lagged revision in small savings rates, mirroring the moderation in interest rates in the wider economy seen over the last year.” SPJIMR’s Ananth Narayan said: “CPI Inflation has averaged over 6.1 per cent over the past 18 months. While it has come down in February, core inflation is still at 5.9 per cent, and inflation worries still persist. In this context, low and repressed interest rates, despite a huge government borrowing programme, pose big problems for savers. What makes it worse is that the interest is taxable.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||SBI raises additional $1 billion loan from Japan Bank for International Cooperation||The country’s largest lender, the State Bank of India (SBI), on Wednesday said it has raised an additional $1 billion (around Rs 7,350 crore) loan from Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) to help Covid-hit Japanese auto manufacturers in India. In October last year, the SBI had signed an agreement to raise a loan of $1 billion. Therefore, the latest borrowing takes the total amount of loans raised from JBIC to $2 billion. The SBI said in a statement that the loan is in the form of re-finance against the funding support provided to the manufacturers, suppliers and dealers of Japanese automobiles in India whose business activities were affected by Covid-19. The bank added that the loan is intended to promote smooth flow of funds for the whole range of business operations of Japanese automobile manufacturers in India. JBIC is a policy-based financial institution, wholly owned by the Japanese government. “At a time people are preferring personal mode of transport, this collaboration between the SBI and JBIC will help the bank in extending loan facility to the entire supply chain of Japanese automobile industry, including suppliers, dealers and ultimately the end users,” SBI chairman Dinesh Khara said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||Adani Group to consult authorities and stakeholders on Myanmar port project||India’s Adani Group said on Wednesday it would consult authorities and stakeholders on its port project in Myanmar, after human rights groups reported its subsidiary had agreed to pay millions of dollars in rent to a military-controlled firm. A military coup in Myanmar on Febuary 1 and an ensuing crackdown on mass protests in which hundreds were killed have drawn international condemnation and sanctions on military figures and military-controlled entities. Adani Ports and SEZ Ltd in 2020 won a bid to build and operate Yangon International Terminal, which it has said is an independent project fully owned and developed by the company. The Australian Centre for International Justice and Justice for Myanmar on Tuesday released a report citing documents purporting to show that an Adani unit will pay up to $30 million in land lease fees for the project to Myanmar Economic Corporation (MEC). MEC was one of two military-controlled conglomerates sanctioned by the United States last week, and other international firms, including Japanese brewer Kirin, have cut ties with the conglomerates since the coup. Adani did not comment on the lease payments detailed in the report, but said the land acquisition for its project was facilitated by the Myanmar Investment Commission under the now-ousted civilian government. “Much like our global peers, we are watching the situation in Myanmar carefully and will engage with the relevant authorities and stakeholders to seek their advice on the way forward,” an Adani spokesman said in a statement. The spokesman said the company condemned violations of human rights and was working with independent think tanks to mitigate any human rights risks. Adani’s port projects in Australia and India’s southern Tamil Nadu state have also been criticised by activist groups, politicans and locals over environmental concerns. Adani said it was building “sustainable” and “critical port infrastructure”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||UltraTech Cement prepays long-term loans of Rs 5,000 crore||AV Birla group firm UltraTech Cement on Wednesday said it has prepaid its long-term loans of Rs 5,000 crore. In a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges, UltraTech Cement said the loan repayment has been done through free cash flows generated over the last few quarters despite the pandemic. “The company last week prepaid its long-term loans amounting to Rs 5,000 crore,” it said. The cement major added that this is in line with its endeavour to maintain an optimal capital structure. Shares of UltraTech Cement on Wednesday ended marginally lower at Rs 6,737.30 — a drop of 0.78 per cent or Rs 52.95 over the previous close on the BSE. UltraTech Cement reported a revenue of Rs 40,649.17 crore in 2019-20 and is the largest manufacturer of grey cement, ready mix concrete and white cement in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||Srei receives interest from global investors for capital infusion||Srei Equipment Finance on Wednesday said it has received interest from global investors for capital infusion into the company. The board of Srei Equipment Finance said a strategic committee consisting of independent directors have been constituted by the company to coordinate, negotiate and conclude discussion with potential strategic and/or private equity investors to raise fresh capital for the business in consultation with the management. “The proposed capital infusion is expected to strengthen SEFL’s capital base and help the company emerge out of pandemic induced stress in Indian financial services space,” said Srei Equipment Finance in a statement. The committee will be headed by independent director Malay Mukherjee and other members including independent directors Suresh Kumar Jain, Tamali Sen Gupta, Uma Shankar Paliwal and Shyamalendu Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||SpiceJet signs initial pact with New York-based Avenue Capital Group ||Budget carrier SpiceJet on Wednesday said it has signed an initial pact with New York-based Avenue Capital Group to help finance and acquire 50 new planes to be ordered by the airline. The memorandum of understanding signed between the two partners sets out the next steps and conditions under which Avenue will assist with placing of SpiceJet's new aircraft portfolio, including sale and leaseback of up to 50 planes. The airline, however, did not name the type of aircraft it was looking to acquire. Sources said the MoU, apart from covering the present order that the air carrier has, may also include a new order. Founded in 1995 by Marc Lasry, the multinational firm is a pioneer in distressed debt besides having expertise in aircraft leasing. The company has identified the new planes to be ordered by the airline as a unique opportunity for investment, SpiceJet said. “We are delighted to enter into this strategic alliance with Avenue Capital Group and we look forward to closely working with them. This alliance will ensure a seamless induction of the planes in our fleet and help us plan better for the long-term,” SpiceJet chairman and managing director Ajay Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||Exporters anxious about RoDTEP rate of reimbursement||The government on Wednesday extended the foreign trade policy by six months till September but did not announce the rates on a duty relief scheme for exporters that was announced  in January. Exporters were disappointed that the government did not notify the rate of reimbursement for the new scheme — Remission of Duties and Taxes on Export Products (RoDTEP) . “The FTP extension in the current fluid situation is quite understandable as the deferment may provide a better understanding of the aftermath of the pandemic and instruments to deal with it. However, the pending claims of MEIS/SEIS should be released immediately in the new financial year along with RoDTEP rates so as to ease liquidity to exporters who are most hard pressed for it,” Ajay Sahai, the director-general of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations, said. Prop for food processing In a move to boost the food processing sector to meet the global demand, the government on Wednesday approved a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for the sector involving an outlay of Rs 10,900 crore. “The PLI for the food processing sector with Rs 10,900 crore-incentive has been approved. The decision is a fitting tribute to our farmers,” food minister Piyush Goyal said . ECLGS extended till June 30 The government has extended the Rs 3-lakh-crore emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS) by another three months till June 30 and also widened its scope to new sectors, including hospitality, travel, and tourism. The ECLGS 3.0 would involve extending credit of up to 40 per cent of the total credit outstanding across all lending institutions as on February 29, 2020 against 20 per cent earlier, the finance ministry said in a statement. The tenor of loans granted under ECLGS 3.0 would be six years, including a moratorium period of two years. $1 billion to every chip maker India is offering more than $1 billion in cash to each semiconductor company that sets up manufacturing units in the country as it seeks to build on its smartphone assembly industry and strengthen its electronics supply chain, two sources have told Reuters. “We’re assuring them that the government will be a buyer and there will also be mandates in the private market (for companies to buy locally made chips),” a source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||Benchmark index tanks 627 points on last day of financial year||The benchmark index on Wednesday tanked 627 points on the last day of the financial year as investors remained cautious amid rising Covid-19 cases. The rupee, however, witnessed some volatility but closed nearly 26 paise higher at 73.12 against the dollar. Analysts are of the view that stocks are likely to consolidate over the immediate term and the focus of attention will be Covid cases in the country, the vaccination drive, the upcoming results season and the monetary policy that will be announced on April 7. While Maharashtra, which is one of the worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, has indicated that it will not go for a complete lockdown, it is felt that the rising number of cases could limit gains and lead to intermittent corrections. Rupee gain In the forex markets, the rupee closed higher by 26 paise at 73.12 against the dollar. Tracking stock gains during the year, it ended 2020-21 on a strong note with a gain of over 3 per cent though the domestic economy felt the pinch of the pandemic. In Wednesday’s trade, the domestic currency saw some volatility as it opened at 73.56 against the greenback and hit an intra-day high of 73.05 and a low of 73.58. It finally ended at 73.12 against the greenback, registering a rise of 26 paise over its previous closing. On Tuesday, the rupee had settled at 73.38 against the dollar. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback’s strength against a basket of six currencies, fell 0.10 per cent to 93.20. The domestic currency markets will remain shut for the next two sessions for annual bank closing and Good Friday holidays. The Sensex opened lower at 50049.12 and hit a day’s low of 49442.50. It closed below 50000 at 49509.15 — a drop of 627.43 points or 1.25 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-93
01-04-2021||Business||RBI extends auto debit rule deadline||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday extended the deadline by six months to September 30 for various stakeholders to comply with its directive on recurring payments made in online transactions. However, it issued a stern warning that any further delay in ensuring complete adherence to the framework beyond the extended timeline will attract stringent supervisory action. The rules were first proposed in August 2019 and the deadline was to expire on March 31, 2021. It covered recurring payments made by credit or debit cards, wallets or unified payments interface (UPI) in third party merchant websites such as utility bill payments, mobile bills, insurance premiums and even subscription of OTT platforms. Debit from a person’s bank account such as EMIs on home or auto loans was not counted. It was framed to improve the security of such recurring payments. However, various players have been unable to meet the March 31 deadline. Therefore, many credit and debit card customers received text messages asking them to make direct payments to the merchants for continuous services. Some of the players approached the RBI seeking an extension. “It is, however, noted that the framework has not been fully implemented even after the extended timeline. This non-compliance is noted with serious concern and will be dealt with separately,” the RBI said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
01-04-2021||Business||Centre to borrow Rs 7.24 lakh crore in the first half of 2021-22||The Centre on Wednesday said it would borrow Rs 7.24 lakh crore (trillion) in the first half of 2021-22 which is 60 per cent of the total gross borrowing of Rs 12.05 lakh crore for the fiscal, in line with its previous strategy to mop up the bulk of its requirements in the first half of the fiscal (frontloading). The announcement came on a day data showed India’s fiscal deficit at the end of February to be 76 per cent of the revised estimate, an indication that it is likely to remain within the projections made by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month. Sitharaman had revised upwards the fiscal deficit projection for 2020-21 to Rs 18.48 lakh crore or 9.5 per cent of the gross domestic product  (GDP) from the original budget estimate of Rs 7.96 lakh crore or 3.5 per cent of GDP. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday set the Ways and Means Advances (WMA) limit at Rs 1.2 lakh crore for the central government for the first half of the financial year beginning April 1.  WMAs are temporary advances given by the RBI to the government to tide over any mismatch in receipts and payments. With the fiscal deficit lower than the revised target, the government is set to start 2021-22 with a comfortable cash balance, Aditi Nayar, principal economist, Icra said. “Accordingly, even though the government of India has chosen to frontload its borrowing programme, with 60 per cent of the amount to be raised in the first half, this works out to a 5.5 per cent decline relative to its market borrowings in the first half of 2020-21,’’ she said. She said a large supply of dated government securities and state development loans are expected in the coming months which will jack up yields in the absence of sizeable and frequent open market operations along with the possible firming of global interest rates. “In our view, the benchmark 10 year G-sec yield may harden to as much as 6.35 per cent by the end of the first quarter of 2021-22.’’ The yields of the benchmark 10-year security on Wednesday closed at 6.16 per cent. According to its borrowing calendar, the government will raise money through securities ranging from 2 years to 40 years with fixed interest rates along with floating rate bonds. In April alone, the Centre will raise Rs 1.16 lakh crore. Current account deficit Data from the RBI showed the balance on the current account recorded a deficit of $1.7 billion or 0.2 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP)  in the third quarter of 2020-21 after a surplus of $15.1 billion or 2.4 per cent of GDP in previous quarter and $19 billion (3.7 per cent of GDP) in the first quarter. Amnesty plan ends The deadline for filing declaration under the direct tax dispute resolution scheme Vivad se Vishwas ended on Wednesday. The  tax department had last month extended the last date for filing a declaration and making payment till March 31 and April 30, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
01-04-2021||Business|| Indian economy bounced back amazingly from Covid-19 pandemic: World Bank||India’s economy has bounced back amazingly from the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown over the last one year, but it is not out of the woods yet, the World Bank has said. In its latest South Asia Economic Focus report, the Washington-based global lender forecast that the country’s real GDP growth in fiscal 2021-22 could range anywhere between 7.5 and 12.5 per cent. The report, which was released before the annual Spring meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, said the Indian economy had already been slowing when the pandemic struck. After reaching 8.3 per cent in 2016-17, growth decelerated to 4.0 per cent in 2019-20, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
01-04-2021||Business||Govt asks RBI to maintain status quo on retail inflation targeting at 4 per cent||The government on Wednesday asked the Reserve Bank to maintain status quo on retail inflation targeting at 4 per cent with a margin of 2 per cent on either side for another five-year period ending March 2026. “The inflation target for the period April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2026 under the Reserve Bank of India Act 1934 has been kept at the same level as it was for the previous five years,” economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj said. Aditi Nayar, principal economist, Icra, said: “The continuation of the MPC’s inflation targeting band at 2-6 per cent is welcome as an upward revision could have contributed to an unanchoring of inflation expectations.” To keep inflation under a specified level, the government in 2016 decided to set up the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) headed by RBI governor and entrusted the panel with the task of fixing the benchmark policy rate. The six-member MPC, which had its first meeting in October 2016, was given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2021 with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent. The 400 basis points within which the central bank has sanction to operate is the widest in Asia, matched only by Turkey and surpassed by Argentina. The RBI had previously faced criticism for largely overstating inflation with its forecasts used to underpin a hawkish policy stance. The recent stubborn inflation has forced the central bank to pause interest-rate cuts despite the economy needing more stimulus after entering an unprecedented recession, analysts said. A Reserve Bank of India (RBI) working paper has recommended that maintaining the inflation target at 4 per cent is appropriate for the country. The paper, authored by Harendra Kumar Behera and Michael Debabrata Patra, finds that there is a steady decline in trend inflation to 4.1-4.3 per cent since 2014. Setting an inflation target below the trend may impart a deflationary bias to monetary policy because it will go into overkill relative to what the economy can intrinsically bear in order to achieve the target, says the paper titled Measuring trend inflation in India. “Analogously, a target that is fixed above trend renders monetary policy too expansionary and prone to inflationary shocks and unanchored expectations. Hence, maintaining the inflation target at 4 per cent is appropriate for India,” it said. MPC schedule The Monetary Policy Committee will meet six times during the next financial year, the RBI said on Wednesday. The first meeting of the six-member MPC to decide on the first bi-monthly monetary policy statement for 2021-22 will be held from April 5 to April 7. The policy will be announced on April 7. The second meeting of the MPC in the next fiscal will be held on June 2, 3 and 4. The third meeting  will be August 4, 5 and 6. The fourth meeting will be from October 6 to October 8, the fifth from December 6-8 and the sixth meeting February 7-9, 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-94
