02-04-2021||Business||Top Indian cities found to be worst performers in terms of house price appreciation||Top Indian cities were found to be some of the worst performers in terms of house price appreciation across the globe during the fourth quarter of 2020. A Knight Frank report that charted 150 cities across Asia, Europe, America and Africa showed only Hyderabad to record a modest price increase in October-December. Calcutta ranked 147th with a 4.3 per cent decline in the average price during the period. The Global Residential Cities Index, Q4, 2020, said prices across 150 cities worldwide increased 5.6 per cent on an average in 2020, up from 3.2 per cent in 2019. The report highlighted that 81 per cent of the cities saw prices rise year-on-year in Q4 of 2020. The index’s annual rate of growth increased for the sixth consecutive quarter in Q4 of 2020. Twenty per cent of the cities registered double-digit price growth in the year to Q4, 2020. Three cities in Turkey — Ankara, Izmir and Istanbul — topped the chart with around 30 per cent rise, but they were linked to high inflation and the lira’s trajectory, the report noted. Chennai was the worst performer with a 9 per cent drop. Real estate insiders said developers offered many discounts and freebies during the festive months to increase sales as unsold inventory continued to remain high. Soft prices along with the lowest mortgage rates had the desired impact in the market. Moreover, Maharashtra, which   accounts for two of the top 7 realty markets in the country — Mumbai and Pune — benefited from the limited period stamp duty cut offered by the local state government. The sop ended on March 31. “The Indian residential market has strongly rebounded over the last three quarters with the stress on owning houses, lower prices and multi-decade low home loan interest rate. The government interventions on stamp duty cut in key markets also helped the sector gain momentum back to pre-Covid levels,” Shishir Baijal, chairman and managing director of Knight Frank India, said. Two reports published by competing consultancies JLL and Anarock noted that sales have nearly reached pre-Covid levels in Q1 of 2021 or crossed in some places, such as Calcutta, signalling revival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
02-04-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai and Tata Motors report robust sales in March||Leading automakers Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai and Tata Motors on Thursday reported robust sales in March as a shift towards personal mobility and pent-up demand continued to help companies push dispatches. Toyota Kirloskar Motor, Honda Cars and Mahindra and Mahindra (M&M) also reported strong sales last month  compared with the year-ago period, when dispatches were adversely impacted because of the impending transition to BS-VI from April 2020 and the nationwide lockdown to contain the coronavirus pandemic. Maruti Suzuki India said its domestic sales stood at 1,49,518 units last month against 76,976 units a month ago. Both dispatches and production were hit last year because of the pandemic. Sales of mini cars, comprising Alto and S-Presso, stood at 24,653 units last month against 15,988 units sold in March 2020. Sales of compact segment vehicles, including Swift, Celerio, Ignis, Baleno and Dzire, stood at 82,201 units last month compared with 40,519 cars a year ago. Rival Hyundai Motor India said its domestic sales last month stood at 52,600 units. The company had dispatched 26,300 units in March 2020. “This performance has been backed by our super performer brands such as the Creta, Venue, Verna, Nios and the all-new i20,” Hyundai Motor India Director (Sales, Marketing & Service) Tarun Garg said in a statement. Tata Motors’ passenger vehicle sales last month rose to 29,654 units from 5,676 units in March 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
02-04-2021||Business||Mastercard to invest $100 million in Airtel Mobile Commerce BV||Airtel Africa on Thursday announced that Mastercard would invest $100 million (about Rs 733 crore) in its wholly owned subsidiary Airtel Mobile Commerce BV. Mastercard would hold a minority stake in AMC BV on completion of the deal, with Airtel Africa continuing to hold the majority stake, an Airtel statement said. Sources privy to the development said Mastercard would get about a 3.75 per cent stake in the company. AMC BV is at present the holding company for several of Airtel Africa’s mobile money operations and is intended to own and operate the mobile money businesses across all of Airtel Africa’s 14 operating countries. The proceeds from the transaction would be used to reduce the group’s debt and invest in network and sales infrastructure in the respective operating countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
02-04-2021||Business||GST collections in March touched a record high of over Rs 1.23 lakh crore||GST collections in March touched a record high of over Rs 1.23 lakh crore, a 27 per cent growth over the year-ago period, the finance ministry said on Thursday. “GST revenues crossed the Rs 1 lakh crore mark at a stretch for the last six months and a steep increasing trend over this period are clear indicators of rapid economic recovery post pandemic,” the ministry said. Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY India, said: “The all-time high record GST collections of Rs 1.23 lakh crore and it being 27 per cent higher than last year is a significant uptick.”
“It clearly shows a sustained economic recovery and is also a result of GST audit closures and the government tightening compliance and anti-evasion measures.” Closer monitoring against fake-billing, deep data analytics using data from multiple sources, including GST, income tax and customs IT systems and effective tax administration have also contributed to the steady increase in tax revenue over the last few months, it added. Gross GST revenue collected in the month of March 2021 stood at Rs 1,23,902 crore, of which central GST is Rs 22,973 crore, state GST is Rs 29,329 crore, integrated GST is Rs 62,842 crore (including Rs 31,097 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 8,757 crore (including Rs 935 crore collected on import of goods). “GST revenues during March 2021 are the highest since the introduction of GST. In line with the trend of recovery in the GST revenues over the past five months, the revenues for the month of March 2021 are 27 per cent higher than the revenues in the same month last year,” the ministry said in a statement. M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said: “In addition to the trend of higher overall GST collections over the past six months, all major states have shown a significant increase compared with the previous year. “Further, the increase in collections on imports accompanied by the rise in domestic transactions would indicate that the overall production/ consumption cycle is back to normal.” During the month, revenues from import of goods was 70 per cent higher and the revenues from domestic transaction (including import of services) are 17 per cent higher than the revenues from these sources during the same month last year. Meanwhile, the finance ministry has released Rs 45,000 crore to the states as additional devolution in the 2020-21 fiscal following revenue buoyancy in the March quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
02-04-2021||Business||Stock market turns volatile after hitting record highs first||The stock market is turning volatile now after hitting record highs first and then coming under pressure from rising US bond yields — a trend that could pose a challenge for retail investors. On Thursday, the Sensex surged over 520 points to close above 50000 after Wednesday’s 627-point fall. The benchmark index was choppy during Thursday’s session as it hit a low of 49478.53 and a high of 50092.48 — a gap of almost 614 points. Market circles aver that the swing came from a mix of good and bad news. While global cues were positive following US President Joe Biden’s announcement of a multi-trillion-dollar infrastructure investment plan, back home there are worries about the rising Covid-19 cases and the possibility of another lockdown in some parts that could affect near term growth. “Retail investors will have to deal with more such swings in the coming days that will also be marked by intermittent corrections. The only hedge against volatility for them is to take exposure in quality stocks and remain invested despite the ups and downs,’’ an analyst from a foreign brokerage remarked. Siddhartha Khemka, head — retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, however, feels that going ahead, the Indian markets are likely to track global cues. They would also focus on quarterly results which would kick start from mid-April. “Markets are likely to remain in a consolidative mode ... Hence investors would do well by gradually accumulating good quality companies,’’ he said. The Sensex soared 68 per cent while the Nifty gained almost 71 per cent in the previous fiscal. For the current fiscal, observers do not expect similar gains though volatility is likely till Covid-19 infections subside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
02-04-2021||Business||Govt rolls back interest rate cuts in postal, savings schemes||The finance ministry’s gaffe on small saving interest rates has brought the spotlight back on whether they pose a challenge to banks in bringing down their deposit and lending rates. Administered interest rates on small savings are linked to market yields on G-secs, fixed on a quarterly basis at a spread of 0-100 basis points over and above G-sec yields of comparable maturities. Opinions remain divided on whether the rates need to be cut. Bankers feel the easy liquidity conditions do not merit the small savings rates to be above the market rates. However, there is another view which points to the reliance of senior citizens on the small savings schemes and the government should tread carefully to bring down the rates only in small quantities. Over the past couple of years, both the lenders and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) have called for greater cuts in the small saving schemes as the high rates have impeded the banks in the transmission of the interest rate reductions by the central bank. Banks claim they are the direct rivals to the small saving schemes and there is a point below which they are unable to reduce their deposit rates, impacting the monetary policy transmission. In 2019, Kotak Mahindra Bank chairman Uday Kotak had called for a cut in the small savings rate as the banks are engaged in an unequal battle with them. The RBI in its monetary policy report had pointed to the impact of the high small savings rates on PSU banks as they also depend on retail term deposits.
Speaking to The Telegraph, Ananth Narayan, professor-SPJIMR, said small saving schemes do pose a problem for banks . He said the development should be seen in the context of the huge borrowing programme  of Rs 12.05 lakh crore in this fiscal even as the RBI has been attempting to keep interest rates under check through various means. However, inflation has been inching up and this is bad news for the savers. “While bankers are ruing about such schemes, why is nobody crying about the savers’.’ V.G. Kannan, former chief executive of the Indian Banks Association (IBA), admitted the small saving schemes form only a small part of the total bank deposits. Kannan, however, said one cannot have rates that are “substantially higher” than bank deposits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
02-04-2021||Business||Opec+ agrees to gradually ease its oil output cuts from May||Opec+ agreed on Thursday to gradually ease its oil output cuts from May, after the new US administration called on Saudi Arabia to keep energy affordable, mirroring Donald Trump’s practice of calling Opec’s leader over oil policy. The group, which has been implementing deep cuts since oil prices collapsed in 2020, agreed to ease production cuts by 350,000 barrels per day (bpd) in May, another 350,000 bpd in June and further 400,000 bpd or so in July. Iran’s oil minister, Bijan Zanganeh, confirmed the figures, saying the group would have boosted output by a total of 1.1 million bpd by July. Under Thursday’s deal, cuts implemented by the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Russia and their allies, a group known as Opec+, would be just above 6.5 million bpd from May, compared with slightly below 7 million bpd in April. “What we did today is, I think, a very conservative measure,” Saudi energy minister Prince Abdulaziz Bin Salman told a news conference after the Opec+ meeting, adding that output levels could still be adjusted at the next meeting on April 28. He said Thursday’s decision had not been influenced by any talks with US officials or any other consuming nations. The Saudi minister also said the kingdom would gradually phase out its additional voluntary cut that have been running at 1 million bpd. Changing mood Brent crude, which slipped on news of the deal, was still trading above $63 a barrel, still more than 20 per cent up on the start of the year and not far from this year’s high of around $71. “We reaffirmed the importance of international cooperation to ensure affordable and reliable sources of energy for consumers,” Jennifer Granholm, the new energy secretary appointed by US President Joe Biden, said on Twitter after her call with the Saudi energy minister. News of the call coincided with signs of a changing mood in informal discussions between Opec+ members. A few days before Thursday’s talks, delegates had said the group would likely keep most existing cuts in place, given uncertainty about the demand outlook amid a new wave of coronavirus lockdowns. But in the 24 hours before the meeting started, sources said discussions had shifted to the possibility of output increases. In the past, Trump had used his influence to force Saudi Arabia to adjust policy. Until this week, Biden’s administration had refrained from such an approach, keep a distance from Riyadh and imposing sanctions on some Saudi citizens over the 2018 murder of Jamal Khashoggi. Even when Opec+ decided on March 4 to keep steady output, triggering a price rise, the White House had made no direct comment. India impact A fall in crude prices should help India, which has been lobbying the oil cartel to cut prices, with oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan and the Saudi energy minister engaging in a public spat on the West Asian nation’s reluctance to raise output earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-92
