03-04-2021||Business||Adani Enterprises sign up to develop Gare Palma II||Adani Enterprises Ltd along with its wholly owned subsidiary Gare Palma II Collieries Pvt Ltd (GPIICPL) have signed a pact with Maharashtra State Power Generation Co Ltd (MAHAGENCO) to develop and operate Gare Palma Sector II coal mine. The coal ministry had allocated the coal mine in Raigarh district of Chhattisgarh to MAHAGENCO in 2015, Adani Enterprises said in a filing to BSE on Friday. The coal block was allotted for the development, operation and captive consumption of coal to its end use thermal power plants located at Koradi, Chandrapur 8- Parli. According to the approved mining plan, the peak rated capacity of mine is 23.6 million tonnes per annum with total mineable reserve of 553.18mt for opencast mine. MAHAGENCO had floated a tender for the selection of mine developer and operator for the development and operation of Gare Palma II coal mine in March 2016. After a reverse auction, Adani Enterprises Ltd emerged as L-1 bidder. The contract period will be for 34 years, including for mine development and final mine closure. Tata Power on Thursday said it has taken over power distribution operations in northeastern Odisha from April 1. Tata Power has taken over the management and operations of NESCO (North Eastern Electricity Supply Company of Odisha) from April 1, 2021, upon the completion of the sale process, according to a regulatory filing. Now, NESCO will operate under the company name as TP Northern Odisha Distribution Limited (TPNODL). Tata Power holds 51 per cent of equity with management control and state-owned GRIDCO will have 49 per cent shares in the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
03-04-2021||Business||Spectrum may give Jio the edge||Jio’s aggressive strategy on spectrum, new JioPhone offers and the impending launch of low-cost smartphones are likely to help regain subscriber momentum, according to a report. Near-term delay in tariff hike does not de-rail the long-term structural uptrend story in average revenue per user as any consolidation could further boost Jio’s subscriber addition, said JM Financial. Jio’s subscriber momentum remained muted in the course of 2020-21, partly on account of spectrum constraints because of a surge in data usage post-Covid. “Better execution and positioning of the competition (Bharti) which has enabled it to gain a higher share of mobile broadband subscribers. However, we believe the subscriber momentum could be bottoming out, given the aggressive strategy of Jio to acquire significant quantities of spectrum in the higher frequency bands,” it observed. New “aggressive” Jiophone offers, followed by the impending launch of the low-cost smartphones, are likely to help regain subscriber momentum. It also observed that Jio’s net subscriber addition had remained subdued, averaging 2.3 million addition per month against 4.7 million in March 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
03-04-2021||Business||Record spike in March gold imports||The country’s gold imports in March surged 471 per cent from a year earlier to a record 160 tonnes, a government source has said as a reduction in import taxes and a correction in prices from record highs drew retail buyers and jewellers. Higher imports by the world's second-biggest bullion consumer could support benchmark gold prices, which have corrected nearly 17 per cent from an all-time high of $2,072 in August 2020. The surge in imports could increase India’s trade deficit and put pressure on the rupee. India imported a record 321 tonnes in the March quarter, up from 124 tonnes a year ago, the source said. The source asked to remain anonymous as he is not authorised to speak to the media. In value terms, March imports surged to $8.4 billion from $1.23 billion a year ago, he said. In February, India slashed import duties on gold to 10.75 per cent tax from 12.5 per cent to boost retail demand and curtail smuggling into the South Asian country. “Many consumers had postponed buying due to higher prices. They rushed to buy after prices corrected sharply,” said Harshad Ajmera, the proprietor of JJ Gold House, a wholesaler in Calcutta. In March, local gold futures hit a one-year low of Rs 43,320 per 10 grams. Jewellers were building inventories after seeing robust retail demand, said a Mumbai-based bullion dealer with a gold importing bank. “Throughout the month gold was trading at premium because of jewellery demand,” the dealer said. Last month, dealers charged premiums of up to $6 an ounce over official domestic prices, inclusive of 10.75 per cent import and 3 per cent sales levies. India’s gold imports in April could fall below 100 tonnes as jewellers fear government could impose lockdown to arrest rising coronavirus infections, the dealer said. Exports jump The country’s exports jumped 58.23 per cent to $34 billion, the highest in a month, in March as key sectors such as engineering, gems and jewellery and pharmaceuticals recorded healthy growth rate during the month, according to the commerce ministry’s provisional data. Imports rose 52.89 per cent to $48.12 billion against $31.47 billion in March 2020. Exports during April-March 2020-21, however, dipped 7.4 per cent to $290.18 billion compared with $313.36 billion in 2019-20, the data showed. Imports during 2020-21 contracted 18 per cent to $388.92 billion against $474.71 billion during 2019-20. In March 2020, the exports stood at $21.49 billion, a decline of about 34 per cent over March 2019 due to the global slowdown induced by the Covid-19 crisis. The trade deficit during the month widened to $14.12 billion against $9.98 billion in March 2020. Oil imports grew 1.22 per cent to $10.17 billion in March. During 2020-21, oil imports dipped 37 per cent to $82.25 billion.  Non-oil imports in March were up by 777.12 per cent to $37.95 billion. Reuters During the full fiscal, the imports contracted by 10.89 per cent to USD 306.67 billion. Gold imports jumped to USD 7.17 billion during the month under review.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
03-04-2021||Business||India’s credit profile improves: Crisil Ratings||Credit rating agencies have started handing out more credit upgrades to companies than downgrades after the third quarter ended December 31 showed a feeble 0.4 per cent growth amid early signs of strengthening of demand. Crisil Ratings’ credit ratio — or the ratio of upgrades to downgrades — moved up to 1.33 in the second half from a decadal low 0.54 in the first  half of 2020-21. A credit ratio above 1 indicates more upgrades than downgrades. In its Ratings Roundup — a bi-annual report — Crisil said it had upgraded 294 companies in the second half and downgraded 221. Crisil said the credit metrices could improve further because of the impetus to infrastructure development in the budget, steady farm performance and sustained rural demand, and the vaccine rollout. However, the rating agency warned the spectre of a second wave of Covid-19 infections looms large. Rapid progress on inoculation is the key to decisively quell the risk, Crisil said. The sharp rise in Covid-19 cases since mid-February 2021 and the impact of any stringent containment measures on businesses are the key threats to the nascent demand recovery. Crisil’s resilience study of 42 sectors showed that only six  of the segments — accounting for 4 per cent of rated debt — are highly sensitive to a Covid-19 resurgence, while 20 are moderately sensitive. Among the highly sensitive sectors, airlines, airport operators, hospitality and retail have a long road to recovery. Gems and jewellery and automotive dealers have benefitted so far.a “Slower-than-anticipated demand growth, delays in implementation of budgetary or other fiscal measures, and a sub-normal monsoon are the other downside risks to the credit quality outlook,’’ the rating agency said. On how companies fared in the second half of the previous fiscal, it said that there were fewer downgrades across the spectrum during the period despite the sunset of policy and regulatory measures like the debt servicing moratorium in August and relaxation of default recognition norms in December 2020. These had provided temporary relief at the peak of the lockdown. According to Crisil, the emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS) provided much-needed liquidity support to jump-start business activity in the second half of the financial year. But the biggest driver for the increase in credit ratio were the unlock measures, which released pent-up demand across sectors, kick-started the economy and got cash flow from operations flowing for India Inc. ``Moderately resilient sectors such as automotive components and packaging saw a sharp increase in credit ratio led by increased pace of upgrades, even as credit ratio for the moderate resilient category was below 1’’, it disclosed while observing that highly resilient sectors like pharmaceuticals and agrochemicals had performed well and maintained credit ratio above 1 even during the worst phase of the pandemic, backed by sustained demand. On the other hand, low-resilience sectors like hospitality and real estate developers continue to see more downgrades than upgrades, even as the pace of downgrades slowed in the second half. The financial sector, too, benefitted from the rebound in corporate credit quality. Regulatory support by way of ECLGS and targeted long term repo operations (TLTRO) kept reported gross non-performing assets in check, as seen by rising collection efficiencies in the second half of the fiscal. Public sector banks (PSBs), which benefitted from capital infusions in the past, returned to black at a systemic level after five years. Here it said that bank credit growth is set to speed up to 9-10 per cent in the new fiscal after mid-single digit growth in fiscal 2021. Strengthening of demand recovery and return of India’s GDP growth to a positive territory led to Crisil Ratings credit ratio (ratio of upgrades to downgrades), scaling to 1.33 in the second half of 2020-21 from a decadal low 0.54 in the previous half. A credit ratio above 1 indicates more rating upgrades than downgrades. The rating agency said in its Ratings Roundup-a bi annual report which analyses its rating action that during the period, the ratio of upgrades to downgrades stood at 294 and 221, respectively. It pointed out that the impetus to infrastructure development in the Union Budget 2021-22, steady farm performance and sustained rural demand, combined with the vaccine rollout, hold promise for continued improvement in the credit quality of corporate India even as the spectre of a second wave of Covid-19 infections looms large. It added that rapid progress on inoculation, is the key to decisively quell the risk posed by the second wave of the pandemic. ``Slower-than-anticipated demand growth, delays in implementation of budgetary or other fiscal measures, and a sub-normal monsoon are the other downside risks to the credit quality outlook’’, Crisil said. The rating agency however, cautioned that the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases since mid-February 2021 and the impact of any stringent containment measures on businesses are the key threats to the nascent demand recovery and could impact the credit quality outlook adversely. Its resilience study of 42 sectors showed that only 6 (accounting for 4 per cent of rated debt) are highly sensitive to a Covid-19 resurgence, while 20 are moderately sensitive. Among highly sensitive sectors, airlines, airport operators, hospitality and retail have a long road to recovery, while gems & jewellery and automotive dealers have benefitted so far with supressed demand breaking free, it noted. On how companies fared in the second half of the previous fiscal, it said that there were fewer downgrades across the spectrum during the period despite the sunset of policy and regulatory measures like the debt servicing moratorium in August and relaxation of default recognition norms in December 2020. These had provided temporary relief at the peak of the lockdown. According to Crisil, the emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS) provided much-needed liquidity support to jump-start business activity in the second half of the financial year. But the biggest driver for the increase in credit ratio were the unlock measures, which released pent-up demand across sectors, kick-started the economy and got cash flow from operations flowing for India Inc. ``Moderately resilient sectors such as automotive components and packaging saw a sharp increase in credit ratio led by increased pace of upgrades, even as credit ratio for the moderate resilient category was below 1’’, it disclosed while observing that highly resilient sectors like pharmaceuticals and agrochemicals had performed well and maintained credit ratio above 1 even during the worst phase of the pandemic, backed by sustained demand. On the other hand, low-resilience sectors like hospitality and real estate developers continue to see more downgrades than upgrades, even as the pace of downgrades slowed in the second half. The financial sector, too, benefitted from the rebound in corporate credit quality. Regulatory support by way of ECLGS and targeted long term repo operations (TLTRO) kept reported gross non-performing assets in check, as seen by rising collection efficiencies in the second half of the fiscal. Public sector banks (PSBs), which benefitted from capital infusions in the past, returned to black at a systemic level after five years. Here it said that bank credit growth is set to speed up to 9-10 per cent in the new fiscal after mid-single digit growth in fiscal 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
03-04-2021||Business||Emission leeway for power plants||India has pushed back deadlines for coal-fired power plants to adopt new emission norms by up to three years, and allowed utilities that miss the new target to continue operating after paying a penalty, according to a government notice. India had initially set a 2017 deadline for thermal power plants to install flue gas desulphurisation (FGD) units that cut emissions of sulphur dioxides. But that was postponed to varying deadlines for different regions, ending in 2022. The new order dated April 1 from the environment ministry says plants near populous regions and the capital New Delhi will have to comply by 2022, while utilities in less polluting areas have up to 2025 to comply or retire units. Operators of coal-fired utilities, including state-run NTPC Ltd and industry groups representing private companies such as Reliance Power and Adani Power, have long been lobbying for dilution of the pollution standards, citing high compliance costs. The latest notice follows suggestions from the power ministry that plants be given deadlines to adopt norms in line with the severity of pollution in the region where they are located. A task force will be constituted by the Central Pollution Control Board to categorise plants in three categories “on the basis of their location to comply with the emission norms”, the environment ministry said in its order. In the case of non-compliance, a penalty of up to 20 paise will be levied for every unit of electricity produced. The power ministry said in January that a “graded action plan” could help avoid immediate increase in power prices in various relatively clean areas of India and avoid unnecessary burden on power utilities and consumers. Indian cities have some of the world's most polluted air. Thermal power companies, which produce three-fourths of the country’s electricity, account for some 80 per cent of its industrial emissions of particulate matter, sulphur- and nitrous-oxides, which cause lung diseases, acid rain and smog.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
03-04-2021||Business||Third Suzuki unit starts up in Gujarat||Suzuki Motor Gujarat Pvt Ltd (SMG), a 100 per cent subsidiary of Japan’s Suzuki Motor Corporation, has begun production from the third unit at its Ahmedabad-based manufacturing facility, Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) said on Friday. SMG has completed construction of Plant C and started production from April 2021, the auto major said in a regulatory filing. The third plant has capacity of 2.5 lakh units per units per annum. The capacity of the first two units is also 2.5 lakh units each, taking the total capacity of Suzuki in Gujarat to 7.5 lakh units a year. “Together with MSI’s production ability of 15 lakh units, Suzuki’s production ability of automobiles in India will be 22.5 lakh units,” the filing said. All automobiles that will be produced in SMG will be supplied to MSI. Suzuki had established SMG in March 2014, aiming to secure production ability in preparation for the automobile market growth in India, as well as for expansion of exports from the country. The first plant started operating in February 2017, and the second and the powertrain plant in January 2019. In October 2020, SMG became the fastest production site of Suzuki to achieve accumulated automobile production of 10 lakh units. “Suzuki will continuously meet the automobile market demand in India and also encourage exports to the global market, contributing to the Make in India initiative promoted by the Government of India,” the filing said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
03-04-2021||Business||Franklin Templeton scotches India exit rumours||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund has said its commitment to India remains “steadfast” and that the fund house has no plans to exit its operations in the country. This statement comes amid media reports of intervention by its US-based parent seeking the diplomatic route for a “just and fair” hearing by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) with regard to its investigation on the winding up of six schemes. The reports had said that Franklin Templeton had threatened to exit India if it was not given a fair hearing. In a letter to investors, Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) Pvt Ltd president Sanjay Sapre said, “We have no plans to exit our India business. Any speculation suggesting otherwise, or any rumours around sale of business in India are incorrect and simply that-rumours.” Sapre added that Franklin Templeton was an early entrant in the Indian mutual fund industry and remained a part of the industry even while many other global asset managers decided to leave. He, however, did not deny reports of engaging with government authorities. “Our engagement with government authorities, in India and globally, is also something we, and many companies do, as a matter of course. We have endeavoured to keep all stakeholders, including the relevant government and diplomatic authorities, appropriately informed of developments, and will continue to do so,” Sapre said. He said the fund house would continue to reach out to the regulators to bring the current matters to an appropriate and satisfactory conclusion. A PTI report quoting Sapre said that the fund house has full confidence in market regulator Sebi and all regulatory and statutory authorities. According to the fund house, it has been fully transparent with the regulator and extended fullest co-operation to them, to help them examine the circumstances surrounding the winding up of the six schemes. The fund house had shut six debt mutual fund schemes on April 23 last year, citing redemption pressures and lack of liquidity in the bond market. The schemes are Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund, and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund. Meanwhile, the six shut schemes have received Rs 15,776 crore from maturities, pre-payments and coupon payments since closing down last year. “The six schemes have received total cash flows of Rs 15,776 crore till March 31, 2021 from maturities, coupons and prepayments since winding up,” the fund house said in a statement. Over the latest fortnight ended March 31, this year, these schemes received Rs 505 crore. The fund house added that the net asset value (NAV) of all the six schemes were higher as on March 31 this year, against their respective NAVs on April 23, 2020. It reiterated that the primary focus over the last several months has been, and remains, on returning money to unit holders as quickly as possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
03-04-2021||Business||Reliance Retail, Future Group extend deal deadline||Reliance Retail Ventures (RRVL) has extended the timeline by six months to complete its Rs 24,713-crore deal with the Future group. The retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) has now revised the timeline for the “Long Stop Date” to September 30, 2021 from March 31, 2021, a regulatory filing by Future Retail said. Long Stop is a timeframe to fulfil all the conditions precedent to a transaction  and the transaction completed. “Pursuant to the provisions of the scheme and other transaction documents executed in relation thereto, RRVL has in exercise of the right provided thereunder, extended the timeline for ‘Long Stop Date’ from March 31, 2021 to September 30, 2021 which has been duly acknowledged by Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Limited, wholly-owned subsidiary of RRVL,” Future Retail said. The deal got enmeshed in lawsuits with objections raised by online giant Amazon. Following some high court orders, the case has moved to the Supreme Court with a decision pending in the apex court. The Future-Reliance deal, which was announced in August last year, has already received clearances from regulators such as the Competition Commission of India, capital market regulator Sebi and the stock exchanges. The scheme of arrangement is now awaiting permission from the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and shareholders. The top court has asked the NCLT not to pass any final order. Amazon had dragged Future Group to arbitration at Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). The US e-commerce giant said Future had violated their contract by entering into the deal with Reliance. The Emergency Arbitrator (EA) on October 25 2020, passed an interim order in favour of Amazon barring Future Retail from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. Reliance Industries on Friday said it has secured the approval of its shareholders and creditors to hive off its oil-to-chemical (O2C) business into a separate unit. Saudi Aramco is reportedly in discussions with Reliance that could lead to the oil giant buying a 20 per cent stake in the O2C business. Following the directions of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT),  Reliance had convened meetings of equity shareholders, lenders and unsecured creditors to vote on  a resolution transferring the O2C business into a separate subsidiary — Reliance O2C Ltd. In a communication to the stock exchanges, Reliance Industries  said 99.99 per cent of the shareholders, who participated in the meeting held through video conferencing voted in favour of the resolution. The resolution was also supported by 100 per cent of the secured creditors and 99.99 per cent of the unsecured creditors, Reliance said. The meetings were chaired by former Supreme Court judge Justice (Retd) BN Srikrishna. In February, Reliance had said it expected to get all the necessary approvals by the second quarter of the next fiscal year. Reliance had started the exercise to hive off the company in September 2020.  Reliance chairman Mukesh Ambani had told shareholders in July they expected to complete the deal by early 2021. The proposed subsidiary, with assets worth $42 billion, will house Reliance’s  refining & petrochemicals business as well as the company’s 51 per cent stake in its joint venture  with BP, among  other units along with its global trading businesses, the ethane pipeline in India and its 75 per cent stake in the joint venture with Sibur will also be part of the business. Moreover, its Malaysia petchem and polyester subsidiary and other related contracts, assets, real estate and the employees working under these businesses will also be part of the O2C businesses. Last month, a division bench of the Delhi High Court had stayed an order of a single judge that restrained Future Retail (FRL) from proceeding with the deal. It also stayed the single judge order directing Future group founder Kishore Biyani and others to appear in the court on April 28. Similarly, the single judge’s direction imposing a cost of Rs 20 lakh on the Future Group as well as its directors, asking them to deposit it in Prime Minister's Relief Fund within two weeks for being used for providing COVID-19 vaccination to senior citizens of Below Poverty Line (BPL) category of Delhi was also stayed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
