04-04-2021||Business||Steel prices head north||Steel prices are expected to remain high in the coming months on the back of higher international steel and iron ore prices. The prices of hot-rolled coil (HRC) are expected to go up by at least Rs 3,500-4,000 per tonne in April 2021, analysts have estimated. A Rs 4,000-per-tonne hike will take domestic HRC prices to Rs 59,000-60,000 per tonne, which would be the highest since 2008, they said. Steel prices in the world are at an all-time unprecedented high because of a steep increase in the prices of iron ore as well as strong growth in steel demand from China, India, the US, Europe and other emerging markets as global markets recover from a year-long slowdown with the reopening of business activities and the vaccination drive, Care Ratings said. Motilal Oswal expects domestic HRC prices to see a hike of another Rs 2,000-3,000 per tonne in April. A continuing surge in global demand and tightness in supply due to supply-side issues and production curbs in China has helped regional steel rates. Edelweiss Research said production cuts in Tangshan and lowering of VAT rebates on exports in China are the primary drivers of the continued price uptick, and these measures are likely to stay in place as reduction in peak emissions by 2025 is high on authorities’ agenda. “Chinese authorities are taking steps to ensure that the country meets its commitment of peak carbon emissions by calendar year 2025. Hence, we believe that production cuts in Tangshan and reduction of export rebates are likely to stay put. This is expected to reduce Chinese production by 22 million tonnes in 2021 —bulk of which is expected to reduce exports,” it said. While this upward cycle in steel prices brings relief to the domestic steel companies that were grappling with low demand and stagnant prices, end-users are worried about a steep increase in their raw material cost. Higher raw material costs may also cause inflation to rise which will have a cascading effect on consumers. Among the worst-hit sectors are the automobile and infrastructure sector. The construction and real estate sector accounts for almost 55-60 per cent of total steel consumption followed by the auto sector which accounts for nine percent and capital goods and consumer durables with a share of 8 per cent  and 6 per cent, respectively. Most of the top auto manufacturers are expected to take a second price hike in the range of 1-3 per cent in April 2021 after already having taken 3-4 per cent hike this year, to offset the impact of higher steel cost. The ministry of highways and construction has said that higher input cost can affect the viability of some construction projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
04-04-2021||Business||Damani seals big realty deal||Radhakishan Damani, the well known investor and founder of retail chain D-Mart, has bought a residential property in South Mumbai’s posh Malabar Hill for Rs 1,001 crore. This is the largest residential property transaction in the country at least in recent years. Damani bought the two-storey property located on Narayan Dabholkar Marg in Malabar Hill along with his younger brother Gopikishan Damani. The transaction was registered on March 31 and the Damanis paid a stamp duty of Rs 30 crore for the property. The property has an area of around 61,000 sq.ft and the value of the property based on the ready reckoner rate of the Maharashtra government is around Rs 724 crore. The property was purchased from Purachand Roychand & Sons, Pareshchand Roychand & Sons and Premchand Roychand & Sons. This mega deal comes just days after reports of Damani purchasing an 8-acre plot in Thane, Maharashtra from Mondelez (earlier Cadbury India) for Rs 250 crore. Recently, Avenue Supermarts the parent of D-Mart also purchased two floors of 39,000 sq.ft carpet area at Chembur in Mumbai for over Rs 100 crore. India’s real estate has witnessed a recovery and within that the residential segment is doing well because of attractive interest rates (which are at 15-year lows), discounts offered by developers and reduction in stamp duties. The Maharashtra government had reduced the stamp duty on property registrations to 3 per cent from 5 per cent till March 31 this year. The state had reduced the stamp duty to 2 per cent between August and December 2020 to boost the real estate market hit hard by Covid-19. The rate was changed to 3 per cent between January 1 and March 31. According to a recent report from Anarock Property Consultants, even as the region’s COVID-19 case count continued piling up, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) emerged as one of the most buoyant residential markets in the first quarter of 2021. It saw the highest yearly decline of 8 per cent in total unsold housing stock by the end of the quarter – from 2,13,180 units as on the same period last year to 1,97,040 units. It was the highest year on year decline of unsold housing inventory in the last seven years. In previous years, MMR’s stock either increased over last year or declined by upto three per cent. “Mumbai is one of the most expensive real estate markets in the world,” Anuj Puri, Chairman – ANAROCK Property Consultants said. He added that a reduction in overall acquisition cost by anything between 5-15 per cent made a huge difference in buyer sentiments. Further, low home loan interest rates and developer discounts, and timely intervention of the government by ways of stamp duty reductions also helped the region get its mojo back even during COVID-19. The Avenue Supermarts stock ended at Rs 2911.40 in the BSE on Friday, leading to a market cap of Rs  1,88,593.12 crore. The promoters hold close to 75 per cent thus putting the value of their holding at nearly Rs 1,41,445 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
04-04-2021||Business||Gas producers continue to bleed as government-dictated prices remain low: Icra||Natural gas production remains a loss-making proposition for most fields for the Indian upstream producers as government-dictated gas price remains at its lowest level, rating agency Icra has said. The domestic gas price notified at $1.79 per million British thermal unit (mBtu) for the six months beginning April 1 remains the lowest since the institution of the modified Rangarajan formula. Additionally, the ceiling on price for gas produced from deep water, ultra deepwater, high temperature and high-pressure fields has also been announced at $3.62 per mBtu for April-September 2021-22, which is 10.8 per cent lower than the price ceiling of $4.06 for October-March 2020-21 which would dampen the development of such projects. “While this is unfavourable for domestic producers, it will benefit gas consumers. The consumers will also benefit in the long run from the expectations of continued supply overhang,” Icra said, commenting on the gas price notified by the government earlier this week. According to an Icra note, at such low gas prices, production remains a loss-making proposition for most fields for the Indian upstream producers notwithstanding some decline in oil field services/equipment costs. However, the depreciation of the rupee against the dollar would aid the realisations of the gas producers but only to an extent. Sabyasachi Majumdar, senior vice-president and group head, corporate sector ratings of Icra, said, “Going forward, the supply glut is expected to keep prices of domestic gas low in the near to medium term leading to poor returns even as domestic gas producers such as ONGC and Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL)-BP ramp up gas production significantly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
04-04-2021||Business||ED attaches assets worth over Rs 197 cr in connection with Unitech Group PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth over Rs 197 crore in connection with a money laundering case registered against real estate firm Unitech Group, the agency said on Saturday. A total of 10 properties, including a resort each in Sikkim (Gangtok) and Kerala (Alappuzha), have been provisionally attached under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). “The registered value of these immovable properties is Rs 197.34 crore and these properties are owned by various entities of Carnoustie Group,” the ED said. “Unitech Group had diverted proceeds of crime to the tune of Rs 325 crore to Carnoustie Group and in turn, the entities of Carnoustie Group purchased several immovable properties from these funds,” the ED claimed. A few days ago, the agency had similarly attached assets worth Rs 152.48 crore of Unitech Group. A criminal case was registered under various sections of the PMLA against the Unitech Group and its promoters over allegations that the owners — Sanjay and Ajay Chandra —illegally diverted over Rs 2,000 crore to Cyprus and Cayman Island.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-91
