05-04-2021||Business||India well prepared to combat second wave of Covid, says finance ministry report||Having successfully managed the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic, India is well prepared to combat the scourge of the second wave, the Finance Ministry's monthly economic report said. The report further said high-frequency data indicates that India is on the path to become better and stronger. "After battling a historic pandemic in FY 2020-21, the Indian economy is poised to build back better and stronger as is reflected in the movement of several high-frequency indicators. "Instrumental in this resilient comeback will be a strong revival in investment growth supported by the AtmaNirbharBharat Mission and a massive boost to infrastructure and capital expenditure provided for in the Union Budget 2021-22," the report said. The rise in daily new cases since mid February marks the onset of second wave of COVID-19 infection in India, the report said, adding the country "has, however, been able to delay the onset of the second wave the gap between the first peak to start of the second wave has been 151 days in India while it was much lower in other countries." At this juncture of the onset of the second wave, the report said, India is well prepared to combat the scourge of the virus. "The wheels of India's capex cycle have been set into motion, signs of which are imminent in the second half of the year. As the vaccination drive continuously upscales in India and guided by the learnings of India's successful management of pandemic during its first wave, India is now well armed to combat any downside risk posed by the recent surge in COVID-19 cases,"the report said. With the end of a challenging 2020-21, the crest of a brighter and self-reliant 2021-22 awaits India, the Finance Ministry report said. The fiscal position of the Centre has witnessed improvement in the recent months due to a revival in the economic activities, it said. "During April 2020 to February 2021, the Centre's fiscal deficit stood at Rs 14.05 lakh crore, which is 76 per cent of Revised Estimate 2020-21. Net Tax Revenue of the Central Government for 2020-21 is set to overshoot the RE despite 41 per cent higher income tax refunds this year," it said. To share the revenue buoyancy seen in Q4 2020-21 and in the true spirit of fiscal federalism, an amount of Rs 45,000 crore has been released as additional devolution to states in 2020-21, an increase of 8.2 per cent over RE, it said. The Centre raised Rs 13.7 lakh crore as gross market borrowings during 2020-21 at a weighted average borrowing cost of 5.79 per cent - the lowest in 17 years, it said. The government's capital expenditure sharply turned around to grow at 104.4 per cent during October 2020 to February 2021 (YoY), recovering from a decline of 11.6 per cent in the first half of 2020-21 (YoY), it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
05-04-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 871 points to close below 50,000||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked 871 points on Monday, dragged by a selloff in financial stocks as spiking COVID-19 cases spooked investors and fanned concerns over economic recovery. After plunging over 1,400 points earlier in the day, the 30-share BSE index pared some losses to finish at 49,159.32, down 870.51 points or 1.74 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty sank 229.55 points or 1.54 per cent to 14,637.80. Bajaj Finance was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, plunging around 6 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, SBI, M&M, Axis Bank, Bajaj Auto and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, HCL Tech, TCS and Infosys were among the gainers. "The market witnessed a huge sell-off today as India's second wave of COVID-19 is getting bigger than anticipated and is expected to ruin the pace of economic recovery. High valuation added further concern due to a possible downgrade in Q1FY22 earnings," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. A policy decision in the upcoming MPC announcement and Q4 earnings will define the market volatility in the coming days, he added. The rise in COVID-19 cases in India is a sobering reminder that challenges to recovery still remain, said Lalitabh Srivastava, AVP research, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas. The provisional numbers of key banks indicate a consolidating trend in terms of advances growth but encouraging performance on deposit and CASA front, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note. Markets in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Australia were closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were also closed. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 2.20 per cent lower at USD 63.43 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
05-04-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 400 points in early trade on Monday, dragged by losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries despite a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 434.90 points or 0.87 per cent lower at 49,594.93, and the broader NSE Nifty dropped 109.35 points or 0.74 per cent to 14,758. IndusInd Bank was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Axis Bank, SBI, Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank, HDFC twins and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Infosys, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, TCS and Bharti Airtel were among the gainers. In the previous session on Thursday, Sensex ended 520.68 points or 1.05 per cent higher at 50,029.83, and Nifty rose 176.65 points or 1.2 per cent to settle at 14,867.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 149.41 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. Financial markets were closed on April 2, for Good Friday'. Domestic equities do not look to be inspiring at the moment. A sharp spike in coronavirus cases in the country and resultant restrictions are likely to dent investors' sentiments in the near term, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Imposition of weekend lockdown in Maharashtra, which contributes over 13 per cent of the country's GDP and nearly 20 per cent of India's industrial output, does not augur well," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Markets in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Australia were closed for holidays. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.89 per cent lower at USD 64.28 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
05-04-2021||Business||Oil ministry to seek tens of millions of dollars from Cairn ||The oil ministry will seek tens of millions of dollars from Vedanta’s Cairn Oil & Gas after the Delhi high court held that the firm was liable to pay higher profit share to the government in lieu of its Rajasthan oil and gas block licence being extended beyond the initial term, a top official said. In the interim, the firm’s Barmer basin block licence, whose initial 25-year term ended on May 15, 2020, has been given an eighth interim extension, the official, who wished not to be identified, said. “Now that the Delhi high court has upheld the government policy, we will issue recovery notices seeking higher profit petroleum since May 15, 2020,” he said. “The exact amount is being calculated but it will be in tens of millions of dollars.” A company spokesperson said, “We are in the process of reviewing the court’s order, will assess any next course of action” after that. The Union cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in March 2017 approved a policy for the extension of production-sharing contracts (PSCs) for oil and gas blocks beyond their initial term. This policy provided that the government’s share of profit petroleum (earning from sale of oil and gas after deducting all expenses) would be 10 per cent more during the extended period. Vedanta’s Cairn sought a 10-year extension of Rajasthan PSC, which the government approved. But the firm challenged in Delhi high court the condition for additional profit petroleum. A single judge bench of the Delhi high court in May 2018 upheld the company position that the extension has to be on same terms and conditions as the original licence. The government challenged the order before a division bench, which on March 26 this year ruled that “there cannot be extension of the production sharing contract unconditionally, on the same terms and conditions which were prevailing 25 years ago i.e. on 15th May, 1995, the effective date”. It set aside the May 2018 single judge order. “In effect what the Delhi high court has said is that the company has to pay higher profit share after May 15, 2020. So, the company is now liable to pay higher profit petroleum for the period they operate the block post May 15, 2020,” the official said. Vedanta, he said, has the option to not agree to the government condition and relinquish the block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
05-04-2021||Business||RIL, BP seek buyers for KG gas||Reliance Industries Ltd and its partner BP Plc of UK have sought bids for the sale of 5.5 million standard cubic meters per day (mscmd) of additional natural gas that will be available for sale from their eastern offshore KG-D6 block. The e-auction is slated for April 23 and the gas supply will start from late April or early May, according to the tender document. Bidders will have to quote a price linked to Platts JKM (Japan Korea marker), the liquefied natural gas (LNG) benchmark price assessment for spot physical cargoes. The lowest bid that can be placed is JKM minus $0.3 per million British thermal unit (mBtu). The highest acceptable bid would be JKM plus $2.01 per mBtu. This is the same benchmark the RIL-BP had used in February to sell out 7.5 mmscmd of gas from the block. At current price, the lowest price for the 5.5 mscmd of gas that RIL-BP are auctioning comes to near $6.5 per mBtu. But they will be entitled to a maximum of $3.62 per mBtu ceiling fixed by the government for a six-month period to September 30. The consortium of RIL and BP Exploration (Alpha) Ltd (a unit of BP Plc) “is developing deepwater gas fields viz the R Cluster (D34), MJ (D55) and Satellites & Other Satellites (D2, D22, D29 and D30) in the KG D6 block”, the tender document said. The gas to be produced from the fields has been granted marketing and pricing freedom but this is subject to a ceiling price that the government fixes every six month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-04-2021||Business|| Tamil Nadu AAAR rules that GST is valid on gift vouchers||Clearing the air over the applicability of gift cards or vouchers, the Tamil Nadu bench of the AAAR has ruled that GST would be levied on the underlying goods/services at the time of redemption. Kalyan Jewellers has approached the Appellate Authority for Advance Ruling (AAAR) against the ruling by the Tamil Nadu state Authority for Advance Ruling (AAR), which had said that GST at 12 per cent or 18 per cent would be levied depending on the pre-paid instruments was paper-based or magnetic strip-based, respectively. Modifying the verdict, the AAAR clarified that GST will be levied not on the supply of vouchers but on the underlying supply of goods/ services at the time of redemption and the time for payment of GST will be dependent on the GST law. The AAAR said vouchers are neither goods nor services and the GST law recognises it as an instrument of consideration (non-monetary form) for future supply. “As voucher is only an instrument of consideration and not goods or services, the same is not classifiable separately but only the supply associated with the voucher is classifiable according to the nature of the goods or services supplied in exchange of the voucher earlier issued to the customer,” the AAAR said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-04-2021||Business||Icra forecasts surge in auto sales by 22-25 per cent||Credit rating agency Icra has forecast a high 22-25 per cent growth for the auto industry in the next fiscal against a contraction in the last fiscal, though the resurgence of the pandemic may prove to be a hurdle. The growth will be propelled not only by a low base in the first quarter of last year but also by an expected pick-up in economic activity, improved consumer sentiment and a  resilient rural economy which has been less impacted by the pandemic. Icra said the shift towards personal mobility from public transport during  the pandemic will help the sector, with the SUV segment taking the lead. Inspite of the high growth forecast, capital accumulated growth rate for the five years from 2019 to 2024 will be just 3-4 per cent. When asked if the industry will cross the earlier peak in sales of 2018-19, Icra vice-president Ashish Madani said: “The V-shaped economic recovery has boosted consumer sentiments from the lows of the June 21 quarter even though it still remains lower than previous (2019) levels. “Consumer sentiments are one of the key indicators for non-discretionary purchases such as cars and luxury goods. Demand has remained strong post the festive seasons as both retail and wholesale dispatches witnessed recovery,” he said. The industry posted record volumes in the second half of last fiscal driven by inventory restocking and pent-up demand. Besides, the amount of discounts fell as the demand situation improved. The long-term industry growth drivers such as a relatively low penetration, weak public transport infrastructure, high financing penetration and favourable demographics remain, Madani said. He warned that sales may be affected by high fuel prices and rising prices in general, which tend to inhibit first-time buyers.  Supply chain disruption could impact production volume as well as a steady increase in vehicle prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-04-2021||Business||MFIs seek RBI intervention in credit pricing calculation||Microlenders want the intervention of the Reserve Bank of India in widening the scope of calculation of the credit pricing of non-bank microfinance institutions (NBFC-MFIs) amid declining base rates. The RBI on the last working day of every quarter announces the base rates for NBFC MFIs. The regulator takes the average base rates of the five largest commercial banks to arrive at the interest rates to be charged by the NBFC MFIs to their borrowers in the ensuing quarter. This method has been in place since 2014. The regulator has also placed caps on the interest rates – minimum of either cost of funds plus margin (10 per cent for large MFIs and 12 per cent for small MFIs) or 2.75 times the average base rate as specified above. With the base rate for the April-June quarter of 2021-22 set at 7.81, the prescribed interest rate works out to 21.47 per cent for the quarter. But according to microlenders, banks including the big five are not the only source of funds for these institutions. Strict credit rating requirements often make it difficult for smaller MFIs who in turn depend on NBFCs. “The small and mid-sized MFIs which have a portfolio of less than Rs 200 crore do not always have easy access to the top five banks. They depend on other NBFCs where the rate of interest is much higher running to 15-16 per cent which inflates cost of funds,” said P. Satish, executive director, Sa-Dhan, a self regulatory organisation of MFIs. Moreover, the applicable average base rates have been on a declining trend in line with the falling interest rates. While this is good news for borrowers, the microlenders point out that this puts a pinch on the margins. “Further decline in rates will put severe pressure on the margins. There is a need to realign the credit pricing, identify which banks and NBFCs have higher exposure to MFIs and make the rate calculation more broad based,” said Kuldip Maity, MD and CEO of Village Financial Services. The average base rate as declared by RBI has come down from 9.21 per cent for the first quarter of 2019-20 to 7.81 per cent in the first quarter of 2021-22. MFI associations have suggested to the RBI to widen the basket of financial institutions beyond the top 5 banks and include NBFCs, medium sized commercial banks and small finance banks who are also source of funds for NBFC MFIs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-04-2021||Business||Tata Steel recasts four utilities and infrastructure services unit||Tata Steel has transferred its stakes in four utilities and infrastructure services entities to a wholly owned subsidiary as it continues to restructure and simplify its business. In line with the stated policy of the senior management, the company is reorganising its India footprint into four clusters to drive scale and achieve synergies in operations. The exercise will also simplify operations and create value for all stakeholders. The four clusters are in long products, downstream, mining, and shared service and infrastructure verticals. Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd (TSUISL), formerly Jamshedpur Utilities & Services Co Ltd (JUSCO) — the company which manages the Jamshedpur township for Tata Steel — has been chosen as the anchor company for the services cluster. As part of the reorganisation, Tata Steel on Saturday transferred its  100 per cent stakes in Tata Steel Special Economic Zone Limited and in Tata Pigments Limited to TSUISL. Tata Steel also transferred its 32.67 per cent stake in Jamipol Limited and 20.99 per cent stake in Nicco Jubilee Park Limited to TSUISL. In November, the company had said it would merge Tata Metaliks Ltd and Indian Steel and Wire Products to Tata Steel Long Products Ltd. In January, Tata Steel transferred its 51 per cent stake in Jamshedpur Continuous Annealing and Processing Company Private Limited to Tata Steel Downstream Products Limited. Tata Steel Long Products Ltd (formerly Tata Sponge) and Tata Steel Downstream Products Limited (formerly Tata Ryerson Ltd) are the two anchor entities for the long products and downstream businesses. It is Tata Steel Long Products Ltd which acquired the steel business of Usha Martin Ltd. Moreover, the Tatas have put forward this listed company to submit an expression of interest for Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd (NINL). The reorganisation also involved the merger of Tata Steel BSL Ltd (formerly Bhushan Steel Ltd) with Tata Steel Ltd. The shareholders of both the companies gave their consent to the proposed merger in the last week of March. The company is also restructuring the international business, spanning over Europe and Asia. Several companies are being merged to simplify the structure. Tata Steel has transferred its stake in four utilities and infrastructure services entities to a wholly owned subsidiaries as it continues to restructure and simplify the business. In line with the stated policy of the senior management, the company is reorganising its India footprint into 4 clusters to drive scale, synergies and simplification and to create value for all stakeholders. The four clusters will operate in long products, downstream, mining and shared service and infrastructure verticals. Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd (TSUISL), formerly Jamshedpur Utilities & Services Co Ltd (JUSCO) — the company which manages the Jamshedpur township for Tata Steel — has been chosen as the anchor company for services cluster. As part of the reorganisation, Tata Steel on Saturday transferred the 100 per cent stake it held in Tata Steel Special Economic Zone Limited and in The Tata Pigments Limited (TPL), 32.67 per cent stake in Jamipol Limited, and 20.99 per cent stake in Nicco Jubilee Park Limited to TSUISL. In November, the company had informed that it would merge Tata Metaliks Ltd and Indian Steel and Wire Products to Tata Steel Long Products Ltd, as part of this exercise. In January, Tata Steel transferred 51 per cent and 50 per cent stake in Jamshedpur Continuous Annealing and Processing Company Private Limited (JCAPCPL) and Tata BlueScope Steel Private Limited (TBSPL) respectively to Tata Steel Downstream Products Limited (TSDPL), a wholly owned subsidiary of TSL. Tata Steel Long Products Ltd (formerly Tata Sponge) and TSDPL (formerly Tata Ryerson Ltd) are the two anchor entities for long products and downstream business. It is the TSLPL which acquired the steel business of Usha Martin Ltd. Moreover, Tatas have put forward this listed company to submit an expression of interest for Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd (NINL). The reorganisation also involved the merger of Tata Steel BSL Ltd (formerly Bhushan Steel Ltd) with Tata Steel Ltd. The shareholders of both the company gave their consent to the proposed merger in the last week of March. The company is also restructuring the international business, spanning over Europe and Asia. Several companies are being merged to simplify the structure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-04-2021||Business||ByteDance alleges govt freeze on bank account illegal||China’s ByteDance has told an Indian court that a government freeze on its bank accounts in a probe of possible tax evasion amounts to harassment and was done illegally, according to a filing seen by Reuters. ByteDance in January reduced its Indian workforce after New Delhi maintained a ban on its popular video app TikTok, imposed last year after a border clash between India and China. Beijing has repeatedly criticised India over that ban and those of other Chinese apps. An Indian tax intelligence unit in mid-March ordered HSBC and Citibank in Mumbai to freeze the bank accounts of ByteDance India as it probed some of the unit’s financial dealings. ByteDance has challenged the freeze on the four accounts in a Mumbai court. None of ByteDance India’s employees have been paid their March salaries due to the account freeze, said two people familiar with the matter. The company told the court it has a workforce of 1,335, including outsourced personnel. In the 209-page court filing lodged on March 25, ByteDance told the high court in Mumbai the authorities acted against the company without any material evidence and gave no prior notice, as required by Indian law, before such “drastic action”. Blocking accounts “during the process of investigation amounts (to) applying undue coercion,” ByteDance argued. It is “intended, improperly, to harass the petitioner.” India’s directorate general of goods & services tax intelligence, and the finance ministry which oversees it, did not immediately respond to requests for comment over the weekend. The details of the tax investigation have not previously been reported. The tax agency told ByteDance last year it had reasons to believe the company suppressed certain transactions and claimed excessive tax credits, the filing shows. ByteDance declined to comment on its court filing but told Reuters on Tuesday it disagrees with the decision of the tax authority. HSBC declined to comment, while Citibank did not respond. The court declined to grant ByteDance immediate relief in a brief hearing on Wednesday. The next hearing is scheduled for Tuesday. The investigation centres on potential evasion of taxes related to online advertising and other financial dealings between ByteDance India and its parent entity in Singapore, TikTok Pte Ltd. TikTok did not respond to an email seeking comment. ByteDance told the court its India workforce includes 800 people working in its “trust and safety” team that supports activities like content moderation overseas. The company has “robust business plans in India and is not contemplating winding up,” it said, urging the court to lift the freeze on the accounts. The tax agency started investigating the company in July. It inspected documents at the company’s office and summoned and questioned at least three executives, the filing says. Authorities also asked ByteDance to submit documents, including invoices and agreements signed with some clients. ByteDance representatives “appeared multiple times” before tax officers and provided documents, the filing says. TikTok, one of India’s most popular video apps before it was banned, has faced scrutiny around the world. Under then-President Donald Trump, the United States alleged the app posed national security concerns. The new administration of Joe Biden has paused a government lawsuit that could have resulted in a de facto ban on TikTok’s use there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-04-2021||Business||Money pointers||The new financial year starts and brings with it a new set of rules you need to comply with. This isn’t going to be a year of great changes though — just a few small ones that you must acquaint yourself with. Let us take a quick look at them. This year, while filing your income tax returns in July, you will have to pick one of the two optional regimes which decides the rate of tax you pay. Under the old regime, you can claim tax deductions to reduce your outgo but need to pay a higher rate of tax on your taxable income. The new regime, which started from financial year 2020-21, allows you to pay a lower rate but needs you to forgo deductions such as investments, insurance, loan interest etc. If you are still undecided between the two, try to apply the following rule of thumb. Do all your tax-saving measures amount to 20 per cent or more of your income? If they do, your tax liabilities may be lower in the old regime, and, therefore, you should pick that. As the financial year has already passed, you cannot do any more tax-saving measures, and, therefore, you must settle for the decisions you have already made. If your deductions do not reach the 20 per cent level, the new regime may be the one for you. Use an online income tax calculator to arrive at your decision. The amalgamation of several government banks was announced in 2019. From April 1, cheque books and passbooks of the amalgamated banks will stop working, and you will needto avail fresh ones from the anchor bank to which the smaller banks were amalgamated. The amalgamation may also impact account numbers, IFSC, MICR codes and branch addresses. Syndicate Bank, Canara Bank, Corporation Bank and Andhra Bank were absorbed by the Union Bank of India. Dena Bank and Vijaya Bank went to Bank of Baroda, and Oriental Bank of Commerce and United Bank of India to Punjab National Bank. If you had an account with any of the amalgamated banks, look out for their communications and contact them to avoid operational problems with your bank accounts, deposits, loans etc. Interest earned on the Employees’  Provident Fund was tax-free for eligible subscribers. However, now, large investors in the EPF scheme will find their earnings taxed from this year. The interest earned on an employee’s contributions exceeding Rs 5 lakh a year will attract taxes according to the slab rate. The tax would not apply to the employer’s contribution to the fund nor to the outstanding balance of the fund. Therefore, you could voluntarily contribute up to Rs 41,666 per month without attracting this tax. The limit is sizeable and most subscribers will comfortably fall under it. If you have turned 75 and earn your income from pension and bank interest, you no longer have to file your tax returns. This benefit is limited to those pensioners who earn interest via the same bank in which the pension is deposited. If they are earning interest from other banks, they would not be able to get the benefit. This benefit does not imply that the eligible pensioner must no longer pay tax — it will still be deducted by the bank directly and paid to the government, with the pensioner’s approval. Pensioners need to be in touch with their banks to enable this benefit if they so wish to. Two new conditions that were to be imposed on April 1 have now been deferred. The new wage code, which was to kick in from April 1, has been deferred by six months. Once imposed, your salary structure could see a substantial change. According to the new recommendations, your basic pay must be at least 50 per cent of your total pay, which would impact how your provident fund and gratuity contributions are calculated, which in turn would impact your take-home pay. Second, according to the RBI’s mandate, standing instructions for bill payments and subscriptions on debit and credit cards were to be disabled from April 1 if such transactions didn’t have the added safety layer of authentication by such means as OTP. However, this decision has been stayed and the RBI has now allowed time to banks till September 30 to roll out the programme. You must contact your bank to understand how this impacts you and avoid any difficulties you may face if your bill payments were to stop abruptly. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
05-04-2021||Business||Steelmakers pare debt using unprecedented rise in prices and higher margins||Indian steel giants are improving their balance sheets by reducing debt, making the most of the unprecedented rise in prices and higher margins. Steel Authority of India Ltd shaved off gross debt by Rs 16,150 crore in 2020-21, making it the second steel company after Tata Steel Ltd to carry out such an aggressive deleveraging of the balance sheet. In a year pockmarked by the Covid pandemic and lockdown-induced demand destruction during the first quarter,  the steel players prioritised debt reduction over capital expenditure. SAIL’s gross debt, which typically excludes the cash and cash equivalents of a company would have, came down to Rs 35,330 crore at the end of 2020-21 compared with Rs 51,481 crore at the end of 2019-20. In comparison, Tata Steel brought down its gross debt by Rs 7,649 crore in the first nine months of the last fiscal. The company guided to chop off the block another Rs 12,000 crore in the last quarter alone. Net debt for Tata Steel came down by Rs 18,609 crore during the nine months, backed by strong cash generation from the second quarter onwards. The company went slow on the expansion at Kalinganagar during this period, allocating only Rs 1,394 crore. It restarted work on the pellet plant and cold rolling mill complex from January . Jindal Steel & Power Ltd, a company promoted and managed by Naveen Jindal, also fast-tracked its payments to its creditors. A company, which was in the throes of a crushing debt burden, brought down the net debt by Rs 10,298 crore in nine months, partly also by asset sale. JSW Steel, promoted and managed by Naveen’s elder brother Sajjan Jindal, could only bring down the net debt by Rs 1,680 crore in nine months. However, it may be the only large integrated player whose debt level would go up by fiscal-end. Driven by entrepreneurial instinct, Sajjan Jindal neither soft paddled on expansion nor shied away from big-bulge acquisitions. JSW Steel completed the Rs 19,750-crore acquisition of Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd in the last week of March, commissioned a fresh 5-million-tonne expansion at Dolvi, Maharashtra and bought two downstream companies and assets —  Asian Color Coated Ispat Ltd and the plate and coil business of Welspun Corp Ltd respectively. The debt reduction exercise undertaken by the frontline integrated steel producers appears to have topped the estimates of the analysts. Crisil, for instance, had guided a cut of Rs 25,000-crore debt in this fiscal and another Rs 10,000 crore in the next fiscal. Domestic hot-rolled coil prices, which touched Rs 56,000 per tonne in March, rallying from Rs 39,200 a tonne in March 2020, have started moving northwards again from April, taking cue from the 10 per cent discount that exists with the international prices. Icra expects that the recent spurt in Covid cases may moderate domestic demand but steel players are said to be diverting their production to the international market to take advantage of the buoyant prices. An analysis by the rating agency pointed towards the firepower of the steel majors that laid siege on the debt mountain. It suggested that the operating margins of 21 companies accounting for 60 per cent of the domestic steel capacity rose sharply quarter-on-quarter to 30.1 per cent in Q3 of 2020-21 from 21.3 per cent in Q2 (14.6 per cent in Q3, 2019-20) due to a steep hike in steel prices and higher sales volumes. Crisil expects that cash accruals of the top five players could surge over 40 per cent year-on-year to Rs 40,000 crore in this fiscal and another 10 per cent in the next fiscal. Icra expects the operating profitability of the industry in Q4 FY21 to improve further to around 32.4 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-90
