06-04-2021||Business||IMF predicts 12.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021||The IMF on Tuesday projected an impressive 12.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021, stronger than that of China, the only major economy to have a positive growth rate last year during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Washington-based global financial institution, in its annual World Economic Outlook ahead of the annual Spring meeting with the World Bank, said the Indian economy is expected to grow by 6.9 per cent in 2022. Notably in 2020, India's economy contracted by a record eight per cent, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said as it projected an impressive 12.5 per cent growth rate for the country in 2021. China, on the other hand which was the only major economy to have a positive growth rate of 2.3 per cent in 2020, is expected to grow by 8.6 per cent in 2021 and 5.6 per cent in 2022. Chief Economist at IMF Gita Gopinath said: We are now projecting a stronger recovery in 2021 and 2022 for the global economy compared to our previous forecast, with growth projected to be 6 per cent in 2021 and 4.4 per cent in 2022 . In 2020, the global economy contracted by 3.3 per cent. "Nonetheless, the outlook presents daunting challenges related to divergences in the speed of recovery both across and within countries and the potential for persistent economic damage from the crisis," she said in her foreword to the report. According to the report, after an estimated contraction of 3.3 per cent in 2020, the global economy is projected to grow at 6 per cent in 2021, moderating to 4.4 per cent in 2022. The contraction for 2020 is 1.1 percentage points smaller than projected in the October 2020 World Economic Outlook (WEO), reflecting the higher-than-expected growth outturns in the second half of the year for most regions after lockdowns were eased and as economies adapted to new ways of working. The projections for 2021 and 2022 are 0.8 percentage point and 0.2 percentage point stronger than in the October 2020 WEO, reflecting additional fiscal support in a few large economies and the anticipated vaccine-powered recovery in the second half of the year, the report said. Global growth is expected to moderate to 3.3 per cent over the medium term, reflecting projected damage to supply potential and forces that predate the pandemic, including aging-related slower labour force growth in advanced economies and some emerging market economies. In a blog post, Gopinath said the pandemic is yet to be defeated and virus cases are accelerating in many countries. Recoveries are also diverging dangerously across and within countries, as economies with slower vaccine rollout, more limited policy support, and more reliant on tourism do less well, she said. Gopinath said policymakers will need to continue supporting their economies while dealing with more limited policy space and higher debt levels than prior to the pandemic. This requires better targeted measures to leave space for prolonged support if needed. With multi-speed recoveries, a tailored approach is necessary, with policies well-calibrated to the stage of the pandemic, the strength of the economic recovery, and the structural characteristics of individual countries, she said. "Right now, the emphasis should be on escaping the health crisis by prioritising health care spending, on vaccinations, treatments, and health care infrastructure. Fiscal support should be well targeted to affected households and firms. "Monetary policy should remain accommodative (where inflation is well behaved), while proactively addressing financial stability risks using macroprudential tools," she said. Once the health crisis is over, policy efforts can focus more on building resilient, inclusive, and greener economies, both to bolster the recovery and to raise potential output, Gopinath said. "The priorities should include green infrastructure investment to help mitigate climate change, digital infrastructure investment to boost productive capacity and strengthening social assistance to arrest rising inequality," she added. The global economy shrank by 4.3 per cent last year, over two-and-a-half times more than during the global financial crisis of 2009.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
06-04-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally higher after choppy trade||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally higher on Tuesday, tracking high volatility amid concerns over the economic impact of the second wave of coronavirus infections in the country. After swinging around 646 points during the day, the 30-share BSE Sensex settled 42.07 points or 0.09 per cent higher at 49,201.39. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 45.70 points or 0.31 per cent to 14,683.50. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 4 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, HUL, HDFC, Dr Reddy's, Nestle India and M&M. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank, UltraTech Cement and ICICI Bank were among the laggards. Domestic equities were quite volatile and gave up most initial gains as sharp spike in COVID-19 cases across the country and resultant mobility restrictions continued to weigh on investors' sentiments, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Sharp spike in COVID-19 cases and localised lockdowns have dented investors' sentiments, he noted, adding that domestic markets are expected to remain volatile in the near term until the coronavirus spread is controlled. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo ended in the red, while Seoul was in the positive terrain. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 2.43 per cent higher at USD 63.66 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
06-04-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 300 points in early trade||After starting on a weak note, equity benchmark Sensex rebounded over 300 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, Infosys and ICICI Bank. The 30-share BSE index pared its initial losses and rebounded 313.14 points or 0.64 per cent to 49,472.46, and the broader NSE Nifty advanced 99.80 points or 0.68 per cent to 14,737.60. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by M&M, NTPC, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finance, Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's, ICICI Bank, HDFC duo and Infosys. On the other hand, Titan was the sole laggard. In the previous session, Sensex finished at 49,159.32, down 870.51 points or 1.74 per cent, and Nifty sank 229.55 points or 1.54 per cent to 14,637.80. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 931.66 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, a significant fundamental factor from the market perspective is that the US and China are leading the global economic recovery. This is likely to translate into earnings growth particularly in emerging markets like India. "An important market trend in India is the outperformance of small-mid cap indices. While Nifty is up 4.7 per cent YTD the small and midcap indices are up by 14 per cent and 15 per cent, respectively. This outperformance is likely to continue since there is more value in this segment," he said. Further, he noted that while rising COVID-19 cases is a matter of concern, it is unlikely to have a major economic impact. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. US equities witnessed sharp rebound with Dow and S&P 500 scaling fresh highs as investors continued to get comfort from steady improvement in key economic data, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.85 per cent higher at USD 62.68 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
06-04-2021||Business||LG Electronics to wind down loss-making mobile division after failing to find a buyer||South Korea’s LG Electronics Inc will wind down its loss-making mobile division after failing to find a buyer, a move that is set to make it the first major smartphone brand to completely withdraw from the market. Its decision to pull out will leave its 10 per cent share in North America, where it is the No. 3 brand, to be gobbled up by Samsung Electronics and Apple Inc with its domestic rival expected to have the edge. “In the United States, LG has targeted mid-priced — if not ultra-low — models and that means Samsung, which has more mid-priced product lines than Apple, will be better able to attract LG users,” said Ko Eui-young, an analyst at Hi Investment Securities. LG’s smartphone division has logged nearly six years of losses totalling some $4.5 billion. Dropping out of the fiercely competitive sector would allow LG to focus on growth areas such as electric vehicle components, connected devices and smart homes, it said in a statement. In better times, LG was early to market with a number of cellphone innovations, including ultra-wide angle cameras, and at its peak in 2013, it was the world’s third-largest smartphone manufacturer behind Samsung and Apple. But later, its flagship models suffered from both software and hardware mishaps which combined with slower software updates saw the brand steadily slip in favour. Analysts have also criticised the company for lack of expertise in marketing compared with Chinese rivals. While other well-known brands such as Nokia, HTC and Blackberry have also fallen from lofty heights, they are yet to disappear completely. LG’s current global share is only about 2 per cent. It shipped 23 million phones last year which compares with 256 million for Samsung, according to research provider Counterpoint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
06-04-2021||Business||SC appoints two special judges to handle coal scam cases pending since 2014||The Supreme Court on Monday appointed two special judges — Arun Bharadwaj and Sanjay Bansal — to continue with the trial of the Rs 1.75 lakh coal scam cases pending since 2014. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde passed the order appointing the two judges in place of judge Bharat Parashar who has dealt with the case since 2014, when the top court had appointed a probe by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate into the allegations. Judge Parashar had earlier made a request to be relieved of the duties as a special judge since he had already completed six years in the post. 
According to sources Judge Parashar is due for his elevation. The bench also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian agreed to appoint the two special judges who will hold separate courts on the issue. Earlier, special public prosecutor in the case and senior advocate R.S. Cheema informed the court that more than 40 cases are still pending adjudication. Cheema suggested the top court may appoint two special judges to replace judge Parashar. There are now 41 cases on the coal scam. The court also agreed to examine next week the plea of Cheema for his own replacement from the case The apex court on March 15 had requested the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court to provide names of five trial court judges of “high caliber and absolute integrity” for appointing one of them as the special judge to replace Parashar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
06-04-2021||Business||Manufacturing activity falls to seven-month low||Manufacturing activity fell to a seven-month low in March with demand constrained by the rise in Covid-19 cases, a monthly survey said. The seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) fell from 57.5 in February to a seven-month low of 55.4 in March. “Production, new orders and input buying expanded at softer rates,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Lima noted that “survey participants indicated that demand growth was constrained by the escalation of the pandemic, while the rise in input buying was curtailed by an intensification of cost pressures. “With Covid-19 restrictions expanded and lockdown measures re-introduced in many states, Indian manufacturers look set to experience a challenging month in April.”
Darren Aw, Asia Eeconomist, Capital Economics said “the renewed surge in new Covid-19 cases is a growing threat to the broader economic recovery”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
06-04-2021||Business||Byju’s acquires Aakash Educational Services Ltd ||Byju’s has acquired Aakash Educational Services Ltd (AESL) in a deal worth almost $1 billion (Rs 7,300 crore), the largest transaction in this space. The acquisition, which is through a mix of cash and stock, is expected to improve Byju’s presence in the test preparation business in the country. As part of the transaction, Aakash’s founders and Blackstone will become shareholders in Byju’s. Byju’s, which was recently valued at $13 billion, is backed by marquee investors such as Mary Meeker, Yuri Milner, Chan-Zuckerberg Initiative, Tencent, Sequoia Capital, Tiger Global and others. It is estimated to have raised over $2 billion in funding to date and is reportedly in talks to raise an additional $600-700 million.
Earlier, it has acquired TutorVista and Edurite (from Pearson in 2017) and Osmo in 2019. Last year, it had bought coding training platform WhiteHat Jr for $300 million. “Our complementary strengths will enable us to build capabilities, create engaging and personalised learning programmes. The future of learning is hybrid and this union will bring together the best of offline and online learning, as we combine our expertise to create impactful experiences for students,” said Byju Raveendran, founder and CEO of Byju’s. Byju cited industry reports and said the test preparation and after school tutoring (high school) segment is estimated to be a $7-8 billion opportunity in India and is expected to witness 55-60 per cent growth over the next 4-5 years. “This will be the largest integration in the education space in India, especially in the startup space,” said AESL managing director Aakash Chaudhry. Meesho raises $300m Social commerce platform Meesho on Monday said it has raised $300 million (about Rs 2,201.7 crore) in a funding round led by SoftBank Vision Fund 2. The latest investment values Meesho at $2.1 billion and saw participation from existing investors — Prosus Ventures, Facebook, Shunwei Capital, Venture Highway and Knollwood Investment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
06-04-2021||Business||Govt amends insolvency law to provide for pre-packaged resolution process for MSMEs||The government has amended the insolvency law to provide for a pre-packaged resolution process for micro, small and medium enterprises to ensure a quicker, cost-effective and value maximising outcome for all stakeholders. The solution will be least disruptive to the continuity of their businesses and would preserve jobs. An ordinance was promulgated to amend the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) on April 4. The latest move comes less than two weeks after the suspension of certain IBC provisions ended. The suspension — wherein fresh insolvency proceedings were not allowed for a year — had started on March 25, 2020. Under the ordinance, it is considered necessary to urgently address the specific requirements of the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) relating to the resolution of their insolvency because of the unique nature of their businesses and simpler corporate structures. “Taking a cue from other countries where similar provisions have been proved to be beneficial, this process may act as an efficient alternative insolvency resolution process for genuine MSMEs,” said Rashi Suri, managing partner — Upscale Legal Soumitra Majumdar, partner at J Sagar Associates, said: “While modelled on debtor-in-possession approach, it vests significant consent rights to the financial creditors such that the mechanism cannot be misused by errant promoters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
06-04-2021||Business||Adani Ports and SEZ acquires 25 per cent stake of Vishwa Samudra Holdings||Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) on Monday said it has acquired a 25 per cent of  Vishwa Samudra Holdings in Krishnapatnam Port for Rs 2,800 crore. This will result in APSEZ increasing its stake from 75 per cent to 100 per cent in Krishnapatnam Port. Krishnapatnam Port, located on the east coast of India in Nellore district of Andhra Pradesh, is an all-weather, deep water port. It has a multi-cargo facility with a current capacity of 64 million tonnes (mt) per annum. With a waterfront of 20 km and 6,800 acres of land, Krishnapatnam Port has a master plan capacity of 300mt and a 50-year concession, it said. “Together with the 75 per cent ownership acquired in October 2020, the acquisition implies an enterprise value of Rs 13,675 crore,” the firm said. The port is expected to have volumes of 38mt, revenues of Rs 1,840 crore and an EBITDA of Rs 1,325 crore in 2020-21, it said. Karan Adani, chief executive officer and wholetime director of APSEZ, said: “The consolidation of our ownership in Krishnapatnam Port reinforces APSEZ’s stride towards 500mt by 2025 and achieving our broader strategy of cargo parity between the west and east coasts of India.” He said Krishnapatnam Port is on track to handle double the traffic by 2025 and will deliver high growth through a multi-product and cargo enhancement strategy while enhancing return on capital employed. On March 23, APSEZ had said it will acquire a controlling interest in Gangavaram Port Ltd (GPL) from DVS Raju and family for Rs 3,604 crore taking its stake in GPL to 89.6 per cent. GPL is located in the northern part of Andhra Pradesh next to Vizag Port. APSEZ had announced the acquisition of Warburg Pincus’ 31.5 per cent stake in GPL on March 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
06-04-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India rejigs portfolios of deputy governors||The Reserve Bank on Monday rejigged portfolios of its deputy governors, with the key monetary policy department remaining with Michael Debabrata Patra. The reshuffle follows the retirement of deputy governor B.P. Kanungo on completion of his one-year extension. As deputy governor, Kanungo headed the departments of currency management, infotech, payment and settlement systems, foreign exchange, and internal debt management. The central bank has now reshuffled its 32 departments among the three deputy governors — M.K. Jain, Patra and M. Rajeshwar Rao. Patra has been assigned 10 other departments too, including external investments and operations, statistics and information management, financial markets operations and financial stability unit. Jain has been assigned 11 departments, including of co-ordination, infotech, supervision, financial inclusion and development. Rao will look after 10 departments, including regulation, communication, currency management, payment and settlement systems, legal, foreign exchange and risk monitoring.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
06-04-2021||Business||RBI monetary policy committee begins its three-day meeting ||The monetary policy committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) started its three-day meeting on Monday amid expectations the panel would keep the policy repo rate constant and retain its accommodative stance on liquidity as the second wave of the coronavirus threatens the nascent economic recovery. The focus is also on whether the six-member rate setting body will revise its inflation forecast given the uptick in February numbers and sticky core inflation. Besides, central bank’s comments on the yield curve are of interest as the government looks to borrow record sums to prop up growth. Observers are also watching out for any announcement on open market operations. Retail inflation in February had inched up to 5.03 per cent which was below the central bank’s medium term target of 4 per cent with a band of +/-2 per cent even as elevated core inflation — the price basket stripped off the food and fuel components — remained a worry. The high core inflation has led to expectations of a status quo on the policy repo rate which is 4 per cent at present even as the economy witnesses an uneven recovery. “There will likely be some re-assessment of the growth outlook even as the RBI may not rush to reduce its FY22 growth forecast of 10.5 per cent dramatically amid second wave and series of local lockdowns,” said Madhavi Arora, lead economist at Emkay Global Financial Services. Arora pointed to the opposing forces acting on prices. On one hand, “the risks of increasing input costs and commodity prices, seasonal or new supply disruption-led upside in food prices and better pricing power could prod MPC to take a relook at its 2021-22 inflation forecast”. However, local lockdowns could impact services demand negatively and put downward pressure on core inflation and act as a balancing factor to emerging upside risks to inflation. “We see core inflation outdoing headline inflation through the most part of 2021-22. While this could worry the policymakers, the policy stance will likely remain accommodative on both the rates and the liquidity front in the current calendar year.’’ In its February monetary policy, the monetary policy committee had projected inflation based on consumer price index at 5.2 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2020-21, 5.2-5 per cent in the first half of 2021-22 and 4.3 per cent in the third quarter of the next fiscal, with risks broadly balanced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
06-04-2021||Business||US treasury secretary Janet L. Yellen makes case for a global minimum tax||Treasury secretary Janet L. Yellen made the case on Monday for a global minimum tax, kicking off the Biden administration’s effort to help raise revenue in the United States and prevent companies from shifting profits overseas to evade taxes. Yellen, in a speech to the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, called for global coordination on an international tax rate that would apply to multinational corporations, regardless of where they locate their headquarters. Such a global tax could help prevent the type of “race to the bottom” that has been underway, Yellen said, referring to countries trying to outdo one another by lowering tax rates in order to attract business. Her remarks came as the White House and Democrats in Congress begin looking for ways to pay for President Biden’s sweeping infrastructure plan to rebuild America’s roads, bridges, water systems and electric grid. “Competitiveness is about more than how US-based companies fare against other companies in global merger and acquisition bids,” Yellen said. “It is about making sure that governments have stable tax systems that raise sufficient revenue to invest in essential public goods and respond to crises, and that all citizens fairly share the burden of financing the government.” The speech represented Yellen’s most extensive comments since taking over as treasury secretary and she underscored the scope of the challenge ahead. “Over the last four years, we have seen firsthand what happens when America steps back from the global stage,” she said. “America first must never mean America alone.”
Yellen also highlighted her priorities of combating climate change, reducing global poverty and the importance of the United States helping to lead the world out of the crisis caused by the pandemic. Yellen also called on countries not to pull back on fiscal support too soon and warned of growing global imbalances if some countries do withdraw before the crisis is over. In a sharp break with the administration of former President Donald Trump, Yellen emphasised the importance of the US working closely with its allies, noting that the fortunes of countries around the world are intertwined. Overhauling the international tax system is a big part of that. Corporate tax rates have been falling around the world in recent years. Under the Trump administration, the rate in the US was cut from 35 per cent to 21 per cent. President Biden wants to raise that rate to 28 per cent and increase the international minimum tax rate that American companies pay on their foreign profits to 21 per cent. Yellen said she is working with her counterparts in the Group of 20 advanced nations on changes to the global tax system that will help prevent businesses from shifting profits to low-tax jurisdictions. New York Times New Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
06-04-2021||Business||Benchmark index crashes 871 points as investors spooked by Covid second wave||The Sensex on Monday crashed 871 points as investors feared the second wave of coronavirus in the country would derail growth. As the markets tanked — the Sensex fell 1449 points intra-day —  the six-member monetary policy committee (MPC) began its three-day deliebrations while  corporate India warmed up to announce its March quarter results from next week. Though India Inc is expected to report good numbers, the rising Covid-19 cases in the country may affect corporate performance in the first quarter ended June 30, 2021.
“April is likely to be highly volatile with fourth quarter earnings, rising Covid cases and higher bond yields to determine the trend,” said Hemang Dani, head of equity strategy, broking and distribution at Motilal Oswal Financial Services. Latest data showed the number of coronavirus cases  hit a record daily high of over one lakh in the country. It led to badly affected states such as Maharashtra announcing strict measures which is expected to hurt economic activity. Various other states have also come out with measures that is expected to affect people’s movement. On Monday, Care Ratings said the measures announced in Maharashtra will lead to a decline in output by around Rs 40,000 crore for the state and that it will erode 0.32 per cent from the gross value added growth at the overall domestic economy level. Maharashtra is the largest state in the country in terms of gross state domestic product (GSDP) and has a share of around 15 per cent in GVA, followed by Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka. While these states have also put restrictions, they are not of the same scale as Maharashtra. “The market witnessed a huge selloff on Monday as India’s second wave of Covid-19 is getting bigger than anticipated and is expected to ruin the pace of economic recovery. High valuations added further concern because of a possible downgrade in the first quarter 2021-22 earnings,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services.
The 30-share Sensex opened lower at 50020.91 and hit an intra-day low of 48580.80 — a fall of 1449 points as investors sold banking and other stocks. It later pared some losses to finish at 49159.32, down 870.51 points, or 1.74 per cent. The broader NSE Nifty sank 229.55 points, or 1.54 per cent, to 14637.80. Financial stocks led the selloff. Bajaj Finance was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, plunging around 6 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, SBI, M&M, Axis Bank, Bajaj Auto and ICICI Bank. Some experts maintain that investors should use the opportunity to pick up quality stocks. They added that though the country is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases at present, its pace will decline as  people get vaccinated. “Overall markets are likely to remain in a consolidative mode for some time awaiting fresh positive triggers. Hence, investors would do well to  gradually accumulate good quality companies on any declines in the market,” said Siddhartha Khemka, head of retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services. Bourses in Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note. Markets in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Australia were closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were also closed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-89
