07-04-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 460 points after RBI holds rates||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 460 points on Wednesday after the RBI expectedly left interest rates unchanged and maintained an accommodative stance as the economy faces a renewed threat to growth due to the resurgence of coronavirus cases. The 30-share BSE index jumped 460.37 points or 0.94 per cent to finish at 49,661.76. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 135.55 points or 0.92 per cent to 14,819.05. SBI was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting over 2 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Nestle India, IndusInd Bank, M&M, Bajaj Auto and Maruti. On the other hand, Titan, NTPC and HUL were the laggards. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday kept key interest rates unchanged at record lows while pledging to buy Rs 1 lakh crore of government bonds this quarter to cap borrowing costs in a bid to support an economy facing a resurgence of the pandemic. In the first monetary policy of the 2021-22 fiscal, the central bank stuck to its accommodative stance amid concerns of rising infections that could derail the nascent economic recovery. "In line with expectations, RBI has maintained status quo on policy rates and reassured the financial markets on its commitment to retain accommodative policy stance till the prospects of sustained economic recovery is secured," said Gaurav Dua, SVP, Head - Capital Market Strategy, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas. Even on liquidity front the signals are dovish, he said, adding the bond market has reacted positively with the 10-year bond yield easing by 6-8 bps during the day. "The easing of yield curves and commitment of keeping interest rate low with ample liquidity are positive for the equity markets too. The consistency and continuity in the monetary policy stance is welcome and will cheer up market sentiments," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended in the red, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the positive terrain. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.37 per cent lower at USD 62.97 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
07-04-2021||Business||Mukesh Ambani becomes richest person in Asia, number 10 globally: Forbes||India has the third highest number of billionaires in the world after the US and China, according to a new list by the prestigious Forbes magazine, which said Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani reclaimed his spot as Asia's richest person, dethroning Chinese business tycoon Jack Ma who was the richest person in the region a year ago. Forbes' 35th annual list of the world's billionaires is topped by Amazon CEO and Founder Jeff Bezos for the fourth year in a row. His net worth is USD 177 billion, up USD 64 billion from a year ago as a result of surging Amazon shares, Forbes said. On the second spot is SpaceX founder Elon Musk, who was the biggest gainer in dollar terms. Musk's fortune ballooned to USD 151 billion, a whopping USD 126.4 billion more than a year ago, when he had ranked 31 and was worth USD 24.6 billion, it said. The main reason: a 705 per cent climb in Tesla shares, Forbes said. Ambani, the richest person in India and also the wealthiest in Asia, is ranked 10 on the global billionaires' list. He reclaimed his spot as Asia's richest person with a net worth of USD 84.5 billion. Ambani has become the richest person in Asia, ranked Number 10 and worth an estimated USD 84.5 billion. He nudged out Jack Ma of China, Asia's richest person a year ago, whose rank dropped to 26 (from 17 last year) despite a nearly USD 10 billion jump in his fortune to USD 48.4 billion, Forbes said. Adani Group Chairman Gautam Adani, the second richest person in India, is ranked 24th on the global list of billionaires with a net worth of USD 50.5 billion. Chairman of the Poonawalla Group and founder of the Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, Cyrus Poonawalla is ranked 169th on the Forbes list of the world's billionaires with a net worth of USD 12.7 billion. Poonawalla ranks seven on the list of Indian billionaires. Founder of HCL Technologies Shiv Nadar, the third richest person in India, is ranked 71st globally and has a net worth of USD 23.5 billion. The three richest Indians alone have added just over USD 100 billion between them, Forbes said. At 724, the US has more billionaires than any other country in the world (up from 614 last year). China is closing the gap with 698 billionaires, up from 456 last year. As a result of the gains in China, Beijing is home to more billionaires than anywhere in the world, overtaking New York City, Forbes said. India has the third highest number of billionaires, with 140, followed by Germany with 136 and Russia with 117. Forbes said the 1,149 billionaires from Asia-Pacific countries together are worth USD 4.7 trillion, while the US billionaires are worth a total USD 4.4 trillion. India's top 10 billionaires include DMart founder Radhakishan Damani, Kotak Mahindra Bank CEO Uday Kotak, Executive Chairman of ArcelorMittal Lakshmi Mittal, Chairman of the Aditya Birla Group Kumar Mangalam Birla, founder of Sun Pharmaceuticals Dilip Shanghvi and Founder and Chairman of Bharti Enterprises Sunil Mittal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Economic recovery uncertain due to recent surge in Covid cases, says RBI governor||Concerned over fresh Covid-19 wave and elevated food inflation, Reserve Bank of India on Wednesday decided to keep benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4 per cent but maintained an accommodative stance, implying rate cut in the future if the need arises to support the economy. The benchmark repurchase (repo) rate has been left unchanged at 4 per cent, Governor Shaktikanta Das said said while announcing the decisions taken by the central bank's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC). The RBI Governor further said that the recent surge in Covid-19 infections has created uncertainty over economic growth recovery, adding that the focus must be on containing spread of virus and economic recovery. "It also unanimously decided to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary to sustain growth on a durable basis and continue to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on the economy, while ensuring that inflation remains within the target going forward," he said. Consequently, the Marginal Standing Facility (MSF) rate and the bank rate remain unchanged at 4.25 per cent. The reverse repo rate will also continue to earn 3.35 per cent for banks for their deposits kept with RBI. This is the first bi-monthly meeting of MPC in the current financial year and after the government's recent mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4 per cent with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent for another five years. The central bank has retained growth projection of 10.5 per cent for the current financial year as was estimated in its February bi-monthly policy. MPC saw inflation edging up to 5.2 per cent in the first half of the new fiscal from 5 per cent in the January-March period and moderate to 4.4 per cent in Q3 of FY22. The governor said MPC unanimously voted for keeping interest rate unchanged and decided to continue with its accommodative stance to support growth. This is the fifth time in a row that MPC has decided to keep the policy rate unchanged. RBI had last revised its policy rate on May 22, 2020 in an off-policy cycle to perk up demand by cutting interest rate to a historic low. The central bank had slashed the repo rate, the rate at which banks borrow from the RBI, by 115 basis points between March and May 2020 to support growth. Retail inflation rose to a three-month high of 5.03 per cent in February mainly on account of higher food prices. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) based retail inflation stood at 4.06 per cent in January. At the same time, a fresh wave of COVID-19 has resulted in over 90,000 cases per day and the situation has led to localised lock-down impacting economic activities. To provide clarity over its bond buying programme through Open Market Operations (OMO), Das announced Rs 1 lakh crore target for the first quarter under the new instrument called G-sec acquisition programme or G-SAP 1.0. The first purchase of government securities for an aggregate amount of Rs 25,000 crore under G-SAP 1.0 will be conducted on April 15, 2021. He assured that RBI is committed to ensuring ample system liquidity in consonance with the accommodative stance of MPC. "When I say ample liquidity, I mean a level of liquidity that would keep the system in surplus even after meeting the requirements of all financial market segments and the productive sectors of the economy," he said. The Reserve Bank will of course continue to do whatever it takes to preserve financial stability and to insulate domestic financial markets from global spillovers and the consequent volatility, Das added. To provide additional liquidity to states, RBI has decided to accept the recommendations of an Advisory Committee constituted by it to review the Ways and Means Advance (WMA) limits for State Governments/UTs and other related issues. Accordingly, it has been decided to enhance the aggregate WMA limit of states and UTs to Rs 47,010 crore, an increase of about 46 per cent from the current limit of Rs 32,225 crore which was fixed in February 2016. "Further, it has also been decided to continue the enhanced interim WMA limit of Rs 51,560 crore granted by RBI due to the pandemic for a further period of six months i.e. up to September 30, 2021," he said. Das further said that to nurture the still nascent growth impulses, it is felt necessary to support continued flow of credit to the real economy. Accordingly, liquidity support of Rs 50,000 crore for fresh lending during 2021-22 will be provided to All India Financial Institutions (AIFIs). He announced that Rs 25,000 crore will be provided to NABARD, Rs 10,000 crore to NHB and Rs 15,000 crore to SIDBI. It is to be mentioned here that special refinance facilities of Rs 75,000 crore were provided to AIFIs during April-August 2020. The central bank also announced relaxation in the period of parking of External Commercial Borrowing (ECB) proceeds in term deposits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped nearly 200 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, Bharti Airtel and SBI ahead of the Reserve Bank of India's monetary policy outcome. The 30-share BSE index was trading 199.01 points or 0.40 per cent higher at 49,400.40, and the broader NSE Nifty advanced 68.90 points or 0.47 per cent to 14,752.40. Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, PowerGrid, UltraTech Cement, Dr Reddy's, IndusInd Bank and ONGC. On the other hand, TCS, Tech Mahindra, Kotak Bank and HDFC twins were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex settled 42.07 points or 0.09 per cent higher at 49,201.39, and Nifty advanced 45.70 points or 0.31 per cent to 14,683.50. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,092.75 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. According to traders, domestic investors are awaiting the outcome of the RBI's policy meet later in the day. "These days there is a combination of good and bad news exerting push and pull effects on markets, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The steady decline in US 10-year bond yield to 1.66 per cent from above 1.75 per cent and dollar index to 92.3 from above 93 are clear positives. And now the IMF has projected GDP growth of 12.5 per cent for FY22 for India. FDI is rising smartly, he noted. But these positives are being countered by the big negative -- rising COVID-19 cases in the country, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals, while Seoul and Tokyo were in the positive terrain. Stock exchanges on Wall Street too ended in the red in overnight trade. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.33 per cent higher at USD 62.95 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Govt plans to fast-track privatisation of firms in the non-strategic sector||The government plans to fast-track privatisation of firms in the non-strategic sector by easing the approval process and in the initial phase plans to push for sale of firms in sectors such as  tourism, textiles, civil aviation, shipping and heavy industries. The Centre plans to reduce the number of approvals needed to pass a divestment proposal. It also plans to allow approvals by sector rather than for each specific company, officials said. The policy think tank Niti Aayog and the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) are considering some proposals which could cut the time required to vet a proposal to merely a few months. The approval from the Core Group of Secretaries on Divestment (CGD) of privatisation of entities in non-strategic sectors may not be required at all. At present, the Niti Aayog selects candidates for divestment, which then goes to the CGD, which passes its suggestions and concerns and forwards to the Alternative Mechanism (AM). The AM consists of the finance minister, the minister for administrative reforms, and the minister for roads, transport and highways. It is after their approval that the proposal from Dipam goes forward to the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA). The CCEA is expected to grant in-principle approval for divestment. The government’s ambitious drive to privatise PSUs as announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Budget 2021 would largely depend on fast tracking the whole process. The shortening of the procedural issue would clear the way for the Centre to go ahead with its Rs 1.75 lakh crore disinvestment target for the current financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Hindustan Zinc CFO Swayam Saurabh released from services||Vedanta Group firm Hindustan Zinc on Tuesday said its chief financial officer (CFO) Swayam Saurabh has been released from the services of the firm, just a month-and-half after the resignation of G.R. Arun Kumar as  CFO of Vedanta Ltd. Saurabh has been released from the close of working hours on Monday, Hindustan Zinc said in a filing on the  Bombay Stock Exchange. “Swayam Saurabh chief financial officer of the company stood released from the services of the company from the close of working hours on April 5, 2021,” the filing said. The company had earlier announced the resignation of Saurabh. Hindustan Zinc's fully integrated zinc operations  hold 78 per cent share in India’s primary zinc industry. The company says it is the sixth largest silver producer globally. It is a subsidiary of Vedanta Ltd which owns a 64.9 per cent stake, while the Centre retains a 29.5 per cent stake. Another Vedanta group company, Cairn Oil and Gas, is facing a huge claim from the government of India for the share of the government's profits from the Rajasthan oil and gas block whose licence was expanded beyond the initial period. The claims could run to millions of dollars, sources said. The Delhi high court has upheld the government policy of higher share of profit if an oilfield gets and extension. Vedanta in October failed in its delisting process as it received only 125.47 crore shares much less than the required amount. In another blow, the Supreme Court has rejected Vedanta’s plea to inspect and operate the closed Sterlite plant at Tuticorin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Separation of the post of  chairman and managing director to improve corporate governance: SEBI chairman||The separation of the post of the chairman and managing director is not meant to weaken the position of promoters but to improve corporate governance, Ajay Tyagi, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India, said on Tuesday. Sebi’s new framework would also help to reduce excessive concentration of authority in a single individual, he said. Besides, the separation of roles would provide a better and more balanced governance structure. Tyagi was speaking at virtual event organised by industry chamber CII on corporate governance. Around 53 per cent of the top 50 listed companies have separated their top positions of chairman and managing director. The companies have one more year to comply with the norms. Tyagi also stressed on the need to make adequate disclosure to all stakeholders by the listed companies during the Covid-19 situation. The entities need to disclose the financial impact of the pandemic and should not resort to selective disclosure. He spoke of a fine balance between the roles and responsibilities of controlling shareholders and minority shareholders, so that the latter do not misuse the power given to them for protection of their rights. He said the regulator has failed to ensure the independent directors operate without the influence of promoters and protect the interest of small shareholders, which is at the core of corporate governance. “I must admit that notwithstanding various efforts made in the past, we are yet to get ideal solutions to issues such as ‘ensuring independence of independent directors’, ‘selecting the best suited persons as independent directors’, ‘making their role more effective and meaningful’, etc,” he said. It’s the regulator’s endeavour to bring in greater balance, transparency and quality in the selection of independent directors and functioning of corporate boards. He spoke of a fine balance between the roles and responsibilities of controlling shareholders and minority shareholders, so that the latter do not misuse the power given to them for protection of their rights. CII president Uday Kotak said capital markets are the engine for India’s growth, and policymakers across the spectrum need to keep in mind that this needs to be nurtured and sustained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Government approves appointment of Tarun Bajaj as new revenue secretary||In a major bureaucratic reshuffle, the Union government has approved the appointment of Tarun Bajaj as the new revenue secretary under the ministry of finance.
Bajaj was serving as secretary to the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) since April 30, 2020. He took additional charge as secretary, department of revenue, after the superannuation of Ajay Bhushan Pandey. Pandey, who is a 1984 batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the Maharashtra cadre, retired on February 28. He was given the charge of revenue secretary in the finance ministry in November 2018. Prior to taking over as economic affairs secretary, Bajaj served as additional secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office. Bajaj, a 1988 batch Haryana-cadre IAS officer, worked as joint secretary and director in department of financial services. As a joint secretary in department of financial services for four years, he was looking after the insurance division. The appointment committee of the cabinet has also approved the appointment of Ajay Seth, a 1987 batch Karnataka-cadre IAS officer, as the new secretary for DEA. Along with this, there were also other changes in the top bureaucracy notified by the ministry of personnel. Seth’s appointment as economic affairs secretary raises questions as to who will be designated as the finance secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Bombay High Court permits ByteDance to operate its Indian bank accounts||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday permitted Chinese company ByteDance to operate its Indian bank accounts, that had been frozen by the Goods and Services Tax (GST) authorities over alleged tax evasion, after depositing a sum of Rs 78.91 crore in a state-run bank. A bench of Justices S.P. Deshmukh and Abhay Ahuja directed ByteDance to deposit Rs 78.91 crore in any nationalised bank towards the demand raised by the GST authorities and said the company could operate its other Indian bank accounts and utilise the remaining funds. The indirect taxes department has accused ByteDance of evading taxes and not paying its GST dues in full, a charge denied by the Chinese firm, which owns the popular video app TikTok that was banned by the Indian government last year. ByteDance approached the high court last month denying all tax evasion allegations and seeking reliefs, including challenging the provisional attachment order for freezing of its bank accounts in India. Senior advocates Rafiq Dada and Vikram Nankani, who appeared for ByteDance, argued that since all the money in the accounts had been frozen, the company had been unable to pay its Indian staff salaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Axis Bank and subsidiaries become co-promoters of Max Life Insurance Company Limited ||Axis Bank on Tuesday said that the private sector lender along with its two subsidiaries — Axis Capital Limited and Axis Securities Limited — has become co-promoters of Max Life Insurance Company Limited after completion of acquisition of 12.99 per cent stake collectively into the insurance company. “The board of Max Life recorded the closure of the deal today. The transaction was completed after the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India gave its formal approval in February this year,” Axis Bank said in a regulatory filing. The Competition Commission of India gave its approval in January. “The Axis entities have a right to acquire an additional stake of up to 7 per cent in Max Life in one or more tranches, subject to regulatory approvals, With the conclusion of this transaction, Max Life’s board will be strengthened further, with co-option of three nominee directors of Axis entities on its board,” the filing said. Max Life’s holding company Max Financial Services Limited and Axis Bank had first announced their intent to bring the latter as a strategic partner in the life insurance company in February 2020. Commenting on the development, Amitabh Chaudhry, MD and CEO of Axis Bank said that the lender has been a long term partner to Max Life and have contributed to the deepening of insurance penetration in India over the last decade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business|| IMF projects an impressive 12.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021||The IMF on Tuesday projected an impressive 12.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021, stronger than that of China, the only major economy to have a positive growth rate last year during the Covid-19 pandemic. The Washington-based global financial institution, in its annual World Economic Outlook ahead of the annual Spring meeting with the World Bank, said the Indian economy is expected to grow by 6.9 per cent in 2022. Notably in 2020, India’s economy contracted by a record 8 per cent, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said as it projected an impressive 12.5 per cent growth rate for the country in 2021. China, on the other hand, which was the only major economy to have a positive growth rate of 2.3 per cent in 2020, is expected to grow by 8.6 per cent in 2021 and 5.6 per cent in 2022. Chief Economist at IMF Gita Gopinath said: “We are now projecting a stronger recovery in 2021 and 2022 for the global economy compared to our previous forecast, with growth projected to be 6 per cent in 2021 and 4.4 per cent in 2022”. In 2020, the global economy contracted by 3.3 per cent. “Nonetheless, the outlook presents daunting challenges related to divergences in the speed of recovery both across and within countries and the potential for persistent economic damage from the crisis,” she said in her foreword to the report. According to the report, after an estimated contraction of 3.3 per cent in 2020, the global economy is projected to grow at 6 per cent in 2021, moderating to 4.4 per cent in 2022. The contraction for 2020 is 1.1 percentage points smaller than projected in the October 2020 World Economic Outlook (WEO), reflecting the higher-than-expected growth outturns in the second half of the year for most regions after lockdowns were eased and as economies adapted to new ways of working. The projections for 2021 and 2022 are 0.8 percentage point and 0.2 percentage point stronger than in the October 2020 WEO, reflecting additional fiscal support in a few large economies and the anticipated vaccine-powered recovery in the second half of the year, the report said. Global growth is expected to moderate to 3.3 per cent over the medium term, reflecting projected damage to supply potential and forces that predate the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-87
07-04-2021||Business||Coal stocks at pitheads of Coal India touch 100 million tonnes ||Coal stocks at the pitheads of Coal India have touched 100 million tonnes (mt) amid sluggish lifting by the power sector. Power plants procured 444.5mt in 2020-21 against the projected demand of 526mt. Coal India produced 596.2 mt in 2020-21 against 602.1mt a year ago. Officials of the government-owned miner said a higher production would only have added to the stockpile. The public sector miner has a plan to liquidate the stock in the ongoing fiscal. Coal India is banking on a revival in the demand from power companies. It is also expecting higher sales in the auctions and a greater substitution of imported coal. In the last fiscal, the offtake at 573.8mt was only 1.3 per cent lower than in 2019-20., despite lower  power sector demand. This was made possible by an all-time high in e-auction sales at 124mt against  113.6 mt in 2016-17. Coal India also booked 90 mt of sales from buyers who previously imported the fuel. Of this,  around 48mt was from non-power consumers and 42mt was from the power sector. Mine surrender The Modi government is looking to allow both private and government firms to surrender non-operational coal mines without forfeiting bank guarantees. The coal ministry has floated a cabinet note on issues related to non-operational coal mines and has sought views from the related ministries, a television channel reported. The proposal seeks to allow private companies to surrender their mines under genuine reason on case to case basis without forfeiting the guarantee. As of now, companies are allowed to exit a mine without forfeiting bank guarantees under the regional or partial exploration stage but not after fully exploring the mine. With inputs from Delhi bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
07-04-2021||Business||Frontline steel stocks touch fresh 52-weeks high ||Frontline steel stocks touched fresh 52-weeks high on Tuesday on the back of strong international prices and buoyant export opportunities, overshadowing the fear of demand moderation in the domestic market in the wake of the renewed outbreak of Covid-19. Scrips of Tata Steel, Steel Authority of India (SAIL), JSW Steel and Jindal Steel & Power (JSPL)  rallied to their respective highs before cooling off at the end as investors re-rated the sector expecting a strong show in the coming quarters. Producers have pushed benchmark hot rolled coil prices in April up as much as Rs 4,000-Rs 4,500 per tonne to Rs 57,600 per tonne, supported by international dynamics especially in China, the world’s largest producer. Chinese steel output has come down month-on-month in February, the World Steel Association noted, and the production may remain muted in the rest of the year, supporting a high steel price. Back in India, consumption in 2020-21 will be lower than the previous year even though the decline will not be as much as feared initially. Rating agency Icra  said the contraction in domestic consumption has been 9.9 per cent in the first 11 months of 2020-21 compared with  a 19.6 per cent drop witnessed in the first eight  months of 2020-21 on the back of a sharp pullback in demand during December 2020 and January 2021. Icra also apprehended demand moderation because of  localised lockdowns announced by the state governments. Domestic prices could remain high as the landed price of import would still be  higher by 10 per cent. High prices coupled with relatively benign prices of the raw material would translate into strong margins, allowing companies to deleverage the balance sheet. 
S&P Global upgraded Tata Steel to “BB-” from “B+” taking into account strong cash flow in next two years. “In our base case, we expect Tata Steel’s adjusted debt to decline about 30 per cent by March 2023 from the March 2020 level of about Rs 1.1 lakh crore, leading its credit metrics to steadily improve,” S&P Global noted. The company also came out with production numbers whereas Tata Steel India achieved the highest ever annual delivery volume of 17.30 million tonnes in 2020-21, despite the Covid-19 pandemic induced disruption in the first half. JSPL and SAIL, too, recorded highest ever sales in the last fiscal, partly aided by strong export.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
07-04-2021||Business||Reliance Jio to acquire a portion of Bharti Airtel's spectrum in the 800 MHz band||Reliance Jio has signed an agreement with Bharti Airtel to acquire a portion of its spectrum in the 800 MHz band for Andhra Pradesh, Delhi and Mumbai circles at an aggregate value of Rs 1,497 crore — marking the first such deal between the two telecom giants. With this spectrum trading agreement, Airtel will receive a consideration of Rs 1,037.6 crore from Jio for the proposed transfer. In addition, Jio will assume future liabilities of Rs 459 crore relating to the spectrum, Bharti Airtel said in a separate statement. Given the enhanced spectrum footprint, especially contiguous spectrum, and superior infrastructure deployed, Jio said it has further increased its network capacity. With this trading of right to use spectrum, Jio will have 2X15 MHz of spectrum in the 800 MHz band in the Mumbai circle and 2X10 MHz of spectrum in the 800 MHz band in Andhra Pradesh and Delhi circles, thereby further consolidating its spectrum footprint in these locations. Reliance Jio has acquired the ‘Right to Use’ of 800 MHz spectrum in Andhra Pradesh (3.75 MHz), Delhi (1.25 MHz) and Mumbai (2.50 MHz) — in all adding up to 7.50 MHz. Airwaves come in different bands which support different propagation characteristics for the transmission of voice and data. For instance, lower bands like 800 MHz and 900 MHz support good indoor coverage, while higher bands like 2300 MHz have a good carrying capacity. The airwaves are also sold in quantities measured as MHz. The trading agreement is in accordance with the spectrum trading guidelines issued by the department of telecommunications and is subject to the requisite regulatory and statutory approvals. Commenting on the development, Gopal Vittal, MD and CEO (India and South Asia), Bharti Airtel, said: “The sale of the 800 MHz blocks in these three circles has enabled us to unlock value from the spectrum that was unutilised. This is aligned to our overall network strategy”. The sold spectrum had come to Airtel following the Tata Teleservices merger, sources said. According to the latest data by Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, the mobile subscriber base of Reliance Jio stood at 410.7 million in January 2021, as the operator added 1.9 million users in the month. Airtel, India’s second-largest telecom player, had 344.6 million subscribers as of January 2021, having gained 5.8 million users during the month. With the subscriber base of the Indian telecom market swelling and data usage touching new highs, the outcome of spectrum auctions held recently had surpassed original estimates. Last month, spectrum auctions had raked-in winning bids of over Rs 77,800 crore for 855.6 MHz of spectrum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-88
