08-04-2021||Business||Sensex ends 84 pts higher after choppy trade||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 84 points higher after a volatile session on Thursday as concerns over rising coronavirus infections and resultant restrictions across the country kept investors on the edge.

The 30-share BSE index settled 84.45 points or 0.17 per cent higher at 49,746.21. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 54.75 points or 0.37 per cent to 14,873.80.

UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by Titan, Tech Mahindra, Nestle India, TCS, Bajaj Finserv and L&T.

On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, ONGC, Sun Pharma, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank were among the laggards.

Domestic equities, despite trading positively for most of the session, gave up a large portion of gains towards the end of the day as concerns of rising COVID-19 cases continued to weigh on investor sentiment, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.

Financials witnessed profit-booking and dragged the market. Barring financials, most of key sectoral indices traded in the green with metal index remaining an outperformer.

"Expectations of steady 4QFY21 earnings and weakening INR continued to attract investors' interest towards IT stocks," he noted.

While softening of bond yields and crude prices in recent period offered some comfort to markets, a sharp depreciation in rupee in the last couple of trading days could be a new worry for investors, which can also have an impact on FPI flows, he added.

Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red.

Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals.

Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.44 per cent lower at USD 62.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
08-04-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 300 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 343.32 points or 0.69 per cent higher at 50,005.08, and the broader NSE Nifty advanced 102.90 points or 0.69 per cent to 14,921.95. HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Tech Mahindra, UltraTech Cement, ICICI Bank, SBI and Infosys. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, ONGC, Nestle India, Dr Reddy's and Kotak Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex jumped 460.37 points or 0.94 per cent to finish at 49,661.76, and Nifty advanced 135.55 points or 0.92 per cent to 14,819.05. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 227.42 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. "Domestic equities look to be modestly good now. Market has once again defied concerns of rising COVID-19 cases in the country after favourable outcome from RBI's policy meeting and assurance of no nationwide lockdown by government," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, local level mobility restrictions due to continued surge in new coronavirus cases in various parts of the country are expected to keep markets volatile in the near term, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. US equities mostly ended with marginal gains after the release of minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting showed that members of the Federal Reserve were in no hurry to tighten monetary support amid pandemic, Modi said. "Despite improving economic outlook and labour market, Fed officials stated that it will take some time before any type of tapering of the monthly asset purchase programme and tightening in policy rates. This has certainly offered respite to global equities," he added. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.19 per cent lower at USD 63.04 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||ACs, solar cells to get Rs 10,500cr incentives||The government on Wednesday approved production-linked incentive (PLI) schemes worth over Rs 10,500 crore to boost domestic manufacturing capacity of solar PV modules and white goods such as air conditioners and LED lights. The PLI scheme for solar PV modules is aimed at adding 10,000 MW manufacturing capacity of integrated solar PV modules entailing direct investment of Rs 17,200 crore. The PLI scheme is likely to create direct employment of around 30,000 and indirect employment of 1.2 lakh, according to the government. An outlay of Rs 4,500 crore has been cleared by the cabinet for this proposal. Solar energy capacity addition depends largely upon imported solar PV cells and modules as the domestic manufacturing industry has limited operational capacities, it added. The move will reduce import dependence in a strategic sector such as electricity. Solar PV manufacturers will be selected through a transparent competitive bidding process. The PLI will be disbursed for five years. Manufacturers will be rewarded for higher efficiencies of solar PV modules and also for sourcing their material from the domestic market. Thus, the PLI amount will increase with increased module efficiency and increased local value addition. LED Lights The government has approved a budgetary outlay of Rs 6,238 crore for the PLI scheme for air conditioners and LED lights. “The scheme for white goods shall extend an incentive of 4 per cent to 6 per cent on incremental sales of goods manufactured in India for a period of five years to companies engaged in manufacturing of air conditioners and LED lights,” an official statement said. Bharti-Dixon tieup Bharti Enterprises and consumer durable manufacturer Dixon Technologies (India) have inked a pact to form a joint venture to avail the government’s production-linked incentive (PLI) on manufacturing of telecom and networking products. Dixon’s wholly-owned subsidiary Dixon Electro Appliances Pvt Ltd or any firm identified by the two parties will be the joint venture entity. The new firm will manufacture telecom and networking products such as modems, routers, set top boxes, internet-of-things (IoT) devices, among others, for the telecom sector, including Bharti Enterprises’ subsidiary and operator Bharti Airtel Ltd. “The said joint venture will file necessary applications with the ministry of communications or any other nodal agency to avail benefits under the PLI scheme of the government," said Dixon Technologies in the statement on Wednesday. As per Dixon, post execution of mutually acceptable agreements by the parties, the JV company will be 74 per cent owned by Dixon and 26 per cent by Bharti Enterprises. Commer Minister Piyush Goyal said the scheme would help in increasing value addition from 25 per cent to 75 per cent in the AC segment and 40-45 per cent in LED lights. About Rs 35 lakh crore worth of additional output is expected from 13 sectors, which avail PLI benefits in the next five years, he added. Selection of companies for the scheme will be done to incentivise manufacturing of components or sub-assemblies, which are not manufactured in India presently with sufficient capacity. Mere assembly of finished goods will not be incentivised, the statement said. "Companies meeting the pre-qualification criteria for different target segments will be eligible to participate in the scheme. Incentives shall be open to companies making brownfield or greenfield Investments," it said, adding thresholds of cumulative incremental investment and sales of manufactured goods over the base year would have to be met for claiming incentives. The scheme, it said, is expected to be instrumental in achieving growth rates that are much higher than the existing ones for AC and LED industries, develop complete component eco-systems in India and create global champions manufacturing in India. They will have to meet the compulsory BIS (Bureau of Indian Standards) and BEE quality standards for sales in the domestic market and applicable standards for global markets. It is estimated that over five years, the scheme will lead to an incremental investment of Rs 7,920 crore, incremental production worth Rs 1,68,000 crore, exports worth Rs 64,400 crore, earn direct and indirect revenues of Rs 49,300 crore and create additional four lakh direct and indirect employment opportunities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||Anmol Ambani lashes out against new round of lockdowns||Anmol Ambani, the eldest son of Anil Ambani, has lashed out against a new round of lockdowns being imposed amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, saying such restrictions do not concern health but control and that they destroy the very backbone of society and the economy. The 29-year-old former executive director of Reliance Capital in a series of tweets lambasted the new semi-lockdown rules. “Professional ‘actors’ can continue shooting their films. Professional ‘cricketers’ can play their sport late into the night. Professional ‘politicians’ can continue their rallies. But YOUR business or work is not ESSENTIAL. Still don’t get it?” he said in a tweet. He had in the past too voiced opposition to such restrictions and retweeted videos and comments denouncing them. “What does essential even mean? EACH INDIVIDUAL’S WORK IS ESSENTIAL TO THEM,” he said tweeting with hashtag #scamdemic. Lockdowns, he said, are key in “continuing and enabling greatest wealth transfer in human history”. “The mistake is that the people think this is simply inefficient governance. It’s not. It’s a coordinated, thought out set of policies designed to enable a new world order to be brought in,” he said. For an economy that was seeking nascent recovery after the world’s strictest lockdown last year pummelled business, a resurgence of the pandemic is posing a serious threat. States have announced partial lockdowns in response to infections rising by record levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||Sebi imposes penalty of Rs 25 crore on Mukesh Ambani and Anil Ambani||Market regulator Sebi on Wednesday imposed a total penalty of Rs 25 crore on Mukesh Ambani, Anil Ambani, other individuals and entities for non-compliance with takeover norms in a Reliance Industries case dating back to 2000. Others penalised by the watchdog include Nita Ambani, Tina Ambani, K.D. Ambani and other family members. Nita is the wife of Mukesh Ambani and Tina is Anil Ambani’s spouse. RIL’s promoters and Persons Acting in Concert (PAC) failed to disclose the acquisition of more than 5 per cent stake in the company way back in 2000, Sebi said in its 85-page order. In 2005, Mukesh and Anil had split the business empire built by their father Dhirubhai Ambani. According to the order, RIL’s promoters acquired 6.83 per cent stake in the company during 2000 through conversion of 3 crore warrants issued to them back in 1994. Sebi noted that 6.83 per cent shares that were acquired by RIL promoters together with PACs consequent to exercise of option on warrants attached with non-convertible secured redeemable debentures were in excess of ceiling of 5 per cent prescribed under the takeover regulations. Thus, the obligation to make a public announcement about acquiring the shares arose on January 7, 2000. This was the date on which the PACs were allotted RIL equity shares on exercise of warrants issued in January 1994, the order noted. However, Sebi found that the promoters and PACs have not made any public announcement for acquiring the shares. As the promoters and PACs have not made any public announcement for acquiring shares, it is alleged that they have violated the provisions of the takeover regulations. Mukesh Asia’s richest Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani has reclaimed his position as Asia’s richest person, dethroning Chinese business tycoon Jack Ma in Forbes magazine’s new list of global billionaires. Ma was the richest person in the region a year ago but has tumbled to the 26th spot in this year’s list even though his fortune swelled almost $10 billion to $48.4 billion. Ambani’s fortune grew to $ 89 billion. Jeff Bezos of Amazon has been ranked as the richest person for the fourth year running with a net worth of $177 billion, up $64 billion from a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||Maximum balance of customers of PPI issuers doubled||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday used a carrot and stick approach towards prepaid payment instruments (PPI) issuers when it doubled the maximum balance that their customers can hold. However, it made interoperability mandatory for such entities. Interoperability means an user of a particular wallet can transfer funds to another user (of another operator) without any difficulty. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said PPIs were given the option to become interoperable in 2018 in cases where a full know your customer (KYC) validation is done. “Even after two years, migration towards full-KYC PPIs, and, therefore, interoperability, is not significant. It is, therefore, proposed to make interoperability mandatory for full-KYC PPIs,” Das said. He added that to incentivise the migration of PPIs to full-KYC, the limit of outstanding balance in such PPIs may be  raised from the current Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2 lakh. Das said the RBI has been stressing on interoperability to optimally utilise the payment instruments such as  cards and wallets. If a full KYC is done by a non-bank PPI, the RBI also permits cash withdrawal by their customers, subject to a limit. The RBI said PPIs can now also use facilities such as RTGS and NEFT. So far this was only applicable to banks and few specialised entities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||RBI to bring out an index to gauge extent of financial inclusion||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday announced that it will bring out an index that will gauge the extent of financial inclusion in the country. “Financial inclusion has been a thrust area for the government, the RBI and other regulators. The RBI proposes to construct and publish a Financial Inclusion Index (FI Index) based on multiple parameters. This will be published in July every year for the financial year ending previous March,’’ RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said. He did not disclose details of such an index. Over the past few years, the banking regulator has announced several measures to step up financial inclusion and reach the unbanked. Last year, the RBI had released the National Strategy for Financial Inclusion for India 2019-2024. The report was prepared by the central bank under the aegis of the Financial Inclusion Advisory Committee and was also based on the inputs and suggestions from the Centre and other financial sector regulators. It said that focus on last mile delivery has been one of the major thrust areas in various countries. The report added that as the typical rural customer would not be willing to forego his or her day’s wage to visit a financial service provider, it is important that distance and time taken to visit the service provider does not act as a deterrent. To achieve this, various countries have come up with policies to extend the receipt infrastructure including permitting formal financial institutions to engage services of agents and Business Correspondents (BCs). While the BCs have been able to reach out to the last mile customer, the issue of customer protection, providing suitable products, increasing financial awareness, having a proactive oversight over the activities of the agents and sustainability of the agent or the BC network are some of the areas which now require policy interventions, it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India guiding for a firmer rupee||Is the Reserve Bank of India guiding for a firmer rupee this year? The short answer: probably. The central bank drew its baseline forecasts for growth and inflation in the Indian economy on the assumption that the exchange rate would be Rs 72.60 per US dollar. In its 102-page Monetary Policy Report — a twice-a-year document that accompanies the monetary policy statements in April and October —the RBI said: “The exchange rate is assumed at Rs 72.60 per dollar for 2021-22 in the baseline.” The nominal exchange rate has moved in a range of Rs 72-75 per US dollar since October 2020. The currency markets, however, have priced the dollar at Rs 74.55 at the end of trading on Wednesday. There is a caveat here: the RBI said in the report that the exchange rate path assumed is for the purpose of generating the baseline projections and does not indicate any “view” on the level of the exchange rate. The central bank’s squeamishness about “pegging” an exchange rate for the rupee is understandable and its official line is that it allows the market to decide where it should be. The RBI said it was “guided by the objective of containing excess volatility in the forex market and not by any specific level of and/or band around the exchange rate”. The report said the rupee had remained under depreciating pressure till mid-November 2020 due to Covid-related uncertainty, risk aversion and capital outflows. Subsequently, the rupee appreciated riding on the domestic recovery gaining traction, decline in the number of new infections, vaccine rollout, and the measures announced in the Budget 2021-22. However, it came under pressure once again in late February on elevated global financial market volatility following the spike in sovereign bond yields in the US and other advance economies. The report observed that heightened volatility in global financial markets, particularly a snapback in global sovereign bond yields — as seen in February — could lead to a broader risk aversion to emerging market economies’ assets and net capital outflows. “Should the rupee depreciate by 5 per cent from the baseline, inflation could move up by around 20 basis points while GDP growth could be higher by around 15 basis points,” the report said. The rise in GDP growth would be due to higher net exports. However, the report added that given India’s relatively better growth outlook and expectations of strong capital inflows, there could be rupee appreciation. It forecast that if the domestic currency appreciates by 5 per cent relative to the baseline, inflation and GDP growth could moderate by around 20 basis points and 15 basis points respectively, against the baseline. India imports over 80 per cent of its crude oil requirements and this has a direct impact on its balance of payments position. Crude, which had firmed up in early March, have softened due to apprehensions that demand will be affected on account of rising Covid-19 infections. Brent crossed $70 per barrel in early March. Prices corrected to $65 in the second half of the month. The monetary policy report for April assumes that the Indian basket will settle at $64.6 per barrel for 2021-22 in the baseline. Stocks rally The Sensex rallied 460 points on Wednesday. The 30-share BSE index jumped 460.37 points or 0.94 per cent to finish at 49661.76. The Nifty advanced 135.55 points, or 0.92 per cent, to 14819.05, 58 per cent above the baseline for 2020-21 set out in the report last October. Currency specialists have been tossing a variety of exchange rate estimates for this year. Recently, Fitch Solutions revised its projection to an average 73.50 to the US dollar, which puts the rupee at a firmer level from its earlier forecast of 75.50.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||Gilt buying plan to hammer yields||The Reserve Bank of India on Wednesday  cracked open its balance sheet to open a new battle front in its war against runaway bond yields after its monetary policy wonks decided to hold rates and continue with its accommodative stance for as long as it takes to ensure that India’s economic recovery is “well secured”. The decision to hold rates had been widely anticipated by the markets. But the big surprise was the move to implement the explicit asset acquisition strategy — mimicking the actions of central banks in advanced economies — that involves an upfront commitment to purchase government securities, called gilts, worth Rs 1 lakh crore from the secondary market in the first quarter (April-June). “We have decided to put in place what is termed as a secondary market G-sec acquisition programme or G-SAP 1.0... The first purchase of government securities for an aggregate amount of Rs 25,000 crore under G-SAP 1.0 will be conducted on April 15,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said. “This is the first time that the RBI is committing its balance sheet to the conduct of monetary policy. This has never happened before. The move is designed to provide an explicit assurance to markets; this is a challenging instrument that comes with risks and things can go awry. But this is the risk that the RBI has taken,” deputy governor Michael Patra said in a post-policy interaction with reporters. The G-SAP 1.0 will run alongside other interventionist bond purchase programmes that the RBI operates under its liquidity adjustment facility (LAF), longer-term repo/reverse repo auctions, forex operations and open market operations (OMOs), including the so-called Operation Twist where the central bank buys long-dated securities and sell short-maturity instruments in an effort to smoothen the bond yield curve. Until now, the RBI’s bond purchases have been imbued with a spirit of ad hocism, largely dictated by developments in the money market. This is the first baby step towards a more formal bond buying programme, rather like the US Federal Reserve’s asset purchase programme under which it buys $80 billion of treasury securities and agency mortgage-backed securities worth $40 billion every month. The RBI’s asset purchase programme will be modest in comparison at roughly $4.5 billion a month at current exchange rates in the first quarter. It will, however, swell the size of the RBI’s balance sheet — which amounted to Rs 53.3 lakh crore in 2019-20 — with much depending on the intensity of the asset purchase programme in the subsequent quarters. The money market mavens have been urging the central bank to become a little more pro-active and transparent with its bond buying plans. “In an OMO situation, there is a lot of guessing about how much bonds will be pumped into the market. This  will provide a very explicit idea about how much bonds will come into the market,” Patra added but chose not to amplify on the risks that this may involve. The RBI’s announcement had an immediate impact on bond yields with the yield on the 10-year bond cooling to 6.08 per cent — a fall of 10 basis points from its intra-day high. The central bank has been concerned about rising bond yields and the impact that this might have on policy rate transmission. Banks have been tardy in bringing down lending rates in lock step with the repo rate reductions during the past year. Last year, the 10-year bond yield had softened to 5.89 per cent during the October-December quarter but then rebounded in February, sparking concerns on Mint Street. Last month, while reviewing the state of the economy in the RBI bulletin for March, deputy governor Patra had voiced concerns over the actions of bond vigilantes who have a vested interest in keep yields high. "The Reserve Bank is striving to ensure an orderly evolution of the yield curve, but it takes two to tango and forestall a tandav," he wrote while warning that the bond vigilantes could undermine the recovery, unsettle financial markets and trigger capital outflows from emerging markets like India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
08-04-2021||Business||RBI pledges to keep interest rates at record lows||The Reserve Bank of India announced after a meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee that it would keep its policy repo rate steady at 4 per cent for the fifth straight time. The statement's dovish tone eased market worries that quickening inflation could lead to any monetary tightening in the foreseeable future. The six-member committee “unanimously decided to continue with the accommodative stance as long as necessary to sustain growth on a durable basis and continue to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on the economy,” Governor Shaktikanta Das said. In the face of the resurgence in Covid-19 infections, fiscal and monetary authorities “stand ready to act in a coordinated manner to limit its (the pandemic's) spillovers to the economy at large and contain its fallout on the ongoing recovery,” Das added. The central bank said it was retaining its 10.5 per cent growth prediction for the financial year ending in March 2022 as rural demand remained buoyant while urban demand has been gaining strength. But it cautioned that climbing Covid-19 cases have heightened uncertainty about the domestic growth outlook.  “Localised and regional lockdowns could dampen the recent improvement in demand conditions and delay the return of normalcy,” the RBI chief said. “Monetary policy will remain loose for a long while yet,” Shilan Shah, senior India economist at Capital Economics, said. The International Monetary Fund was even more bullish on India's prospects than the central bank. It forecast that the economy would expand by 12.5 per cent in this financial year after shrinking by 8 per cent during the previous 12 months. Such a growth performance would outstrip China that the IMF forecast would grow by 8.4 per cent. But the IMF attached a big caveat to its Infis outlook contained in its latest World Economic Outlook, prepared before the sudden infection leap. The IMF said the second Covid wave was a wild card and warned of “significant downside risks” if the health crisis worsens. The Covid upsurge “is quite concerning,” IMF Chief Economist Gita Gopinath told reporters. The country reported a record 115,736 new Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, a 13 per cent rise in just two months. Compounding pandemic worries, economic powerhouse Maharashtra, which accounts for nearly half of the new Covid cases, announced it had just three days of vaccination supplies left. Maharashtra has imposed a night curfew, issued work-from-home orders and declared a weekend lockdown to wrestle down infections. CARE Ratings Chief Economist Madan Sabnavis said the IMF’s 12.5 per cent economic growth projection for India in the current financial year appeared "very unlikely" to be achieved amid the regional lockdowns that could dampen both services and manufacturing activity. While Moody’s Analytics calls inflation “uncomfortably high,” the RBI is keeping its monetary policy “accommodative” to get the economy back on a high growth path. Consumer price index-based inflation is running at 5 per cent while core inflation, which strips out food, fuel and light, is 5.6 per cent. Any interest rate hike to brake on inflation would increase borrowing costs and slow economic growth. The central bank currently targets inflation of 4 per cent, allowing an upper and lower “tolerance band” of 2 per cent.  Das said the bank’s determined to keep inflation within the two-to-six per cent target range for the next five years, even though cost-of-living increases exceeded that range for most of last year, driven by food, fuel and commodity prices. Das said the bank expected inflation to be around 5.2 per cent for the current financial quarter to June. Inflation has suddenly reared its head as an economic risk factor in India after years of being relatively dormant. The central bank fuelled inflation worries Wednesday by formally announcing its plans for a massive government bond purchase program.  The bank plans to buy Rs 1 trillion worth of bonds in the secondary market in this financial quarter on top of its normal bond-buying operations. Analysts called the bond-buying spree a move toward “quantitative easing,” a term for expanding the supply of money in the economy in a bid to spur growth. The Indian currency slid by 1.6 per cent to Rs 74.57 against the US dollar on Wednesday, its biggest one-day drop in 18 months, after the bond announcement stoked fears that it would create a liquidity glut. Central banks around the world have been pumping in liquidity to shore up economies during the pandemic. Investors worry such stimulus measures could turn inflationary but Das said the bank's "endeavour will be to ensure congenial financial conditions for the recovery to gain traction.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-86
