09-04-2021||Business||Sensex sheds 155 points to finish below 50,000||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 155 points on Friday, tracking losses in index heavyweights ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank amid largely negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 154.89 points or 0.31 per cent lower at 49,591.32. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 38.95 points or 0.26 per cent to 14,834.85. Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by UltraTech Cement, NTPC, Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries, L&T and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, HUL, Tech Mahindra and Dr Reddy's were among the gainers. "Domestic equities traded range-bound with continued selling pressure from financials. Further, weak cues from Asian markets and concerns of sharp rise in COVID-19 cases across the country weighed on sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. While financials remained a drag, pharma stocks witnessed strong buying due to expectations of improvement in sales volume in the backdrop of spike in new coronavirus cases, he said, adding IT stocks remained in focus ahead of results next week. He stated that continued sharp rise in coronavirus cases in the country and resultant mobility restrictions are expected to weigh on investor sentiment in the near term. Further, recent weakness in the rupee may also aggravate investors' concerns and adversely impact FPIs flows, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended in the red, while Tokyo finished with gains. Top stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.27 per cent lower at USD 63.03 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
09-04-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 150 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid largely negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 186.94 points or 0.38 per cent lower at 49,559.27. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 44.10 points or 0.30 per cent to 14,829.70. Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, HUL, Sun Pharma, ITC, ONGC, PowerGrid and SBI were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex settled 84.45 points or 0.17 per cent higher at 49,746.21, and Nifty advanced 54.75 points or 0.37 per cent to 14,873.80. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 110.85 crore on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. "Surging COVID-19 cases have become an area of serious concern. Unless this second wave peaks soon and subsides, economic activity will be impacted and the market assumptions of above 10 per cent GDP growth and above 30 per cent earnings growth will be challenged," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. This big uncertainty will weigh on market sentiments for some time, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was trading with gains. Top stock exchanges on Wall Street ended on a positive note in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.03 per cent lower at USD 63.18 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
09-04-2021||Business||Retail automobile sales falls sharply by 28.64 per cent in March 2021||Retail automobile sales, including cars, two-wheelers and other categories, fell sharply by 28.64 per cent in March 2021 compared with the same month last year despite the low base of 2020, according to the registration data released by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA). However, registrations in March grew 10.05 per cent over February. According to FADA, which collected vehicle registration data from 1,277 of the 1,482 regional transport offices, passenger vehicle sales stood at 2,17,879 units in March 2020. The dealers’ association warned that the lockdown in Maharashtra to contain the spread of Covid-19 will have a “catastrophic impact” on April sales as dealers will not be able to realise the potential of festivals such as Ugadi, Gudi Padwa, Baisakhi and Poila Boishakh. Unveiled Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd (M&M) on Thursday unveiled the brand name of its new SUV, built on the W601 platform, as the XUV700. Hyundai Motor India Ltd on Thursday showcased its upcoming six and seven seater premium SUV Alcazar. The vehicle will epitomise manufacturing prowess of the South Korean company and will sport a third generation 2 litre petrol engine and a 1.5 litre diesel engine with six-speed automatic and manual transmission options. Overall, FADA maintains extreme caution for the month of April as Covid rises to newer highs. “Covid is not only spreading faster but is also trying to destabilize the growth which India has been able to achieve in the last few months. Any lockdown at this point will severely hamper the momentum which is getting built for the auto Industry to come out of the woods,” FADA said in a release. Two-wheeler sales, however, declined 35.26 per cent to 11,95,445 units last month, as compared to 18,46,613 units in March 2020. Commercial vehicle sales also fell 42.2 per cent to 67,372 units against 1,16,559 units a year ago. Similarly, three-wheeler sales dropped 50.72 per cent to 38,034 units last month from 77,173 units in the year-ago period. Tractor sales, however, grew by 29.21 per cent to 69,082 units last month, against 53,463 units in the same month last year. Total registrations across categories declined by 28.64 per cent to 16,49,678 units last month compared to 23,11,687 units in the year-ago period Global shortage of wafers which is an input for semiconductor, continued to linger around and kept PV waiting periods as high as 7 month, said FADA. According to FADA Survey, 47 per cent PV dealers said that they lost more than 20 per cent sales due to supply side constraints. Tractors continued its dream run as rural incomes saw improvements after successive monsoons and good rabi produce. According to experts, India will witness a normal monsoon for the third year in a row. This will further see tractors performing well in FY 21-22. Financial woes brought by Covid-19 have pushed about 32 million Indians out of the middle class, undoing years of economic gains. This had its impact on 2-wheelers as it saw one of its steepest de-growth in the last few months. This coupled with high fuel prices and price increase acted as double whammy, FADA said, citing a finding from Pew Research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
09-04-2021||Business||Tesla scouting for locations to open showrooms in three Indian cities||Tesla Inc is scouting for locations to open showrooms in three Indian cities and has hired an executive to lead its lobbying and business efforts ahead of its planned entry into the country, sources familiar with the discussions told Reuters. The electric car maker in January registered a local company in India, where it is expected to import and sell the Model 3 sedan by as early as mid-2021, seeking to target rich customers in a niche market. The world’s most valuable auto maker by market capitalisation is looking for commercial properties as large as 20,000-30,000 square feet each to open showrooms and service centres in New Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore, three sources said. Separately, Tesla has recruited Manuj Khurana, a former executive of India’s investment promotion body Invest India, in the first major hire to lead its policy and business development efforts in the country, two other sources said. Tesla did not respond to a request for comment, while Khurana declined to comment. In October, Tesla CEO Elon Musk had said on Twitter the company will enter India in 2021 “for sure”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
09-04-2021||Business||Century Plyboards (India) Limited to invest more than Rs 650 crore||Plywood and laminate maker Century Plyboards (India) Limited has lined up a capital expenditure of more than Rs 650 crore in Punjab and Andhra Pradesh amid recovering demand. The capex spend includes a new unit for medium density fibreboard (MDF) in Andhra Pradesh at an investment of Rs 450 crore and the expansion of the Hoshiarpur unit in Punjab for Rs 200 crore. The latter was an ongoing project that was disrupted because of Covid. Keshav Bhajanka, executive director of CenturyPly, on Thursday said amid recovering demand, the company plans to scale up capacity. The two projects are expected to be complete by 2022. “On the demand front as of now we are not seeing too much of a slowdown. Most people would be looking to complete their house innovation. Real estate is also getting sold and transactions are taking place,” Bhajanka said while announcing a technology in plywood that will prevent the rapid spread of fire in urban and rural habitats. He added that the company is geared up to meet business disruptions going forward. “The basic disruption from Covid was in the supply chain. Raw material security was a major issue. We have been able to increase the total quantity of raw material that we are carrying to create a buffer for a longer period of time,” said Bhajanka. He added that the company has taken price increase across categories to tide over the increasing raw material costs over the past 3-4 months. On the international business, Bhajanka said that the company has started manufacturing in Gabon in central Africa but disruption in movement of containers has affected dispatch. Bhajanka was speaking on the occasion of announcement of a technology in plywood that will prevent rapid spread of fire in urban and rural habitats. “We are deeply concerned about rising incidences of fire across our country and decided to focus on what can be done to address this issue. The Firewall solution prepares plywood to fight fire and give crucial time to save lives and valuables,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea launches Integrated IoT solutions for enterprises||After Airtel, Vi Business, the enterprise arm of Vodafone Idea, on Thursday launched Integrated IoT solutions for enterprises. The Integrated IoT solutions for enterprises which are 5G ready are designed to help businesses impacted by the pandemic and going digital. The IoT solution offering comprises connectivity, hardware, network, application, analytics, security and support. Vodafone-Idea will adopt a consulting-based model to help businesses identify their needs, designs and develop customised IoT and implement it. “It will also provide them with a tailored solution to be integrated with the best-in-class enterprise-grade IoT framework,” the firm said. “Vodafone-Idea IoT is transforming the way businesses operate by reinventing processes, operations, customer experiences and developing newer business models and revenue opportunities,” it said. The company will provide a range of IoT solutions across industries for smart infrastructure, mobility and utility, on its 5G-ready network. “We are starting this journey today with three categories—smart infrastructure, smart mobility and smart utility. We will keep adding to this,” said Abhijit Kishore, chief enterprise business officer, Vodafone Idea. The country is yet to roll out 5G wireless service but operators and equipment vendors have started preparing for the launch of the next generation technology. IoT is crucial to the roll-out of 5G as it will help to connect billions of devices under the service.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||Private equity funds express interest in investing up to $250 million in Srei Equipment Finance||Private equity funds — US-based Arena Investors LP and Singapore’s Makara Capital Partners – have expressed interest in investing up to $250 million in Srei Equipment Finance. The non-bank finance company on Thursday said that a strategic coordination committee (SCC) consisting of independent directors announced last month will coordinate, negotiate and conclude discussions with the private equity investors to bring capital into the business and advise the management. Ernst and Young will advise the committee on the proposed fund raising exercise. “The SCC is running an independent process for investor identification and has received expressions of interest from Arena Investors LP and Makara Capital Partners. This process is being carried out in parallel to the debt realignment plan. The SCC will engage in discussions with potential investors to raise fresh capital for the business,” Srei Equipment Finance said in a statement. “The SCC will also be the nodal point for a comprehensive cash flow realignment plan with banks and financial institutions and for all external service providers, including investment bankers, lawyers and consultants,” the statement added. The NBFC’s cash flow has come under stress because of asset liability mismatch. While the company has offered moratorium to eligible borrowers, it was not allowed moratorium by its lenders. Srei chairman Hemant Kanoria in a letter to non convertible debenture holders has sought to address concern of the investors over repayment of liabilities. He said that the company had anticipated the challenging situation and approached NCLT with a scheme of proposed repayment of loans. “We wish to assure our investors that the collateral/securities against the loans given by your company together with the receivables are sufficient to repay all the liabilities in an orderly manner over a period of time,” said Kanoria in the letter. “We have already initiated necessary steps in this regard including aggressive sell down of assets, reduced disbursements and attempt to re-profile our liabilities...The present asset liability profile needs time to be corrected to the current dispensation and we need support and guidance from the RBI and our banking partners to ensure effective transition of our business model,” the letter said. RBI has conducted a special audit into the books of the lender.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||Steel production and sales rose in the fourth quarter of 2020-21||Frontline steel makers’ production and sales rose in the fourth quarter of 2020-21 compared with the preceding quarter, pointing to a pent-up demand despite skyrocketing prices in the domestic market and excellent export opportunities. The top five players, which  account for about 55 per cent of India’s installed capacity —Tata Steel, JSW Steel, Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL), Jindal Steel & Power Ltd and AM/NS India (formerly Essar Steel) — all reported a strong set of numbers for the three months ended March 31. The quarter, usually buoyant for steel consumption as the dry weather helps construction activities, had a terrible end last year as the Modi government imposed a lockdown at two days of notice. Devoid of such unprecedented disruptions, steel mills managed to scale up production and sales significantly this year compared with the same period last year. However, what is noteworthy is that all the firms, except AM/NS, managed to grow over the December quarter despite a heavy base (see chart). JSW Steel’s crude steel production stood at 4.19 million tonnes (mt) in the fourth quarter, registering a growth of 2 per cent over the December quarter. The company’s average capacity utilisation improved from 91 per cent in the third quarter to 93 per cent in the fourth quarter. However, capacity utilisation in March 2021 was 96 per cent. Tata Steel’s delivery volume was higher in the March quarter both in India and Europe. While the domestic growth was marginal, it was 18 per cent higher in Europe at 2.49 mt compared with 2.11mt in the preceding quarter. Exports constituted 11 per cent of the India deliveries. At 4.27mt, SAIL’s volumes in the fourth quarter was 3 per cent higher than the preceding quarter’s 4.15mt. SAIL achieved its best ever annual sales of 14.87mt, 4.4 per cent higher than 14.23mt in the previous year. JSPL, which focuses mainly on long products (used in construction) recorded 1.92 mt sales, surpassing 1.87mt in the third quarter. It also posted the highest ever annual sales of 7.28mt in 2020-21. The export market contributed 38 per cent of the deliveries. AM/NS India, which only produces flat products that go into consumer durables and automobiles, saw a marginal decline at 1.7mt compared with 1.72mt in the December quarter. Sales were, however, up on a year-on-year basis. A fresh round of price hikes coupled with export opportunities powered the scrips of all the listed companies which hit fresh 52-week highs on consecutive days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||Amazon moves the Supreme Court on Future-Reliance deal||Amazon has moved the Supreme Court, challenging the Delhi high court’s division bench order that had vacated a stay on Kishore Biyani-led Future Group’s  Rs 24,713-crore asset sale to Reliance Industries. Amazon, in the petition, sought a stay on the March 22 order of the division bench, terming it “illegal”, “random”, “inequitable and unfair”. On March 22, a division bench of the Delhi high court had granted Future a reprieve from a March 18 single-judge order that restrained it from taking any steps to sell assets to Reliance. Amazon has now moved the Supreme Court and challenged the March 22 order, requesting a stay till a final outcome is known of its earlier plea related to the deal. “Pass an ex-parte interim order/ interim order and stay the impugned interim common order dated 22.03.2021 passed by the high court of Delhi …. till the issues raised herein are finally decided by this hon’ble court,” Amazon said in its petition. It has also requested the apex court to pass any further order, which it “may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the present case”, Amazon’s petition said. Amazon and Future Retail Ltd (FRL) did not respond to e-mailed queries. According to the plea filed by Amazon, the division bench has committed a “grave error” in passing an order in a “non-maintainable appeal”, permitting Future Group to commit further breaches of the Emergency Arbitration order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||A 21-year Reliance riddle for Sebi||A Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) order on a 21-year-old matter has put the spotlight on whether its probe or action should be timebound. The market regulator on Wednesday imposed a penalty of Rs 25 crore on Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) chief Mukesh Ambani, his younger brother Anil Ambani and others, including persons acting in concert (PAC), for non-compliance with the regulator’s takeover rules. However, the case dates back to 2000 when Dhirubhai Ambani was the chairman of undivided Reliance, which  split in 2005. The capital markets regulator also penalised Mukesh’s wife Nita Ambani, Anil’s wife Tina Ambani, K.D. Ambani and some  family members. According to Sebi, Reliance’s promoters and PAC failed to disclose the acquisition of more than a 5 per cent stake in the company way back in 2000. In a regulatory filing on Thursday, RIL said chairman Mukesh Ambani will appeal against the fine . Reliance Industries (RIL) had issued debentures with convertible warrants in 1994 and allotted equity shares against the warrants in 2000. “Sebi had issued a show-cause notice in February 2011 (more than 11 years after the acquisition of shares) to then promoter and promoter group (as in the year 2000) alleging violation’’ of takeover regulations, the company said. “The show-cause notice has now been adjudicated (21 years after the acquisition of shares) and a penalty of Rs 25 crore levied on the then promoter and promoter group.” “The promoter and the promoter group have informed RIL that there has been no violation of Regulation 11(1) of the Sebi Takeover Regulations and they have complied with applicable laws, and an appeal will be preferred to the Securities Appellate Tribunal and they remain confident of vindicating their position,” the company said. The development has led to questions on the huge time taken by the regulator on the case and whether any action or investigation should be subject to a certain time frame as a prolonged delay because of  even justifiable reasons may affect other stakeholders. In its order, Sebi said the penalty of Rs 25 crore has to be paid jointly and severally, by the individuals and entities concerned. The market regulator has also named 38 persons acting in concert (PAC), many of which do not exist any more as they have been merged with another entity. However, SEBI in its order has said that around 17 such firms have been merged with Reliance Industries Holding Pvt Ltd. While the latter’s name figures in the list, it also includes Kankhal Trading LLP (earlier known as  Kankhal lnvts & Trdg Co. Ltd) and Reliance Realty Ltd (earlier known as Terene Fibres India (P) Ltd). As per the order, RIL's promoters acquired 6.83 per cent stake in the company during 2000 through conversion of 3 crore warrants issued to them back in 1994. Sebi noted that 6.83 per cent shares that were acquired by RIL promoters together with PACs consequent to exercise of option on warrants attached with non-convertible secured redeemable debentures were in excess of ceiling of 5 per cent prescribed under the takeover regulations. Thus, the obligation to make a public announcement about acquiring the shares arose on January 7, 2000. This was the date on which the PACs were allotted RIL equity shares on exercise of warrants issued in January 1994, the order noted. However, Sebi found that the promoters and PACs did not make any public announcement for acquiring the shares. Since the promoters and PACs have not made any public announcement for acquiring shares, it is alleged that they have violated the provisions of the takeover regulations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||Covid-19 second wave poses risks for NBFCs: Fitch Ratings||The second wave of the coronavirus pandemic poses a risk of asset quality and liquidity issues for non-banking finance companies (NBFC) and these challenges are likely to increase if recent restrictions to contain the pandemic are expanded or prolonged, leading to greater economic and operational disruption, Fitch Ratings said on Thursday. The rating agency further said that an increase in the rate of infections and broadening of social distancing restrictions pose downside risks to its 12.8 per cent growth projection for the current fiscal. “India’s non-bank financial institutions (NBFI) face renewed asset quality and liquidity risks amid a second wave of coronavirus infections,” Fitch Ratings said in a statement. It said a key Covid hotspot is Maharashtra, the state with the largest economic contribution in India at 13-14 per cent of the national GDP. Maharashtra introduced stricter social-distancing measures over the weekend in response to rising coronavirus cases, including weekend curfews and weekday activity restrictions till April-end. Several other states — Gujarat, Punjab, Delhi and Chhattisgarh, which together account for about 16 per cent of national GDP — have also implemented additional restrictions, including night curfews. “The economic impact of these curbs will depend on their duration and severity. Expanded curbs could derail the fragile recovery in India’s NBFI sector as a nationwide lockdown was gradually relaxed from mid-2020,” Fitch added. SMEs, commercial vehicle operators, microfinance and other wholesale borrowers remain at greater risk of stress in this environment, particularly as financial buffers would have narrowed after the severe economic shock over the past year. Production and supply chains remain susceptible to labour shortages if the large-scale urban-to-rural labour migration recurs. "Against this, we believe authorities have gained experience in balancing the trade-off between tighter restrictions and maintaining economic activity over the past year," Fitch added. It said resurgence in asset-quality pressure for NBFIs could lead to renewed funding strains for the sector, particularly as many government schemes that provided funding relief to NBFIs in 2020 have expired. These include the Partial Credit Guarantee scheme supporting asset-backed securitisation and Special Liquidity Scheme providing government-guaranteed short-term funding relief. The extension of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme for SMEs till June 2021, it said will offer such borrowers further breathing room. Fitch will review ratings of NBFIs if more severe restrictions that have greater operational repercussions for rated entities are imposed. Meanwhile, Moody’s Investors Service said the rapid increase in new cases is credit negative for Indian airports, given the adverse impact on passenger and aircraft traffic, the key revenue driver for the sector. The surge in infection numbers will heighten health concerns, renew economic uncertainty and temper consumers' willingness to travel. Higher infection numbers could also force the reintroduction of travel restrictions that will drastically reduce passenger traffic. Most of Indian airports’ revenue is linked to airport traffic, including aeronautical revenue that is collected on a per-passenger or aircraft-movement basis, and non-aeronautical revenue such as retail, food and beverage as well as car parking, it said. Beyond the impact on domestic traffic, the recent outbreak will also likely delay the reopening of international borders, which has recently been postponed to the end of April. Although international passengers only represent a small component of total passenger traffic in India, airports generally earn a higher amount on a per-passenger basis from this segment after accounting for duty-free retail. Duty-free retail accounted for 15%-20% of total non-aeronautical revenue at the rated airports before the pandemic. Rated airports' credit quality will potentially weaken if the severity and duration of the second wave reaches a level that would lead to liquidity stress or challenge their ability to return to a level of cash flow generation which supports their current ratings, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||Equity mutual funds witness a net inflow of Rs 9,115 crore in March||Equity mutual funds saw a net inflow of Rs 9,115 crore in March, making it the first net infusion in nine months, data released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) showed on Thursday. Equity schemes had been witnessing net outflows since July with investors choosing to book profits. In February, these schemes had seen a net outflow of Rs 4,534 crore. Overall, the mutual fund industry witnessed a net outflow of Rs 29,745 crore across all segments during the period under review compared with a net inflow of Rs 4,090 crore in February. According to the industry body, barring multi-cap and value fund categories, all equity schemes saw inflows last month. Gold ETFs  witnessed a total net inflow of Rs 662 crore last month compared with Rs 491 crore in February. Overall, equity schemes had witnessed an outflow of Rs 9,253 crore in January. Rs 10,147 crore in December, Rs 12,917 crore in November, Rs 2,725 crore in October, and Rs 734 crore in September, Rs 4,000 crore in August and Rs 2,480 crore in July, which was their first withdrawal in over four years. For the entire year, N S Venkatesh, Chief Executive, AMFI said that the pandemic-impacted fiscal 2020-21 ended on a healthy note with the industry average assets under management (AAUMs) at historic high at Rs 32.17 lakh crores as on March 31, 2021, rising 30 per cent as compared to Rs 24.70 lakh crores as on March 31, 2020. "I want to reinforce that mutual funds continue to be preferred investment vehicle to build long term goal-based wealth creation, as is reflected from the number of unique investors across mutual fund schemes increasing in the last one year, by 10 per cent from 2.08 Crore as on March 31, 2020 to 2.28 Crore as on March 31, 2021’’, he added. Venkatesh further pointed out that yet another highlight during the year was the rising acceptance for mutual funds from Tier II and Tier III locations, with mutual fund AUM from beyond the Top 30 cities rising 54 per cent to Rs 5,35,373 crore as on March 31, 2021, as compared to from Rs 3,48,167 crore as on March 31, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
09-04-2021||Business||Bond markets continue their rally after RBI announced bond purchase programme||Bond markets continued their rally on Thursday buoyed by the announcement of the Reserve Bank of India's bond purchase programme from the secondary market — the Government Securities Acquisition Programme 1.0 (G-SAP). Yields of the benchmark 10-year security closed at 6.03 per cent on Thursday, lower by 5 basis points from Wednesday. Analysts do not rule out the possibility of the benchmark yield falling below 6 per cent. The RBI has said it will purchase Rs 1 lakh crore in the present quarter, but the market expects it will purchase the same amounts in the other three quarters. Bond yields and their prices are inversely related. Speaking to The Telegraph, Ashhish Vaidya, head of treasury at DBS Bank India, said the benchmark yield may go below 6 per cent. He said the supply of government securities was huge compared with the demand. “The central bank had to come in to fill in the gap and contain the interest rates and rightly so since it has to manage the growth impetus,’’ he observed. Vaidya, however, warned of sticky inflation and expectations of higher rates, which may require more intervention from the RBI. “The bond market was in a wait and watch mode going into 2021-22 to digest Rs 12 lakh crore of G-Sec supply. With the explicit guidance now on G-Sec buying programme, supply concerns seem to have been addressed, to a certain extent,’’ analysts at ICICI Securities said in a note. Unveiling the G-SAP programme, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said the central bank will commit upfront to a specific amount of open market purchases of government securities with a view to enabling a stable and orderly evolution of the yield curve amidst comfortable liquidity conditions. G-SAP schedule The RBI on Thursday said the first purchase of government securities for an amount of Rs 25,000 crore under G-SAP 1.0 will be conducted on April 15. The central bank will buy five securities — 4.48 per cent GS 2023, 5.15 per cent GS 2025, 6.79 per cent GS 2027, 5.85 per cent GS 2030 and 6.22 per cent GS 2035. The announcement comes at a time bank credit remains soft. This has led to banks parking surplus funds in the RBI’s reverse repo window. The banks had parked Rs 7.28 lakh crore with the RBI on April 6 using the reverse repo route against Rs 6.13 lakh crore on March 30 and Rs 4.63 lakh crore in the middle of March. During the third quarter of the last fiscal, surplus liquidity —average daily net absorptions under the liquidity adjustment facility (LAF) —  rose to Rs 5.33 lakh crore. In the fourth quarter, it increased to  to Rs 5.9 lakh crore . The RBI’s announcement of a Rs 2 lakh crore variable reverse repo rate auction on Friday should mop up some of the liquidity, analysts said. Investors also gave a thumbs-up to G-SAP and the RBI’s dovish monetary policy, with the benchmark Sensex on Thursday rising over 456 points during intra-day trades. However, the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country saw stocks giving up these gains. The 30-share index settled 84.45 points or 0.17 per cent higher at 49746.21. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 54.75 points or 0.37 per cent to 14873.80. UltraTech Cement was the top performer among the Sensex constituents, rallying 4.24 per cent, followed by Titan, Tech Mahindra, Nestle India, TCS, Bajaj Finserv and L&T. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, ONGC, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Auto, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank were among the laggards, slipping up to 1.07 per cent. "Domestic market continued its optimistic rally supported by dovish monetary policy, though it witnessed consolidation during the second half due to selling in banking stocks. Metal stocks led the sectorial rally on a strong outlook supported by rising steel prices and production. The fourth quarter earnings season has started and the market is expected to have a stock-centric rally in the coming days which has a very broad positive view," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-85
