10-04-2021||Business||Tanishq optimistic about demand despite second wave of pandemic||Jewellery major Tanishq is optimistic about demand amid rising concerns over the second wave of the Covid pandemic. The company does not predict a rerun of a lockdown seen in the early months of 2020 that disrupted jewellery sales across the country. Titan in an update on the bourses has said that its jewellery division has seen strong sales momentum. Declining gold prices have helped it to gain in market share. The division grew 60 per cent during the fourth quarter (ex-B2B sales), led by a 32 per cent rise in January and February, followed by a much higher growth in March because of its low base. The company has added 26 stores in the jewellery division, adding 123,000 retail square feet to its retail footprint in 2020-21. The performance has prompted brokerages to be bullish on the company. “Jewellery growth has exceeded expectations and the momentum is likely to remain strong, driven by the wedding season ahead. While Maharashtra, a key market (15-20 per cent of jewelry revenues), may see a short-term impact due to the lockdown, strong momentum in jewellery and pent-up demand would drive further upgrades to our forecasts. Titan remains the preferred pick in the discretionary space,” said Emkay Global Financial Services in its report. The Titan stock at Rs 1,591.75 was up 1.14 per cent on the BSE on Friday. However, the rising instances of infection in key markets ahead of the wedding season and with festivals such as Gudi Padwa and Poila Boishakh, Akshay Tritiya to follow, there is a heightened concern among jewellers. “In many parts of the country, we don’t see any impact as we speak. Our estimate is that the situation is not going to be like last year,” said Ajoy Chawla, CEO, Jewellery Division, Titan Company Ltd. He was speaking at a new brand proposition of its wedding brand Rivaah. However, a Reuters report says physical gold demand in India stalled this week after local prices rebounded from a one-year trough and coronavirus restrictions were imposed, while buyers in other major Asian hubs were also put off by an uptick in prices. On Friday, local gold futures were trading at around Rs 46,600 ($623.99) per 10 grams after falling to Rs 43,320 last week, the lowest level since April 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
10-04-2021||Business||Manipal Health to sell its Malaysian hospital to Ramsay Sime Darby Healthcare||Manipal Health Enterprises on Friday said it will divest its Malaysian business to Ramsay Sime Darby Healthcare. The company, however, did not disclose the value of the deal. Set up in 2016, the 220-bed Manipal Hospitals, Klang, is a high-end tertiary care hospital accredited by the Malaysian society for quality in health. The facility offers over 30 specialty services, including Klang’s only trauma centre, Dilip Jose, managing director and chief executive of Manipal Hospitals, said. The divestment comes at a time Manipal Hospitals gears up for a smooth integration of Columbia Asia Hospitals India, an acquisition that is nearing completion. The Bangalore-based Manipal Hospitals is among the top five healthcare providers in the country serving over 3 million patients annually, offering affordable, quality healthcare in multispecialty and tertiary care along with homecare. With 10 tertiary/quaternary care facilities and four secondary care hospitals, Manipal Hospitals operates and manages about 6,000 beds across 14 hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
10-04-2021||Business||UCO Bank plans to set off accumulated losses of Rs 12,537 crore ||State-owned Uco Bank has proposed to set off its accumulated losses of over Rs 12,537 crore by utilising the balance in the share premium account and has convened an EGM next month to seek shareholders’ approval. A share premium account reflects the difference between the par/face value of shares and the subscription price of the shares. It is an additional paid-in capital, which can also be termed as paid-in capital in excess of par value. It is a reserve that cannot be distributed, however, can be used for the defined purposes. The bank will also seek the approval of the shareholders for issuing preference shares to the government for capital infusion in the next EGM. The extraordinary general meeting (EGM) will be held on Friday, May 7, 2021, through video conferencing. Uco Bank said it will seek the consent of the shareholders to set off its accumulated loss of over Rs 12,537.39 crore as on March 31, 2020, by utilising the balance standing to the credit of share premium account as on date and take the same into account during the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
10-04-2021||Business||India plans to scale up crude imports from Latin America, Africa and the US||India plans to diversify crude imports and scout for increasing shipments from Latin America, Africa and the US. It is also exploring the option of resuming imports from Iran the moment Washington eases its sanctions as Saudi Arabia has been cold to India’s demand on crude output. Industry sources said the government has asked the state-owned oil firms to diversify crude procurement sources and reduce dependence on oil from West Asia to cut down risk and also take advantage of the pricing and bargain as a large consumer. Sources said the PSU refiners are also looking to purchase oil from Brazil’s Tupi grade, Guyana’s Liza oil and Norway’s Johan Sverdrup to fill up the shortfall. Firms are trying to buy more from the US too. IOC has floated a spot tender seeking crude from West Africa, the US and Canada. India traditionally buys oil from Nigeria, Angola, Algeria, Egypt and Equatorial Guinea. In recent years it has bought oil from Cameroon, Chad, Ghana and Côte d'Ivoire also. Fuel contracts India’s fuel demand contracted by a massive 9.1 per cent in 2020-21, the first in more than two decades, as a stringent lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the pandemic pummelled economic activity, government data has showed. India consumed 194.63 million tonnes of petroleum products in 2020-21 as compared with 214.12 million tonnes demand in the previous year, according to the latest data released by the oil ministry's Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
10-04-2021||Business||Net direct tax mop up exceeds revised estimates at Rs 9.45 lakh crore in FY21||Net direct tax collections for the fiscal ended March 2021 stood at Rs 9.45 lakh crore, exceeding the revised budget estimate of Rs 9.05 lakh crore by 5 per cent. The collections were, however, lower by 10 per cent from the previous fiscal. Of the total provisional net direct tax collections, around Rs 4.57 lakh crore have been garnered in corporate taxes, Rs 4.71 lakh crore in income tax and around Rs 17,000 crore in securities transaction tax. Provisional estimates released by the finance ministry showed that the gross direct tax collection stood at Rs 12.06 lakh crore in 2020-21, a rise of 5 per cent over the preceding fiscal. Tax refunds jumped almost 42 per cent on a yearly basis to Rs 2.61 lakh crore, the provisional data showed. “Refunds amounting to Rs 2.61 lakh crore have been issued in 2020-21 against refunds of Rs 1.83 lakh crore issued in 2019-20, an increase of around 42 per cent over the preceding financial year,” the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes, P.C. Mody, said. “The collections appear to have contracted a modest 3.5 per cent in March 2021. We expect the fiscal deficit to be limited to Rs 17-17.2 lakh crore  for the just-concluded fiscal. With the contraction in direct taxes in 2020-21 limited to 10 per cent, the growth target for fiscal 2021-22 is now around 17 per cent, only modestly higher than the projected nominal GDP growth,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist of Icra. The economy is slowly recovering and tax collection numbers are on expected lines, according to Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist at India Ratings and Research. “This, along with indirect tax collections for FY21, suggests that fiscal deficit in FY21 may be lower than the revised estimate, provided there is no slippage on expenditure side. This is further corroborated by the central government cancelling last scheduled government borrowing in FY21,” Pant said. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said:  “The data shows that collections have been better than the revised numbers in budget. However, the RE of Rs 9.05 lakh crore was much lower than the budgeted Rs 13.19 lakh crore for the fiscal. Also, all refunds have not yet been made, which will show up in April-May.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
10-04-2021||Business||DoT issues show-cause notice to Vodafone Idea over non-payment of licence fee ||The department of telecom has issued a show-cause notice to Vodafone Idea Ltd (VIL) over non-payment of licence fee for the fourth quarter of 2020-21, with regard to some circles, sources said. The show-cause notice dated April 7, 2021 states that the company has not paid the licence fee for the fourth quarter of 2020-21 (by March 25) for the Bihar, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh (East) and Odisha circles as well as for national long distance telephony. An e-mail sent to Vodafone Idea on the issue remained unanswered. However, sources close to the company said that payments had been made towards licence fee and spectrum usage charges for the quarter ended March 2021, last month, and that payment gaps if any, will be completed within the defined timeline. According to the notice, seen by PTI, the department of telecom (DoT) has directed Vodafone Idea to show cause by April 12, 2021, why action should not be taken against the company under relevant clauses of the licence agreement. The licence fee is payable in four quarterly instalments during each financial year. The quarterly instalment of the licence fee for the first three quarters of a financial year is payable within 15 days of the completion of the relevant quarter. For the last quarter of the financial year, licensees have to pay the licence fee by March 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
10-04-2021||Business||Yields on 10-year bond fell below 6 per cent for the first time in two months||Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond on Friday fell below 6 per cent for the first time in two months as expectations swirled around the G-Sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP 1.0) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) which kicks off next Thursday. The programme is meant to stabilise yields that will enable the government to carry out its gargantuan Rs 12-lakh-crore borrowing programme for the year without disrupting the fund-raising plans of other companies. In the meantime, the RBI on Friday undertook a variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auction that was meant to push up short-term yields leading to the flattening of the yield curve over time. The 10-year note on Friday troughed at 5.97 per cent, a level last seen on February 11 and five basis points below the previous close of 6.03 per cent. The yields have declined nearly 22 basis points from Wednesday’s high of 6.19 per cent on the announcement of G-SAP 1.0. The yields inched up later in the day and settled at 6.01 per cent at close. Markets are divided over G-SAP 1.0: a section believes the RBI move will lead to a cap on the long-term rate on yields. But there are others who believe the amount is too small compared with the government’s borrowing programme. So far, the RBI has said it will raise Rs 1 lakh crore in the first quarter. It has not disclosed the amounts it will buy in the rest of the year. Markets expect the RBI to purchase Rs 1 lakh crore each in the next three quarters. M. Govinda Rao, chief economic adviser at Brickwork Ratings, cited the IMF’s World Economic Outlook and warned if monetary policy is carried out with an eye to shield the government’s borrowing programme at the expense of price stability, “inflation could increase rapidly. Hopefully, the RBI will cautiously approach the issue in managing liquidity”. Variable reverse repo The RBI on Friday received an overwhelming response to its 14-day variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auction under its liquidity adjustment facility (LAF). The first variable reverse repo auction after the meeting of MPC earlier this week saw an excess subscription of 67.8 per cent. The RBI has said it will hold VRRR auctions of longer duration, though it has not made any formal announcements. At the 14-day VRRR auction, against a notified amount of Rs 2 lakh crore, the RBI received bids worth Rs 3.35 lakh crore. The central bank accepted bids for Rs 2 lakh crore. The cut-off rate was set at 3.48 per cent  higher than the reverse repo rate of 3.35 per cent. Suyash Choudhary, head – fixed income, IDFC AMC, said longer term VRRR will ensure both the very short-term rates and the longer tenor rates will rise. “ If this happens it will allow the RBI to start normalising the exceptionally low levels of near end rates that exist today.’’ Radhika Rao, economist at DBS Group Research, said the longer term VRRR shows the RBI plans to move up the curve, while at the same time ensuring  the move is part of their overall liquidity operations . “Banking system liquidity remains in comfortable surplus, which apart from only a gradual pickup in credit growth is also buttressed by strong dollar flows which have been mopped by the central bank. An eye will be on global market volatility as the central bank seeks to manoeuvre a challenging balance beam, capping bond yields, staying pro-growth, and keeping liquidity flush yet keep inflation under control,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-84
