11-04-2021||Business||Covid-19: Sri Lanka resumes flights under air bubble agreement||The government has finalised an air bubble agreement with Sri Lanka, which will allow all eligible passengers to travel between the two countries, the ministry of civil aviation said on Saturday. “This is the sixth such arrangement in (the) Saarc region and the 28th globally,” the ministry said in a tweet. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020 because of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral “air bubble” arrangements with selected countries since July. Under a bilateral air bubble, flights are allowed between two nations with certain preconditions. India has formed air bubble pacts with 27 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. The Indian government recently extended the ban on international commercial flights till April 30. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has estimated that the aviation industry would continue to experience a contraction and the cash burn in 2021 would balloon to about $75-95 billion from the previously anticipated $48 billion. “With governments having tightened border restrictions, 2021 is shaping up to be a much tougher year than previously expected,” said Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s director-general and CEO. Meanwhile, the appointments committee of the cabinet has extended the tenure of Arun Kumar, chief of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, by six months beyond April 20, or until further notice, whichever is earlier. Kumar, a 1989 batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the Haryana cadre, was appointed as DGCA chief in July 2019. He had held additional charge of the post between May and July 2019 with the retirement of BS Bhullar.  Prior to his DGCA post, Kumar was an additional secretary at the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
11-04-2021||Business||Covid cloud over business||The spurt in Covid-19 cases and restrictions announced by different states have resulted in a 30 per cent business loss in one week. Consumer footfall in retail markets have also reduced to 50 per cent, a traders’ body said on Saturday. The imposition of night curfew, a partial lockdown and other preventive steps by various state governments have lead to a panic among consumers across the country, said Praveen Khandelwal, secretary-general of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT). He said because of the night curfew, the transportation of goods from one state to another has also been badly affected. Footfall of consumers in retail markets has come down by 50 per cent because of several restrictions. Khandelwal said “a closer analysis of the Covid statistics over the last one week show that the restrictions have failed to bring down the caseload”. Since the beginning of the second wave of Covid in the country, CAIT has emphasised that night curfews or lock-downs are not the only solution to curb Covid. To deal with the pandemic, CAIT has maintained that the government should formulate a well thought out strategy in which responsibility should be given to each stakeholder. CAIT has already assured the support of several trade associations, representing about eight crore traders, to help the Centre fight the Covid pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
11-04-2021||Business||India needs to grow faster to make up for contraction during Covid-19 pandemic: IMF||India, which is projected to grow at an impressive rate of 12.5 per cent this year, needs to grow at a much faster pace to make up for the unprecedented contraction of 8 per cent clocked during the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, according to a senior IMF official. The International Monetary Fund’s deputy chief economist Petya Koeva Brooks also made a strong case for an additional economic stimulus to address the impact of the pandemic on the country’s economy. “When it comes to India there was a major collapse of output last fiscal. So, we are very glad to see the strong rebound this year with a projected growth of 12.5 for 2021-22. We are also seeing high frequency indicators, including PMI (Purchasing Managers' Index), and trade and more mobility indicators which give us a sense that there is continued recovery in the first quarter of this year,” she said. “On the recovery itself, we are expecting the level of output to return to the pre-crisis one. That is what we have in our projections,’’ she said. However, the recent localised lockdowns are seen as one of the threats to this recovery, she noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
11-04-2021||Business||Shriram Properties files draft papers with Sebi to launch Rs 800 crore IPO||Bangalore-based Shriram Properties has filed a draft document with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) to raise up to Rs 800 crore through an initial public offer (IPO). The proposed IPO comprises of a fresh issue aggregating up to Rs 250 crore and an offer for sale of up to Rs 550 crore. Shriram Properties has proposed partial exits for its four existing investors — TPG Capital, Tata Capital, Walton Street Capital and Starwood Capital — which own around 58 per cent of the company. The company proposes to utilise the net proceeds from the fresh issue towards repayment or pre-payment, in full or part, of certain borrowings availed by it and by certain subsidiaries apart from using them for general corporate purposes, subject to applicable laws. Axis Capital, ICICI Securities and Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities (India) Pvt Ltd are the book running lead managers to the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
11-04-2021||Business||Balrampur Chini board approves higher investment of Rs 425 crore for new distillery plant||Sugar firm Balrampur Chini Mills on Saturday said its board has approved a higher investment of Rs 425 crore for a new distillery plant of 320 kilolitres per day (KLPD), which is expected to commence by December 2022. The board meeting held on Saturday approved the “revised capex (capital expenditure) of Rs 425 crore for the 320 KLPD distillery plant”, the company said in a regulatory filing. Balarampur Chini said its board on November 4, 2020, had approved a Rs 320-crore investment for the new plant. “The increase in capex to the tune of Rs 105 crore is mainly owing to the inclusion of a 20 KLPD unit of extra-neutral alcohol (ENA), a higher storage capacity for raw material and finished goods, a sharp rise in steel prices and a change in designs of equipment to bring in more efficiency and embrace automation,” it added. The company said it plans to borrow Rs 220 crore from banks under the scheme to extend financial assistance to enhance ethanol capacity as announced by the central government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
