12-04-2021||Business||Sensex nosedives 1,708 points amid massive selloff||Equity benchmark Sensex plummeted 1,708 points on Monday following an across-the-board selloff as spiking COVID-19 cases in the country spooked investors. The 30-share BSE index sank 1,707.94 points or 3.44 per cent to end at 47,883.38. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty plunged 524.05 points or 3.53 per cent to finish at 14,310.80. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, tanking over 8 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, SBI, ONGC, Titan, M&M, Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank. Dr Reddy's was the sole gainer, climbing over 4 per cent. "Domestic equities reminded the bloodbath of March 2020 as record rise in COVID-19 cases in the country and possibility of lockdowns in several states dented investors' sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Concerns of possible reversal in economic momentum and earnings recovery made investors risk-averse and huge selloff led to the erosion of nearly Rs 9 lakh crore in investor wealth, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red, while Seoul ended with mild gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.57 per cent higher at USD 63.31 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
12-04-2021||Business||Sensex falls over 1,400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex plummeted over 1,400 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries as spiking COVID-19 cases in the country spooked investors amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 1,427 points or 2.88 per cent lower at 48,164.32. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty plunged 431.90 points or 2.91 per cent to 14,402.95. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, tanking around 8 per cent, followed by SBI, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Auto, Titan, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finserv and Maruti. On the other hand, Infosys was the sole gainer. In the previous session, Sensex had settled 154.89 points or 0.31 per cent lower at 49,591.32, and Nifty slipped 38.95 points or 0.26 per cent to 14,834.85. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 653.51 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. "Since the second wave of the pandemic is turning out worse than expected, there is profound uncertainty about its impact on the economy and markets, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The situation is the worst in economically significant Maharashtra. This can impact the market's assumption of around 11 per cent GDP growth and above 30 per cent earnings growth, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red in mid-session deals, while Seoul was trading with mild gains. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.05 per cent higher at USD 62.98 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
12-04-2021||Business||Fresh lockdowns to hit MFI collections in many states||The collections of microfinance institutions may be impacted by the fresh lockdowns in many states because of the resurgence of the coronavirus. India’s largest state by state domestic product — Maharashtra — has announced mini-lockdowns till the end of the month. Many others have announced night curfews and weekend lockdowns. According to a Crisil report, Maharashtra is among the top five states in microfinance loans with assets under management of around Rs 16,700 crore as on December 2020, which are around 7 per cent of all microfinance loans. The share of non-banking finance company microfinanciers (NBFC-MFIs) is 40 per cent or around Rs 6,700 crore. Collection efficiency in the state has been relatively lower at 85-90 per cent even before the latest curbs compared with the all-India average of 90-94 per cent in December 2020. “The sector’s collection efficiency has stalled at 90-94 per cent in the past few months compared with the pre-pandemic level of 98-99 per cent. These mini-lockdowns can restrict improvement in the coming months,” said Krishnan Sitaraman, senior director & deputy chief ratings officer, Crisil Ratings. “However, NBFC-MFIs have been allowed to continue operations in Maharashtra unlike during the most stringent lockdown phase early last fiscal. Since microfinance requires high personal connect, this comes as a big relief,” he said. In terms of asset quality, the sector’s portfolio at risk — loans unpaid for more than a month — stood at around 11 per cent from 2.5 per cent a year back, reflecting the impact on the borrower segment because of the economic challenges faced last fiscal. PAR was slightly higher at 13 per cent in Maharashtra. “If more states follow Maharashtra and impose mini-lockdowns of their own to curb the pandemic, and these continue for an extended period, PAR recovery would be affected,’’ the rating agency cautioned. Unlike the last fiscal, the disruptions in economic activity are expected to be relatively moderate. Many borrowers of MFIs cater to essential services that continue to operate as usual, and their cash flows could be curbed to some extent. Analysts said they were monitoring the asset quality and the collections of the NBFC-MFIs, though they are better prepared to deal with the situation because of their experience of the last lockdown. Most lenders have already made provisions of 2-5 per cent of their loan books during the nine months ended December 2020. However, Crisil said current situation may need higher provisioning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
12-04-2021||Business||Start-up corpus swells 23% in the January-March quarter of 2020-21 ||Start-ups have raised an aggregate of $4.17 billion in the January-March quarter of 2020-21 up 23.37 per cent compared with $3.38 billion in the corresponding quarter of previous year. The number of funding rounds during the quarter at 288 was less compared with  414 in the corresponding quarter a year ago. Data compiled by Bangalore-based tracker Tracxn shows that March was a busy month with a cumulative investment of $2 billion from 105 funding rounds. The top five funding rounds for the month are $457 million raised by edtech firm Byju’s, $400 million by fantasy sports app Dream11, $300 million by finance and accounting tech firm High Radius. Insurance aggregator Policybazaar raised $75 million and online credit platform KreditBee, $70 million. B Capital Group, TCV, Tiger Global, Falcon Edge Capital, Newquest Capital Partners were among the marquee investors in March. Bangalore was the leading city in terms of attracting investors. Start-ups from the city raised $641 million from 35 rounds. Mumbai raised $581 million from 15 rounds, Delhi $130 million from 15 rounds and Gurgaon where start-ups raised from 13 rounds, $235 million. There were two initial public offers during March with travel booking platform EaseMyTrip and mobile game publisher Nazara listing on the bourses. Industry observers said the growth trend in investment was  sustainable despite the continuing trend of cash burn by the startups. “There is a heightened interest among global investors and private equity and venture funds in Indian startups as they are looking for better rates of return. The transactions are increasing and the number will only grow and this growth is sustainable,” said Leenesh Singh, founder, 10000StartupsIndia. “We are also seeing a pattern where investors are putting in money again and again in multiple rounds. This means that the startups are reliable despite cash burn.” The platform which offers virtual incubations, acceleration, mentorship and advisory has seen a rising interest among investors to reach out to start-up founders virtually during the Covid period and identify investment opportunities. “We have seen the kind of impact Covid has had on every sector. So, everyone including the founders and the investors are more confident now,” Singh said. Clean energy, logistics and transportation, pharma are among the emerging sectors that are attracting investor interest, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
12-04-2021||Business||Govt may hike FDI limit in the pension sector to 74%||The government may hike the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the pension sector to 74 per cent and a Bill in this regard is expected to be tabled in the next Parliament session, according to sources. Last month, Parliament approved a bill to increase the FDI limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent from 49 per cent. The Insurance Act, 1938 was last amended in 2015 which raised the FDI limit to 49 per cent, resulting in foreign capital inflow of Rs 26,000 crore in the last five years. Amendment to Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) Act, 2013, seeking to raise the FDI limit in the pension sector may come in the monsoon session or winter session depending on various approvals, sources said. At present, FDI in the pension fund is capped at 49 per cent. Besides, sources said, the amendment bill may contain separation of NPS Trust from the PFRDA. The powers, functions and duties of the NPS Trust, which are currently laid down under the PFRDA (National Pension System Trust) Regulations 2015, may come under a charitable trust or the Companies Act, they said. The intent behind this is to keep NPS Trust separate from the pension regulator and a managed by a competent board of 15 members. Out of this, the majority of members are likely to be from the government as they, including the states, are the biggest contributor to the corpus. The PFRDA was established to promote and ensure orderly growth of the pension sector with sufficient powers over pension funds, the central record-keeping agency and other intermediaries. It also safeguards the interest of members. The National Pension System (NPS) was introduced by the Government of India to replace the defined benefit pension system. NPS was made mandatory for all new recruits to the central government service from January 1, 2004, (except the armed forces in the first stage) and has also been rolled out for all citizens with effect from May 1, 2009, on voluntary basis. The government had made a conscious move to shift from the defined benefit, pay-as-you-go pension scheme to defined contribution pension scheme, NPS, due to rising and unsustainable pension bill. The transition aimed at freeing the limited resources of the government for more productive and socio-economic sectoral development. The Centre, meanwhile, has said additional payout under the Employees’ Pension Scheme, 1995 can only be possible if there is budgetary support as otherwise the scheme will be unviable. Labour minister Santosh Gangwar has stressed the importance of government support to increase the payout in a written reply to the  Lok Sabha last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
12-04-2021||Business||UK’s Cairn Energy offers to forego $500 million||The UK’s Cairn Energy Plc has offered to forego $500 million and invest the sum in any oil and gas or renewable energy project identified by the Indian government if New Delhi agrees to honour an international arbitration award and returns the value of loss it incurred because of being taxed retrospectively, sources said. The Scottish firm invested in the oil and gas sector in India in 1994 and a decade later it made a huge oil discovery in Rajasthan. In 2006-07, it listed its Indian assets on the BSE. Five years later, the government passed a retroactive tax law and billed Cairn Rs 10,247 crore plus interest and penalty for the reorganisation tied to the flotation. The state then expropriated and liquidated Cairn’s remaining shares in the Indian entity, seized dividends and withheld tax refunds to recover a part of the demand. Cairn challenged the move before an arbitration tribunal in The Hague, which in December awarded it $1.2 billion (over Rs 8,800 crore) plus costs and interest, which totals $1.725 million (Rs 12,600 crore) as of December 2020. The company has in talks with finance ministry officials offered to forego the interest and cost, totalling over $500 million and invest that sum in any oil and gas or renewable energy project identified by Indian government if the principal of $1.2 billion due to it is paid, three sources with knowledge of the matter said. The Indian government, which appointed one of the three arbitrators on The Hague panel and fully participated in the arbitration proceedings since 2015, wanted Cairn to settle the issue through its now-closed tax dispute resolution scheme, Vivad se Vishwas. The Vivad se Vishwas scheme, which closed on March 31, provided for dropping of the tax case if 50 per cent of the demand was paid, which the company rejected, they said. Even if it were to have agreed to the scheme, the Indian government had to refund about Rs 2,500 crore to the British firm, they said adding the value of shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund withheld totalled to over Rs 7,600 crore which was more than 50 per cent of the Rs 10,247 crore principal tax demand raised. “The company has a tribunal ruling which says India breached its obligations to Cairn under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty and that compensation in form of return of the value of shares seized and sold, tax refund withheld and dividend confiscated was due. Instead, you are asking it to pay half of the tax amount raised, levying short-term capital gains tax, is something that the company’s marquee shareholders will never agree to,” one of them said. While Cairn declined to comment on the story, finance ministry officials could not be immediately reached for comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
12-04-2021||Business||Infosys board to consider a third share buyback||The Infosys board will meet on April 14 to consider a share buyback, the third by the company. India’s second largest IT services company  will also declare its results for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021 on April 14 (Wednesday). The results season will kick off with Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) on Monday as the market looks to find its mojo again after being battered by a wave of bearish sentiment with investors trying to pick their way through a minefield of conflicting data and overseas cues. In a buyback, a company buys its shares from the market, which are subsequently extinguished. Share buybacks generally improve earnings per share, support prices in poor market conditions and allows the return of surplus cash to shareholders. Bangalore-based Infosys had a free cash flow — which is cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditure — of Rs 5,683 crore at the end of March. In 2019, Infosys changed its capital allocation policy to return 85 per cent of its free cash flow back to shareholders cumulatively over a period of five years starting 2019-20. Earlier, the company was distributing up to 70 per cent of its free cash flow to the shareholders. This will be done through a combination of semi-annual dividends or buybacks. Infosys had come out with its first share re-purchase in 2017 of Rs 13,000 crore  followed by a Rs 8,260 crore programme two years later. The management in 2019 had said the company will not trim its capital allocation policy because of the 20 per cent tax that the Modi government has imposed on share buybacks by listed companies. The buyback comes at a time IT services companies are expected to report robust numbers for the January-March quarter and guide for a promising year ahead. The pandemic has seen companies reporting strong deal wins as clients across geographies and verticals have stepped up their technology spend. While announcing its third quarter earnings, Infosys had upped revenue guidance for 2020-21. It had projected revenue to grow 4.5-5 per cent in constant currency compared with its previous estimate of 2-3 per cent growth. The operating margin guidance was raised to 24-24.5 per cent against the earlier 23-24 per cent. Infosys is now expected to give out a double digit revenue growth guidance for the current fiscal. “We expect companies in our coverage universe to further accelerate year-on-year (YoY) revenue growth momentum on broad-based demand, strong deal wins, continued traction in digital and cloud, ramp-up of large deals and demand recovery in highly impacted verticals such as travel and hospitality,” analysts at Emkay Global said in a note. Emkay said the revenues of top IT companies were likely to grow 2.2-3.9 per cent quarter-on-quarter in constant currency terms. Cross currency movement is likely to aid reported dollar revenue by 80-110 basis points in the fourth quarter for the next tier of companies. “We expect Infosys and HCL Technologies to provide double-digit revenue growth guidance of 12-15 per cent and 11- 13 per cent YoY in constant currency terms, respectively.’’ The brokerage expects Infosys to report net profit of Rs 5,151 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021, an increase of 19.2 per cent over the same period of the previous year while TCS is expected to post a profit of Rs 9,209 crore-a growth of 14.4 per cent as compared to the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-04-2021||Business||Abhijit caveat on globalisation||Nobel prize winning economist Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee on Sunday said India had been a beneficiary of globalisation but the country needed to develop a mechanism to deal with the associated risks. Speaking virtually at an event organised by Bandhan- Konnagar, a Bengal-based NGO, Banerjee said that the risks associated with globalisation could be managed if resources came in with globalisation. “India has been a beneficiary of globalization. Exports have grown faster than most countries from the early 1990s till today,” Banerjee said. The Nobel laureate, however, added a globalised world means a lot of risks. “ One can deal with these risks if resources are coming with them,” said Banerjee. He said these risks are not necessarily concentrated among the poorest of the poor. Banerjee, an alumnus of Calcutta’s Presidency College, said “There is a need to build (measures for) mitigation. But less attention was paid towards mitigating mechanisms and was left mostly to NGOs till the time programmes like NREGA and other schemes were developed.” Meanwhile, Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, founder of Bandhan, on Sunday said plans are ongoing to set up a 200-bed hospital catering to the general requirements but focusing on diabetes. He was speaking on the occasion of celebration of 20 years of the organisation which started as an NGO on April 11, 2001.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-04-2021||Business||Calcutta Port Trust posts 26% surplus hike||Calcutta Port Trust (CPT) has recorded its highest ever net surplus in at least a decade in 2020-21, a year initially blighted by the unprecedented disruptions caused by the pandemic. Despite cargo traffic volume coming down 4.14 per cent, the port managed to log in a 7.3 per cent rise in revenue and a 26 per cent hike in surplus, backed by higher port charges, land revenue and new cargo and cost control measures. The iron and steel industry, which dots the hinterland of CPT — now called Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port, Calcutta — contributed most to the good tidings at the port, especially in the second half of the last fiscal. Import of cooking gas also brought in better business, while the movements of container and thermal coal were down. “We managed to keep our costs under check, despite providing for additional expenses to combat Covid-19, taking care of the workforce and keeping the operation going. The port also did well operationally and had it not been for the lack of thermal coal traffic, we would have ended the year with cargo growth,” Vinit Kumar, chairman of SMP, Calcutta explained. Traffic handled by the 12 major ports, a barometer for the economy, were down 4.54 per cent to 672.6 million tonnes (mt) from 704.92mt a year ago. SMP, Calcutta handled 61.33mt cargo, down from 63.98mt in the previous year, standing at fifth place in terms of cargo movement. Mormugao in Goa and Paradip in Odisha were the only two major ports to post a rise in volume, while Deendayal (formerly Kandla) in Gujarat arrested the decline better than Calcutta. The port, split broadly between Haldia and a relatively smaller operation at Calcutta, earned Rs 2,622 crore in revenue and Rs 104 crore in net surplus compared with Rs 2,443 crore revenue and Rs 82-crore surplus in 2019-20. The buoyancy in the iron and steel sector lifted the port out of sloth from September onwards. The import of coking coal — a key raw material for blast furnace operation in the steel mills — went up significantly as demand came back. Export of iron ore also bounced back after a few years, keeping the berths busy. The port also exported over a million tonne of steel as the industry opted for overseas markets to beat the slackness in local demand. During the winter, the port handled seven capesize vessels, the highest so far, at sandheads which are located at the high sea, for lighterage operations. Taking advantage of the 50 metre of natural draft, ships could carry 160,000 tonnes of coal, which were unloaded to smaller vessels and brought up the river Hooghly to Haldia and Calcutta. The Haldia operation also benefited from the increase in LPG penetration in the eastern and northeastern states. The port handled about 5mt  cargo, making it a major import hub for cooking gas in India. However, the fall in thermal coal movement was a dampener for the port. Tamil Nadu, which procures coal from Eastern Coalfields Ltd to generate electricity, hardly moved any cargo via Haldia as demand slacked due to the Covid-19 led slowdown, costing close to 3.5mt cargo to the port. The state has resumed operation from April this year. Container movement, which underlines high-value movement of cargo, were down, leading to a sharper fall in Calcutta Dock System near the city. A combination of cost control and revenue boost shored up the port’s finances, which follows the accounting practise of trusts. The port management cut down overtime expenses by 30 per cent, squeezing the wage bill. Simultaneously, it earned higher revenue from land banks, apart from generation escalation in port related charges. Steel exports were more remunerative for the port too. The port also reined in two major expenses — pension obligation to 30,000 employees and dredging costs to keep the navigational channel usable. After moving all pensioners under the age of 75 to LIC’s annuity scheme, the port’s annual pension obligation has fallen to Rs 80 crore from Rs 200 crore a few years back. The dredging cost also stood at about Rs 300 crore in the last fiscal, three-fourth of which was borne by the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
12-04-2021||Business||Cover Caution||The general insurance sector is closely linked to various sectors such as infrastructure, automobile, health and agriculture and, thus, plays a crucial role in supporting our economy. It’s an important social security tool which comes to your rescue in the case of any loss or damage. However, it’s disappointing to know that the penetration of general insurance is less than 1 per cent in our country which is certainly a cause of concern. Why is it that irrespective of its benefits people still shy away from buying insurance? Why is it that even after a combined ratio of over 100 per cent, which shows that the industry is bleeding by paying claims, people still perceive that the industry doesn’t pay claims? According to reports, the Indian insurance industry loses crores of rupees every year to frauds and this is one of the main reasons hampering its growth. These frauds affect both the industry and society as they act as a deterrent to delivering the benefits of insurance to the right people who are in need. Frauds drive up operational costs for insurers, drain their resources which may also lead to an increase in the prices that genuine customers may have to pay because of the fraudulent activities by a few. The main foundation of an insurance contract is trust and if a person has filed a claim, he or she should get it immediately within minutes. Only then will the perception about the industry change, which in turn will encourage more people to opt for insurance. Such frauds affect an insurer’s ability to deal with legitimate claims quickly. Insurers are certainly working hard to simplify the claim processes and upgrading their services, but all stakeholders need to come together to deal with this problem. An easy target for such fraudulent activities are the customers who are not cautious while buying an insurance policy. Hence, it’s important for them to be aware and verify the facts to avoid falling prey to such activities. Some of the steps a customer can take are: n Verify the authenticity of the policy: It’s important to understand the terms and conditions of the policy and check whether the policy you have bought is genuine or fake. One can immediately contact the insurer, share their policy number and verify its authenticity. Insurers today also have a facility of QR codes on their website where the customer can validate their policies. n Verify the channel: It is important to know whether you are buying a policy from an authentic insurance channel or not. For instance, if you are buying a policy online, check if the insurer’s website domain name is genuine as fraudsters come up with fake websites and dupe people. In case you are buying a policy from an agent, request for their valid ID and upon purchase validate the policy by checking with the insurance company. n Opt for a safe mode of payment: It’s advisable that you make the payment directly to the insurer through cheque, debit/credit card or other online modes of payment. This helps establish a proper trail of transaction, which is otherwise not possible in cash payments. While an alert customer can prevent many frauds, insurers too are leveraging forensic science, data analytics and technology to identify potential frauds and to also nab fraudsters in the case of fraud. The industry along with the government and the regulator are working towards curbing this menace. For instance, the General Insurance Council has enabled data sharing and experience sharing platforms, wherein insurers can list their fraudulent claims. This helps other insurers to be cautious in case they come across a similar fraud pattern while assessing the claims. More can be done to restrict the misuse of insurance by such malicious elements. A centralised digital KYC database can be developed, which can help insurers validate a customer’s authenticity. There’s some level of integration with institutions such as IIB, VAHAN. However, there can be further integration with UIDAI, RTO, CCTNS, court records and Medical Council, which will help insurers receive an early intimation of claims leading to faster claim settlement and fewer litigation. Standard medical protocols and treatment guidelines are also required that will reduce false line of treatment and exaggerations on claim amount. With some of these steps, we will be in a better position to tackle frauds together. Awareness and rapid action along with instant resolution against frauds will go a long way in not only enabling the growth of the industry, but also creating a better society at large. The writer is MD & CEO, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-83
