13-04-2021||Business||Centre begins process for inviting financial bids for Air India sale||The government has initiated the process for inviting financial bids for the sale of national carrier Air India and the deal is likely to conclude by September, sources said. Salt-to-software conglomerate Tata Group was among the "multiple" entities that had put in preliminary bids for buying loss-making Air India in December last year. The sources said that after analysing the preliminary bids, eligible bidders were given access to the Virtual Data Room (VDR) of Air India, following which investors' queries were answered. The transaction has now moved to the financial bids stage, the sources said, adding that the deal is expected to conclude by September. The government is selling its entire 100 per cent stake in Air India that has been in losses ever since its merger with domestic operator Indian Airlines in 2007. The stake sale process got delayed due to the COVID pandemic and the government had extended five times the deadline to submit preliminary bids for the national carrier. The airline, which started as a mail carrier in 1932, will give a successful bidder control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports, as well as 900 slots at airports overseas. Besides, the bidder would get 100 per cent of the low-cost arm Air India Express and 50 per cent of AISATS, which provides cargo and ground handling services at major Indian airports. With previous attempts since 2017 failing to get any significant interest, the government had this time sweetened the deal by giving freedom to potential suitors to decide how much of the airline's debt they want to take on as part of the transaction. Previously, the bidders were required to take over the entire Rs 60,074 crore debt. Last month, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said the government will keep Air India running till it gets divested and there is no choice but to either "privatise or close" the debt-laden airline. "We are looking at another timeline now, what is called data room for prospective bidders to look at... that is opened up, 64 days for the financial bids to come in. After that it is the question of taking a decision and handing over the airline," Puri had said. "...There is no choice, we either privatise or we close the airline. We run a loss of Rs 20 crore every day despite Air India making money now. Because the mismanagement has resulted in a cumulative debt of Rs 60,000 crore," he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 660 points to close above 48,000||Equity benchmark Sensex rebounded over 660 points on Tuesday, tracking strong gains in auto and financial stocks amid largely positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 660.68 points or 1.38 per cent higher at 48,544.06. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 194 points or 1.36 per cent to 14,504.80. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 8 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, Maruti, Axis Bank, ONGC and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, TCS, Dr Reddy's, Tech Mahindra, Infosys and Nestle India were among the laggards. "Domestic equities witnessed brisk rebound towards the second half of session after investors took comfort from announcement that government is fast-tracking approvals for overseas COVID-19 vaccines to improve supply of jabs and speed-up vaccination process," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Financials and automobile were the biggest contributors in the rebound. However, IT and pharma stocks were key drags. Heavy profit booking was seen in IT stocks after the announcement of TCS results. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Shanghai was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.90 per cent higher at USD 63.85 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and HDFC twins amid largely positive cues from Asian peers. The 30-share BSE index was trading 236.71 points or 0.49 per cent higher at 48,120.09. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 68.55 points or 0.48 per cent to 14,379.35. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by M&M, PowerGrid, Bajaj Finance, L&T, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, TCS, Tech Mahindra, Infosys, Dr Reddy's and HCL Tech were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex sank 1,707.94 points or 3.44 per cent to end at 47,883.38, and Nifty plunged 524.05 points or 3.53 per cent to finish at 14,310.80. The benchmark index fell below the 48000-mark, causing investors to lose Rs 8.77 lakh crore in Monday’s session. Market experts warned that equities were likely to remain under pressure and there could be more corrections as there could be bad news on the virus front. They, however, added that investors should also look at nibbling quality stocks in such times as the progress in vaccine rollouts and peaking of the number of Covid-19 cases could bring back the rally during the next few weeks. “There is a growing worry that the rising number of Covid-19 cases will affect economic activity, putting speed breakers on the small growth that we saw during the third quarter. Investors are also concerned that more states may follow the Maharashtra route and go for a full lockdown. On the other hand, we have reports of vaccine shortage in various parts of the country,” an analyst from a foreign brokerage had said. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,746.43 crore on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be modestly good at the moment, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "While a sharp increase in COVID-19 daily cases in the country and possibility of larger economic restrictions has dented investors' sentiments, 4QFY21 earnings began on a strong note with TCS delivering strong earnings performance with encouraging management commentaries. "This should help IT stocks to remain in focus in the near term," he noted. US equities finished with moderate losses overnight ahead of March inflation data and quarterly earnings of key lenders. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.49 per cent higher at USD 63.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business|| Steel makers set to raise prices of hot-rolled coils||Steel makers are set to raise the prices of hot-rolled coils which are trading at a discount of Rs 5,000 to the import parity price,  analysts said . “Indian mills have raised flat steel prices by Rs 3,500-4,000 per tonne in April 21, which has been absorbed by the market. We believe further hikes are in store in the next few weeks as the Indian HRC prices still trade at a discount of Rs 5,000 per tonne to import parity prices,” Motilal Oswal said in a research report. Indian spot steel spreads are at record highs and are Rs 1,600/Rs 3,700 per tonne higher than the levels during the fourth quarter of 2020-21 for rebar/HRC, implying a strong industry performance in the first quarter of 2021-11 as well. Domestic steel inventories continue to slide down which further bodes well for domestic prices. According to provisional data for March 21 reported by Steelmint, India’s crude steel production rose 7 per cent year on year and 2 per cent month on month to 9.98 mt. India’s steel consumption grew 41 per cent year on year (on a low base of -34 per cent). However, the same declined 6 per cent month on month to 8.74mt in March 21 as companies looked to exports to benefit from strong global steel prices. Cement costlier The cement industry has hiked prices again in April after the hikes in March. Prices have been raised by Rs 20-30 per bag month on month  in east India and by Rs 5-10 per bag in other regions. Demand remains strong, particularly in the East.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business||ONGC invites bids for sale of initial 2 million standard cubic metres per day of gas||State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) on Monday invited bids for the sale of the initial 2 million standard cubic metres per day of gas from its KG basin fields at a minimum price of $6.6 per million British thermal unit (mBtu). According to the tender document, ONGC intends to start natural gas sale from its KG-DWN-98/2 block, which sits next to the Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL)-BP Plc operated KG-D6 fields, from June-end. Initially, 2 million standard cubic metres per day of gas has been offered for sale through an e-auction. ONGC has sought bids indexed to Brent crude oil. Bids have been sought at a minimum of 10.5 per cent of the three-month average Brent crude oil price. At the current Brent crude oil price of $63, the minimum price comes to $6.6 per mBtu. This price, however, will be subject to the ceiling or cap fixed by the government for deepsea fields every six months. The cap for six months beginning April 1 is $3.62 per mBtu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business||Automobile sales fall 13.05 per cent to 41,289, 28 units||Automobile sales fell 13.05 per cent to 41,289, 28 units because the pandemic severely eroded demand,  industry body Siam said on Monday. “A deep structural slowdown in the industry even before the pandemic, combined with the impact of Covid-19 in 2020-21, has pushed all vehicle segments back by many years,” Kenichi Ayukawa, president of Siam, said “Recovery from here will require time and efforts, by all stakeholders. There is uncertainty in the value chain owing to semiconductors, lockdowns and raw material. In an environment of uncertainty, instead of trying to predict the future, we will all work hard to create it,” he added. Data showed that passenger vehicle wholesales declined 2.24 per cent to 27,11,457 units against 27,73,519 units in 2019-20. Total two-wheeler dispatches to dealers declined 13.19 per cent to 1,51,19,387 units, compared with 1,74,16,432 units in 2019-20. Total commercial vehicles sales declined 20.77 per cent to 5,68,559 units last financial year against 7,17,593 units in 2019-20.  Commercial vehicle sales during January-March at 2.1 lakh were less than sales recorded during the same period three years ago. Dispatches of three-wheelers saw a drop of 66.06 per cent in the 2020-21 fiscal at 2,16,197 units, against 6,37,065 units in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business||Adani to set up one of country’s largest warehousing facility for Flipkart||Gautam Adani on Monday rode into India’s booming e-commerce industry by entering into a strategic partnership with Flipkart. The tie-up will see Adani Logistics set up one of the country’s largest warehousing facility for the Walmart controlled e-tailer. Adani Logistics is a wholly owned subsidiary of Adani Ports & Special Economic Zone. As part of this partnership, Adani Logistics Ltd will construct a massive 534,000 sq ft fulfilment centre at its upcoming logistics hub in Mumbai that will be leased to Flipkart. A joint press statement said that this centre will address the growing demand for e-commerce in Western India and support market access of several thousands of sellers and MSMEs in the region. The centre is expected to be operational in the third quarter of 2022 and will have the capacity to house 10 million units of sellers’ inventory at any point. In addition to strengthening Flipkart’s supply chain infrastructure to support MSMEs and sellers, the facility will enhance local employment and create around 2,500 direct jobs and thousands of indirect jobs, the companies added. Observers say that the partnership will help Flipkart to take the battle to key rivals such as Amazon and Reliance Retail. The other leg of the partnership will see Flipkart developing its third data centre at the AdaniConnecX Chennai facility as part of one of the largest private cloud deployments in the country, thereby strengthening its growing marketplace e-commerce business in India. The Adani group said that the data centre has been designed to meet the highest standards in reliability, security, and sustainability, which will capitalise on the  capability of the Adanis as the largest solar player in the country to generate and source green power. The AdaniConneX data centre is a new facility enabling Flipkart to mould  the data centre to its growing infrastructure needs with a significant focus on security and keeping data locally within India. “This broad-ranging partnership across our logistics and data centre businesses is a unique business model, and we see this as a great opportunity to serve Flipkart’s physical as well as digital infrastructure needs,” Karan Adani, CEO of Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business||Sebi slaps Rs 25 crore fine on Yes Bank||The market regulator has slapped a penalty of Rs 25 crore on Yes Bank Ltd for fraudulently selling additional tier-I bonds worth over Rs 8,400 crore to retail investors that were eventually written off when a State Bank of India-led consortium put together a rescue package in March last year for the failed bank. The Securities and Exchange Board of India passed the order on a batch of petitions filed by retail investors in these bonds who were hoping for some redress. Yes Bank said it would move  the Secutities Appellate tribunal against the verdict. AT-1 bonds are unsecured bonds with perpetual tenure and banks float them to shore up their core capital. The market regulator also imposed penalties on three officials of the bank at that time: Vivek Kanwar, who was the head of Yes Bank’s private wealth management team, and two other officers Ashish Nasa and Jasjit Singh Banga. The order imposes a penalty of Rs 1 crore on Kanwar and Rs 50 lakh each on Nasa and Banga. They have been directed to pay the penalty within 45 days of the receipt of the order. If they fail to do so, proceedings would be initiated against them to recover the penalty with interest thereon. The penalty amount will in all probability flow into the market regulator’s investor protection fund. The order does not provide any repayment relief to the investors who filed the petitions — a position that is consistent with the stand that the Reserve Bank of India has taken in several cases filed by other investors in the Bombay and Madras high courts as well as the Supreme Court. The RBI’s stand has been that AT-1 bonds carry an inherent risk and fall under the terms of the Basel-III regulations issued by the central bank in 2015. Under these rules, AT-1 bonds are required to absorb losses at specified trigger points and at the point of non-viability. Sold as super FDs Yes Bank, which was led at that time by the bank’s now-jailed promoter Rana Kapoor, had sold the AT-1 bonds between 2016 and 2019. Sebi said the proceedings against Kapoor “will be conducted separately”. The investors had claimed that these bonds had been mis-sold as super-fixed deposits (FDs) which carried a high rate of interest and virtually no risk. They had told investors that these bonds carried a credit rating of AA, which stands for high safety. The officials argued that they had sold the bonds on the instruction of Rana Kapoor and had not collected any fee from the investors. They also denied selling the bonds as super FDs to high net worth individuals. The officers said they could not have anticipated the collapse of the bank during their tenure or that the banking regulator would allow the writeoff of the bonds, which was unprecedented. The Sebi order rejected the argument by the officers and held them responsible for creating a verbal sales pitch document that regional branch managers used to push the sale of these bonds. It also said the term sheet documenting the risks were never shared with the investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
13-04-2021||Business||Retail inflation rises to four-month high of 5.52 per cent in March||Retail inflation rose to a four-month high of 5.52 per cent in March, driven by higher fuel and food prices, while factory output contracted to a six-month low of 3.6 per cent in February because of the poor performance of the manufacturing and mining sectors. The consumer price index (CPI) based retail inflation stood at 5.03 per cent in February. The rate of price rise in the food basket accelerated to 4.94 per cent in March against 3.87 per cent in the preceding month, according to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). Inflation in the fuel and light category was 4.50 per cent during the month vis-a-vis 3.53 per cent in February. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings, said, “With renewed pandemic restrictions across the country, elevated global prices across commodities and higher transportation and logistics cost, price pressures are likely to prevail in the coming months for most segments. At the same time, the headline inflation reading could benefit from the higher base of a year ago.” Output falters The manufacturing sector — which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the index of industrial production (IIP) — declined 3.7 per cent in February 2021. The mining sector output declined 5.5 per cent in February 2021. However, power generation grew marginally by 0.1 per cent in the month under review. “On average, the IIP has risen by a marginal 0.1 per cent in September 2020-February 2021, highlighting that the recovery in industrial volumes lacks conviction,” Aditi Nayar, chief economist at Icra, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
13-04-2021||Business||Tata Consultancy Services posts 14.87 per cent growth in net profits||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) on Monday began the earnings season on a positive note by posting a 14.87 per cent growth in net profits for the March quarter of 2021, which came in line with Street estimates. The strong numbers came as the country’s largest IT services firm reported a robust deal win of $9.2 billion as clients continued to spend on technology. The company’s board of directors has recommended a final dividend of Rs 15 per share. For the quarter, TCS posted a net profit of Rs 9,246 crore compared with Rs 8,049 crore in the same period of the previous fiscal. It marked a sequential 6.26 per cent growth over the net profit in the preceding quarter. The quarter saw revenues at TCS rising to Rs 43,705 crore from Rs 39,946 crore in the year-ago period. In dollar terms, revenues came in at $5,989 million, a sequential growth of around 5 per cent from $5702 million in the preceding quarter. The order book of $9.2 billion in the quarter is the highest total contract value (TCV) in any quarter, TCS said. For the year as a whole, its order book at $31.6 billion saw a rise of 17 per cent over last year’s number. “Our investments over the last decade in building newer capabilities, and in research and innovation, position us well for the multi-year technology services opportunity ahead. “While we continue to dominate in our traditional areas of strength, we are making good progress in gaining share in the growth and transformation opportunity. Our focus going into 2021-22 will be to engage with clients in their growth agenda, propelled by innovation and leverage of collective knowledge,’’ Rajesh Gopinathan, chief executive officer and managing director of TCS, said. The period also saw net margins rising by 1 per cent over the last year to 21.2 per cent. According to V. Ramakrishnan, chief financial officer, TCS’ performance in the fourth quarter caps three quarters of consistent robust performance in a pandemic year, and gives the company a strong exit from 2020-21. “Our fourth quarter margins are a validation of our strong belief that it is possible to win mega-deals, post industry-leading growth, continue to invest in our people and in newer capabilities, and still deliver industry-leading profitability. “ “All the investments that we have been making over the years position us strongly to expand our footprint in the large growth and transformation opportunity,’’ he added. On the performance of its various verticals, TCS said that all of them showed good sequential growth, though a couple continue to lag prior year level. While BFSI showed a growth of 7 per cent sequentially, the growth of retail came in at around four per cent, life sciences and healthcare at 3.8 per cent over the preceding quarter and manufacturing at 3.9 per cent growth. In terms of markets, the growth was led by major markets with Continental Europe showing a strong 8.5 per cent sequential growth, North America at 3.9 per cent and the UK at around 3.4 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
13-04-2021||Business||India Inc voices opposition to fresh lockdowns amid Covid surge||India Inc has voiced its opposition to fresh lockdowns amid a record spike in coronavirus cases. Rajiv Bajaj, the outspoken managing director of Bajaj Auto, on Monday warned a hard lockdown would lead to the absence of medical attention to the sick who are suffering from other ailments. Bajaj told television channels that 95 per cent of those testing positive are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Governments, therefore, should not impose lockdowns that affect the livelihood of thousands. Bajaj’s home state Maharashtra is on the verge of announcing a full lockdown for up to two weeks. The state has started night curfews and imposed a lockdown over the weekend. Bajaj said the impact on the two-wheeler industry has not been significant, though dealerships have been closed during the weekend lockdown. The Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations  has warned the growth momentum in car sales will be hampered. The rise in infections has already seen customers staying away from making big- ticket purchases, the dealers said. Meanwhile, an overwhelming 93 per cent of the country’s top CEOs in a poll among 710 by industry chamber CII prefer stricter safety rules to lockdowns, which will impact the movement of labour and goods, and affect production. CII president Uday Kotak said the government should do whatever it takes to ramp up the production and distribution of vaccines. Any measures to restrict social gatherings should not be extended to regular functioning of industry and commerce, T.V. Narendran, president-designate of CII, said. The worry is more among MSME circles. “The question of saving 1 per cent lives or 38 per cent of livelihoods will likely resurface with the impending lockdown in Maharashtra. MSMEs are currently in a state of chaos, unsure of supply, demand and payment schedules,’’ Kenny Ramanand, national secretary, All India Manufacturer’s Organisation (AIMO), said. Speaking to The Telegraph, Suvodeep Rakshit, vice-president and senior economist at Kotak Institutional Equities, said, if the lockdowns or restrictions continued to be limited to night curfews or other curbs without restraining manufacturing and construction, the impact will not be large. “There will be some supply chain frictions but much lower than what we had seen in the lockdowns of 2020. Obviously, this assumes that generalised lockdowns across large states are not the norm,’’ he added. There was also disappointing news on the jobs front. Latest data from the CMIE showed unemployment rate jumped to 8.6 per cent for the week ended April 11 from 6.7 per cent two weeks ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
13-04-2021||Business||Equities post their worst performance in over a month||Equities on Monday posted their worst performance in over a month with the Sensex nosediving 1708 points as a spike in Covid-19 cases in the country and the possibility of more restrictions or lockdowns led to apprehensions about its  impact on the economic recovery. The benchmark index fell below the 48000-mark, causing investors to lose Rs 8.77 lakh crore in Monday’s session. Market experts are warning that equities are likely to remain under pressure and there could be more corrections as there could be bad news on the virus front. They, however, add that investors should also look at nibbling quality stocks in such times as the progress in vaccine rollouts and peaking of the number of Covid-19 cases could bring back the rally during the next few weeks. The fresh worries came after India logged a record 168,912 Covid-19 infections overnight, data from the health ministry showed on Monday. The country thus overtook Brazil to become the second-most affected nation globally by the coronavirus. “There is a growing worry that the rising number of Covid-19 cases will affect economic activity, putting speed breakers on the small growth that we saw during the third quarter. Investors are also concerned that more states may follow the Maharashtra route and go for a full lockdown. On the other hand, we have reports of vaccine shortage in various parts of the country,” an analyst from a foreign brokerage said. The panic was evident since the beginning of the trading session as the 30-share Sensex opened at 48956.65 and hit an intra-day low of 47693.44. It, thereafter, sank 1707.94 points, or 3.44 per cent, to end at 47883.38 — the biggest fall since February 26. The broader NSE Nifty plunged 524.05 points, or 3.53 per cent, to finish at 14310.80. Rupee at 75.05 The rupee fell for the sixth straight session to mark its lowest level in nearly nine months at 75.05 against the dollar on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-82
