14-04-2021||Business||Yangon terminal project: Adani terminates all payments to Myanmar||The Adani group has reportedly terminated all payments to the Myanmar authorities in connection with its Yangon international terminal project that it won in 2019. The development came on a day S&P Dow Jones Indices said it will remove group firm Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ) from its sustainability index following reports of its business ties with Myanmar’s military, which has been accused of human rights violations after a coup. “APSEZ will be removed from the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices following a media and stakeholder analysis triggered by recent news events pointing to heightened risks to the company regarding their commercial relationship with Myanmar’s military,’’ S&P Dow Jones Indices said in a statement. It added that this change will be effective prior to the opening on April 15. The Adani group firm is building a $290 million port in Yangon and its project there had come under the limelight after an ABC News report said that a group firm will pay up to $30 million to the Myanmar Economic Corporation (MEC), which is a military-controlled firm. The US had recently slapped sanctions on the firm. A CNBC-TV 18 report, quoting the group, said that the contract for the Yangon project was won in 2019 and its counterparties were entities of a democratically elected government of Myanmar. The group added that the investment decisions were made under very different circumstances and that all negotiations with and payments to MEC were made before the US sanctions. It went on to add that all payments to MEC were terminated and one time payments made in exchange for the port project were completed in December 2019. Thus the indication from the group was that it was only halting the payments and that the project has not been abandoned. This, however, could not be confirmed. Clarifying on the ABC News report with regard to the payment to MEC in “land lease fees”, the group had said late last month that APSEZ won the Yangon international terminal project through a global competitive bid. “The project, fully owned and developed by APSEZ, is an independent container terminal with no joint venture partners,’’ it said. Without making any direct reference to the payment allegations, the group added that it is “watching the situation in Myanmar carefully”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
14-04-2021||Business||Industries operating in Bengal advised to follow Covid protocol||Industries operating in Bengal have been advised to follow Covid protocol to rein in the surge of the virus even as restrictive measures or lockdowns have been ruled out for now. A meeting was convened by state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay in the presence of several top bureaucrats of the administration to exhort the industry to encourage work from home, introduce flexible shifts on the shop floor and office, avoid congregations, arrange vaccination at the office or factory site for eligible workers/employees and create quarantine centres and safe homes. While several states have imposed some restrictions or curbs on the movement of people and vehicles impacting business, Bengal has not done so despite seeing a massive surge in Covid cases over the past fortnight, primarily because of the long drawn assembly elections. “We are asking the industry to revert to the same protocol that they followed during the last peak. A positive aspect is that people are not scared like last time and there are vaccines available. However, the flip side is people have become careless too,” an official said. Apart from various chambers of commerce such as CII, Ficci, ICC and MCC, trade bodies representing tea, jute and leather were called. Industry leaders were asked to sensitise their respective members to follow Covid protocols. Alok Roy, who represented the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said the government encouraged possible tie-ups between industry bodies and hospitals for large scale vaccination of eligible groups of people. Industry bodies were relieved when a lockdown — complete or partial — were ruled out during the meeting. “We all know how the industry and economy suffered during the lockdown in 2020. It was a relief to see that the administration is not thinking on those lines,” said an industry member who was present. Apart from the chief secretary, home secretary H.K. Dwivedi, industry secretary Vandana Yadav, MSME secretary Rajesh Pandey and health secretary N.S. Nigam were also present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
14-04-2021||Business||WhatsApp policy sows conflict||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday said that competition regulator CCI’s order directing a probe into WhatsApp’s policy does not reflect an investigation into the abuse of dominant position and rather appears to be concerned with privacy issues of consumers. “It (order) appears to be concerned with the privacy issues of consumers,” Justice Navin Chawla said in response to the Competition Commission of India’s (CCI) stand that the regulator was not examining the alleged violation of individuals’ privacy which was being looked into by the Supreme Court. “Your order does not reflect it is an investigation into the alleged abuse of dominant position,” the court said. Senior advocate Aman Lekhi, appearing for the CCI, said the new privacy policy of WhatsApp would lead to excessive data collection and “stalking” of consumers for targeted advertising to bring in more users and is therefore, an alleged abuse of dominant position. “There is no question of jurisdictional error,” Lekhi said and added that WhatsApp and Facebook's pleas challenging the CCI's decision were “incompetent and misconceived”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
14-04-2021||Business||Stocks claw back some losses as Sensex rises 661 points||Stocks have clawed back some of Monday’s losses as the Sensex rose 661 points — but is in the grip of a fresh bout of uncertainty following the restrictions announced by the Maharashtra government. Late on Tuesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a virtual lockdown starting 8 pm on Wednesday for the next 15 days. Only essential services will be allowed during this period. Shares of Tata Consultancy Services declined over 4 per cent on Tuesday as the company’s March quarter earnings failed to cheer investors. The stock tumbled 5.14 per cent to Rs 3,074.55 during the day on the BSE. It closed at Rs 3,105, lower by 4.21 per cent. On the NSE, it dipped 3.89 per cent to Rs 3,120. Infosys, which fell 1.91 per cent, will announce its results on Wednesday. The 30-share BSE Sensex gained momentum in late-afternoon trade to close 660.68 points or 1.38 per cent higher at 48544.06. On similar lines, the broader NSE Nifty surged 194 points or 1.36 per cent to finish at 14504.80. Indirect taxes Net indirect tax collection in 2020-21 grew 12.3 per cent to Rs 10.71 lakh crore, exceeding the revised estimate of Rs 9.89 lakh crore, the finance ministry said on Tuesday. The collection in indirect taxes, which includes GST, customs and excise duties, was Rs 9.54 lakh crore in 2019-20. Net collections from Goods and Services Tax (GST) stood at Rs 5.48 lakh crore during 2020-21, an 8 per cent drop compared with Rs 5.99 lakh crore in the previous fiscal year. Customs revenue during 2020-21 was Rs 1.32 lakh crore, a 21 per cent growth over Rs 1.09 lakh crore collected in 2019-20. Net collections from central excise and service tax (arrears) stood at Rs 3.91 lakh crore, up 59.2 per cent from Rs 2.45 lakh crore mopped up in 2019-20. Moody’s alert The second wave of the coronavirus pandemic is credit negative and poses a threat to the economic recovery in India, global rating agency Moody’s said. It said the infections present a risk to growth forecasts as the re-imposition of virus management measures will curb economic activity. However, a double-digit GDP growth is likely in 2021 given the low level of activity last year, Moody’s said. The impact will be less severe this time because of the focus on  “micro-containment zones” as opposed to a complete lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
14-04-2021||Business||Niraj Shah hikes McLeod stake to 7%||Mumbai-based investor Niraj Rajnikant Shah has scooped up a little more than a 2 per cent stake in bulk tea producer McLeod Russel India Ltd, taking his holding in the Khaitan family promoted company to over 7 per cent. Shah consolidated his position as the second largest shareholder of the company where the promoters now hold only 17.48 per cent. According to the latest regulatory filing, Shah acquired a little over 21.28 lakh shares in McLeod representing 2.042 per cent stake. Prior to this, Shah held 5.15 per cent in the company. Following the latest series of acquisitions, the investor now has 7.19 per cent in McLeod. Shah’s accumulation comes in the backdrop of the Burman family cornering a sizable chunk of shares in Eveready Industries, the other frontline company from the Khaitan stable. The promoters of FMCG giant Dabur now hold close to a 20 per cent stake in the dry cell battery maker Eveready where Khaitans now own less than 5 per cent. Sources in McLeod said Shah’s accumulation was an independent decision of an investor and nothing more should be read into it. In contrast, initially the Burmans were believed to have come forward to take the Khaitans out of the woods at Eveready. Shah holds shares in listed  companies such as Likhita Infrastructure and RPP Infraprojects . Restructuring The stock purchase also coincides with the deliberations undertaken by the secured and unsecured lenders of McLeod Russel to restructure its outstanding debt . As tea prices soared in the last season on the back of a supply shortage, all frontline bulk tea producers reaped the benefits, including McLeod. Average auction prices for north Indian tea from January to December stood at Rs 201.87 a kg, compared with Rs 152.26 a kg in 2019. Industry sources say the good tiding could bring relief to the Khaitans who are expected to monetise assets to beat down the debt from the level of Rs 2,000 crore odd. Bringing in an outside investor is not being considered as part of the comprehensive resolution, as of now, the sources added, hoping the process may get completed by September 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
14-04-2021||Business||Centre set to invite financial bids for Air India||The Centre is set to invite financial bids for Air India as it looks to complete the sale of the troubled national carrier by September. After its assessment of the preliminary bids, the government has placed all the financial and operational details of Air India (virtual data room) for due diligence before the bidders, which include the Tatas and a consortium led by SpiceJet. The expression of Pawan Ruia has apparently been tossed out along with the overtures by the employees union. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Gill has said the government will keep the carrier running till it gets divested and there is no choice but to either privatise or close down the airline. The government is selling its entire 100 per cent stake in Air India, which has been in losses ever since its merger with domestic operator Indian Airlines in 2007. The stake sale process got delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government has extended five times the deadline to submit preliminary bids. The airline, which started as a mail carrier in 1932, will give the successful bidder control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports, as well as 900 slots at overseas airports. Besides, the bidder would get 100 per cent of low-cost arm Air India Express and 50 per cent of AISATS, which provides cargo and ground handling services in India . So far in 2020-21 (April-March), the government has provided Air India with a guarantee support of Rs 964 crore, which helped the airline to raise new working capital loans from banks. The government has also extended its existing guarantee of Rs 6,693 crore for working capital requirements. Air India at present has a fleet of 121 aircraft, of which it owns 65 planes. Subsidiary Air India Express has 25 Boeing 737, of which it owns 10. The national carrier may record around Rs 10,000 crore financial loss this fiscal year. The airline’s total debt has reduced to Rs 23,000 crore as the Centre shifted its Rs 30,000 crore working capital debt to a special purpose vehicle, AI Asset Holdings Ltd. Previous attempts to sell the airline since 2017 has not been successful. The government has sweetened the offer this time and has allowed the suitors to put their bids on enterprise value. The government will take 15 per cent of the sum, while the rest will be debt taken up  by the winning bidder. Aviation minister Puri had said he expected the bids to come in within two months. “After that it is the question of taking a decision and handing over the airline,” Puri said. "There is no choice, we either privatise or we close the airline. We run a loss of Rs 20 crore every day despite Air India making money now. Because the mismanagement has resulted in a cumulative debt of Rs 60,000 crore," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-81
