15-04-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 260 points to close above 48,000||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 260 points higher after a volatile session on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, TCS and ICICI Bank amid largely positive cues from global markets. After gyrating 877 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 259.62 points or 0.53 per cent higher at 48,803.68. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 76.65 points or 0.53 per cent to 14,581.45. TCS was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by ONGC, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Dr Reddy's, HDFC and HCL Tech. On the other hand, Infosys, Maruti, IndusInd Bank, Nestle India and Bajaj Finance were among the laggards. "Domestic equities looked to be resilient amid high volatility. Benchmark indices recovered sharply from today's low mainly led by rebound in financials and pharma indices," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Auto stocks were worst hit mainly due to wider economic restrictions imposed in Maharashtra, which contributes over 20 per cent of automobiles production of the country, he said, adding that Infosys witnessed heavy profit booking after missing the street's estimates in 4QFY21 earnings. However, strong buying was seen in other IT majors due to sustained growth prospects, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended in the red, while Seoul and Tokyo settled with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.63 per cent lower at USD 66.34 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
15-04-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 200 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index majors Infosys, ICICI Bank and M&M amid negative cues from domestic and global markets. After opening over 200 points higher, the 30-share BSE index reversed all its gains to trade 216.73 points or 0.45 per cent lower at 48,327.33. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 62.55 points or 0.43 per cent to 14,442.25. Infosys was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by M&M, IndusInd Bank, Maruti, Bajaj Finance, UltraTech Cement and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, ONGC, Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's and Kotak Bank were among the gainers. In the previous session on Tuesday, Sensex closed 660.68 points or 1.38 per cent higher at 48,544.06, and Nifty surged 194 points or 1.36 per cent to finish at 14,504.80. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 730.81 crore on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Stock exchanges remained closed on Tuesday on account of Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Jayanti. "Amidst the negative of an alarming rise in COVID-19 cases, a relief from the market perspective is that there is no large-scale lockdown," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. However, the massive restriction of activity in the economically significant state of Maharashtra is bound to have its impact on growth and earnings. The market knows this, but what is unknown is how long will this last and how quickly we can get ahead of the infection cases, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red in mid-session deals, while Seoul was trading on a positive note. Equities on Wall Street too ended on a negative note in overnight trade after Federal Reserve's Beige Book survey on economic activity pointed to a moderate pace of pick-up in economic activities to start the year with a slight uptick in inflation. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading flat at USD 66.58 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
15-04-2021||Business||Future Enterprises Ltd defaults on payment of interest on non-convertible debentures||Kishore Biyani group firm Future Enterprises Ltd has defaulted on payment of interest on non-convertible debentures (NCDs). “The company is unable to service its obligations in respect of the interest on NCDs due on April 12, 2021,” Future Enterprises said in a regulatory filing late on Tuesday night. The company had issued debentures worth Rs 300 crore and the interest payable on April 12 was Rs 15.2 crore. Future Enterprises develops, owns and leases retail infrastructure for Future Group. It handles the back-end operations of the group’s retail business. The development comes at a time Amazon and Future Group are locked in a legal tussle over the sale of the latter’s retail and wholesale business to Reliance Retail. On August 29, 2020, Future Group had announced that its retail and wholesale businesses would be sold to Reliance Retail in a Rs 24,713-crore deal. There have also been reports of Future Retail’s lenders being close to approving a debt recast plan. The plan includes a two-year moratorium on repayments though there will not be any change in the interest rate. The company owes over Rs 6,000 crore to banks. Religare Finvest Religare Enterprises on Wednesday said its arm Religare Finvest will default on Rs 100 crore NCD payment obligation later this month to subscriber Axis Bank because of financial distress caused by misappropriation of funds by former promoters and officials. Religare Finvest Limited had borrowed Rs 100 crore from Axis Bank by placing non-convertible debentures (NCDs) on a private placement basis in September 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
15-04-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel announces a new corporate structure||Bharti Airtel on Wednesday announced a new corporate structure to sharpen the company’s focus on rapidly unfolding digital opportunities. The move comes at a time players are positioning themselves beyond the core telephony offerings as they enhance digital engagement, build future streams of revenue and create brand differentiation, besides redefining themselves as a larger platform of digital services, say market watchers. Bharti Airtel said the restructuring exercise would focus on four distinct verticals — digital, India, international and infrastructure. The new structure involves Airtel Digital Limited folding into the listed entity Bharti Airtel. Moreover, the telecom business will be housed in a newly created entity — Airtel Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bharti Airtel. Bharti Airtel will now house all of the digital assets spanning Wynk Music, Airtel Xstream, Airtel Thanks, Mitra Payments platform, Airtel Ads, Airtel IQ, Airtel Secure, Airtel Cloud and all future digital products and services. Bharti Telemedia, the 100 per cent arm operating DTH services, will exist alongside Airtel Limited for now. “It is intended to eventually fold the DTH business into Airtel Limited to move towards converged services to customers,” it added. The company has approached the government to seek clarity on the licensing policy as telecom and DTH is currently regulated by the two separate ministries of communications, and information and broadcasting, respectively. Airtel Payments Bank will remain a separate entity under Bharti Airtel. All infrastructure businesses such as Nxtra and Indus Towers will remain separate entities. International subsidiaries and affiliates will also remain separate entities. “The board has approved the scheme enabling the company to file for all statutory approvals to give effect to the proposed rearrangement,” a statement said. Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Mittal said, “The new structure sets the exciting future course for Bharti Airtel and provides focus on the four distinct businesses digital, India, international and infrastructure, each, in a razor-sharp way.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
15-04-2021||Business||Chambers critical of Maharashtra closure||The lockdown in Maharashtra has evoked a mixed response: some industrialists have welcomed the state government move but chambers are sceptical. On Tuesday, the Uddhav Thackeray-led government had announced tough curfew-like restrictions on public movement over the next 15 days. It will come into effect from 8pm on April 14 and be in force till 7 am on May 1. Ahead of the announcement, well known industrialists such as Rajiv Bajaj, the managing director of Bajaj Auto, had condemned such a move, warning of disruptions across industries. Finance ministry officials said the performance of the economy in the current quarters would not be as good as the previous quarter. The regional chapters of Ficci and Assocham also spoke in the same vein as Bajaj. “We are certainly hopeful that this (restrictions) will help slow the transmission of the virus. However, the lockdown will have a deep impact on the state’s economy and Ficci Maharashtra will engage deeply with the stakeholders in the government to minimise the impact and smoothen out the implementation related issues,” Sulajja Firodia Motwani, chairperson of Ficci Maharashtra, said. She said there are concerns on both supply and demand side. And, on the supply side, many companies operating in Maharashtra are selling their products all over the country and extended disruption in  their operations will create a negative impact on their customers, she added. Industry body Assocham also said it is working with the Maharashtra government to mitigate the economic impact of its 15-day curfew, and urged all states to reach out to the most vulnerable sections of the industry, particularly in the informal sectors, with the best possible relief. On Wednesday, Sanjiv Bajaj, the managing director of Bajaj Finance, did not pass any adverse remarks against the curbs. “Thank you Maharashtra government for a balanced set of restrictions announced by the Hon. CM yesterday,” he tweeted. “The chain has to be broken,” tweeted Harsh Goenka of Ceat Tyres. “With no hospital beds and shortage of medical essentials, I welcome the Maharashtralockdown.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
15-04-2021||Business||Returns from guaranteed return life insurance plans trump fixed deposits||Returns from guaranteed return life insurance plans have trumped fixed deposits amid falling interest rates. The trend, according to the industry officials, is expected to sustain over the next 12 months. Interest rates on fixed deposits across tenors of 7-1,826 days in major public and private sector banks are in the range of 2.75-5.8 per cent. Data compiled by online insurance aggregator Policybaazar.com show that an individual of 30 years investing Rs 60,000 every year for a period of 10 years can earn a return of 5.51-6.04 per cent across guaranteed return life insurance policies offered by insurers such as HDFC Life, ICICI Prudential, Tata AIA Life, Aditya Birla Capital, Bajaj Allianz Life, Max Life and Bharti Axa Life. These products, however, are of longer tenure with premium paying terms in the range of 5-12 years and policy terms ranging between six years and 20 years. According to insurers, guaranteed income policies typically include protection as well as maturity benefits and assured returns, which could be both immediate payout or deferred payout depending on the choice and the policy. “We are seeing an increased interest for guaranteed return covers which is ideal for risk-averse individuals who are looking for a regular source of income. The falling rates on term deposits have aided the interest in these products,” said a senior executive of a private life insurer. Vivek Jain, head of investment business, Policybazaar.com, said the insurance companies which invest in long-term instruments such as government securities are able to offer better returns on relatively longer tenure policies. Moreover, with low policy rates and banks being flush with funds, the returns on fixed deposits have come down significantly. “In 2014, fixed deposits used to give a return of around 8.5 per cent. From there it has come down to around 5.4-5.5 per cent.Today we have a situation where guaranteed return products are offering a better rate than fixed deposits,” said Jain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
15-04-2021||Business||Infosys fourth quarter net profits tumble on a sequential basis||Technology giant infosys saw its fourth quarter net profits tumble on a sequential basis even as its revenues rose by a blip but trailed market estimates. India’s second biggest software services company also unveiled a Rs 9,200-crore share buyback programme that fell well short of expectations. There was, however, some consolation as Infosys  guided for a double-digit revenue growth during this fiscal. The Bangalore-based company reported a net profit of Rs 5,076 crore — an increase of 17.47 per cent over Rs 4,321 crore in the year-ago period. However, it was 2.33 per cent lower than the preceding three months. The net profit number was lower than the Rs 5,100-5,250 crore expected by analysts. Revenues during the fourth quarter rose just 1.5 per cent sequentially to Rs 26,311 crore but was higher by 13.1 per cent from Rs 23,267 crore reported in the fourth quarter of 2019-20. In dollar terms, it stood at $3,613 million, which was lower than the $3,646 million expected by brokerages such as Reliance Securities. However, these disappointments were made up by a robust order book which placed it on a strong foundation for the current fiscal. Large deal wins stood at $2.1 per cent during the fourth quarter and for the entire year, it was at $14 billion. With clients across industries continuing to bet on technology, Infosys said it expects revenues in constant currency terms to rise 12-14 per cent in 2021-22, which came in line with analysts’ estimates. There was no good news on the operating margin front as Infosys guided for a 22-24 per cent rise for the current fiscal, which was lower than the 24.5 per cent recorded in the fourth quarter of 2020-21. Moreover, attrition jumped to 15.2 per cent from 10 per cent in the preceding quarter. At a press conference, the top management of Infosys said there are certain tailwinds on costs which could impact operating margins. The company expects to give out salary hikes in July after rolling out increments in January this year. Moreover, certain other costs such as travel are expected to inch up for the company. “Our intense focus on client relevance, growing our digital portfolio with differentiated capabilities and empowering employees have helped us emerge as a preferred partner-of-choice for our global clients,’’ CEO and MD Salil Parekh said. While digital services contributed 51.5 per cent of revenues during the quarter, all verticals barring communications showed growth during the period. Financial services reported a 15.6 per cent constant currency growth over last year, while it stood at 18.3 per cent for life sciences and 15.5 per cent for high-tech. Analysts do not rule out the possibility of the Infosys stock opening lower in Thursday’s trade. Incidentally, the Infosys ADR was trading more than 3.50 per cent lower after the results were announced. Infosys has announced a Rs 9,200 crore ($1.2 billion) share buy back which fell short of Street expectations. The expectation in some circles was that it would announce a Rs 10,000-12,000 crore share re-purchase programme. Nomura had anticipated that the company Infosys will announce a $1.3-1.9 billion plan at a maximum price of Rs 1,650 per share. Infosys will buy back shares from the open market at a price of up to Rs 1,750 per share. For 2020-21, the board recommended a final dividend of Rs 15 per share. Together with the interim dividend of Rs 12 per share, the total dividend per share for 2020-21 will be Rs 27, which is a 54 per cent increase over the previous fiscal. With this, the company has announced total dividend of Rs 11,500 crore for 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-80
