16-04-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally higher||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally higher after a volatile session on Friday amid positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 28.35 points or 0.06 per cent higher at 48,832.03. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 36.40 points or 0.25 per cent to 14,617.85. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by UltraTech Cement, ONGC, Sun Pharma, HCL Tech and Nestle India. On the other hand, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance, L&T, TCS, Infosys and Reliance Industries were among the laggards. A continued surge in second wave of COVID-19 cases in the country, which already crossed 2 lakh daily cases, has certainly posed a risk to sustainability of rebound of earnings momentum, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. While the government's strong effort to expedite vaccination progress and absence of complete lockdown in Maharashtra and Delhi offered some comfort to equities, the risk of other states taking steps of wider economic restrictions continues to persist, which may continue to weigh on investors' sentiments in the near term, he noted. "Unlike last year, states seem to be reluctant this time for complete lockdown due to wider ramification on economic activities. "Further, current level of mobility restrictions imposed at different states and government's focus to improve supply of vaccine in the country should be helpful to contain outbreak in coming weeks and essentially should not lead to large economic damage," he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.40 per cent higher at USD 67.21 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
16-04-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex advanced over 150 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Asian Paints and HCL Tech amid largely positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 160.43 points or 0.33 per cent higher at 48,964.11. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 63.35 points or 0.43 per cent to 14,644.80. UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, HCL Tech, HDFC, Tech Mahindra and M&M. On the other hand, ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance and Axis Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 259.62 points or 0.53 per cent higher at 48,803.68, and Nifty advanced 76.65 points or 0.53 per cent to 14,581.45. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 979.70 crore on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. "A continued surge in the second wave of COVID-19 cases in the country, which already crossed 2 lakh daily cases, has certainly dented investors' sentiments. "However, the government's strong effort to expedite vaccination progress in the country by allowing multinational vaccines in domestic markets and absence of complete lockdown in Maharashtra and Delhi offered some comfort to equities," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Equities on Wall Street too ended with gains in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading flat at USD 66.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
16-04-2021||Business||Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry settles civic tax dispute||Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry (BCC&I) has put an end to the three-and-half decade long tax dispute with Calcutta Municipal Corporation, clearing the air of uncertainty over the oldest business chamber in the country. BCC&I, which is owner of the iconic Royal Exchange building at Dalhousie, dipped into its internal reserves and arranged special funding from external sources to pay off Rs 9.61 crore in municipal taxes. The chamber took advantage of the waiver scheme announced by the Bengal government to clear the dues. Under the scheme, a taxpayer could get a 100 per cent waiver on penalty and interest, leaving them with the option to pay only the outstanding principal amount. The scheme was operational till March 31. BCC&I owed Rs 30 crore to CMC in unpaid taxes, including penalty and interest. Last year, Calcutta High Court had rejected the chamber’s plea seeking relief from the payment of municipal taxes. The chamber, formed in 1853, had contested CMC’s tax claim on the property which was built in 1919 on the same premises where Lord Richard Clive, the first governor general of India, used to live. CMC and the chamber have been sparring on municipal tax claims since 1987. The property, a fine illustration of the ionic order of Grecian architecture with long columns holding the roof, was declared a heritage property in 2004. “The Bengal Chamber has resolved its property taxation matter with CMC in respect of its heritage Royal Exchange premises. The matter remained unresolved for over 30 years and despite possessing requisite tax clearances from CMC, the issue had sustained for decades,” said Deb A. Mukherjee, president of BCC&I. BCC&I is a not-for-profit organisation which earns revenue from membership fees, seminars, workshops and meetings, sponsorships and consultancy services. It also earns rent by letting out a part of the property. Apart from two banks on the ground floor, the tenants include the eastern region office of CII, Indian Tea Association and Indian Jute Mills Association. Even though BCC&I had managed the last fiscal well by cutting down cost, given the pandemic dried out a lucrative revenue stream of physical meetings, paying off CMC came at an ‘immense cost,’ it said. “The chamber has arranged for special funding and settled the entire property tax burden with the support of and in continuous dialogue with CMC while looking forward to working together with CMC in maintaining preserving and developing its own heritage property and that of the city in the evolving urban sustainability sphere,” Mukherjee added. The dispute CMC, under the mayorship of Trinamul Congress leader Subrata Mukherjee, accorded heritage status to the building, which has about 50,000 square foot built up space, on June 2, 2004. Thereafter, the corporation and the chamber decided to enter into an understanding to promote and develop Calcutta and Bengal. A letter dated May 6, 2005 from the municipal commissioner stated that in view of the public-private partnership arrangement between the chamber and corporation, BCC&I would be exempted from paying municipal tax. A further communication from the commissioner on the same day noted a draft PPP agreement has been approved. The MoU was later signed by the chamber and sent to the corporation where it remained. Calcutta High Court held that there was no final agreement which the petitioner can enforce in a court of law. Under Section 425K of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation Act, CMC can exempt the owner of a heritage property from payment of tax or fees. However, a specific agreement must be forged for that. Now that the tax dispute is behind it, the chamber may make a fresh attempt to get tax exemption. BCC&I spends close to Rs 90 lakh a year to maintain the property. While a decision is likely to be taken up when a new board is in place after the municipal election, the chamber may also seek a relook at the valuation of the property, which it believes is significantly less that what has been ascribed now by the civic authority. Glorious past Apart from Lord Clive, the other notable resident on the premise was Philip Francis, who fought the famous duel with Warren Hastings. Oriental Bank Corporation bought the premise in 1842 and occupied it till 1893. BCC&I bought the premise from the bank, pulled down the building later and constructed the premise as seen today. Formed in 1833 by 25 merchants, the Chamber by then required a much bigger space for sprawling activities and a large number of members. The Chamber commented and provided input on several legislations of pre-independent India, including Indian Electricity Bill, 1902, Life Assurance Legislation, 1910, Customs Act among many others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||Facebook signs deal with CleanMax to source renewable energy||Facebook has signed a deal with Warburg Pincus-backed CleanMax to source renewable energy. The deal is part of the environmental sustainability efforts of the US-based technology firm. The collaboration includes a 32-megawatt wind power project located in Karnataka and is part of a larger portfolio of wind and solar projects that the two companies are together working on to supply renewable power into India’s electrical grid, a joint statement said. This will be followed in other states where the tech major is operational. About half of the project capacity has been commissioned and is already generating power. CleanMax will operate the projects, while Facebook will buy power off the grid using environmental attribute certificates. Facebook’s head of renewable energy, Urvi Parekh, told Reuters that the company does not own the power plants but signs long-term power purchase agreements with the renewable energy companies. This helps the projects secure requisite financing. “This partnership with CleanMax will enable new solar and wind power to be generated in the near future, contributing to the decarbonisation of Indian electrical grid,” Parekh said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||Amazon announces $250-million venture fund for India||Amazon.com Inc on Thursday announced a $250-million venture fund for India, focused on bringing the country’s small businesses online, as the company comes under fire from local retailers. The new fund will focus on the digitisation of small and medium businesses, innovation in agri-tech and health tech, the company said. “We are very passionate about trying to enable acceleration of small and medium-sized businesses, in fuelling innovation and the economy in India,” the company’s incoming CEO Andy Jassy said at Amazon India’s event “Smbhav”. Jassy, who oversees Amazon’s fast-growing cloud computing business, will take over as CEO from founder Jeff Bezos later this year. Cleartrip buy Walmart-owned Flipkart on Thursday said it will acquire Cleartrip, an online travel technology company. Cleartrip operations will be acquired by Flipkart and Cleartrip will continue to operate as a separate brand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||Wipro meets Street estimates, posts 27.8 per cent growth in net profit||Wipro on Thursday met Street estimates when it posted a 27.8 per cent growth in net profit for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021. Net profits of the IT services firm rose to Rs 2,972 crore from Rs 2,326 crore in the same period of the previous fiscal. Companies such as Wipro have been reaping the benefits of enterprises across industries and geographies investing in technology amid the pandemic. Wipro said during the quarter, it continued the momentum of winning large deals. It closed 12 large deals resulting in a total contract value of $1.4 billion. Given the positive business environment, Wipro saw its revenues rising to Rs 16,245 crore, a rise of 3.4 per cent over Rs 15,711 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Its IT services revenue stood at $2.15 billion, a growth of 3.9 per cent over the preceding quarter and 3.8 per cent from the year-ago period. Wipro forecast that revenues from its IT services business will be in the range of $2,195-2,238 million during the quarter. This translates to a sequential growth of 2-4 per cent. “We delivered a third consistent quarter of strong revenue growth, deal wins and operating margins. We also announced our largest ever acquisition of Capco that will bolster our global financial services sector. We are excited with this wave of business momentum that we are witnessing. All key markets are now growing on year on year basis and this provides us a solid foundation to build on next year growth rates,” Thierry Delaporte, CEO and managing director, said while commenting on the results. The quarter saw operating margins at Wipro coming at 21 per cent which marks a sequential 70 basis points over 21.7 per cent in the previous three months. For the fiscal, operating margins stood at 20.3 per cent, up from 18.1 per cent in the previous year. In terms of sectors, banking, financial services & insurance or BFSI showed a growth of 30.5 per cent during the quarter. Other verticals like consumer, health, energy, technology and manufacturing also witnessed growth of upto 17 per cent. During the quarter, the company concluded the buyback of 23.75 crore shares for an aggregate amount of Rs 9500 crore billion ($1.3 billion), excluding buyback tax. For the year ended March 31, 2021, Wipro had net cash of around Rs 26,217 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||Wholesale price inflation zooms to eight-year high of 7.39 per cent||The wholesale price inflation zoomed to an eight-year high of 7.39 per cent on rising crude and commodity prices. Economists expect inflation to touch double digits in the near term, which will dim the prospects of any policy rate cut, as economic uncertainty looms large amid a second wave of coronavirus pandemic engulfing the country. “The annual rate of inflation stood at 7.39 per cent (provisional) for the month of March 2021 over March 2020,” the commerce and industry ministry said. Such a high level of WPI was last recorded in October 2012, when inflation was 7.4 per cent. This is the third straight month of up-tick seen in the wholesale price index (WPI) based inflation. Wholesale inflation rose to 7.4 per cent in March against 4.17 per cent in February and 2.51 per cent in January, data showed. Its retail price counterpart — the consumer price index - also saw inflation surging to a four-month high of 5.03 per cent in March on the back of a sharp rise in the food and core segment. The low base of March last year, when data was computed with a low response rate because of the nationwide lockdown, contributed to a spike in inflation in March 2021. This is the third straight month of up-tick seen in the wholesale price index (WPI) based inflation. “WPI inflation has printed much higher than our expectation of 6.1 per cent, with faster than anticipated upticks in inflation of core items and fuel. We expect the headline and core WPI to rise further over the next two months, peaking at about 11.0-11.5 per cent and 8-8.5 per cent, respectively, in May 2021,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra Ratings. She said, “The expected trajectory of WPI inflation, and its partial transmission to CPI inflation going ahead, supports our view that there is negligible space for rate cuts to support growth, in spite of the growing uncertainty related to the surge in Covid-19 cases, localised restrictions and emerging concerns regarding migrants returning to the hinterland.” Wholesale inflation in primary articles has risen to 6.4 per cent in March 2021 compared with 2.2 per cent in March 2020. Inflation in the food group rose by 3.3 per cent in March 2021 compared with 1.4 per cent in February 2021 and 4.6 per cent in the corresponding month last year on account of higher prices of pulses  and fruits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||Plea in Supreme Court seeks fresh stimulus for MSMEs||A company on Thursday moved the Supreme Court, seeking fresh stimulus for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and a plea to direct the RBI to issue guidelines to provide interim relief because of the sudden outbreak of a second wave of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown. The plea has been filed by Maharashtra-based Amaltas Apparel and Accessories Pvt Ltd through advocate Abhigya but is yet to be placed before the apex court or to be admitted by it. According to the petitioner, the earlier circular issued by the RBI last year to extend  the moratorium on all loans till August 31, 2020 came as a huge relief to such entities as it otherwise would have become a huge financial burden for the borrowers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||Citibank to exit the consumer banking business in India||Citibank, the largest foreign lender in India by assets and profits, is exiting the consumer banking business in the country as part of a global strategic review. The consumer banking business comprises credit cards, retail banking, home loans and wealth management. However, India is not the only country where the lender will say goodbye to retail banking. The lender will exit 12 other nations — China, Australia, Bahrain, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Poland, Russia, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. Incidentally, this is not the first time that the banking major is announcing such a big exit. Back in 2014, it had announced its intention to leave consumer franchises in 11 markets that included Japan, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Guam, Guatemala, Hungary, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru and Korea. Citi on Thursday said the review will allow it to direct investments and resources to the businesses where it has the greatest scale and growth potential. It has now decided to focus its global consumer bank presence in Asia and EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) on four wealth centers — Singapore, Hong Kong, the UAE and London. Citigroup CEO Jane Fraser said that the decision was taken as the bank did not have enough scale to compete effectively in these markets. “We believe our capital, investment dollars and other resources are better deployed against higher returning opportunities in wealth management and institutional businesses in Asia,’’ Fraser added. Citi had entered India in 1902 and started the consumer banking business in 1985. It has 35 branches in the country and employs around 4,000 people in the consumer banking business. Following the exit from consumer banking, Citi will focus on the institutional business in India where it has a strong presence across various segments. Citi India is amongst the largest commercial banking units focussed on mid-sized corporates across its global operations. It is also a dominant player in investment banking. Further, it has the maximum number of MNC clients in India within corporate banking. It is also a major player in custodial services. All these businesses will continue in India. While the exact nature of the exit from India is yet to be ascertained, the key focus will be on its credit card business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||RBI completes first tranche of bond purchases under G-SAP 1.0||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday completed its first tranche of bond purchases under the G-sec acquisition programme, or G-SAP 1.0. However, its exercise did not have the desired impact on the markets with yields on the benchmark 10-year security rising by 10 basis points to 6.12 per cent — the highest in a week. Under G-SAP, the central bank had said it will commit upfront to a specific amount of open market purchase of government securities to enable a stable and orderly evolution of the yield curve amid a huge market borrowing by the government. This is for the first time that the central bank is committing its balance sheet to the conduct of monetary policy. The central bank had announced that it will purchase bonds worth Rs 1 lakh crore in the current quarter. Within this, the first purchase for an aggregate amount of Rs 25,000 crore under G-SAP 1.0 was conducted on Thursday. As part of the purchase, the RBI purchased five securities — 4.48 per cent GS 2023, 5.15 per cent GS 2025, 6.79 per cent GS 2027, the benchmark 5.85 per cent GS 2030 and 6.22 per cent GS 2035. Against the notified amount of Rs 25,000 crore for all these bonds, the amount offered stood at Rs 1,01,671 crore. However, its purchase of the 10-year paper left much to be desired. The RBI accepted only 19 offers of Rs 7,511 crore (total amount offered were at Rs 21,655 crore) at a cut-off yield of 6.03 per cent. Bond markets were expecting the RBI to purchase Rs 15,000 crore of these bonds. Amid the huge government borrowing of Rs 12 lakh crore in this fiscal, the RBI has been looking to cool down long-term bond yields. However, fears of higher inflation has thwarted its efforts in this direction. The market’s apprehensions over the inflation front were confirmed again on Thursday when the wholesale price inflation (WPI) shot up to an eight-year high of 7.39 per cent in March. This news along with the lower amount accepted by the RBI for the 10-year bond led to yields on this benchmark paper rising to 6.12 per cent. Regulatory authority The RBI has set up the second Regulatory Review Authority (RRA 2.0) to streamline regulations and reduce the compliance burden of regulated entities. Deputy governor M. Rajeshwar Rao has been appointed as the Regulations Review Authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
16-04-2021||Business||Government mulls more stimulus options||The government is not ruling out the option of coming out with another round of stimulus measures focused on small and medium enterprises and helping out the poor and vulnerable sections of society as it continues to assess the economic impact of the spurt in the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Sources said all possible measures were being discussed with finance ministry officials coordinating and assessing the spurt in the pandemic and its impact with PMO officials being kept in the loop. The finance ministry is discussing the economic impact with the ministries of commerce, labour, MSME, social justice and agriculture. The ministry is also in touch with the RBI. The government does not want any large-scale disruptions to happen because of the restrictions imposed by different states and the lockdown announced by some state governments. On Tuesday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman made it clear that the government would not go for lockdowns in a big way and only resort to local containment. Sources indicated the focus of the package could be to provide relief to the poor if the second wave of the pandemic disrupts their livelihood and also pre-empt large scale migration like last year. The possibility of increased funding for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme could also be considered, they said. Union Budget 2021-22 had allocated only Rs 73,000-crore under MGNREGS, a dip of 34.5 per cent compared with 2020-21, which will suffice to fund only around 260 crore person days of work. For 2020-21, the government had allocated Rs 61,500 crore (BE) to fund the MG-NREGS, but later raised the allocation in two tranches to Rs 111,500 crore. The government announced an economic stimulus-cum-relief package between March 26 and May 17 last year to jump start recovery after strict Covid-19 curbs severely hit business activity. While Maharashtra has announced lockdown from Wednesday, more than 10 states including Delhi, Punjab and Haryana have imposed night curfew or weekend curbs which businesses said have already hit transportation and raw material supplies. Brake on Chetak Within 48 hours of re-opening bookings for its electric scooter Chetak, Bajaj Auto on Thursday put the brakes as it stopped taking bookings due to supply chain uncertainties. “A large number of confirmed orders were placed by customers requiring the company to cease acceptance of bookings within 48 hours. The company will review the supply situation and announce the next round of booking opportunity,” Bajaj Auto said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-79
