17-04-2021||Business||Quess Corp to buy Rs 208 crore stake in Conneqt Business Solutions from Tata Sons||Business service provider Quess Corp on Friday said it will acquire the remaining 30 per cent equity stake in Conneqt Business Solutions from Tata Sons for Rs 208 crore. With this transaction, Conneqt will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quess, the company added. “This will accelerate Conneqt’s transition to non-voice services,” said Suraj Moraje, group CEO and managing director of Quess Corp. Quess had acquired 51 per cent of Conneqt in November 2017, and further increased its stake in Conneqt from 51 per cent to 70 per cent in May 2019, via infusion of primary capital, which was used to fund the acquisition of Allsec Technologies Ltd. Quess Corp said this investment will provide it full and complete ownership over Conneqt, allowing it to better realise synergies between its various divisions, Conneqt and Allsec. It will also strengthen Quess’s position in the IT/ITES space, the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-04-2021||Business||Sebi issues notice to Fortis subsidiary in funds diversion case||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has issued a notice to Escorts Heart Institute and Research Center Ltd — a Fortis Healthcare subsidiary — in a case arising from the allegations of fund diversion by the erstwhile promoters. “Sebi has issued a notice under Rule 4 of Sebi (Procedure for holding inquiry and imposing penalties) Rules, 1995 read with Section 15-I of Sebi Act, 1992 in the matter of Fortis Healthcare Ltd to, among others, Escorts Heart Institute and Research Center Ltd (EHIRCL),” Fortis Healthcare said in a regulatory filing on Friday. Fortis Healthcare added that this notice was received on Friday. “The management and board of the company that was newly constituted after NTK Ventures Pte Ltd (a wholly-owned subsidiary of IHH Healthcare Berhad) became promoters of the company, are evaluating the notice received by EHIRCL, in consultation with its legal advisors,” Fortis Healthcare added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-04-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India rejects all bids for 10-year bonds||The Reserve Bank of India’s first series of bond purchase under its G-Sec acquistion programme (G-SAP 1.0) on Thursday failed to cool down bond yields, raising questions over the efficacy of the programme. On Friday, the RBI rejected all the bids received at an auction of the benchmark 10 year paper. Over the past few weeks, the bond markets and the central bank have been engaged in a tussle of sorts with the former seeking higher yields whereas the RBI has been keen to cap the 10 year benchmark bond at around 6 per cent. However, factors such as rising inflation and apprehensions over the huge market borrowing from the government have not yielded much success to the RBI in cooling down yields. On Friday, auctions were conducted for the 5.85 per cent GS 2030, the 3.96 per cent GS 2022 and 6.76 er cent GS 2061. Among them, the notified amount for the benchmark 2030 bond was for Rs 14,000 crore. While the RBI received bids for over Rs 28,000 crore, it did not accept any one of them which were made at the higher rates. However, the auction of the other two papers saw the government borrowing Rs 5,090 crore from the 2022 bond and over Rs 6,230 crore from the 2061 bond. Bond market circles are of the view that the RBI should either enhance its level of support to the market via bond purchases or allow the markets to find its level. On Thursday, yields on the benchmark 10 year bond had risen to 6.12 per cent from the previous level of 6.01 per cent despite the first round of its G-SAP 1.0 of Rs 25,000 crore. In Friday’s trading, yields on the bond rose further to 6.17 per cent during intra-day trades. However, it settled lower at 6.08 per cent Under the G-SAP 1.0 programme, the RBI had said that it will commit upfront to a specific amount of open market purchases of government securities with a view to enabling a stable and orderly evolution of the yield curve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-04-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki hikes select model prices by up to Rs 22,500 ||Maruti Suzuki on Friday hiked prices on select models by up to Rs 22,500 with immediate effect to partially offset the impact of a rise in input costs. Barring the Celerio and the Swift, all the models of the company will be dearer, industry officials said. The company sells various models ranging from the Alto to the S-Cross, priced between Rs 2.99 lakh and Rs 12.39 lakh (ex-showroom Delhi). “The weighted average price increase in ex-showroom prices (Delhi) across models is 1.6 per cent. The new prices are effective from April 16, 2021,” Maruti said. The carmaker retails 14 models, five of which are sold through Nexa showrooms. “It has become imperative for the company to pass on some impact of the additional cost to customers through a price increase in April 2021,” it added. The price rise will vary for different models, it added. A steady rise in prices of global commodity and raw materials such as steel has increased costs for original equipment manufacturers. There is also a shortage of semiconductors in the global market and has also resulted in higher costs for the auto manufacturing industry. The Maruti Suzuki share closed at Rs 6,633, down Rs 11.25, or 0.17 per cent, on Friday on the BSE. It touched a high of Rs 6,606.05 and a low of Rs 6,784.85 during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-04-2021||Business||Foreign and private sector lenders eye Citi’s consumer banking franchise: Analysts||Foreign and private sector lenders may vie for the consumer banking franchise of Citi India, particularly credit cards, analysts said. On Thursday, Citbank said it would exit the consumer banking business in India and 12 other countries. The consumer banking business covers credit cards, retail banking, home loans and wealth management. Analysts said the business could generate interest from both big and small private sector banks apart from foreign lenders such as StanChart and HSBC who would be keen to expand their presence through such an acquisition. Last year, Lakshmi Vilas Bank merged itself with DBS Bank India Limited, the wholly owned subsidiary of Singapore’s DBS Group. The acquisition boosted DBS’s base of retail and SME customers. According to the analysts at Jefferies, Citi India has $4.1 billion in retail assets. In India’s retail segment, Citi has built a stronger presence in credit cards where it has a 6 per cent share of total spends. Besides, 40 per cent of its retail loan exposures are in housing. “Citi’s exit from India (form and timing awaited) will be an opportunity for players in India to either acquire the existing stock of clients and/or gain market share in segments like credit cards, deposits and retail loans.” Jefferies said. “Private banks and credit card companies like SBI Cards can be key beneficiaries of market share gains in the credit card segment. Some smaller private banks might be interested buyers of the India portfolio as they are looking to scale-up in the segment. Foreign banks might also look to expand presence.’’ For the year ended March 31, 2020, Citi India had posted a net profit of Rs 4,912 crore, up from Rs 4,185 crore in the previous financial year. Further, its asset quality was stable with net non-performing assets standing at 0.6 per cent. In the year, Citibank India served 2.9 million retail customers with 1.2 million bank accounts and 2.2 million credit card accounts. The lender then had close to 6 per cent market share of retail credit card spends in the country, while average spends per card was 1.4 times higher than the industry average. A report from Macquarie Research said that the bank’s credit card base has grown at a compounded annual growth rate of 1.6 per cent over the last 10 years, lower than the Indian credit card market. Its analysts added that given Citi India’s mix of premium cards, there could be a lot of interest among large players such as SBI Cards, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank and from others such as IndusInd Bank, RBL Bank, IDFC First Bank and DBS Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-04-2021||Business||SC issues norms for speedy disposal of cheque bounce cases, asks Centre to amend laws||A five-judge constitution bench of the Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to consider amending the law dealing  with cheque bounce disputes to allow the clubbing of cases against a person into a single trial to be decided  within 12 months. The court said there was a “humongous pendency” of complaints under section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. A preliminary report submitted by the amici curiae appointed by the court — Siddharth Luthra and K. Parameshar — in October last year said that there were 35.16 lakh cases pending in various courts under section 138 of the NI Act out of 2.31 crore criminal cases in the country. The criminal case that prompted the court to register a suo motu criminal writ petition captioned “Expeditious trial of cases under section 138 of the NI Act 1881” arose from  the dishonour of two cheques for an amount of Rs 1.7 lakh that has been pending for 16 years. The apex court said magistrates can no longer exercise powers under Section 258 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to stop proceedings in cheque bounce cases under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. The magistrates need to record reasons before converting a trial to a summons trial from a summary one. Summary trials refer to cases where the magistrate is not required to frame charges against the accused and can dispose of the cases in a quick manner without the elaborate requirement needed in  a regular trial. In a case tried summarily under Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), if the accused does not plead guilty, it is sufficient for a magistrate to record evidence and deliver a judgment instantly. The Supreme Court said magistrates shall hold inquiry before issuing summons to the accused who resides beyond the territorial jurisdiction of the court. Evidence of witnesses on behalf of the complainant shall be permitted to be taken on affidavit, the apex court said. In suitable cases, the magistrate can restrict the inquiry to the examination of documents without insisting on examination of witnesses. The court said that the issues that it had not dealt with would be considered by a committee headed by Justice R.C. Chavan, former judge of the Bombay High Court. On March 10, the top court had constituted the committee to submit a report in three months specifying the steps to be taken for early disposal of cheque bounce cases across the country. It said a three-judge bench would now take up the suo motu matter on ensuring early disposal of cheque bounce cases after eight weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-04-2021||Business||State Bank of India proposes changes to certain saving schemes||The research wing of the State Bank of India has proposed radical changes to certain saving schemes amid a rising share of the senior citizen population, falling interest rates and lack of comprehensive social security cover in India. In its Ecowrap report, the SBI researchers said that as a first step, the government ought to offer a full tax rebate on interest earned on Senior Citizens' Savings Scheme. If that isn't possible, the rebate could be capped at a certain threshold. “Under SCSS, a senior citizen can deposit Rs 15 lakh and the current interest rate is 7.4 per cent. However, the interest on SCSS is fully taxable. The February 2020 outstanding under SCSS was Rs 73,725 crore,” the report said, adding that a full tax rebate will have nominal impact on the exchequer. Second, introducing an age wise interest rate structure with rates linked to long term bank deposit rates till a certain age group, and offering higher than market rate over that age group. This could ensure a lower lending rate structure, adequate returns for senior citizens, lower interest expenditure and an alternative to floating rate deposits. Third, the removal of the 15 year lock in period of Public Provident Fund Scheme. “As small savings rates are adjusted in every quarter, the government should ideally remove the 15 year lock in period for PPF and give the investors the option to withdraw their money within a stipulated time,” the report said. PPF scheme allows scope of partial withdrawal subject to certain conditions. The share of individuals above 60 years in the total population is estimated to increase from 8.6 per cent in 2011 to 15.9 per cent in 2041. In absolute numbers, the projection is that the senior citizen population would go up to 23.9 crore by 2041 from 10.4 crore in 2011. This poses a challenge for the policymakers as unlike developed countries, India is fiscally constrained to provide a comprehensive social security cover to its senior citizens. Small savings are still a preferred option among many investors, including seniors, particularly in states with low per capita income such as Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bihar. The government had decided to withdraw steep cuts in small savings amid ongoing assembly elections in certain states, including Bengal which commands the highest share in small savings collections in the country. “As the small savings rates are benchmarked with 10 year Gsec, the changes in rates was imperative as 10 year Gsec yield has been reduced by 37 basis points to 6.05 per cent (average Q4FY21) from 6.42 per cent (average Q4FY20),” the report said adding that the government’s decision to hold back a rate cut will reduce Covid19 burden on the people. The report added that because of rigidity in small savings rate, the divergence between bank deposit rates and small savings rates have increased leading to the prospect of increasing inflow into these schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
17-04-2021||Business||IMD predicts normal rainfall for India in 2021||India’s 2021 monsoon rainfall will be normal, the India Meteorological Department predicted on Friday, stirring optimism among crop researchers and economists amid lingering uncertainty posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and its fallout. The quantum of monsoon rainfall during the June-September season is likely to be 98 per cent of the long-period average, the IMD said, forecasting a 40 per cent probability and a third straight year of normal rainfall. Meteorologists label rainfall in the range of 96 to 104 per cent as normal. Economists said good rainfall would help curb food inflation, boost rural income, and push overall demand for agricultural products and consumer durables. But both crop meteorologists and economists cautioned that the geographic spread of the rainfall will determine its impact. “Our analysis shows the maximum probability of 40 per cent for a normal monsoon,” said Madhavan Rajeevan, a senior meteorologist and earth sciences secretary. “This will be good for the country, this will help agricultural output.” The monsoon is crucial for the country as around 60 per cent of about 1.3 billion people depend directly or indirectly on agriculture, which accounts for about 18 per cent of the national economy. A good monsoon would bolster rural gross domestic product, but appropriate spread, especially in the rain-fed regions that rely significantly on the seasonal rainfall, would be critical for crop output. “How the monsoon behaves in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand which have relatively lower irrigation cover will determine how much the monsoon would help the country’s agricultural growth,” said D.K. Joshi, chief economist at Crisil, a rating agency. “A normal pattern of rainfall would help rein in food inflation, although the global trends in prices of edible oil and domestic demand-supply disruptions for perishable items such as vegetables, will play a critical role,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist with ICRA, another rating agency. The IMD, introducing the spatial distribution of rainfall as an added feature in its 2021 long-range forecast, has predicted that parts of Bengal, Haryana, eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Odisha are likely to receive below normal rainfall. “These states would need to prepare a contingency plan to take care of less than normal rainfall,” said Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist at the India Ratings & Research. “But good rainfall will help stable rural demand which is struggling under the shadow of Covid-19,” Pant said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-78
