18-04-2021||Business||Government announces incentive of 4-6 per cent to AC and LED lights manufacturers||The government has notified an incentive of 4-6 per cent under the production linked incentive scheme for air conditioners and LED lights for a period of five years. The selection of companies for the incentives would be done to support manufacturing of components which are not made in India at present. The applicant will have to fulfil both criteria of cumulative incremental investment in plant and machinery as well as incremental sales over the base year in that respective year to be eligible for the PLI scheme. The first year of investment will be 2021-22 and the first year of incremental sale will be 2022-23. Actual disbursement of PLI for a particular year will be subsequent to that year, the notification by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade said. Mere assembly of finished goods would not be incentivised and companies investing in basic/core components would get a higher priority. The Empowered Group of Secretaries chaired by the cabinet secretary will monitor the PLI scheme, undertake a periodic review of the outgo under the scheme, ensure uniformity of all PLIs and take appropriate action to ensure that the expenditure is within the prescribed outlay. The group will be empowered to make any changes in the modalities of the scheme within the overall financial outlay of Rs 6,238 crore. The incentive per beneficiary will be applicable on incremental sales (net of taxes) of manufactured goods (as distinct from traded goods) over the base year (2019-20) subject to ceilings. “Mere assembly of finished goods shall not be incentivised. Selection of companies for the scheme shall be done so as to incentivise manufacturing of components or subassemblies which are not manufactured in India with sufficient capacity,” it said. Support under the scheme will be provided to companies/entities engaged in manufacturing of components of ACs (copper tubes, aluminium foil and compressors) and LED lights (LED chip packaging, resisters, ICs, and fuses). Enlisting the eligibility criteria to avail of the benefits under the PLI scheme, the notification said incentives would be provided to companies making brownfield (existing facility) or greenfield (new) investments for the manufacturing. “One entity may apply for one target segment only. However, separate group companies may apply for different target segments. Further, sales by entities to their group companies should be at an arm’s length price as those to outside group companies,” it added. The scheme proposes a financial incentive to boost domestic manufacturing and attract large investments in the white goods manufacturing value chain. The PLI scheme for White Goods (PLIWG) proposes a financial incentive to boost domestic manufacturing and attract large investments in the White Goods manufacturing value chain. Its prime objectives include removing sectoral disabilities, creating economies of scale, enhancing exports, creating a robust component ecosystem and employment generation. Companies investing in basic/core components shall have a higher priority. Also, within a target segment, ‘large investment’ shall have a higher priority over ‘normal investment’. The actual number of beneficiaries within a target segment shall be decided on the basis of the response of the industry. Companies meeting the prequalification criteria for different target segments will be eligible to participate in the Scheme. Incentives shall be open to companies making brown field or green field Investments. Thresholds of cumulative incremental investment and incremental sales of manufactured goods over the base year would have to be met for claiming incentives. An entity availing themselves of the benefits under any other PLI Scheme of the Centre will not be eligible under this scheme for the same products but the entity may take benefits under other applicable schemes of the Union government or schemes of state governments. According to the government, it is estimated that over the period of five years, the PLI scheme will lead to incremental investment of Rs 7,920 crore, incremental production worth Rs 1.68 lakh crore, exports worth Rs 64,400 crore, earn direct and indirect revenues of Rs 49,300 crore and create additional four lakh direct and indirect employment opportunities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-04-2021||Business||HDFC Bank Q4 net profit rises 18 per cent, misses estimates||HDFC Bank on Saturday fell short of Street estimates as it reported an 18.17 per cent growth in net profit for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021. The country’s largest private sector lender posted a net profit of Rs 8,186.51 crore compared with Rs 6,927.69 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts had expected the lender to report a net profit growth of around 21 per cent during the period. This came as the net interest income (NII-interest earned less interest paid) grew 12.6 per cent to Rs 17,120.2 crore against Rs 15,204.1 crore in the year-ago period. This jump was driven by a growth in advances of 14 per cent and a net interest margin of 4.2 per cent. This was lower than the 15 per cent growth in NII recorded during the preceding three months. However, other income grew around 26 per cent to Rs 7,593.9 crore from Rs 6,032.6 crore in the corresponding quarter ended March 31, 2020. Of this, fees and commissions at Rs 5,023.3 crore showed an almost 20 per cent increase over the same period last year. HDFC Bank is the first in the sector to report its scorecard for the year ended March 31, 2021. However, in what would come as a disappointment to its shareholders, HDFC Bank did not announce any dividend for the year. The bank blamed this on the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic even as it also referred to an RBI circular issued in December last year. “Given that the current second wave has significantly increased the number of Covid-19 cases in India and the uncertainty remains, the board of directors of the bank, at its meeting held on April 17, has considered it prudent to not propose dividend for the financial year ended March 31, 2021,’’ the bank said. In December last year, the banking regulator had said that lenders should continue to conserve capital to support the economy and absorb losses. It had then said that banks should not make any dividend payment on equity shares from the profits pertaining to the financial year ended March 31, 2020. However, the Reserve Bank of India  has not explicitly barred banks from declaring dividends for 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-04-2021||Business||Glenmark Pharma arm files papers for IPO with Sebi||Glenmark Pharmaceuticals on Saturday said its wholly-owned arm Glenmark Life Sciences has filed preliminary papers for an initial public offer with Sebi. The offer comprises fresh issue of shares worth up to Rs 1,160 crore and an offer for sale of up to 73,05,245 equity shares of Rs 2 each of Glenmark Life Sciences, by Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, the filing said. The IPO will be subject to market conditions and approvals. Pharma exports from India witnessed an over 18 per cent growth to $24.44 billion during the last financial year against $20.58 billion in 2019-20, Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council of India (Pharmexcil) said on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
18-04-2021||Business||Ant Group explores ways for Jack Ma to exit||Ant Group is exploring options for founder Jack Ma to divest his stake in the financial technology giant and give up control, as meetings with Chinese regulators signaled to the company that the move could help draw a line under Beijing’s scrutiny of its business, according to a source familiar with regulators’ thinking and two people with close ties to the company. Officials from the central bank, People’s Bank of China, and financial regulator China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission held talks between January and March with Ma and Ant separately, where the possibility of the tycoon’s exit from the company was discussed, sources said. Ant denied that a divestment of Ma’s stake was ever under consideration. "Divestment of Mr. Ma's stake in Ant Group has never been the subject of discussions with anyone," an Ant spokesman said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
