19-04-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 883 points as rising Covid cases spooks market||Equity benchmark Sensex plummeted 883 points on Monday following a massive across-the-board selloff as mounting COVID-19 cases spooked domestic investors. After crashing over 1,469 points in early trade, the 30-share BSE index pared some initial losses but still ended 882.61 points or 1.81 per cent lower at 47,949.42. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tanked 258.40 points or 1.77 per cent to 14,359.45. PowerGrid was the top loser in the Sensex pack, slumping over 4 per cent, followed by ONGC, IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank, L&T, Asian Paints and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's and Infosys were the only gainers. "Domestic equities, which were looking resilient for last couple of days, fell sharply on sharp spike in COVID-19 cases across the country and enhanced economic restrictions imposed by several states. Announcements of wider mobility restriction by Rajasthan and Delhi governments dented investors' sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Barring pharma and IT, which remained resilient, all key sectoral indices witnessed sharp correction. Financials and automobiles witnessed steeper correction. Notably, volatility index soared by over 11 per cent, which does not augur well. Investors' wealth got eroded by over Rs 3 trillion today, he added. India's total tally of COVID-19 cases crossed 1.50 crore with a record single-day rise of 2,73,810 new coronavirus infections, while the active cases surpassed the 19-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a six-day lockdown from 10 pm on Monday till 5 am on April 26 which he said was necessary as the city's health system was stretched to its limits. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.25 per cent lower at USD 66.60 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-04-2021||Business||Sensex crashes over 1,300 points on spiking Covid cases||Equity benchmark Sensex crashed over 1,300 points in early trade on Monday, tracking massive across-the-board selloff as mounting COVID-19 cases spooked investor sentiment. The 30-share BSE index was trading 1,318.21 points or 2.70 per cent lower at 47,513.82. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tanked 394.90 points or 2.70 per cent to 14,222.95. All Sensex components were in the red. Bajaj Auto was the top loser in the Sensex pack, dropping over 5 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, SBI, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance and Axis Bank. In the previous session, Sensex ended 28.35 points or 0.06 per cent higher at 48,832.03, and Nifty rose 36.40 points or 0.25 per cent to 14,617.85
Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 437.51 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. "The health crisis India is going through and localised lockdowns and restrictions on economic activity warrant a market correction," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The targets of around 11 per cent GDP growth and above 30 per cent earnings growth for FY 22, that the market had assumed pre-second wave are likely to fall short, he added. The steady rise in COVID positive cases and the steady decline in recovery rates are areas of serious concern, he noted. Active COVID-19 cases in India stood at 19,29,329, up from 18,01,316 cases registered on Sunday, according to Union Health Ministry data. "But, this negativity need not reflect fully in the market since the global clues are positive. The sharp recovery in global growth led by the US and China augur well for markets globally." Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.49 per cent lower at USD 66.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-04-2021||Business||Inflation angst: a silent killer eating into our returns on investment||What is the similarity between inflation and diabetes? Well, as far as similitudes go, it couldn’t be more evident. Both are silent killers, one upends your health and the other spooks the well-being of your portfolio. The likeness does not end there — the impact of both can be contained if the right sort of therapy (or strategy, if you will) is applied, preferably aided by professional advice. We shall leave diabetes to medics, but as for the other regressive ailment influencing the state of your portfolio, we will discuss how it hurts all sorts of number-crunching exercises. Calculations related to investment performance, returns projection, income assessment and the like are all subject to inflationary pressures. These should be worked out only after factoring in its impact. The truth, however, is that investors rarely conduct such an exercise in real life. Therefore, when you say “I have generated a profit of 20 per cent from my investment in Asset A” or “I have received an annual return of 8 per cent from my allocation to Asset B” you usually delude yourself. If you are not taking into account the ruling inflation rate (and the rates that held good in the preceding years when these assets were held), your estimate is incorrect. A quick insight into one of life’s harshest realities will be necessary in this context. Price-rise, whether demand-pull or cost-push (the two causes that all economic text books diligently propound), eats into your returns at every stage. Considering that the average retail inflation is 5 per cent, the picture is far from pretty. I am referring to Consumer Price Index here, but even at a far lower 2-2.5 per cent, the Wholesale Price Index is a menace as well. The point is that the rate of inflation is certainly not a constant; it is a protean and wavering idea, the presence of which cannot be expelled from our lives. It, therefore, stands to reason that inflation is no mean challenge for investors. The latter, in fact, would do well with inflation-indexed investment products. Performance projections/estimates should be done in a realistic manner on the basis of this concept. All allocations and returns generated by them over different holding periods (‘time’ is a major factor) should also be seen through this prism. There are a few practical issues that all investors face. Let’s assume you are a big champion of fixed deposits and do not wish to think much beyond FDs, come what may. And you keep renewing your principal amounts (many even do the same with maturity values). How much do you think inflation has eaten into your “assured returns”? A lot actually over the years, considering that inflation is a variable while your FDs generate only fixed returns. As things stand, the official inflation figures are announced every month by the government in keeping with its disclosure policy. Managing the latest inflationary trends is the banking regulator’s most formidable task. At the moment, the CPI stands at 5.5 per cent (in March), higher than the 4 per cent or so recorded in January. Rise in input costs and supply disruptions because of the pandemic are among the principal reasons why prices have escalated in recent days. This is also the reason why no piece of your surplus should be left idle. Your money (in bits and pieces, perhaps, but all of it) should work constantly for you. Thus, nothing should be left in current and savings accounts without a serious reason. Your current account earns nothing, keeping money there is nearly as good as holding cash. And your savings account fetches you about 3 per cent annually, given today’s general banking norms. There is much to ask for in the context of the 5 per cent inflation I have already mentioned earlier. Here is what you may do: Form compartments in keeping with your investment goals — short-, medium- and long-term. Imagine you are a debt fund investor. The money you need to deploy, for instance, within three to six months may be parked in low-duration or ultra short term debt funds. A one-year horizon would give you a better leeway of sorts; you would be free to choose the next higher category from the debt funds universe. Work out the impact of inflation on your holdings in a given financial year when you sit down with the final figures. This is a typical year-end exercise that most of us compulsorily do, especially when tax-paying season commences. Remember, income by way of dividend and capital gains (loosely bracketed under the broad term “profit”) is generated when these are actually provided or booked. Else, it all stays within the realm of “notional profit”. At a very basic level, you do not have to worry too much about what remains notional — it is not actual yet, after all. This, of course, would be a saving grace for the investor community, especially the sections that depend primarily on guaranteed-income savings products. While inflation-indexed options are not easy to come by, the need to protect both principal and interest cannot be overemphasised. Such sections are often reluctant to look at other, dynamic asset classes because of their dependence on the markets (read: variable returns). However, in the context of all their conservatism, the probability of generating negative real returns will pose an enormous problem. Nothing is more frustrating for an investor who, despite all his aspirations and hard work, secures negative yield at the end of the day. Positive real returns (certainly after inflation, and also after taxes) is a lofty ideal worth the chase. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-04-2021||Business||Audi India expects double-digit growth in 2021||Audi India is looking for a double-digit growth in 2021 as it prepares to launch a slew of cars with a mix of all body types and powertrains, including two electric vehicles (EV)s in the next two months. The premium car maker managed to sell only 1,639 units in 2020 when it could do business only in the last five months of the year owing to the pandemic. “In 2020, the automotive industry lost a significant volume during the pandemic which was not recoverable and we were no different. The sales did pick up from the festival season and at Audi, we witnessed month-on-month growth over five months last year with December witnessing the highest sales in 2020,” said Balbir Singh Dhillon, head of Audi India. Even as the company prepares to launch its first electric vehicle (EV) in the coming months, Dhillon feels the first movers and early adopters will be the potential customers. “We are buoyant on the e-mobility space and plan to launch our first two all-electric cars — the Audi e-tron and the Audi e-tron Sportback — within the next couple of months in the country. The buyers of luxury electric cars are first-movers and early adopters; they know the merits of going electric. Existing luxury car buyers will also be our target audience. One of the reasons the customers opt for EVs is the ‘fun to drive’ element. EVs with stronger batteries today, provide peak torque right from the start without any delay,” said Dhillon. On the upcoming models, he said: “We have lined up a host of launches in 2021. We kick-started the year with the launch of one of our best-selling models in India, the Audi A4 in January, followed by the Audi S5 Sportback in March. Our model line-up will expand across all the segments where we have been present in the past. We will launch a comprehensive line-up of cars, from sedans to SUVs, ICE variants to electric cars, and models in the volume as well as niche segments such as performance cars.” On the company’s diesel plan, Dhillon said: “We started moving towards a higher mix of petrol engines in 2017. We will grow our petrol and electric portfolio further in the months to come as the total cost of ownership of a petrol vehicle is now ‘not a concern’ compared with a diesel vehicle for customers. This being said, we have not given up on diesel engines entirely and are evaluating this further.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-04-2021||Business||Bangalore start-up charging tech for electric vehicles||A Bangalore based start-up is looking to commercialise a solution that lowers the time required to charge the batteries of electric vehicles. Sequoia Capital backed Log 9 Materials, which has its core competence in graphene (a carbon material) nanotechnology, has developed two-wheeler and three-wheeler battery packs using supercapacitor expertise whereby these batteries could be charged faster than the plain lithium ion batteries fitted in electric vehicles. According to the company, a normal 15-20 ampere plug point in households can charge an existing two-wheeler electric vehicle battery in 3-5 hours. With supercapacitors, this can be brought down to around 15 minutes. CEO and founder Akshay Singhal, a graduate in materials engineering from IIT Roorkee, said Log 9 Materials is working with companies such as Amazon, Shadowfax, Delhivery, Vogo which are looking to move towards electric vehicles for last mile delivery and mobility. “We have already done the pilot. Commercial production is starting in October this year and the aim is to grow five times next year. We have our assembly lines in Bangalore which will be scaled up as demand grows,” said Singhal. The company has also developed aluminium fuel cells that work on aluminium, air and water combined with graphene-based cathode to harness electricity using cheap and recyclable technology. Singhal said that graphene can be made in India unlike lithium which is primarily imported. Moreover, existing lithium batteries can power a car for 200 kilometres and tend to be replaced typically after around three years. Aluminium fuel cells can provide a bigger range with no emission and can address electrification of long haul and heavier vehicles. The company is in discussions with vehicle manufacturers on a wider adoption of the technology. “Today more than 50 per cent of the cost of electric vehicles is on account of batteries. If the range is to be increased to say around 600-700 kilometres, the overall cost could go up significantly. Added to that is the lack of charging infrastructure and long charging time which acts as a bottleneck to electric vehicle adoption today. The idea is to address some of these concerns,” said Singhal. The start-up was founded in 2015 and is also working on other areas of applications of graphene such as cigarette filters and oil absorbents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
19-04-2021||Business||Flavoured milk taxable at 12 per cent under GST: AAR||Flavoured milk is basically “beverage containing milk” and will attract 12 per cent GST, the Gujarat Authority for Advance Ruling (AAR) has said. Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd, which markets dairy product under the Amul brand, had approached the AAR on the taxability under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) of flavoured milk which the company sells under the name Amul Kool/Amul Kool Cafe. The applicant had submitted before the AAR that the process of flavoured milk is standardisation of fresh milk according to the fat contents and then heating at certain temperature followed by filtration, pasteurisation and homogenisation and then mixing of sugar and various flavours and finally bottling. The authority said that the flavoured milk would be classifiable as a beverage containing milk, which is taxable at 12 per cent under GST. Earlier the Karnataka AAR, in an application of Karnataka Co-operative Milk Producers Federation, had ruled that flavoured milk is taxable at 5 per cent. AMRG & Associates senior partner Rajat Mohan said contradictory AAR rulings and hyper-technical interpretation of tax rate entries in GST law are leading to litigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
19-04-2021||Business||Steel prices may take 2 years to go down, says top industry executive||Steel prices might take at least two years to cool down as its demand is consistently increasing, a top industry executive said. During the current financial year, the demand for steel in India is also expected to exceed the production numbers, Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) managing director V. R. Sharma said. While the demand in financial year 2021-22 will be in the range of 140-150 million tonnes (mt), the country’s production is expected to be somewhere around 125mt, he said. When asked about an estimated time for the steel prices to cool down, he said, “It (prices) will take around two years (to ease), because of the demand.” While hot-rolled coil (HRC) in India is trading at around Rs 58,000 per tonne in April, international steel prices are hovering around $735-740 per tonne since April 1, 2021. Both domestic as well as international prices are 50 per cent higher compared with a year-ago period. He also said most of the countries, including India, have announced stimulus packages. Because of this, consumption has increased; and until the stimulus packages are exhausted, these prices will not come down. On steel demand, Sharma said in calendar year 2020, the entire world has seen a slump except for China which recorded a growth of 6-7 per cent. The Indian steel industry recorded a negative growth of 10 per cent at 99mt. “The all-India data is yet to come. But, in my view, from April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021, we are at a level of minus 4 per cent...we have made around 104 MT of steel against expectations of 112 MT. However, these are the rough observations,” he said. In the current fiscal, demand for steel will remain high. This year, domestic demand will be 140-150mt, while production is expected to be somewhere around 125mt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
19-04-2021||Business||Religare Finvest Ltd gears up for new business after approval of its debt restructuring plan||Religare Finvest Ltd is gearing up for new business after its debt restructuring plan was approved by a consortium of 18 lenders led by SBI, Religare Enterprises chairperson Rashmi Saluja said. RFL, an NBFC arm of Religare Enterprises Ltd, has been barred from undertaking fresh business as it is under the corrective action plan (CAP) of the RBI since January 2018 because of its weak financial health. In line with the debt restructuring plan, Saluja said the company paid Rs 400 crore to lenders on March 31, 2021. “The debt restructuring plan should see the light of the day in two months. This time Religare Enterprises Ltd (REL) itself is proposing the plan in which case we may not need the ‘fit and proper’ approval of the RBI as REL is a registered entity with the RBI,” she said. The earlier DR plan was rejected by the RBI in March 2020 as the suitor — TCG Advisory Pvt Ltd, a part of The Chatterjee Group — for RFL was not found to be “fit and proper” by the regulator. Once the latest debt restructuring is done, she said, the next process would be to approach the regulator to consider removing the company from the corrective action plan. RFL has repaid around Rs 7,500 crore since 2018, she said, adding that the company is pursuing recovery cases, including Lakshmi Vilas Bank (now DBS India). The court has given DBS India notice by making them a party which makes the company hopeful of realisation of money, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
19-04-2021||Business||Second Covid wave could spark greater uncertainty; govt will respond with fiscal steps if required: Niti Aayog vice chairman ||The country needs to prepare for “greater uncertainty” in terms of consumer as well as investor sentiments because of the second wave of coronavirus infections, and the government will respond with fiscal measures as and when required, Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar said on Sunday. While acknowledging that the present situation has become far more difficult than it was in the past because of rising coronavirus infections, Kumar remained hopeful that the country’s economy will grow 11 per cent in the current fiscal ending March 31, 2022. India is grappling with a spiralling number of Covid cases as well as related deaths, forcing many state governments to put in place restrictions on the movement of people. According to Kumar, India was on the verge of defeating Covid-19 completely but some new strains from the UK and other countries have made the situation far more difficult this time around. “Apart from their direct impact on some sectors such as the services sector, the second wave will increase the uncertainty in the economic environment which can have wider indirect effects on economic activities. So, we need to prepare for greater uncertainty, both in consumer and investor sentiments,” Kumar said. To a query on whether the government is considering coming up with a fresh stimulus, the Niti Aayog vice-chairman said this question has to be answered after the finance ministry analyses both the direct and indirect impact of the second Covid wave. “As you have seen from the RBI’s response, the expansionary policy stance has been continued and I am sure the government will respond with necessary fiscal measures also as and when it is necessary,” Kumar said. Earlier this month, the Reserve Bank left the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4 per cent but maintained an accommodative stance to boost the economy. Leading brokerages have downgraded India’s GDP growth projections for the current fiscal year to as low as 10 per cent on local lockdowns threatening fragile recovery. While Nomura has downgraded projections of economic growth for the fiscal ending March 2022 to 12.6 per cent from 13.5 per cent earlier, JP Morgan now projects GDP growth at 11 per cent from 13 per cent earlier. UBS sees 10 per cent GDP growth, down from 11.5 per cent earlier and Citi has downgraded growth to 12 per cent. India’s GDP growth had been on the decline even before the pandemic struck earlier last year. From a growth rate of 8.3 per cent in 2016-17, the GDP expansion had dipped to 6.8 per cent and 6.5 per cent in the following two years and to 4 per cent in 2019-20. The RBI has projected 2021-22 GDP growth at 10.5 per cent, while IMF puts it at 12.5 per cent. The World Bank sees 2021-22 growth at 10.1 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
19-04-2021||Business||Future Retail lenders approve restructuring of existing debts||The lenders of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) have given the company up to two years more to repay its debt. Close to 28 lenders of the Kishore Biyani-company have approved the restructuring plan, Future Retail told the exchanges in a late evening filing on Saturday. The Future group in August 2020 had entered into a Rs 24,413-crore deal to sell its retail and wholesale business to Reliance Retail Ventures Limited. The deal has been contested by Amazon. Earlier this month, Reliance extended the long stop date for the closure of the deal by six months to September 30. The Future Retail debt recast plan needs to be approved by a committee chaired by former ICICI Bank chairman K.V. Kamath, set up by by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). According to CARE Ratings, Future Retail is sitting on Rs 6,278 crore of debt. Some of the banks to approve the plan include State Bank of India, Union Bank of India, Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, Yes Bank, HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, RBL Bank, Axis Bank and IDBI Bank. The restructuring would cover FRL’s working capital demand loans, term loans, cash credit, short term loans, non-convertible debentures (NCDs), purchase bill discounting limits, other working capital loans and unpaid interest, which became overdue, FRL said. The repayment of short term loans, term loans, NCDs, overdue working capital loans (converted into working capital term loans) will be extended up to a maximum period of two years. There will be an interest moratorium between March 1, 2020 to September 30, 2021. Interest during the period will be converted into Funded Interest Term Loan (FITL) which will have to be paid by December. FITL is a fresh loan provided to a stressed borrower for the repayment of existing debt. All penal interest and charges, processing fees unpaid since March, 2020 to the implementation date will be waived off fully. FRL said the cash credit — a type of short term loan — will be continued at reduced level based on bank assessment. The board of the company has also approved the restructuring plan at its meeting held on Saturday, FRL added. “The debt burden has become disproportionate relative to the cash flow generated by the company owing to the multiple lockdowns since the pandemic surfaced, posing significant financial stability risks to the business. Hence, the restructuring of the debt is crucial and essential,” the company said. The holders of non-convertible debentures have also approved the plan. The redemption of the three different series will be re-scheduled between 2023 and 2025 and the rate of interest will continue at the same rate as was agreed at the time of the allotment. FRL said the 5.6 per cent US Senior Secured notes 2025 and the non-convertible debentures to certain trusts are not part of the resolution plan. Amazon had contested the Reliance-Future deal as it had invested in Future Coupons in August 2019 with the option of buying into flagship Future Retail after a period of three to 10 years. Amazon has challenged the scheme of arrangement between Future and Reliance at several forum including arbitration at SIAC (Singapore International Arbitration Centre) and before the Supreme Court. The deal  has already received clearance from the CCI, Sebi and the bourses, and the scheme of arrangement is now awaiting the nod from the NCLT and shareholders. On October 25, 2020, an interim order was passed at SIAC in favour of Amazon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
19-04-2021||Business||Tata Steel Mining Ltd aims high to establish itself as a commercial mining outfit||Tata Steel Mining Ltd (TSML), the mining arm of Tata Steel Group, may look beyond the minerals used by the parent as it charts out a road map to establish itself as a commercial mining outfit. TSML has been chosen as the anchor for the commercial mining activities of the group. It is one of the four verticals the parent is creating to reorganise the Indian business for scale, synergies and simplification and create value for all stakeholders. The other three clusters will operate in the areas of long products, downstream, and shared service and infrastructure verticals. “We are open to multiple minerals which have commercial value or mining interest to it,” M. C. Thomas, managing director of TSML, said. However, he was not drawn to name any mineral in particular, cautioning that the company would also not like to spread its resources too far. Formerly known as TS Alloy Limited, the wholly owned subsidiary of the group, is at present engaged in the mining of chrome ore and the production of ferro chrome. Apart from having ferrochrome plants at Athagarh and Gopalpur in Odisha, the company has three chromite mines, namely Sukinda, Kamarda and Saruabil, in Jajpur district of the state. TSML had acquired the mines in the 2020 mineral auctions for which leases were granted for 50 years. The mines have now been operational with an annual capacity of over 1.5 million tonnes making it the largest player in chrome ore mining in India. The legacy mines of Tata Steel Group for iron ore and coal continue to remain with the parent as captive mines. Sukinda chrome ore mine was also with the parent before the previous lease expired. The state had then put it up on auction, which TSML won and retained the asset within the group. However, it became part of the commercial mining venture in contrast to the iron ore and coal assets which remained captive. “Anything new coming up, even if it is iron ore, will be done by us,” Thomas informed, explaining that as a mining company it can look at any prospect. However, he added that a move to bid for a new asset would be taken on a case to case basis, depending on the board decision. The company is firming up plans for aggressive growth in its ferrochrome manufacturing capacity in India from 450,000 tonnes per annum at present to 900,000 tonnes per annum in the near future. D.B. Sundara Ramam, vice-president, raw materials, Tata Steel, and chairperson, TSML, said: “We will take the organic as well as the inorganic route to augment our ferrochrome manufacturing capacity in India, leveraging the strength of the good quality of chrome ore availability. This will make TSML the top ferro chrome player in India and among the top-five globally. It makes sense to focus on value addition and convert the chrome ore to ferro chrome.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-77
