20-04-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty settle lower after see-saw trade||Domestic equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty erased early gains to settle with losses for the second day on the trot on Tuesday, as surging COVID-19 cases and growing localised restrictions continued to dent investor sentiment. The BSE Sensex slipped 243.62 points or 0.51 per cent to close the session at 47,705.80. Intra-day, the BSE gauge rose as much as 529 points to touch the day's peak of 48,478.34. Likewise, the NSE Nifty climbed over 167 points to reclaim the key 14,500-level during the day, but surrendered all its gains to end at 14,296.40, showing a drop of 63.05 points or 0.44 per cent. On the Sensex chart, UltraTech Cement, HCL Tech, HDFC, Tech Mahindra, HDFC Bank and HUL emerged as the major laggards - falling as much as 4.7 per cent. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Dr Reddy's, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Auto and Maruti were among the top gainers. Market analysts said a continued spike in fresh COVID-19 cases in the country and announcements of restrictions by several states have clearly dented investor sentiments and posed a threat to earnings recovery. Elsewhere in Asia on Tuesday, equity bourses saw mixed trading as investors awaited the release of China's latest benchmark lending rate. Japan led losses among the region's major markets, followed by Hong Kong. US stocks ended lower on Monday, slipping from last week's record levels. Meanwhile, global crude oil benchmark Brent futures rose 0.77 per cent to USD 67.68 per barrel, despite concerns about the impact on oil demand going forward due to rising coronavirus cases in India. The rupee ended almost flat at 74.88 (provisional) against the US dollar on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-04-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds over 500 points in early trade||The benchmark BSE Sensex rebounded over 500 points and the NSE Nifty recaptured the key 14,500-level in the opening session on Tuesday, as investor sentiment improved following the government's policy response to the resurgence of COVID cases in the country. The Sensex was trading at 48,455.13, showing a rise of 505.13 points or 1.05 per cent in opening deals; while the broader Nifty was trading higher by 150.20 points or 1.05 per cent at 14,509.65. On the Sensex, barring three IT stocks -- HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra and TCS -- all shares were trading in the green. On Monday, the BSE Sensex had nosedived 882.61 points or 1.81 per cent, and the NSE Nifty had plunged 258.40 points or 1.77 per cent.' Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital markets on Monday to the tune of Rs 1,633.70 crore, according to exchange data. "The government's decision to open up vaccination for all above 18 from May 1, and announcement of measures to incentivise vaccine manufacturers are steps in the right direction. "This is positive from the market perspective. The market is likely to ignore the stress in the healthcare system and the pains from the second wave," V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, said. Elsewhere in Asia on Tuesday, equity bourses saw mixed trading till afternoon as investors awaited the release of China's latest benchmark lending rate. Japan led losses among the region's major markets, followed by Hong Kong; while South Korea and China were trading higher. US stocks ended lower on Monday, slipping from last week's record levels, as investors awaited guidance from first-quarter earnings. Meanwhile, global crude oil benchmark Brent futures rose 0.77 per cent to USD 67.68 per barrel on Monday, despite concerns about the impact on oil demand going forward due to rising coronavirus cases in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-04-2021||Business||India may build coal-fired power plants as they generate the cheapest power||India may build new coal-fired power plants as they generate the cheapest power, according to a draft electricity policy document seen by Reuters, despite growing calls from environmentalists to deter use of coal. Coal’s contribution to electricity generation in India fell for the second straight year in 2020, marking a departure from decades of growth in coal-fired power. Still, the fuel accounts for nearly three-fourths of India’s annual power output. Environmental activists have long rallied against India adding new coal-fired capacity. Solar and wind energy prices are falling to record lows, which would help the world’s third-largest greenhouse gas emitter cut emissions. US special presidential envoy for climate John Kerry this month said India was “getting the job done on climate, pushing the curve,” as he began talks with government leaders aimed at cutting carbon emissions faster to slow global warming. But a 28-page February draft of the National Electricity Policy (NEP) 2021 — which has not been made public — showed India may add new coal-fired capacity, though it recommended tighter technology standards to reduce pollution. “While India is committed to add more capacity through non-fossil sources of generation, coal-based generation capacity may still be required to be added in the country as it continues to be the cheapest source of generation,” the NEP draft read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-04-2021||Business||Car makers fear dent in sales||Leading automobile companies such as Maruti Suzuki India, Toyota Kirloskar Motor and Honda Cars fear a dent in sales as Covid-19 cases surged across the country. Maruti Suzuki said the auto sales were correlated closely with economic growth and also (being a discretionary purchase) with the consumer sentiment. “The Covid-19 situation is obviously a negative for customer sentiment and thus has a negative impact on sales,” MSI executive director (sales and marketing) Shashank Srivastava said when asked about the impact of the second wave of the pandemic on the company’s sales. Lockdowns make it physically impossible to deliver cars but even the deterioration in the Covid-19 situation without a lockdown also psychologically dents consumer propensity to buy, he said. Similarly, Toyota Kirloskar Motor senior vice-president Naveen Soni acknowledged that localised restrictions have impacted order flow and delivery schedules. “We will be able to access trends and define numbers only by the end of the month depending on the severity and extension of the restrictions. As of date, we have had a good number of pending orders that had to be carried forward from the month of February and March to April. Therefore, we are striving to meet the customer demand in spite of the local restrictions and lockdowns,” he said. On manufacturing operations, Soni said the company continues to cautiously proceed with vehicle production. “Immediate focus is to fasten and streamline the demand and supply processes with more accuracy and manage production, along with faster deliveries making it easier and convenient for customers by reducing the delivery time,” he added. Well-being of the employees as well as dealer and supplier staff are sacrosanct and the automaker has already reintroduced monitoring systems which were in place including submission of a self-declaration health form, Soni said. Honda Cars India said it is keeping a close look at the emerging situation. “Lockdown and weekend curfews will impact sales as showrooms will be shut in some of the markets. We are currently assessing and taking feedback from various cities about its extent,” Honda Cars India senior vice-president and director (marketing and sales) Rajesh Goel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-04-2021||Business||ACC profit jumps 74% to Rs 562.59 crore on sales spurt||Cement maker ACC Ltd on Monday reported a 74.17 per cent increase in consolidated net profit to Rs 562.59 crore for the first quarter ended March 2021, helped by an increase in sales and cost efficiency. The company, which follows the January-December financial year, had posted a profit of Rs 323.02 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago, ACC said in a BSE filing. Total revenue from operations in the January-March quarter was at Rs 4,291.97 crore, up 22.57 per cent from Rs 3,501.71 crore earlier. “This quarter, we delivered highest-ever revenue and operating EBIT. Our cost-efficiency project ‘Parvat’ is on track and has helped in managing some continuing cost headwinds,” ACC managing director and CEO Sridhar Balakrishnan said. The company’s total expenses stood at Rs 3,586.19 crore, up 16.29 per cent against Rs 3,083.78 crore a year ago. Revenue from the cement segment jumped 26.25 per cent to Rs 3,980.84 crore compared with Rs 3,153.07 crore earlier. FMCG firm Bajaj Consumer Care Ltd on Monday reported over two-fold growth in consolidated net profit at Rs 54.67 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021. The company reported a net profit of Rs 23.29 crore for January-March period a year ago, Bajaj Consumer Care said in a regulatory filing. Its revenue from sale of goods was higher at Rs 244.86 crore as against Rs 172 crore in the year-ago period. Total expenses of Bajaj Consumer Care, which operates mainly in the beauty care category, were at Rs 189.17 crore as against Rs 158.69 crore, up 19.21 per cent. An accelerated provisioning of Rs 200 crore for the pandemic has crimped net profit of ICICI Prudential Life by 64.2 per cent to Rs 64 crore in the January-March quarter despite reporting a good set of overall numbers. However, a Rs 7,400 crore of investment income — gains from the market — against a loss of Rs 18,000 crore in January-March 2020 due to the pandemic, has helped it cushion the hit. It also had a payout of Rs 265 crore, net of reinsurance for 205 claims from the pandemic deaths, chief executive and managing director N.S. Kannan said on Monday in a post-earnings call. Net profit declined by 64.2 per cent to Rs 64 crore from Rs 179 crore for the year-ago quarter, while the same for the full year slipped to Rs 960 crore from Rs 1,069 crore in the previous fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-04-2021||Business|| Macrotech Developers’ shares open 10% below offering price on debut||Indian real estate company Macrotech Developers’ shares opened 10 per cent below their offering price in its stock market debut on Monday, after the initial public offering saw lukewarm subscription demand from investors. Macrotech, formerly Lodha Developers, is among the major players in the Indian real estate industry. Most of its residential projects are concentrated in Mumbai. The company’s shares opened at Rs 439 apiece compared with the offer price of Rs 486. The company’s IPO was subscribed 1.36 times earlier in the month as its weak sales and substantial debt, coupled with a resurgence of COVID-19 cases in India, weighed. “The company has substantial debt and contingent liabilities and the impact of Covid-19 on the business is still uncertain,” said Saurabh Joshi, an equity research analyst at Marwari Shares and Finance Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
20-04-2021||Business||Covid spike spooks markets ||The Sensex sank 833 points at the end of a torrid day of selling, the rupee tumbled to 74.87 against the US dollar and gold — always seen as a safe haven in hard times — climbed above Rs 47,000 per 10 gm as panicky investors tried to make some sense out of the worrying resurgence of the coronavirus pandemic  and the Centre’s ham-handed response to a snowballing crisis. Investors on Monday feared the resurgence of the virus would adversely affect earnings. The Sensex plunged 1469 points intra-day but recovered ground to close at 47949.42 with investor wealth eroding by Rs 3.53 lakh crore. “Indian equities are  distinctly under-performing other comparable equity markets in Asia. The near term outlook would remain clouded and keep markets volatile. We expect pharma, speciality chemicals, IT services to outperform in the near term,” Gaurav Dua of  Sharekhan by BNP Paribas said. The slump in equity values comes at a time of the start of the fourth quarter results that have proved to be a mixed bag so far for India Inc. There are apprehensions that the spate of localised lockdowns may adversely impact India’s fledgling recovery, corporate earnings and its banking sector. In fact, leading brokerages have already downgraded India’s GDP growth projections for the current fiscal to as low as 10 per cent. Market circles said the rapid rollout of the vaccine has pushed equities to record highs but the states have started complaining on the shortage of the jab. Prices are likely to remain under pressure till the number of Covid-19 cases peaks out, analysts said. In the trading on Monday, the 30-share Sensex opened lower at 47940.81 and crashed to an intra-day low of 47362.71 — a fall of 1469.32 points, It managed to pare some initial losses but still ended 882.61 points or 1.81 per cent lower at 47949.42. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tanked 258.40 points or 1.77 per cent to 14359.45. RBI intervention The rupee on Monday fell 52 paise to close at 74.87 against the dollar. Analysts said that if the current trend continued, the RBI may intervene in the market. “The RBI is expected to be active and may intervene aggressively to curb volatility. Over the near term, we expect a range of 74.00 and 75.50,’’ Anindya Banerjee of  Kotak Securities said. K.V.S. Manian, director & member of the group management council at Kotak Mahindra Bank, allayed fears of a fall in the value of the rupee. “The fundamentals of the economy both Indian and international have not changed or are not yet expected to change significantly for the rupee to weaken so much. The bond and equity markets are still not showing similar levels of weakness..” Meanwhile, gold rallied Rs 411 to Rs 47,291 per 10 gram in the national capital on Monday reflecting strong buying in the precious metal and rupee depreciation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
20-04-2021||Business||FM seeks inputs from industry chambers on ways to deal with the pandemic||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman sought inputs from industry chambers on how to deal with the pandemic. “Spoke on telephone with each of the following business/chamber leaders. Took their inputs on industry/association related matters. Informed them that GoI at various levels from PMO India is responding to Covid management. Working together with states for lives and livelihoods,” she said in a tweet. Sitharaman  had interactions with the  heads of industry chambers including CII president Uday Kotak, Ficci president Uday Shankar and Assocham president Vineet Agarwal. She also spoke to industrialists such as Tata Steel managing director T.V. Narendran, L&T chairman A.M. Naik, TCS managing director Rajesh Gopinathan, Maruti Suzuki chairman R. C. Bhargava and TVS Group chairman Venu Srinivasan. “Do not think lockdown is the appropriate response this time. Will do more harm than good,” Bhargava said. BCC&I inputs The finance minister had called BCC&I president Deb A. Mukherjee on Sunday. Mukherjee said there should not be a nationwide lockdown like 2020. The focus should be on micro level containment zones. “She pointed out India is better prepared to deal with second wave and a complete lockdown is not being envisaged,” Mukherjee said The Chamber suggested infrastructure should be  ramped up to test as many people as possible. Moreover, a detailed road map should be planned for faster roll-out. The conversation ended with Sitharaman  enquiring if the industry needs any more support, indicating the Centre may have stimulus sops in the pipeline. With inputs from Calcutta Bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
20-04-2021||Business||Aviation regulator warns airlines of predatory pricing||The aviation regulator has warned airlines not to indulge in predatory pricing to prop up air travel hit by the second wave of the coronavirus. Officials of the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) said they would intervene if airlines were selling tickets lower or higher than the fare cap in place till the end of this month. In their meeting with the civil aviation ministry, airline representatives complained that some airlines were selling tickets below the minimum cap, thereby engaging in predatory pricing to prop up passenger load. After touching a high of about 300,000 in February, daily passenger traffic has fallen below the 200,000-mark on account of a renewed surge in Covid-19 cases, necessitating several states to make the RT-PCR test for passengers mandatory, leading to decline in bookings. The daily passenger traffic before the pandemic was 400,000-450,000. In February, the government had increased the minimum and maximum fares that airlines can charge in the domestic sector by 10 to 30 per cent, while extending the cap on airfare. The government has set a price band for airfares since May. The increase is in the region of 10 per cent for a one-way fare at the minimum fare level for a flight of less than 40 minutes to about 30 per cent for a maximum fare for a flight of between 180 minutes and 210 minutes. Rating agency Crisil said the industry would post Rs 9,500-10,000 crore losses this fiscal, though it will be lower by 35-40 per cent compared with the previous year. Crisil said air traffic would continue to remain low amid high fuel prices and only a gradual recovery in international operations. A resurgence of Covid-19 infections across the country — especially in Mumbai and Delhi, which account for 36 per cent of overall air traffic —is expected to stall the recovery seen over the past six months. In fact, average daily domestic passenger air traffic has fallen in April by almost 20 per cent to 2.35 lakh, Crisil said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
20-04-2021||Business||SC clubs cases relating to the dispute between Amazon and Future Retail ||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed all further proceedings before a single judge and division bench of the Delhi High Court relating to the dispute between Amazon and Future Retail on the proposed Rs 24,713-crore takeover by Reliance Retail of the Future group’s retail and wholesale businesses that has been contested by Amazon, which claimed it had prior rights over the Kishore Biyani retail empire. The apex court indicated it would pass final orders on all matters connected with the dispute. This raises the question on the validity of the order of the Singapore arbitrator that supported Amazon against Future Retail. The order was passed on October 25, 2020 and expires next week on April 24. Analysts said in the present case the validity of the award, would not arise since the matter is pending adjudication before the apex court as also the high court. As a norm, when the matter is pending adjudication before any court, the validity of the award or a statutory limitation period even if it comes to an end, would not trammel the powers of the court from dealing with the issue. In other words the validity of such limitation period of six months would become irrelevant and infructuous since the court is seized of the matter, the analysts added. “Having heard learned senior counsel appearing for all parties, further proceedings before the single judge as well as the division bench of the high court shall remain stayed,”the apex  court said in a written order. “Learned counsel is permitted to file counter affidavit within a period of two weeks from today. Rejoinder affidavit within one week thereafter,” the apex  court said in a written order. On February 22, the top court had restrained the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) from passing any final order on the Future-Reliance deal. “The matter will anyway end up here? Why don’t we then finish hearing?” Justice R.F. Nariman heading a three bench asked while staying the proceedings before the high court on the special leave petition filed by Amazon. Amazon has filed the special leave petition (SLP) in the apex court challenging the March 22 order passed by a division bench of the Delhi High Court which had stayed a single judge Justice J.R.Midha’s order by which he had held that the award passed by the Singapore-based emergency arbitrator was binding on the FRL-Reliance Group. While Amazon is being represented in the Supreme Court by senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, advocate Harish Salve is appearing for Future Retail. The bench also comprising Justices B.R.Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy was of the tentative view since the various proceeding before the high court and the NCLAT were in any case likely to be challenged before it, it would be in the fitness of things for the top court to pass final orders on the issue. “…We will stay further proceedings before the Single Judge & Division Bench. Meanwhile pleadings be completed & matter will come up with other matter on 4th May…” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
20-04-2021||Business||Razorpay raises $160 million, tripling valuation to $3 billion||Razorpay, the payment solutions provider, has raised $160 million (about Rs 1,192.6 crore) in funding from Sequoia Capital, GIC and others. The funding will see its valuation triple to $3 billion. The Series E funding round was co-led by Sequoia Capital and GIC, along with participation from Ribbit Capital and Matrix Partners. It comes at a time fintech firms are witnessing a sharp jump in their business volumes as the pandemic forces individuals to go digital for various needs. With this funding, Razorpay has raised a total of $366.5 million in funding since its inception in 2014. The company had entered the unicorn club in October last year when it had raised $100 million. “We will use the capital to scale up our business banking suite, invest in new acquisitions and launch in international markets, including South-East Asian countries,” Razorpay CEO and co-founder Harshil Mathur said. He added that the company also continues to hire aggressively to fuel its growth plans. Razorpay provides intelligent automated payment and business banking solutions to help businesses manage their money flow end-to-end. Mathur added that the company’s recent initiatives in the banking and lending space through RazorpayX and Capital have helped businesses solve challenges around managing money, empowering businesses to grow up to 10 times in an economically challenging year. “But there is more work to be done, we believe there is a dire need to develop new banking technologies that meet the rising demand. So, we plan to use these funds to further expand our banking and lending product suite so that we not only provide a better experience to businesses and their customers but significantly contribute to the growth of our partner businesses,’’ he added. Mathur said the company’s neo-banking platform, RazorpayX, saw 400 per cent growth in transaction volume in the last 12 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-76
