21-04-2021||Business||Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs clears sops for urea fertiliser||The government has approved an “exclusive subsidy policy” for urea fertiliser produced through coal-gasification by Talcher Fertilisers Ltd (TFL). Commerce minister Piyush Goyal said the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has given its approval for “a specific subsidy to promote this innovative technology of coal-gasification for the first time in India”. The estimated project cost of the TFL urea project is Rs 13,277.21 crore. Coal gasification plants are strategically important as coal prices are non-volatile and coal is abundantly available in the country, he said. “...India has large coal reserves but not adequate gas. This effort to convert coal to gas, and then gas to urea will truly help India become Aatmanirbhar (self-reliant),” Goyal said. The gasification process adopted in the Talcher unit is a Clean Coal Technology giving negligible sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, and free particulate emissions as compared to directly coal fired processes, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
21-04-2021||Business||Aditya Birla Capital arm files for IPO||Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC, the arm of Aditya Birla Capital, has filed a draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) for its initial public offering (IPO). “Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC Ltd (ABSLAMC), a material subsidiary of Aditya Birla Capital, filed a draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) dated April 19 with Sebi for an initial public offering by way of an offer for sale (IPO) of shares of ABSLAMC, subject to relevant approvals as required,” Aditya Birla Capital said in a regulatory filing. The company added that it has approved the sale of up to 28.5 lakh equity shares held in ABSLAMC out of the total paid-up share capital of 28.8 crore  equity shares of Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC. Sun Life (India) AMC Investments Inc, the joint venture shareholder in Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC, has also approved the sale of up to 3.6 crore shares held in the fund house through the IPO. The proposed sale of equity shares by Aditya Birla Capital and Sun Life India in the IPO will together constitute up to 13.50 per cent of the paid-up share capital of Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC, Aditya Birla Capital added. Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC, the investment manager of Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund, is a joint venture between the Aditya Birla Group and the Sun Life Financial Inc of Canada.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
21-04-2021||Business||Flight permits for Boeing 737 Max, says DGCA||Indian aviation regulator DGCA on Tuesday allowed foreign-registered Boeing 737 Max aircraft, which were grounded in the country since the March 2019 fatal crash of such a plane in Ethiopia, to overfly India after taking the agency’s permission. Moreover, foreign lessors are allowed to fly their grounded 737 Max aircraft out of India after taking the regulator’s permission, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) order said. On March 13, 2019, all Boeing 737 Max planes were grounded in India by DGCA after the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines 737 Max plane on March 10 near Addis Ababa which had left 157 people, including four Indians, dead. The regulator said on Tuesday it would issue “special flight permits” to fly 737 Max planes “to a base for storage, repairs, alterations or maintenance”. Aircraft manufacturer Boeing has been modifying the 737 Max plane since March 2019 so that various countries’ regulators, including the DGCA, permit its passenger flight operations again. The DGCA stated on Tuesday that the ban imposed on March 13, 2019 would not be applicable on foreign-registered 737 Max plane that want to overfly “the Indian airspace”. The second provision of DGCA's order said foreign-registered 737 Max plane, currently grounded in India, can conduct “operational readiness flight” followed by “ferry flight outside India”. The second provision will allow foreign lessors to fly their 737 Max planes, currently grounded in the country, out of India. On March 13, 2019, SpiceJet had to ground 12 Max planes, forcing it to cancel a significant number of flights on that day as well as on the next day. Jet Airways also had five Max planes in its fleet but they were already grounded as on March 13, 2019 because of non-payment of dues to the lessors. A month later, the full-service carrier had shut down its operations due to lack of funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
21-04-2021||Business||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman allays Bengal Inc fears||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday met Bengal -based industrialists in the midst of the ongoing assembly elections in the state and assured full cooperation to industry to meet challenges emanating from the second wave of Covid-19. She asked industry to have confidence in the Modi government but did not make any specific commitment to allay apprehensions raised by different sectors. “Year 2019 was about liquidity, 2020 was about Covid. 2021 shall not be about Covid in spite of the second wave. Look at the various steps the government has taken. Revival was happening and it will continue to happen,” said Sitharaman during a session organised by MCCI. Members of industry associations in Bengal made representations before the finance minister. A delegation of the Consultative Committee of Plantation Association, an apex body of tea associations in India, led by Indian Tea Association chairman Vivek Goenka, Tea Association of India president Raj Bansal and other members of the industry told the minister of the need to digitise of wage payments of tea garden workers and sought exemption from tax deducted at source under section 194N of the Income Tax Act till the time of banking infrastructure in tea gardens is improved. A delegation of Indian Jute Mills Association, led by deputy chairman Rishav Kajaria and other members of the association, flagged off the need to persist with anti dumping duty on imported jute, particularly from Bangladesh with the duty soon to come up for review. Realtors expressed their concerns that the second wave of Covid may affect demand and requested the government to boost buyers confidence. “We requested that there should be more income tax breaks for a home buyer. We also said stamp duty should be subsumed in GST and tax burden on consumers should come down,” said Harsh Patodia, president, Credai (national). However the timing of the meeting has not escaped the attention of the members present. “It appeared that she wanted to have a public relation exercise with industry leaders in the midst of election. Many of whom were present today are voters in Calcutta, which will go to the polls later this month,” an industrialist present in the meeting later said. At the end of the meeting with MCCI, Rajya Sabha member and ICCR president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, stunned the gathering by parading three BJP candidates from Calcutta, ostensibly to make the audience aware of the choice they would have in the poll. “We have never seen something like this where a non partisan chamber meeting turned into a political one,” said an attendee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
21-04-2021||Business||Nestle India reports 14.62% rise in its net profit at Rs 602.25 crore||FMCG major Nestle India on Tuesday reported a 14.62 per cent rise in its net profit at Rs 602.25 crore for the March quarter of 2021, driven by an increase in sales volume of its key products. The company, which follows the January-December financial year, had posted a profit of Rs 525.43 crore in the same period a year ago. Net sales were up 8.9 per cent to Rs 3,600.20 crore against Rs 3,305.78 crore in the corresponding period last fiscal, the company said in a BSE filing. According to the company, “Growth was broad-based and largely driven by volume and mix” as “key products boosted by in-home consumption and posted double-digit growth”. Nestle India’s domestic sales were up 10.17 per cent to Rs 3,442.03 crore against Rs 3,124.23 crore of the January-March of 2020. Export sales were down 12.9 per cent at Rs 158.17 crore against Rs 181.55 crore of the corresponding quarter. Nestle India has witnessed a 66 per cent growth in sales from the e-commerce channel, which contributed 3.8 per cent of domestic sales. “E-commerce has continued to deliver strong performance and grew by 66 per cent to maintain its robust contribution to our domestic sales,” it said. In the March quarter, Nestle’s total expenses were up 6.16 per cent to Rs 2,828.61 crore against Rs 2,664.27 crore of the corresponding period. Nestle India chairman and managing director Suresh Narayanan said, “The quarter has been another test of resilience of my team and our partners.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
21-04-2021||Business||Sensex and Nifty erase early gains to finish with losses for the second day on the trot||Domestic equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty erased early gains to finish with losses for the second day on the trot on Tuesday as surging Covid-19 cases and growing localised restrictions continued to dent sentiment. The rupee also pared its initial gains to close marginally down 1 paisa at 74.88 against the dollar on Tuesday, with rising oil prices weighing down the local unit along with foreign investors selling stocks. Gold in the national capital on Tuesday fell  Rs 305 to Rs 46756 per 10 gram in line with a fall in international precious metal prices. The 30-share Sensex on Monday oscillated in an 1040-point range as it touched an intra-day high of 48478.34 — a rise of almost 529 points as markets cheered the opening up of the vaccination programme all  above 18 But investors used the rally to lighten their positions as the concerns of more lockdowns weighed on their sentiment. Analysts said investors were booking profits at every rally and the trend is likely to continue till the current wave subsided. The Sensex closed 243.62 points or 0.51 per cent lower at 47705.80 after hitting an intra-day low of 47438.50. The NSE Nifty climbed over 167 points to reclaim the key 14,500-level during the day, but surrendered all its gains to end at 14296.40, showing a drop of 63.05 points or 0.44 per cent. “Global markets were seen to be negative which did not support the  initial recovery. Moreover, various state governments are implementing stricter local restrictions due to which the markets started giving up the gains,’’ Sandeep Gupta of  Motilal Oswal Financial Services said Growth warning A Crisil report has warned of the grim economic scenario as with even limited restrictions on people’s movement and some businesses, power consumption and e-way GST bill collections are already down. The report has also called for speeding up the vaccination drive that of late has been on the decline on a weekly basis. More and more states are clamping down more localised restrictions on people movement and commerce, falling just short of a complete lockdown. This already has electricity consumption and GST e-way bills collection, which are used as proxies to track economic activity, softening somewhat and it needs to be seen whether this softening is a blip, or marks a shift in a trend, Crisil said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
21-04-2021||Business||India trashes US's currency manipulator charge||The Centre has rejected the grounds on which the US treasury department classified India as a potential currency manipulator. It insisted that the Reserve Bank of India's interventions in the currency market were balanced and warranted while denying that the central bank was beefing up its foreign exchange reserves with an ulterior objective. For the second time since the start of the pandemic, India on Monday figured on the US treasury department’s watchlist of currency manipulators. The central bank’s dollar purchase at 5 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP) exceeding the 2 per cent threshold was cited as the reason. Commerce secretary Anup Wadhawan said that these watchlists are a recent phenomena and it is an intrusion into the policy space of central banks, which “I personally do not understand its rational or economic logic”. He said that India’s overall forex reserves have been fairly steady, below $500-600 billion, and the country is not accumulating reserves like China. “These are, in my view, very legitimate market based operations of a central bank. It is a mandate of the central bank to provide stability in the currency, as a result of which the central bank buys and sells foreign currency . Our overall forex reserves have been fairly steady.” “We are not accumulating reserves, which are steadily growing. We have a steady pattern of reserves holding...So I think the central bank's activity in the foreign exchange market has been perfectly balanced and completely legitimate,” he told reporters. The US treasury department last week put India and 10 others on its “monitoring list” that needed a close scrutiny of currency practices. The latest move by the US to put India on the watchlist may discourage the Reserve Bank of India  from aggressive intervention in the foreign exchange market, reports quoting some economists said. When asked about the proposal of India and South Africa at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) about the temporary waiver of certain provisions related to an agreement on intellectual property rights to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, Wadhawan said that proposal has received “widespread” support from different members, while some nations have opposed that. “The proposal has met with tremendous success and more importantly highlighted the importance of the issue,” he said. On a question whether the government is planning to waive 10 per cent customs duty on Covid vaccines, the secretary said that departments of revenue and pharmaceuticals would take a joint decision on that, but “I do not have any information on that”. On oxygen supply in the country, he said although the issues are being coordinated by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), on war footing and efforts are underway to make supplies available. This is being coordinated on 24x7 basis and the supply position has improved tremendously.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
21-04-2021||Business||Supreme Court halts property seizure for GST dues||The Supreme Court has ruled that revenue authorities cannot provisionally attach citizens’ property using “draconian” provisions of the Goods and Service Tax (GST) legislation except in extraordinary circumstances when there is a “dire necessity” to protect the revenue interests of the State. The ruling handed down Tuesday by a bench comprising Justice D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah will come as a huge relief to small businesses that have been locked in disputes with revenue authorities over arbitrary reckoning of dues and precipitate action. “The exercise of unguided discretion cannot be permissible because it will leave citizens and their legitimate business activities to the peril of arbitrary power,” the apex court bench said. The court passed the ruling while upholding an appeal filed by Radha Krishan Industries which had challenged the Himachal Pradesh government's order provisionally attaching its bank accounts and receivables from its customers in order to recover dues arising from tax, interest and penalty for an amount of Rs 5.03 crore. Later, this was bumped up to Rs 8.30 crore through a fresh tax demand issued in February this year. The verdict washailed by industry and tax advisors. “The Centre had issued guidelines earlier this year stating that provisional attachment of taxpayers property under the GST law should be exercised by the authorities only in extraordinary circumstances. “The apex court of India, holding a similar view, overturned the judgment of  the high court of Himachal Pradesh, stating that... the provisional attachment of the property is draconian in nature,” said Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY India. “The stand of the apex court that provisional attachment of property should be exercised when there is no other alternative remedy available, will help prevent unnecessary harassment of tax payers.” . The dispute arose over an order issued in October 2020 by the joint commissioner of state taxes and excise, southern enforcement zone, in Parwanoo (Himachal Pradesh) for the provisional attachment of the payments that Fujikawa Power and Deepak International — customers of Radha Krishan Industries — had to make to the company in order to realise a sum of Rs 5.03 crore. The order was issued after the Himachal revenue authorities unearthed an input tax fraud involving Radha Krishan’s supplier GM Powertech which had claimed and utilised input tax credit on the basis of invoices issued by fake and fictitious companies. Radha Kishan was sucked into the mess even though it argued that it had paid GST output tax of Rs 12.49 crore during the period 2017-18 and 2018-19 — which was in excess of the disputed input tax credit of Rs 3.25 crore which Radha Krishan was accused of claiming fraudulently. The state revenue authorities, which had withdrawn an attachment notice in January 2019, reopened the case in October last year, arguing that the payment of Rs 12 crore in tax did not imply that Radha Krishan did not engage in the input tax fraud. The provisional attachment was ordered while invoking Section 83 of the Himachal Pradesh GST Act, 2017 and Rule 159 of Himachal Pradesh Goods and Service Tax Rules, 2017. The Himachal Pradesh High Court had dismissed the company’s appeal challenging orders of provisional attachment under Article 226 of the Constitution. “The power to levy a provisional attachment is draconian in nature. By the exercise of the power, a property belonging to the taxable person may be attached, including a bank account...The attachment is provisional and the statute has contemplated an attachment during the pendency of the proceedings under the stipulated statutory provisions…” Justice Chandrachud said in his verdict. “The.. provisions are not intended to authorize Commissioners to make pre-emptive strikes on the property of the assessee, merely because property is available for being attached. There must be a valid formation of the opinion that a provisional attachment is necessary for the purpose of protecting the interest of the government revenue,” Justice Chandrachud said. “There has, hence, been a fundamental breach of the principles of natural justice. Ex facie, the above order passed by the Joint Commissioner does not indicate any basis for the formation of the opinion that the levy of a provisional attachment was necessary to protect the interest of the government revenue,” Justice Chandrachud said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
21-04-2021||Business||Hero MotoCorp to temporarily halt operations at all of its manufacturing facilities||Hero MotoCorp has decided to halt operations temporarily at all of its manufacturing facilities across the country, including its Global Parts Center (GPC), in view of the rapid spread of Covid-19 across the country. The company will utilise these days to carry out necessary maintenance work at the plants. The shutdown will not impact the company’s ability to fulfil its orders. Demand has been low because of the localised lockdowns in many states and production loss will be compensated during the remainder of the quarter. All plants will resume normal operations after this period. Each plant and Global Parts Center will remain shut for four days in a staggered manner between April 22 and May 1. All corporate offices of the company are already in a work from home mode. Maruti Suzuki India Limited has transported over 7.2 lakh vehicles using Indian Railways in the past five years. In 2020-21, more than 1.8 lakh vehicles took the rail route for transportation, the highest-ever railway despatch by the company, against nearly 88,000 units in 2016-17. The company has been increasing the use of railways for its vehicle transportation. The transportation by rail exceeded 1.8 lakh in 2020-21, which accounts for nearly 13 per cent of total sales in the same period. Kenichi Ayukawa, managing director & CEO, Maruti Suzuki India, said, “The transportation of finished vehicles via railways has many tangible benefits. It is a clean, environment friendly mode of transportation. It reduces congestion on highways.” The company at first used single deck converted rakes. The operations started with the use of railway wagons (converted from old passenger coaches). These single deck wagons had a rake capacity to transport 125 cars. Bajaj Auto has launched the Pulsar NS 125 in India. The Pulsar NS 125 is an addition to the Pulsar ‘NS’ range of motorcycles. The Pulsar NS125 is powered by a 125cc BS6 DTS-i engine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-75
