22-04-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 375 points to finish above 48,000||Equity benchmark Sensex rebounded 375 points on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Kotak Bank despite mounting COVID-19 cases in the country. After falling 501 points in opening session, the 30-share BSE index pared all losses to end 374.87 points or 0.79 per cent higher at 48,080.67. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty jumped 109.75 points or 0.77 per cent to 14,406.15. ICICI Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging over 3 per cent, followed by HDFC, Bajaj Auto, HDFC Bank, SBI, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, Titan, HUL, Asian Paints, Tech Mahindra and Nestle India were among the laggards. "In a volatile session, markets ended on a positive note despite the country recording its highest daily COVID spike as investors focused on broad basing of the vaccination program," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Sharp bounce back in financials and favourable global cues supported the market's rebound, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Barring FMCG and IT, most of key sectoral indices traded positively. Notably, after seeing sharp rally in last couple of days, profit booking was seen today in many pharma counters. Volatility index hardened further by approximately 3 per cent," he added. India registered over 3.14 lakh new coronavirus cases in a day, the highest-ever single-day count recorded in any country, taking the the total tally of COVID-19 cases in the country to 1,59,30,965. The oxygen crisis, precipitated by the second wave which has left tens of thousands hospitalised, appeared to intensify with complaints of shortage from several states. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Shanghai was in the red. Bourses in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.51 per cent lower at USD 64.99 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-04-2021||Business||India, EU to join hands to build global infrastructure projects||India and the European Union (EU) are looking to team up and build infrastructure projects globally that would counter China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The key focus for what has been described as a “connectivity” partnership would be on energy, digital and transportation projects in Europe, Asia and also Africa, the Financial Times reported on Thursday. Both sides were at pains to emphasise that the new partnership won’t attempt to “compete” with the BRI but the effort clearly is to block China from stitching together an “all roads lead to Beijing” zone in the three continents. The FT reported that both sides are looking to unveil this new infrastructure-building partnership at a virtual summit that’s taking place on May 8. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been scheduled to travel to Portugal for the summit but the visit has been cancelled because of the Covid-19 pandemic. "In view of the Covid-19 situation, it has been decided, in consultation with the EU and Portuguese leadership, to hold the summit in a virtual format on May 8," the Ministry of External Affairs announced Tuesday. India and Japan have already teamed up to develop infrastructure projects in Sri Lanka, Myanmar and Bangladesh. The partners had been scheduled to build Colombo’s East Container Terminal but the Sri Lankans suddenly pulled permission when it was about to be signed. Sri Lanka has offered an alternative port project instead. But India has indicated that it is lukewarm to this proposal. The US and EU have accused China of putting up expensive projects that the host country ends up not being able to pay for. One example is Sri Lanka’s Hambantota Port which added to the country’s debt-servicing problems. The Chinese have taken parts of the port on a 99-year lease. Similarly, tiny Montenegro in Central Europe took a huge loan from China to build a highway and it’s now trying to obtain a loan from the EU to repay it. Diplomats say the new India-EU partners would ensure that their projects do not impose a heavy debt burden, like the Chinese ones. In Pakistan, for instance, China-backed power projects have received financial backing from Chinese banks at onerous interest rates. Several highways and industrial parks are also being built under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC)agreements. The CPEC projects were estimated to be worth $60 billion but they have slowed since Prime Minister Imran Khan has come to power. In 2018, Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohammad cancelled the huge $20-billion East Coast Rail project linking but negotiations have continued to do the project at a lower price. Also, India and the EU will look at backing R&D projects in countries across the three continents. However, it’s not clear where the funds would come from for these projects, though the EU says both the public and the private sectors will be involved. The EU is simultaneously looking to build up economic ties with China. It had signed the EU-China Comprehensive Agreement on Investments (CAI) in December but that has now run into headwinds due to European sanctions imposed in response to the Uighurs, human rights and forced labour issues. US President Joe Biden is also thought to be pushing the EU to take a tougher stand against China. The Financial Times quoted an EU diplomat saying: “The EU and its allies have a common interest here, in presenting an alternative to the Belt and Road Initiative, rather than allowing Chinese investments to dominate.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-04-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped over 500 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and HUL as mounting COVID-19 cases in the country kept investors on edge. After falling 501 points in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 463.36 points or 0.97 per cent lower at 47,242.44. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tanked 130.10 points or 0.91 per cent to 14,166.30. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, Axis Bank, HUL, M&M, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Finance, Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma, ONGC, Infosys and HDFC were among the gainers. In the previous session on Tuesday, Sensex slipped 243.62 points or 0.51 per cent to close the session at 47,705.80, an over two-month low. Likewise, Nifty ended at 14,296.40, showing a drop of 63.05 points or 0.44 per cent. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,082.33 crore on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Stock exchanges were closed on Wednesday on account of Ram Navami'. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, a storm-like resurgence of COVID cases is impacting the economy as well as market sentiments. Localised lockdowns and severe restrictions on movements are sure to take a toll on the expected GDP growth for FY22. "Uncertainty has impacted sentiments and the sustained selling by FIIs in April is a reflection of this concern," he noted. Active COVID-19 cases in India stood at 22,91,428, up from 21,57,538 cases registered on Wednesday, according to Union Health Ministry data. The oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave which has left tens of thousands hospitalised appeared to intensify with complaints of shortage from several states. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Bourses on Wall Street too ended with gains in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.40 per cent lower at USD 65.06 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-04-2021||Business||Covid-19: Air India slots two weekly flights to UK between April 24 and 30 ||Air India will operate only two flights during April 24 to 30, instead of 13 weekly flights as the UK government has put India on the red list of countries that pose high Covid risk. The carrier will operate only one flight each between Delhi, Mumbai and London during this period, officials said. Indian citizens will not be allowed to enter the UK from 8.30am (India time) on Friday. And British citizens will need to quarantine in a hotel on arrival in the UK for 10 days. Air India in a tweet said:  “Passengers who were to travel between India and the UK, may kindly note that in view of recent restrictions announced by the UK, flights from/to the UK stand cancelled from April 24 to 30, 2021.” “Updates on rescheduling, refunds and waivers will be informed shortly. The following flights between April 24 and 30 stand cancelled: AI131/AI130 Mumbai-London-Mumbai. AI161/AI162 Delhi-London-Delhi. AI131/AI178 Mumbai-London-Bangalore and AI177/AI130 Bangalore-London-Mumbai,” AI tweeted. The UK government has said: “If you have been in or through any of the (red list countries) in the previous 10 days, you will be refused entry to the UK. If you are a British or Irish national, or you have residence rights in the UK, you will be able to enter. You must quarantine in a government approved hotel for 10 days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-04-2021||Business||Gold imports surge to 160 tonnes in March on price drop, duty cut: GJEPC||Gold imports during March have surged to 160 tonnes on the back of duty cuts to 7.5 per cent, a reduction in gold prices and a rise in demand in India and overseas according to industry body Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC). Total imports during March was 160 tonnes, a growth of 470 per cent compared with the same period last year. During 2020-21, total gold imports into the country was 632.73 tonnes, a decline of 11.87 per cent compared with the previous fiscal. The industry body said that the growth of gold imports has been aided by a low base effect as imports in March 2020 was 28 tonnes because of the outbreak of Covid-19. “In a normal scenario, the average import of gold in a month remains 60 tonnes to 80 tonnes. But, outbreak of Covid-19 in March 2020 resulted in a nosedive in jewellery demand in domestic and international markets and so the import of gold in March 2020 was only 28 tonnes vis-avis 93 tonnes in March 2019,” GJEPC said in a statement. Gold prices have also declined on an average to Rs 40,179 in March 2021, which is the lowest through the financial year 2020-21. “Factors such as low base effect, reduction in gold price, reduction in import duty may be attributed to the increased imports in the country in this period. An important observation is that from an average import of approximately 80 tonnes in a year in 2018-19, it is down to 50 tonnes last year,” said GJEPC chairman Colin Shah. He added that the growth indicates a positive sentiment in both domestic and international markets, with expectations of export growth in the ongoing fiscal as well. “The import duty reduction has encouraged imports through official channels. While the duty cut by the government is not much, it has helped bring duty on a par with other countries and more formal import of metal through official channels,” said Shah. The industry, however, does not anticipate any immediate policy intervention amid the spike in imports. “Going by the RBI data, there has been an improvement in the foreign exchange reserves (from $476475 million as of April 10, 2020 to $581213 million as of April 9, 2021). So, there should not be any immediate concern,” said a senior banker. But there are concerns among jewellers over a slowdown in demand amid the rising Covid concerns across the country. Globally, international gold prices rose on Wednesday, hovering near a seven week high hit earlier this week as a softer dollar and easing of US treasury yields lifted demand for the safe haven metal. Spot gold prices climbed 0.5 per cent to $1786.06 per ounce earlier in the day after hitting $1789.77 on Monday, the highest since February 25, said Reuters. “Gold's pain over the last couple of months has been the rising Treasury yields and now that has pretty much been alleviated,” said Edward Moya, senior market analyst at OANDA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-04-2021||Business||Care Ratings revises India's GDP growth forecast to 10.2 pc for FY22||With economic activities getting affected across the country because of curbs imposed by states amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Care Ratings has revised down its forecast for GDP growth to 10.2 per cent in 2021-22 from earlier projection of 10.7-10.9 per cent. This is the third revision by the rating agency in the last one month. “We have revised our forecast for GDP growth for 2021-22 as the underlying conditions have changed rapidly in the last 30 days or so. It stands now at 10.2 per cent,” Care Ratings said in a report. On March 24, 2021, the agency had projected GDP growth between 11-11.2 per cent based on GVA (gross value added) growth of 10.2 per cent. The spread of the virus in Maharashtra had led to the announcement of a “lockdown” by the state government which began in a less stringent manner from the first week of April, it said. Factoring the potential loss of economic output due to the restrictions in the state, the agency, on April 5, lowered its GDP forecast for the current fiscal year to 10.7-10.9 per cent. But the “lockdown” was made more obtrusive to business activity by April 20, with more stringency expected for the forthcoming fortnight, it added. Further, the spread of the virus to other states has caused similar actions by governments which have ranged from night curfews and weekend lockdowns to full lockdowns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-04-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India decides not to activate countercyclical capital buffer||The Reserve Bank of India has decided not to activate the countercyclical capital buffer (CCyB) framework as the current situation does not warrant such an action. The RBI in February 2005 had put in place CCyB guidelines with the overall objective of strengthening the banking sector. It was envisaged that the CCyB would be activated as and when the circumstances warranted. “Based on a review and empirical testing of indicators, it is not necessary to activate the counter-cyclical buffer at this stage,” the RBI said in a release. The framework on CCyB was put in place by the Reserve Bank of India in terms of guidelines issued in February 2015 wherein it was advised that the CCyB would be activated as and when the circumstances warranted, and that the decision would normally be pre-announced. The framework envisages the credit-to-GDP gap as the main indicator, which may be used in conjunction with other supplementary indicators like credit-to-deposit ratio, industrial outlook assessment survey, interest coverage ratio, and asset quality. The Reserve Bank had said the aim of the countercyclical capital buffer regime was two-fold. First, it requires banks to build up a buffer of capital in good times which may be used to maintain flow of credit to the real sector in difficult times. Second, it achieves the broader macro-prudential goal of restricting the banking sector from indiscriminate lending in the periods of excess credit growth that have often been associated with the building up of system-wide risk. In the backdrop of the 2008 global financial crisis, the Group of Central Bank Governors and Heads of Supervision (GHOS), the overseeing body of the standards set by the Basel Committee, had envisaged introduction of a framework on countercyclical capital measures. The RBI has set up a committee to undertake a comprehensive review of the working of asset reconstruction companies (ARCs) in the financial sector. The six-member committee will be headed by Sudarshan Sen, former executive director, Reserve Bank of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
22-04-2021||Business||Markets in distress as Covid woes resurface||The domestic markets were closed on Wednesday on account of Ram Navami but cues from overseas bourses were not encouraging as a spike in Covid-19 cases, particularly in India and Japan, have re-ignited concerns about its impact on global recovery. In Asia, while the Nikkei-225 plummeted 2.03 per cent, or 591.83 points, the Hang Seng index fell by around 1.76 per cent and South Korea’s Kospi was also in the red as it declined 1.52 per cent. However, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was trading in the green at the time of writing this report. Meanwhile, crude futures extended declines from a one-month high on speculation that coronavirus restrictions in India, the world’s third-largest oil importer, will hurt energy demand. Gold was, however, perking up again as investors started to show growing signs of risk aversion. Spot gold rose to $1,783.89 per ounce, close to a seven-week high. According to a report from Credit Suisse, there are signs of slowing goods movement in India which has also affected truck rentals on trunk routes. Market circles feel equities are likely to remain under pressure because of the rising Covid-19 cases in the country leading to lockdowns. Already various brokerages have pruned their growth estimates for the year due to these restrictions which would hurt economic activity. “It is, therefore, imperative that the vaccination roll out is faster,” an analyst said. On Tuesday, the Sensex closed 243.62 points, or 0.51 per cent, lower at 47705.80, thus wiping out all gains accrued during the day while the same trend was seen in the Nifty which fell 63.05 points after rising over 167 points. This comes at a time India Inc have begun reporting numbers for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021. Though there have been no major disappointments, there are concerns that the current Covid surge may hit their earnings for the current fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
22-04-2021||Business||Ratan Tata invests in Mailit||Veteran industrialist Ratan Tata has invested in Mailit, a technology-driven mailroom management and logistics company. While the financial details of the investment were not disclosed, Mailit said it plans to launch 500 mailrooms across India in addition to establishing fully mechanised warehouse and distribution centres in the next five years. Mailit offers courier, cargo, 3PL, mail room management digital solutions and postal services to leading corporates and several blue chip companies in Tata Group. The strategy focuses on building India’s first digitally Integrated Logistics & Mailroom Solutions (IL&MS) platform bringing the much-needed consolidation, enhanced efficiency and visibility to a fragmented market place, a statement said on Wednesday. Mailit will focus on consolidating the entire value chain, bringing seamless end-to-end distribution with real-time visibility, thereby reducing the overall logistics and distribution costs, it added. “With the government reiterating its commitment to strengthening the infrastructure sector, Tata believes the Mailit IL&MS platform will bring in cost optimisation, build operational efficiencies in the supply chain and create employment opportunities across India,” it said. Mahesh Shirodkar, founder and CMD of Mailit, said the investment by Tata “opens up a wider growth prospect” for the company. The Tata Sons chairman emeritus has been aggressively investing in start-ups, ranging from e-commerce firms, pet care companies to cab aggregators. In the past, he has backed companies such as Snapdeal, Kaaryah, DogSpot, Urban Ladder, Bluestone, CarDekho, Sabse Technologies, Xiaomi and Ola. Digital therapeutics firm Fitterfly on Wednesday said it has raised $3.1 million (around Rs 23 crore) in a funding round led by Fireside Ventures. The pre-Series A round also saw participation from 9Unicorns, Venture Catalysts and a clutch of angel investors from India, US and Singapore, Fitterfly said in a statement. Energy efficiency company Smart Joules has raised $4.9 million (about Rs 36.75 crore) in funding from a clutch of investors, including Raintree Family Office.  Other investors included ADB Ventures, Sangam Ventures, Max I Limited and Saket Burman from Dabur family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
22-04-2021||Business||Lenders to Future Enterprises, Future Supply Chain Solutions approve debt restructuring||The Future group got yet another relief when lenders to two more firms —Future Enterprises and Future Supply Chain Solutions — approved resolution plans to restructure their existing secured financial debt. This comes on the back of a consortium of 28 banks giving the green signal to the debt recast of the group’s flagship firm Future Retail Ltd (FRL), under the resolution framework for Covid-19-related stress announced by the RBI last year. The boards of both Future Enterprises and Future Supply Chain Solutions have approved their lenders’ plans to restructure their existing secured financial debt, they said in separate regulatory filings. Among them, Future Enterprises has 19 lenders, including HDFC Bank, IDBI Bank, Indian Bank, Axis Bank, Canara Bank, Central Bank of India, Indian Overseas Bank, Punjab National Bank, Bank of India and SBI. Though the company did not announce the total debt under the restructuring, a December 2020 report from Care Ratings, has put it at around Rs 1,777 crore. This includes long-term term loans of Rs 550 crore, long-term fund-based bank facilities of Rs 625 crore, and short-term non-fund based bank facilities of Rs 602 crore. Under the debt restructuring scheme for Future Enterprises, the lenders have approved the “repayment of short term loans, term loans, non convertible debentures, overdue working capital loans/CPs (converted into working capital term loans) to be extended up to a maximum of two years’’. For Future Enterprises, there would an interest moratorium between March 1, 2020 and September 30, 2021 and all penal interest and charges, default premiums, processing fees unpaid between the period is to be waived off fully. Further, there will be an interest moratorium between March 1, 2020 to September 30, 2021. Interest during the period shall be converted into Funded Interest Term Loan (FITL) which shall be payable by March 2022. The debt recast at Future Supply Chain Solutions has been approved by three lenders, including SBI, Yes Bank and IDFC First Bank. The terms are similar to the other two group firms. While repayment of all term loans will be extended by two years, the upaid interest on loans shall be converted into FITL which shall be payable in two tranches by December. FITL is a fresh loan provided to a stressed borrower for repayment of existing debt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
22-04-2021||Business||Oxygen reallocation to impact small biz in some sectors: Crisil Ratings||Re-allocating oxygen for medical purposes to take care of the rising Covid cases will have an adverse impact on small businesses in some sectors, domestic rating agency Crisil said on Wednesday. It said the “hiccup” seems temporary for now, and it is unlikely to impact the credit quality of the affected businesses. The impact will be greater for companies in Maharashtra, New Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, where medical oxygen demand has increased multiple times because of high Covid-19 caseloads, the agency added. The Centre has barred industrial use of oxygen except in nine designated sectors from Thursday onwards to divert the available stocks for life-saving medicinal use. Demand for medical oxygen is estimated to have rocketed five-fold in the second week of April versus pre-pandemic levels as Covid-19 infections took off, Crisil Ratings said. “The disruption in the supply of oxygen for industrial use would temporarily impact the revenues of small and mid-sized companies in metal fabrication, automotive components, shipbreaking, paper, and engineering,” its director Gautam Shahi said. These sectors typically do not have captive oxygen plants and source their requirement through merchant suppliers for operations such as welding, cutting, cleaning and chemical processes, he added. Setting up an air-separation plant or importing oxygen is not a viable option because it requires significant lead time and involves relatively prohibitive costs. Oxygen is consumed by industry in two ways — on-site and merchant sales. On-site is through captive plants for process-driven industries, which account for 75-80 per cent of oxygen manufactured in India. The balance 20-25 per cent is supplied through merchant sales through cryogenic tanks and cylinders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
22-04-2021||Business||Shoguns leap to avert Covid crisis||More and more business houses are stepping in to plug the oxygen shortage in the country amid a huge rise in Covid-19 cases. On Wednesday, the Tata group joined the likes of JSW Steel, Reliance Industries, Indian Oil Corporation, BPCL, Vedanta and others to offer oxygen supplies from its plants. The Tata group said it will import 24 cryogenic containers to transport liquid oxygen and help ease the oxygen scarcity. The group said it is “committed to doing as much as possible to strengthen the fight against Covid-19”. The import of the cryogenic containers via chartered flights to mitigate the oxygen crisis is one such effort to boost health infrastructure. Last year, when the first wave of the pandemic hit India, the group had also imported ventilators, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks and gloves as well as Covid-19 testing kits in large numbers from countries such as South Korea, the US and China. Reliance Industries has also tweaked manufacturing at its Jamnagar oil refineries to produce over 700 tonnes a day of medical-grade oxygen. The oil-to-telecom giant is supplying this free of cost to states badly affected by the second wave of the pandemic. The plant in Gujarat initially produced 100 tonnes of medical-grade oxygen. A PTI report said the supplies being made to states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh will provide relief to over 70,000 critically ill patients every day. The company also plans to raise medical-grade oxygen production capacity to 1,000 tonnes “We are supplying oxygen for medical purposes as our priority is response to the current crises. Currently, the supplies are ramped up to over 185 tonnes and we are making every effort to increase it further from all our steel plants,” JSW Steel had said in a statement earlier this week. HLL Lifecare, which is present in segments such as contraceptives and hospital products, said it will procure almost 50,000 tonnes of imported medical oxygen for distribution to various central and state government hospitals. It floated a global tender on April 16 on behalf of the ministry of health & family welfare for supply of medical oxygen at the earliest. The last date for submission of the tender is April 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-74
