23-04-2021||Business||Sensex declines 202 points after choppy trade||Equity benchmark Sensex declined 202 points on Friday, tracking losses in ICICI Bank, Infosys and HUL amid persistent concerns over the economic impact of the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic in the country. After a volatile session, the 30-share BSE index ended 202.22 points or 0.42 per cent lower at 47,878.45. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty dropped 64.80 points or 0.45 per cent to 14,341.35. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's Bharti Airtel, Tech Mahindra, HUL, ICICI Bank and Infosys. On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, HDFC and Asian Paints were among the gainers. "It was a choppy trading day and benchmark indices fell sharply towards the final session of the market mainly led be selling pressure in across the sectors barring PSU Banks. Concerns of rising COVID-19 cases continued to weigh on investors sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. According to Rusmik Oza, Executive Vice President, Head of Fundamental Research at Kotak Securities, Indian markets succumbed to FPI selling this week on account of the sharp rise in COVID-19 cases. FPIs have remained net sellers this week with the rupee sustaining at 75 levels against the USD. "As India has become the epicentre of the virus resurgence, there is fear of potential earnings downgrades which could turn out to be higher in case of mid and small caps vis- -vis the large caps. "Fresh lockdowns and restrictions being imposed by various state governments will impact demand and also business activity. The persistent rise in hard commodity prices is a threat which could weigh on margins of many manufacturing companies. Too many potential negatives have come together which could impact markets in the very near future," he said. India added a record over 3.32 lakh new coronavirus cases in a single day, taking the country's tally to 1,62,63,695, while active cases crossed the 24-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.06 per cent lower at USD 65.36 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-04-2021||Business||Sensex falls over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex declined over 300 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid concerns that the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic may derail the economic recovery of the country. The 30-share BSE index was trading 316.81 points or 0.66 per cent lower at 47,763.86. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty dropped 75.45 points or 0.52 per cent to 14,330.70. ICICI Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by HDFC twins, Bajaj Finance, HUL, SBI, M&M and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Asian Paints, Titan, HCL Tech, Dr Reddy's and UltraTech Cement were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 374.87 points or 0.79 per cent higher at 48,080.67, and Nifty jumped 109.75 points or 0.77 per cent to 14,406.15. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 909.56 crore on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. "Sharp rise in COVID-19 cases across the country and enhanced mobility restriction imposed by a number of states are expected to remain as key overhangs for the market," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. This has started posing a threat to corporate earnings recovery, he said, adding that the possibility of supply disruption and increased COVID-19 cases in the hinterland area can further hurt economic momentum. Active COVID-19 cases in India stood at 24,28,616, up from 22,91,428 cases registered on Thursday, according to Union Health Ministry data. On the global front, US equities finished sharply lower on Thursday following news reports that President Joe Biden is likely to double capital gain tax for wealthier individuals. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.44 per cent higher at USD 65.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-04-2021||Business||Jawahar Lal Goel offers Dish TV shares to save Essel group’s Subhash Chandra||There is a twist in the tale: the little brother is stepping in to bail out his debt-laden elder sibling. Jawahar Lal Goel, the promoter and managing director of Dish TV India Ltd, has offered a sizeable part of his shares in the direct-to-home (DTH) firm as security for credit facilities availed by elder brother Subhash Chandra. The office of Subhash Chandra, chairman of the Essel group, put out a statement on Thursday disclosing the development even as it sought to scotch rumours that the pledged shares being released from the lenders at a lower price were being sold “to third party investors at higher price points”. “These speculations are baseless and incorrect, and the group has no such intentions whatsoever,” the statement said, adding that Jawahar Goel had stepped forward to offer support and faced “no financial stress whatsoever in his personal capacity”. The statement said Jawahar Goel was the rightful owner of the Dish TV shares and elder brother Subhash was not the promoter of the DTH entity and did not exercise any management control over the entity. Shares of Dish TV India on Thursday closed 6.34 per cent higher at Rs 9.39 on the BSE. The promoters’ stake in Dish TV stood at 7.30 per cent, comprising 13,44,84,207 shares as on March 31. Of this, 6,87,88,845 shares, or 51.15 per cent of their holding, were pledged. The press statement did not disclose how much of the promoter’s stake now stands pledged or the amount of credit facilities availed by the Subhash Chandra group. The statement added that the Subhash Chandra group was fully committed to returning the security cover to Jawahar Goel and his family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-04-2021||Business||Indiabulls Housing and HDFC ink pact for co-lending||Indiabulls Housing Finance (IBH) has entered into a strategic co-lending partnership with HDFC to offer housing loans at competitive rates. The partnership will see IBH offering retail home loans according to a jointly drawn up credit policy and retain 20 per cent of the loan on its books, while the remaining 80 per cent will be on HDFC’s books. IBH will also service the loan account throughout its life cycle. Sources said the arrangement will be pan-India and it will focus on retail borrowers keen on a home loan. The announcement led to shares of IBH soaring on the stock exchanges. On the BSE, the stock rose 7.33 per cent, or Rs 12.10, to end at Rs 177.20. Investors also gave a thumbs-up to HDFC and its scrip ended nearly 3 per cent higher at Rs 279.30. The second wave of coronavirus infections has adversely affected the future sentiment of stakeholders in the real estate sector for the next six months but it still remains in an optimistic zone, according to Knight Frank-Ficci-Naredco Real Estate Sentiment Index Q1 2021. The ‘Future Sentiment score’ saw a decline from 65 in the fourth quarter of 2020 to 57 in the first quarter of 2021. The ‘Current Sentiment score’ recorded a marginal improvement, inching up from 54 in the fourth quarter of 2020 to 57 in the first quarter of 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-04-2021||Business||Rupee drops by 6 paise to 74.94 as Covid caseload rises||Divergent trends were seen in the forex and stock markets on Thursday as the rupee sank below the 75-mark to a dollar while the benchmark Sensex ended 375 points higher. At the inter-bank forex markets, the rupee weakened by 6 paise to close at 74.94 against the greenback as the rise in Covid-19 cases and enhanced restrictions imposed by states lead to fears that this would have an adverse impact on the economic recovery and also lead to outflows from foreign portfolio investors. Provisional data from the bourses showed that the FPIs sold stocks worth Rs 909 crore in Thursday’s trade. So far in April, they have sold stocks of Rs 7,770 crore after being net buyers in the first three months of the calendar year. Sriram Iyer, senior research analyst at Reliance Securities, said the rupee depreciated against the dollar as an alarming surge in coronavirus infections raised the risks to the country’s near-term growth outlook and increased concerns about foreign fund outflows. However, likely intervention from the RBI checked losses in the unit. However, benchmark stock indices ended higher after two days of losses. The Sensex initially fell 501 points and then recovered to end 374.87 points or 0.79 per cent higher at 48080.67. The Nifty jumped 109.75 points or 0.77 per cent to finish at 14406.15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-04-2021||Business||RBI to conduct auction of government securities worth Rs 32,000 crore||The Reserve Bank of India’s strategy to drive bond yields down will face another stern test on Friday when it auctions government securities worth Rs 32,000 crore. The central bank will be auctioning bonds with maturity tenures ranging from 5 years to 45 years. The RBI has been fighting a losing battle against so-called bond vigilantes who have a vested interest in keeping bond yields high. Last Friday, the RBI refused to accept any bid at the auction of the benchmark 10-year paper as market participants demanded higher yields. With the government set to borrow over Rs 12 lakh crore in the current fiscal, the central bank has been looking to cool runaway yields to ensure that the Centre can continue to borrow at very cheap rates. In his April 7 monetary policy statement, governor Shaktikanta Das had said that in the fiscal ended March 31, the RBI had completed a Rs 22-lakh-crore borrowing programme for the Centre and the states at record low rates. Bond yields have risen sharply since the middle of February and threaten to scupper the plan to help the government to continue to borrow at low rates like last year. The RBI also released minutes of its monetary policy committee (MPC) where the developments in bonds markets also came up for discussion. Here, MPC member Ashima Goyal said the spread of the 10-year government security over short rates was 60 basis points during 2011-17 before rising sharply in 2018 and this has increased to over 200 basis points. This has come despite large open market operations. “The markets are caught in an irrational trap,” she said. “They did not respond to positives such as better tax revenues. Bond markets are subject to disruption where they expect rates to rise and do not buy; so, when the rates rise, debt becomes unsustainable and fears are self-fulfilling.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-72
23-04-2021||Business||Covid spike a major hurdle to the ongoing recovery in Indian economy: RBI governor||Members of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) have expressed concern that the surge in Covid-19 cases could trip the nascent economic recovery, according to the minutes of the meeting held earlier this month. The panel also called for speeding up the vaccination drive even as it reiterated that the accommodative policy should continue till economic recovery is assured. The six-member MPC had met from April 5-7 where they kept the policy repo rate unchanged at 4 per cent, while the growth forecast was retained at 10.5 per cent for this fiscal. Minutes of the meeting released on Thursday by the RBI showed governor Shaktikanta Das pointing out that the rapidly rising cases is the single biggest challenge to the ongoing recovery in the Indian economy. He said that global growth is gradually recovering, even though it remains uneven across countries, reflecting the substantial differences in the infection trajectory, the speed of vaccination drives and the size of fiscal stimulus. “The renewed jump in Covid-19 infections and the associated localised lockdowns add uncertainty to the growth outlook. In such an environment, monetary policy should remain accommodative to support the recovery,” he added. S&P Global Ratings on Thursday said the Indian economy is projected to grow at 11 per cent in the current fiscal, but flagged the “substantial” impact of broader lockdowns on the economy. Meanwhile, Fitch Ratings on Thursday affirmed ‘BBB-’ sovereign rating for India, saying a recent surge in coronavirus cases may delay GDP recovery, but it won’t derail the economy. It maintained a negative outlook for the rating reflecting “lingering uncertainty around the debt trajectory”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
23-04-2021||Business||Calcutta high court dismisses contempt petitions against Harsh Vardhan Lodha||The Calcutta high court on Thursday dismissed a clutch of contempt petitions filed by the Birla family which effectively allowed Harsh Vardhan Lodha to remain on the boards of the listed companies of the MP Birla Group, including flagship Birla Corporation Ltd. The Birlas had filed five cases against Lodha and four companies contending that the chairman of Birla Corporation had violated a judgment handed down by Justice Sahidhullah Munshi (now retired) by continuing on the boards of these companies and directing their affairs. Justice Munshi had restrained Lodha from occupying any position in the MP Birla Group. On Thursday, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Thottathil B. Radhakrishnan and Justice Shampa Sarkar ruled that Lodha had not committed any act of contempt. “For the purpose of this proceeding, it is sufficient to say that Harsh Vardhan Lodha’s participation in the board meetings cannot be termed as contumacious violation of the order of this court as the wilful disobedience has not been proved beyond reasonable doubt… The contempt application against HVL is dismissed,” the judgment read. The bench also ruled that the directors on the board of the companies had not violated the order either because it was held that Lodha had not committed any contempt by attending the board meetings. The latest round in this dispute signals the end of another chapter in the legal battle between the Birla and Lodha families over the control of the MP Birla empire which includes manufacturing companies, trusts and societies that run several educational and medical institutions in Calcutta and elsewhere. Sources said the Birlas may consider an appeal before the Supreme Court. The two sides have been sparring ever since Late Priyamvada Devi Birla bequeathed her estate to late Rajendra Singh Lodha, father of Harsh Vardhan, in 2004. Two years ago, a fresh battle erupted between the two sides after a committee of administrators was appointed to oversee the affairs of the estate. Since then, two of the three administrators started taking decisions on the strength of a majority vote and many of these went against the interests of Lodha. The committee had instructed promoter group companies to vote against the appointment of Lodha in the manufacturing companies during their respective AGMs. A Birla family member approached the high court seeking to enforce the decisions of the committee. On September 18 last year, Justice Munshi restrained Lodha from holding any position in the Group till the probate of Priyamvada Birla’s will was decided. The issue is still being heard before the high court. On October 1, the division bench of CJ Radhakrishnan and Justice Sarkar modified the single bench order even though the bench did not stay it. The bench said Lodha would be restrained “on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of PDB (Priyamvada Devi Birla).” The order was interpreted by the two sides differently. The Lodhas said it paved the way for Harsh Vardhan to continue on the boards of BCL and three other cable companies: Vindhya Telelinks, Birla Cable and Universal Cables. The judgment noted: “We are not deciding in this contempt case whether the interpretation of the “estate of PDB” as given by the respondents or the one given by the petitioners is correct. That question has to be decided in the pending appeals.” The Lodha camp contended that Harsh was not appointed on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of PDB. The bench appeared to agree: “There is a possibility that HVL could continue to hold office on the strength of the votes of public shareholders in exclusion to the votes of the APL Committee and the Promoter and Promoter Groups and PACs.” A raft of appeals and petitions had followed after the October 1 order was delivered. The bench decided to hear the batch of contempt petitions before it addressed any other issue including the main appeal against the September 18 order. There is little possibility that this bench will hear the main matter as CJ Radhakrishnan is due to retire by the end of this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
23-04-2021||Business||Delhi HC dismisses Facebook, WhatsApp pleas against CCI order to probe privacy policy||The Delhi high court on Thursday dismissed pleas by social media platforms, Facebook and WhatsApp, challenging India’s competition regulator CCI’s order directing a probe into WhatsApp’s new privacy policy. Justice Navin Chawla said though it would have been “prudent” for the Competition Commission of India (CCI) to await the outcome of petitions in the Supreme Court and the Delhi HC against WhatsApp’s new privacy policy, but not doing so would not make the regulator’s order “perverse” or “wanting of jurisdiction”. The court said it saw no merit in the petitions of Facebook and WhatsApp to interdict the investigation directed by the CCI. The CCI had argued that it was not examining the alleged violation of individuals’ privacy which was being looked into by the Supreme Court. It had said before the court that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp would lead to excessive data collection and “stalking” of consumers for targeted advertising to bring in more users and is, therefore, an alleged abuse of dominant position. “There is no question of jurisdictional error,” it had contended and added that WhatsApp and Facebook’s pleas challenging its decision were “incompetent and misconceived”. WhatsApp and Facebook had challenged the CCI’s March 24 order directing a probe into the new privacy policy. CCI had also told the court that only after the investigation can it be determined whether the data collection by WhatsApp and sharing it with Facebook would amount to an anti-competitive practice or abuse of dominant position. It had also argued that the data collected, which would include an individual’s location, the kind of device used, their internet service provider and whom they are conversing with, would lead to creation of a customer profile and preference which would be monetised by way of targeted advertising and all this amounts to “stalking”. The two social media platforms had said that when the top court and the Delhi high court were looking into the privacy policy, then CCI ought not to have “jumped the gun” and intervened in the issue. They had also said that the CCI’s decision was an abuse of the commission’s suo motu jurisdiction. They had claimed that the CCI in the instant case has “drifted far away” from the competition aspect and was looking into the privacy issue which was already being looked into by the apex court and the Delhi high court. In January, the CCI on its own decided to look into WhatsApp’s new privacy policy on the basis of news reports regarding the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-73
