25-04-2021||Business||Ola to launch its electric scooter in July||App cab aggregator Ola has said it will launch its electric scooter in July. Ola has invested Rs 2,400 crore in setting up a factory in Tamil Nadu which will manufacture the scooter, with a capacity of 2 million units a year. The new factory will create 10,000 jobs once its completed. “The Ola Scooter is a tech-driven electric vehicle with industry leading range and speed. It will be manufactured at the Ola Future factory in Tamil Nadu. “Ola Scooter will offer the customer best-in-class performance and experience. The electric two-wheeler will be priced aggressively to make it accessible to all and will help accelerate India’s transition to sustainable, clean and electric mobility,” said a company spokesperson. The company recently revealed its plans to provide charging solutions to all its electric two-wheeler customers and unveiled the Ola Hypercharger Network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
25-04-2021||Business||ICICI Bank net profit zooms multi folds in March quarter||ICICI Bank on Saturday reported a whopping 261 per cent growth in net profit for the fourth quarter ended March 2021 as provisions showed a sharp fall over the year-ago period. The private sector bank reported a standalone net profit of Rs 4,402.61 crore compared with Rs 1,221.36 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. However, the bottomline fell short of analyst estimates who were pencilling in a number in the range of Rs 4,500-5,000 crore. The jump in its net profit came on the back of a 17 per cent growth in core net interest income (NII-interest earned minus interest expended) that rose to Rs 10,431 crore from Rs 8,927 crore in the same period of the previous year. Moreover, provisions showed a sharp drop over the year-ago period. During January-March 2020, banks had stepped up their provision coverage because of the pandemic-induced nationwide lockdown. Provisions at ICICI Bank fell to Rs 2,883.47 crore against Rs 5,967.44 crore. ICICI Bank disclosed that in addition to the Covid-19 related provision of Rs 2,725 crore made in 2019-20, it made a Rs 5,550-crore provision during the first quarter of 2020-21. During the third quarter, the bank used Rs 1,800 crore of the Covid-19 related provisions made in the earlier periods. The lender added that during the fourth quarter, on a prudent basis, it had made additional Covid-related provision amounting to Rs 1,000 crore. Therefore, as on March 31, 2021, the bank held aggregate Covid-19 related provision of Rs 7,475 crore. During the fourth quarter of 2020-21, ICICI Bank’s asset quality improved. The percentage of gross non-performing assets (NPAs) to gross customer assets stood at4.96 per cent against proforma gross NPA of 5.42 per cent in the preceding three months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
25-04-2021||Business||Government extends time till June 30 for making payment of disputed tax||The Central Board of Direct Taxes has extended the time frame for issue of assessment orders, notices and intimations under certain provisions of the Income Tax Act along with extension of time for payment of the amount of disputed tax payable under the Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Act without an additional charge of 10 per cent by the end of June. This extension comes amid the spiralling second wave of the coronavirus pandemic across the country. Extra time has been allowed for completion of assessment, reassessment and re-computation of income as well as issuing a notice under section 148 of the Income Tax Act in cases where income has escaped assessment. The time limit for passing an order based on the direction of a dispute resolution panel has also been extended. Moreover, time limits for the tax department to intimate businesses about processing their statement on equalisation levy have been extended by two months to the end of June. These extensions come as a relief measure primarily for the tax officials. The CBDT said notifications extending these due dates will be issued soon. The deadlines were earlier extended from March-end to April-end. CBDT said the move to extend certain timelines comes on the back of representations from industry, consultants and other stakeholders. Karishma Phatarphekar, Deloitte India, said, “While it’s a welcome move that no additional amount payable under the VSV has been extended to June 30, it would have been good if they would have also extended the filing deadline beyond March 31 for this category to May 31 so that more taxpayers could avail of the scheme. “The government can also consider enhancing the scope of the scheme to cover taxpayers whose appeals are pending beyond January 31, 2020.” Narayan Jain, chairman of the representation committee of Direct Taxes Professionals Association, said: “Only extension of date for payment under VSV is helpful to the assessee. However, the date for filing the declaration under VSV should have also been extended in the national interest and to minimise litigations.” He said the other four extensions should be revisited by the finance ministry. The extension of due date comes at a time businesses, professional services firms and the tax authorities are grappling with a manpower shortage. Businesses are also expecting extension of due dates for filing GST returns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
25-04-2021||Business||Cerberus Global Investments shows interest in Srei Equipment Finance||New York-based private investment firm Cerberus Global Investments BV is the third investor to show interest in capital infusion into Srei Equipment Finance Limited (SEFL). There will also be a forensic audit of the books of the NBFC at the behest of the lenders. The non-bank finance firm had earlier received expressions of interest for capital infusion of about $250 million from US firm Arena Investors and Singapore-based Makara Capital. The capital infusion is aimed at shoring up the capital base of SEFL at a time the NBFC’s cash flow has come under stress because of the asset liability mismatch during the Covid-19 pandemic. While the company has offered moratorium to eligible borrowers, it was not allowed moratorium by its lenders. This has raised concern among investors over the company’s ability to repay its liabilities. The company had anticipated the challenging situation and had approached NCLT with a scheme of proposed repayment of loans. SEFL in a statement on Saturday said that KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services and chartered accountants firm DmKH & Co will act as forensic auditors to the non bank financial company on the advice of its lenders. The NBFC said the audit is part of the proposed debt realignment process. The RBI has conducted a special audit into the books of the lender. SEFL also said that it has appointed former Supreme Court of India judge Justice Deepak Verma as an independent director on its board effective April 23, 2021. SEFL had earlier said that a strategic coordination committee consisting of independent directors has been formed to engage in discussion with private equity funds to bring capital into the business. Ernst & Young is advising the committee on the fund raising exercise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-71
