26-04-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 508 points to close above 48,000-mark||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 508 points on Monday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries and Axis Bank amid a mixed trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 508.06 points or 1.06 per cent higher at 48,386.51. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty jumped 143.65 points or 1 per cent to 14,485. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, UltraTech Cement, HUL, SBI, PowerGrid, Bajaj Auto and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, HCL Tech, HDFC Bank, Maruti, Sun Pharma and TCS were among the laggards. "Domestic equities shrugged off rising COVID-19 cases and rebounded mainly led by sharp recovery in financials," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Barring pharma, most of key sectoral indices traded in green. Strong March quarter performance led ICICI Bank to recovery sharply, while HCL Technologies witnessed sell-off due to subdued 4Q performance, he added. With 3,52,991 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, the highest so far, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases has climbed to 1,73,13,163 while active cases have crossed the 28-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended in the red, while Tokyo and Seoul were in the positive terrain. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.74 per cent lower at USD 64.28 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
26-04-2021||Business||Former Maruti chief Jagdish Khattar no more||Former managing director of Maruti Suzuki India, Jagdish Khattar, passed away on Monday morning following a cardiac arrest, according to people close to him. Khattar (79), a former bureaucrat, was considered as one of the most high profile leaders of the Indian automotive industry, laying the foundation for Maruti's future growth after the government began its disinvestment in 2002 and gradually exited from its joint venture with Suzuki Motor Corporation (SMC). He had joined the then Maruti Udyog Ltd in July 1993 as director (marketing) and went on to become executive director (marketing) in the next six years. He was promoted as joint managing director in 1999, a year that saw various disagreements between SMC and the government. Khattar was appointed to the post of MD of Maruti Udyog Ltd, as per an agreement between the partners, who agreed to appoint their nominee for a three-year term. Even as the government and the Japanese partner continued to squabble over various issues, including ownership and technology transfer, Khattar had also to deal with industrial relations issues when workers at the company's Gurgaon plant went on an indefinite strike in 2000 demanding wage hikes, incentives and pensions, among others. In 2002, when it was SMC's turn to appoint MD, they renamed Khattar as their nominee. His second term as MD began in May 2002, which was supposed to last till the age of 65 years or end-2007, whichever was earlier. In 2007, he retired from the top post in the country's largest carmaker, having ensured that the company commanded 50 per cent of the passenger vehicles market in India despite growing competition from global players. A year after retirement, he founded a multi-brand car service chain, Carnation Auto with many reputed private equity investors including Premji Invest and Gaja Capital backing the venture. However, his entrepreneurial venture did not reach the heights of success that he achieved when he was helming Maruti Suzuki. In 2019, he was booked by the CBI along with his company Carnation Auto India Limited for allegedly causing losses of Rs 110 crore to Punjab National Bank (PNB). Khattar had, however, defended himself stating that an exhaustive independent forensic audit at the behest of the bankers did not find any wrongdoings in the functioning of Carnation Auto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
26-04-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 600 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 600 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries and Kotak Bank amid positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 641.35 points or 1.34 per cent higher at 48,519.80. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty jumped 178.90 points or 1.25 per cent to 14,520.25.ICICI Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 5 per cent, after the lender on Saturday reported a nearly four-fold jump in its March quarter consolidated profit at Rs 4,886 crore, as against Rs 1,251 crore in the year-ago period. UltraTech Cement, SBI, ONGC, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finance were also among the gainers. On the other hand, HCL Tech, PowerGrid, Sun Pharma and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 202.22 points or 0.42 per cent lower at 47,878.45, and Nifty dropped 64.80 points or 0.45 per cent to close at 14,341.35. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,360.76 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be positive at the moment, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. He noted that while a persistent rise in COVID-19 cases across the nation and enhanced economic restrictions have dented investor sentiments over the last couple of weeks, manufacturing and infrastructure activities have not halted yet and companies appeared to be proactive this time to convince most workers to stay back by offering basic amenities and facilities. "Therefore, a large economic damage like last year is unlikely to happen. Further, cancellation of bond auctioning at higher rate by the RBI last week validates RBI's strong commitment to maintain low-rate interest scenario and support economic activities, he said. Active COVID-19 cases in India stood at 28,13,658, up from 26,82,751 cases registered on Thursday, according to Union Health Ministry data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.41 per cent lower at USD 65.15 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
26-04-2021||Business||Toyota Kirloskar Motor's 2 plants to remain shut during April 26-May 14||After Hero MotoCorp, Toyota Kirloskar Motor has announced that both its plants will remain shut because of a scheduled annual maintenance programme from April 26 to May 14, 2021. The company denied all speculation that the maintenance shutdown has anything to do with the current Covid surge. Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, sales and customer service, Toyota Kirloskar Motor, said: “Our annual maintenance programme is always scheduled around this time. It happens twice a year and it has nothing to do with the Covid surge.” Both the units are located at Bidadi near Bangalore, spread across 432 acres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
26-04-2021||Business||Raymond to focus on consolidation amid second Covid wave||Corporate India is beginning to feel the pinch of the surging second wave of Covid-19 infections and the local lockdowns. However, Gautam Hari Singhania, chairman and managing director of Raymond, tells The Telegraph in an interview that in the current circumstances the company will consolidate and strengthen its existing business. As the vaccination drive speeds up, Singhania hopes the situation will stabilise. The government has declared lockdown in some states because of the rising cases but the whole country is not under lockdown.  Right now it’s a very dynamic situation. Some of our manufacturing plants are shut, impacting various businesses. Hence, we have to wait and watch as to how the situation is developing. We are witnessing a huge spurt in cases and various parts of the country are under a partial lockdown, impacting retail operations. As the vaccination drive is picking up and with the announcement of vaccination for over 18 years, the situation should stabilise sooner than later. I would like to say that the government is doing their best to safeguard us as Covid is not going to go away anytime soon and we have to work on the systems and procedures to live with it. On one hand, the manufacturing units are being asked to keep open for the recovery of the economy, but on the other hand the retail shops are shut. One cannot just manufacture products and put in inventory. We need to sell products to expand the economy. Therefore, my recommendation is to keep the retail shops open with utmost safety and right protocols. There is a need to ensure that we continue to take precautions like wearing masks and maintain social distancing along with rapid vaccination to curtail the spread A few states are still functioning so some manufacturing plants are open and some are shut because of the imposed lockdown. Moreover, we have to see the duration of the lockdown as it will build the inventory, hence impacting manufacturing. Apparel business is definitely impacted as customers have stopped stepping out because of the rise in Covid cases. A lockdown and curfew has been imposed in metro cities such as Maharashtra and Delhi, where we have the maximum flagship stores and the footfall at these stores are near to none. Unlike the first wave, the online platforms are also affected because of restricted movements of delivery agents as only essential products are allowed to be delivered. Irrespective of the lockdown, Raymond has developed a strong omni channel capability. Given our expansive store network spanning across more than 600 towns, we are well positioned to service our consumers across India. Our responsibility is to provide our customers with a safe shopping experience. During the lockdown, for consumers who are hesitant to step out of their homes but are keen on buying products from us, we showed our products over video calls. Raymond introduced concierge services during the lockdown last year too. Today at our more than 1,500 stores, we follow stringent hygiene and each staff member has been trained to be compliant with these new working norms. (a) Resetting the business from scratch and starting all over again. (b) Resilience and agility are the key to success. (c) Continued focus on cost rationalisation and effective working capital management. Raymond witnessed an increase in sales during the wedding and festive season in the third quarter last year. The formal segment has witnessed a recovery from November to March. There was a positive momentum. However, with the on-going second wave, there are certain restrictions announced for weddings and festivities. We will have to wait and watch how the situation evolves till the infection numbers show a downward trend. As far as the WFH scenario is concerned, we introduced a special WFH line that includes an athleisure collection. We have set standard protocols and procedures at the stores, which give customers a safe shopping experience. For consumers hesitant to step out of their homes, we offered the video call service that received a good traction in the ongoing wedding season. My approach is go omni-channel, go digital and enhance your customer service. There is no expansion plan as we continue to consolidate. Last year was full of disruptions and the start of the current fiscal is also shaky with the second wave of Covid coming in. Therefore, the focus will be to strengthen the existing businesses. Our B2B businesses such as engineering and auto components have almost come back to pre-Covid levels, and real estate has been doing well for us as we are currently the leading developer in the Thane region. We are continuously adding products in our FMCG portfolio with changing customer sentiments. We launched an exciting range of products in the personal and home hygiene segments along with a new range of fragrances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||Lupin, Sun Pharma and Jubilant Cadista recall drugs in US market||Leading generic drug makers Lupin, Sun Pharma and Jubilant Cadista are recalling different products in the US, the world’s largest market for medicines, for different reasons. According to the latest enforcement report by the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA), the US-based unit of Lupin is recalling 17,814 bottles of Cefprozil for Oral Suspension USP, a second-generation antibiotic used to treat infections of the ear, skin and other bacterial infections. The company is recalling the affected lot for being “Superpotent”. The affected lot has been manufactured at Lupin’s Mandideep plant in Madhya Pradesh and distributed in the US by Baltimore-based Lupin Pharmaceuticals Inc. Lupin initiated the Class II voluntary recall across the US and Puerto Rico on March 26 this year. Sun Pharma is recalling 13,834 bottles of diabetes drug Riomet (metformin hydrochloride oral solution) in the US due to “Microbial Contamination of Non-Sterile Product”. The affected lot has been distributed in the US by New Jersey-based Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc. The company initiated Class II nationwide recall on March 31 this year. US-based Jubilant Cadista Pharmaceuticals is recalling 12,192 bottles of an antifungal medication Itraconazole Capsules due to “Failed Dissolution Specifications”. The company is a fully-owned subsidiary of Cadista Holdings Inc, which is a part of the Noida-based Jubilant Life Sciences Company. The affected lot has been produced by Jubilant Generics at its Roorkee based plant in Uttarakhand and marketed in the US by Salisbury-based Jubilant Cadista Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Jubilant commenced Class II recall in the US on April 1, 2021. A class II recall is initiated in a situation in which use of, or exposure to, a violative product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||Data analytics startup Spocto helps banks to recover loans||A Mumbai-based data analytics company is aiming for a five-fold growth in topline as financial institutions such as banks and non-bank lenders tap the digital route to credit recovery amid challenges of Covid pandemic. Sumeet Srivastava, who has in the past worked in leadership roles in Monsanto and GE, started Spocto with a focus on financial behaviour analytics to help banks save expenses on credit recovery. Srivastava said that banks typically budget around 2-4 per cent of their loan book for collection-related activities, which can be brought down with the help of technology. The scale of operations got a substantial boost during last year’s lockdown as lenders and financial institutions found it difficult to execute field recovery. “Between April and July last year, during the lockdown, almost all operating parameters such as the number of accounts handled, revenue, employees, got tripled and the trajectory has continued because there is no reason for the banks to go back,” said Srivastava, CEO and founder, Spocto. “Our plan is to cross Rs 100 crore revenue this year. Last three years, we have been averaging 5-6 times growth in the topline,” said Srivastava.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||Petroleum ministry tells ONGC to sell oilfields||The petroleum ministry has told India’s largest oil and gas producer ONGC to sell stake in producing oil fields such as to Ratna R-Series to private firms, get foreign partners in KG basin gas fields, monetise existing infrastructure and hive off drilling and other services into a separate firm to raise production. Amar Nath, additional secretary (exploration) in the ministry of petroleum and natural gas, on April 1 wrote to Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) chairman and managing director Subhash Kumar giving a seven-point action plan — ‘ONGC Way Forward’ — that would help the firm raise oil and gas production by a third by 2023-24. The action plan calls on ONGC to consider the sale of stake in maturing fields such as Panna-Mukta and Ratna and R-Series in western offshore and onshore fields such as Gandhar in Gujarat to private firms while divesting/privatising “non-performing” marginal fields. It wanted ONGC to bring in global players in gas-rich block KG-DWN-98/2 where output is slated to rise sharply by next year, and in the Ashokenagar block in Bengal, which was recently started production. The Deendayal block in KG basin, which the firm had bought from the Gujarat government-run firm GSPC a couple of years back, has also been identified for the purpose. The ministry also wants the company to explore creating separate entities for drilling, well services, logging, workover services and data processing entities. This is the third attempt by the oil ministry to get ONGC to privatise its oil and gas fields under the Modi government. In October 2017, the directorate general of hydrocarbons, the ministry’s technical arm, had identified 15 producing fields with a collective reserve of 791.2 million tonnes of crude oil and 333.46 billion cubic metres of gas, for handing over to private firms in the hope that they would improve upon the baseline estimate and its extraction. A year later, as many as 149 small and marginal fields of ONGC were identified for private and foreign companies on the grounds that the state-owned firm should focus only on big ones. The first plan couldn’t go through because of strong opposition from ONGC, sources aware of the matter said. The second plan went up to the Cabinet, which on February 19, 2019, decided to bid out 64 marginal fields of ONGC. However, that tender got a tepid response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||Essar Oil UK hopes to secure finance deal for Stanlow refinery by June end||Essar Oil UK, which owns the Stanlow refinery in the UK, said it hopes to put together a new financing deal by the end of June to ensure stability of operations and its business. Doubts were raised about business continuity after it was reported that the refinery may cave in after Lloyds Banking Group, the main financier, walked out. It is one of six refineries in the UK producing motor oil and aviation turbine fuel. “After the disruption caused by the pandemic, the company is continuing with its plans to strengthen its balance sheet and is, therefore, expecting to conclude a further financing by the end of June 2021. “The company is confident that this further financing will be concluded swiftly, based on the proposals it has received,” an Essar Oil UK spokesperson said. The Lloyds Banking Group used to provide a receivable securitisation facility to the Stanlow refinery, which allowed the company to get paid when products were sold instead of waiting for customers to pay. The reason for its exit is unknown. Located on the south side of the Mersey estuary near Liverpool, Stanlow produces 16 per cent of UK road transport fuels and the refinery processes 10 million tonnes of crude and feedstock annually. Essar, owned by the Shashi and Ravi Ruia family, bought the refinery from Shell in 2011 for £801 million. The company, which witnessed a few high profile exits in the recent past, has been battling a steep fall in demand for motor oil and ATF over the past year because of the lockdowns. However, demand appeared to be coming back after the lockdown restrictions were relaxed. An Essar oil statement noted a significant increase in the products being sold at the refinery, which is now generating a positive EBITDA in the region of $40 million for the second calendar quarter of 2021 (which compares with a negative $18 million in the corresponding quarter of 2020). The company will also benefit further from the anticipated recovery in aviation fuel demand in the coming months, the statement added. The company said it would also deliver operational cost reduction initiatives during the year to further improve the position.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||Report: Richer nations in Asia-Pacific may recover faster than poorer counterparts post pandemic||Richer countries in the Asia-Pacific region are likely to recover quickly from the impact of the coronavirus pandemic than their poorer counterparts because of variations in the degree of immunity, healthcare system and vaccine roll-out, according to a report. Referring to the much-talked-about K-shaped recovery, which means some groups or countries recover much faster than others, the report said most countries will take years to attain pre-pandemic income levels. “A K-shaped global economic recovery... appears plausible. Most countries will take years to attain pre-pandemic income levels,” said a joint report ‘Responding to the Covid-19 Pandemic: Leaving no Country Behind’ by the ADB, UNDP and the UNESCAP. Reflecting back to the economic recovery process after the 1997-98 financial crisis, the report said the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic are likely to be “worse”. Advocating that there should not be premature withdrawal of fiscal support by governments across the globe, it said more action is needed, including income support through well-targeted cash transfers, wage subsidies, unemployment insurance tax deferrals, moratoria on debt services as well as equity-like injections into viable firms. The report said that while income equality fell in most of the regions globally during 1995-2015, it rose over 5 percentage points in Asia and the Pacific. “In some 40 per cent of countries in the region, income inequality increased. Worryingly, the market income Gini coefficient soared in China, Indonesia, Bangladesh and India, which are among the five most populous countries in the region and account for over 70 per cent of its population,” the report said. According to the report, the differences in infections and immunity, financial positions, quality and coverage of healthcare systems and COVID-19 vaccine rollout are likely to lead to an uneven recovery across countries in Asia-Pacific.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||HCL Tech moves workload to other geographies to tackle Covid challenges||IT services major HCL Technologies is engaging closely with clients to prioritise work and shift some workload from India to other geographies to ensure business continuity as the country grapples with record Covid cases. The company, which expects its 2021-22 revenues to clock double-digit growth in constant currency, is also ramping up its efforts to ensure employees and their families get access to necessary health services amid the second wave of the pandemic. HCL Technologies president and CEO C. Vijayakumar said the company is working with clients to prioritise work. “We have a global organisation. We already have almost 30 per cent of our workforces present outside India. Some geographies have stabilised and their vaccination levels are very high, so they are taking a little more load. Everybody’s very understanding.... including clients and our employees in other geographies,” he added. The company hopes the situation will start to moderate over the next couple of weeks. “Clients are very understanding and supportive. And we are working with them to see how, if there is a shortfall of people in certain operations, what can we do to offset that, how can we prioritise some work over the other... very active conversations happen on a continuous basis,” Vijayakumar said. HCL’s total headcount stood at 1,68,977 at the end of the March quarter with attrition at 9.9 per cent. The company intends to hire about 20,000 freshers in 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||India Inc races to ramp up oxygen supplies||India Inc is stepping up supply of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to support the embattled hospitals across the country that are unable to provide round the clock oxygen support to Covid-19 patients. Steel majors such as JSW Steel, Tata Steel and SAIL which have large industrial grade oxygen capacities have repurposed output in order to increase medical grade supplies to states ravaged by the second wave of the pandemic. Moreover, conglomerates such as Reliance Industries Ltd, ITC and Adani Group are also chipping in to increase production and facilitate transportation of LMO. The ministry of steel stated that Indian plants, both in the public and private sectors, produced 3,474 tonnes of LMO on Saturday, twice what they were producing a week earlier. They managed to dispatch 2,894 tonnes of LMO on the same day. There are 33 oxygen plants in the private and public sectors in India and 29 of these are being tapped regularly. Steel plants require gaseous oxygen, primarily for steel making and for oxygen enrichment in blast furnaces, apart from some general purposes like lancing and gas cutting. The captive oxygen plants of the integrated steel producers are designed to produce primarily gaseous products of oxygen, nitrogen and argon which are used to meet the process needs at desired pressure. Such plants can produce a maximum of 56 per cent liquid oxygen at peak capacity. Medical grade oxygen has a higher concentration compared with industrial oxygen. Plants can only optimise liquid oxygen production by sacrificing some gaseous oxygen and optimising process parameters. However, steel majors suggested that ramping up production would not hurt their steelmaking capacity in any manner. JSW Steel, which is producing 898 tonnes of LMO on an average over the last three days — the highest by any steel company in India — says there will be a ‘zero impact’ on steel production. The company said it plans to increase production of LMO to over 900 tonnes from May onwards and supply to states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. SAIL, which has five plants in four states, is also supplying 800 tonnes per day (TPD) of oxygen while Tata Steel and AM/NS, are contributing 500 TPD and 210 TPD respectively. RIL is the other big supplier outside the steel sector, providing over 700 TPD of oxygen primarily to the state of Gujarat. The transportation of LMO from the production sites to the consumption centres is proving to be a bigger challenge as this requires cryogenic containers to carry liquid gas at a subzero temperature. The Tata Group, ITC and Adani have stepped in to source such containers from southeast Asian countries and the Middle East. The Tatas and ITC have said they will procure 24 such containers each and airlift them to India. A part of the consignment — each container with a 20tonne capacity — has already reached India. These containers will be mounted on trucks or railway rakes to reach supplies to the consumption sites. Eastern states such as Bengal and Odisha, which have many steel plants, are currently reporting a surplus in oxygen while states like Delhi and Uttar Pradesh are in deficit. However, the northern states have an acute shortage of oxygen supplies and the producers are struggling to surmount a mammoth challenge even after increasing the number of containers. The process of filling a tanker and emptying at the hospital takes about six hours in itself which is in addition to the time taken to transport the containers over long distances. As a result, states like Delhi continue to gasp for oxygen even though countrywide production of oxygen outstrips cumulative demand. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs has asked importers of oxygen and coronavirus related medicines to fill up a single page online form giving description of the goods and its end use in case they face any difficulty in getting prompt customs clearance. All major ports have been urged to waive all charges for ships carrying oxygen and related equipment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
26-04-2021||Business||Pension posers: decoding National Pension Scheme||The National Pension Scheme is a government-backed retirement savings programme. It allows the public to invest in a mix of pension funds which manage equity, government bonds, and corporate debt. The ratio can be selected according to the investor’s age and risk appetite. Apart from creating a retirement fund that can be availed when the investor turns 60, the NPS also allows investors to claim income tax deductions through the investment period. Upon maturity at age 60, investors can withdraw 60 per cent of the corpus tax-free, but need to invest 40 per cent of the balance in an annuity plan. An annuity plan is an income scheme that you purchase from one of India’s 12 annuity service providers (ASPs) and receive a monthly income — a guaranteed pension for life. This requirement, a pet peeve with NPS investors, is expected to undergo moderate change. Earlier in April, the chairman of the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) announced that it is considering modifying the rules of the scheme, which would impact the investor’s options on maturity. At present, if your NPS balance is up to Rs 2 lakh, you can withdraw the whole amount on maturity and not have to purchase annuity. The PFRDA is mulling raising this limit to Rs 5 lakh so that more eligible investors can make a full withdrawal on maturity and not be stuck with an annuity plan that pays peanuts as pension. Interest rates have plummeted in recent years. Pension plans being guaranteed income schemes invest in securities generating assured returns. Since assured returns have reduced due to falling interest rates, pension plans pay a paltry 5-6 per cent now before tax. As pension is taxable according to the slab rate, the net returns may be negative after accounting for inflation. Therefore, annuity plans in their current form don’t make for great investments. PFRDA acknowledged this. Therefore, they now propose a full withdrawal for investors with a balance up to Rs 5 lakh. However, this still leaves those investors, who will retire with much bigger balances, to buy annuity plans compulsorily and be stuck with the same problems. Would the NPS get rid of the annuity requirement completely in the future? We do not know. Let’s consider why people invest in NPS. It offers tax deductions. Against your NPS contributions, you can claim deductions up to Rs 2 lakh under Section 80CCD, which covers the 80C limit of Rs 1.5 lakh. Those who meet the 80C limit through other means such as PPF can still deduct the additional Rs 50,000 for NPS contributions under 80CCD. Second, the NPS is an extremely low-cost investment scheme, cheaper than an active mutual fund, for example, and comparable to other low-cost investments such as index funds and ETFs. Third, investing in this scheme could potentially provide you better long-term returns in comparison to other retirement schemes such as the Public Provident Fund (7.1 per cent per annum) or Employees’ Provident Fund (8.5 per cent). Under the NPS, several equity schemes have provided five-year returns exceeding 10 per cent per annum; many of its government and corporate debt schemes have returned over 9 per cent over the same period. However, these returns would be lower compared to investments in equity-oriented mutual funds. The Tier 1 NPS account needs you to adhere to the lock-ins, but that’s not the worst thing about the scheme. When you invest in PPF or EPF, you get your whole money back on maturity. With NPS, you are forced to buy annuity which offers low, fully taxable returns.You could anyway generate this return on your own by parking the same fund in a fixed deposit scheme, or investing for higher returns in the securities market, and you could liquidate those investments at any moment. Therefore, viewed in balance, NPS offers benefits which get diluted by the annuity requirement. The reduced access to your own funds is a problem. However, the NPS recognises this. How the scheme may evolve in order to address this issue remains to be seen. Till then, you could access NPS for the benefits it offers, namely tax deductions, low costs of investing, and above-average long-term returns, but also understand your alternatives. For example, if you invested Rs 50,000 once every year for 30 years assuming a rate of return of 9 per cent, your corpus will be approximately Rs 69 lakh, plus you’ll get additional value through tax-savings of Rs 4.5 lakh assuming the 30 per cent slab. Therefore, the projected value of this investment plan would be under Rs 75 lakh. Conversely, you could create about the same value through a systematic investment plan in a mutual fund, investing Rs 4,167 (that’s 50,000/12). At annual rates of 9 per cent, 12 per cent, and 15 per cent over 30 years, this plan could create approximately Rs 77 lakh, Rs 1.47 crore, or Rs 2.92 crore. You may not get additional tax deductions against this investment but the result may be the same. The mutual fund would also provide you instant liquidity without lock-ins and other cumbersome rules that come with NPS withdrawals. The other alternative is that you may simply invest via a Tier 2 NPS account to make withdrawals at your convenience but forgo the tax deductions. In summation, NPS has benefits which get offset by its limitations. Your options are many. Choose one that’s best for you. The writer is CEO of BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-70
