27-04-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 558 points to close just below 49,000 mark ||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 558 points on Tuesday, driven by gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and L&T. The 30-share BSE index ended 557.63 points or 1.15 per cent higher at 48,944.14. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 168.05 points or 1.16 per cent to 14,653.05. L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Reliance Industries, IndusInd Bank, SBI and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Maruti, NTPC, Kotak Bank, Nestle India and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. Persistent strength in US markets has rubbed off on Indian stocks, with yesterday's dip in treasury yields ahead of FOMC decision also helping the overall risk appetite, said Anand James, Chief Market Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Banks have been quite upbeat lately and extended gains by over 1 per cent post noon, but it was metals that shone with over 2.5 per cent gains. However, with April derivative expiry approaching, and with Nifty option premiums not pricing much above 14,700 for now, caution is recommended, he added. With 3,23,144 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases has climbed to 1,76,36,307, while the national recovery rate has further dropped to 82.54 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a negative note, while Shanghai finished with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with losses in mid-session deals. With Nasdaq and S&P at record highs, the global support to markets is strong. The FOMC meeting starting later in the day will be keenly watched by markets for clues on probable trends in rates and yields, experts said. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.51 per cent higher at USD 65.36 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
27-04-2021||Business||Global task force created by CEOs of 40 US companies to help India in Covid fight||In a show of solidarity, the CEOs of about 40 top American companies have come together to create a first-of-its-kind country-specific global task force to mobilise resources and coordinate efforts to help India fight the battle against COVID-19. A collective initiative of the US-India Business Council of the US Chamber of Commerce, and the US-India Strategic and Partnership Forum and Business Roundtable, the task force during its meeting here on Monday committed to get 20,000 oxygen concentrators to India in the next few weeks, Deloitte CEO Punit Renjen told PTI. The new US public-private partnership to provide India critical medical supplies, vaccines, oxygen and other life-saving assistance amid an unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases is called the 'Global Task Force on Pandemic Response: Mobilising for India'. The first-of-its-kind country-specific global task force to address a public health crisis in another country was addressed by US Secretary of State Tony Blinken. The conversation showed how the United States and India can leverage the expertise and capabilities of the US private sector towards solutions for India's COVID-19 crisis, Blinken said in a tweet. "A number of American companies have come together over the weekend. We are focused on doing our very best to help in any way that we possibly can. As the prime minister said, we were very confident, our spirits were up after successfully tackling the first wave, but this storm has shaken the nation. It is up to us to help in any way possible," Renjen said in response to a question. Observing that the first issue is around oxygen and its concentrators, Renjen said they have commitments to get 20,000 oxygen concentrators to India in the next few weeks. The first 1,000 will arrive in the middle of this week, he said, adding that by May 5, they expect another 11,000 oxygen concentrators to reach the country. "Our goal is to get 25,000, and maybe even a number higher than that," he added. The second issue is to look at oxygen cylinders with 10-litre and 45-litre capacity and to get other supplies like monitoring kits, Renjen said. "I am very pleased with the fact that these companies have come together. We're working with the USISPF, as well as the USIBC and with the Business Roundtable to coordinate this effort to help India in any way that that is required, he said. Welcoming the call between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Joe Biden and the decision of the US to urgently send supplies to India, the Deloitte CEO reiterated that the two countries are natural allies. "I'm very heartened by the fact that the US government is going to step up and do its part," he said. The fight against COVID-19 is personal for Renjen as several family members of Renjen, who comes from Rohtak, Haryana have contracted the disease. Around 2,000 of Deloitte's employees in India have been infected, he said. "We are facilitating individuals getting the vaccines. We are providing them medical assistance, home testing kits. This is being consistently done by all entities that have big footprints in India. That is really important to do," Renjen said. "We will do everything on our part to take care of our employees, like I believe every one of the multinationals that were on the call with me are committed to doing. But they have really stepped up," he said. "This is a real kudos to Indian talent," Renjen said. The task force also comprises representations from retail sector, e-commerce, pharmaceutical, technology industry and large manufacturing entities. "This global crisis requires a global response, and the American business community could not be better positioned, or more determined, to help lead the way, said Suzanne Clark, president and chief executive officer of the US Chamber of Commerce. It was wonderful to see everybody focused on making sure that they do their part, that they contribute. Out of that discussion, the first step that we came up with was these oxygen concentrators, Renjen said. Our point to the US government is to provide assistance (to India), wherever it's requested, he added. These US companies are coordinating with the Indian ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu. Earlier in the week, he gave us the list of items that are of critical need, Renjen said. The list includes oxygen concentrators, oxygen generators, two critical medicines that he wanted to see if the US government can release, monitoring kits, and encouraging the US government to ease supply of critical materials for vaccines. Responding to a question, Renjen exuded confidence that India would overcome this. "This too shall pass. I am very confident in my Indian brothers and sisters; we will overcome this," he said. "I don't think we need to panic. We listen to the scientists and listen to the people that are managing this in the country. I think we just have to navigate through it. We will have two or three weeks of very difficult times." "It is a tragic situation, particularly for people that have COVID or who have lost loved ones. My heart goes out to them, but we are going to do our part, Renjen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
27-04-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex advanced over 150 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and TCS despite a negative trend in Asian markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 155.63 points or 0.32 per cent higher at 48,542.14. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 49.80 points or 0.34 per cent to 14,534.80. Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, Bajaj Finance, TCS, Bharti Airtel, Dr Reddy's and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank, HDFC, Tech Mahindra, Nestle India and HCL Tech were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 508.06 points or 1.06 per cent higher at 48,386.51, and Nifty jumped 143.65 points or 1 per cent to 14,485. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,111.89 crore on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities rebounded mainly led by sharp recovery in financials, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Barring Pharma, most of the key sectoral indices traded in green in the morning session. Strong March quarter performance led ICICI Bank to recover sharply, while HCL Tech witnessed sell-off due to subdued 4Q performance. A persistent rise in COVID-19 cases across the nation and enhanced economic restrictions has dented investors sentiments over the last couple of weeks. However, a sharp reduction in fresh caseload in Maharashtra on Monday offered some comfort and a further reversal in caseload should augur well for the economy and markets," he noted. Active COVID-19 cases in India stood at 28,82,204, up from 28,13,658 cases registered on Monday, according to Union Health Ministry data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Bourses on Wall Street ended with gains in overnight sessions. "With Nasdaq and S&P at record highs, the global support to markets is strong. The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting starting later in the day will be keenly watched by markets for clues on probable trends in rates and yields," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.55 per cent higher at USD 65.39 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
27-04-2021||Business||Long-term investors to acquire majority stake in Mphasis||Blackstone along with Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA), UC Investments and other long-term investors are acquiring a majority stake in Mphasis for a consideration of up to $2.8 billion, or Rs 21,000 crore. However, the transaction will trigger a mandatory open offer and the acquirers will have to purchase up to 26 per cent additional shares of the company from its public shareholders. Blackstone said in a statement that based on the open offer subscription, the blended purchase price will vary in the range of Rs 1,452-1,497 per share, which is at a 12-16 per cent premium to the 12-month average price and 3-6 per cent discount to the six-month average price. The purchase consideration will vary between Rs 15,200 and Rs 21,000 crore ($2-2.8 billion). However, the open offer is being made at a price of Rs 1,677.16 per share, aggregating to a total consideration of Rs 8,262 crore. The announcement led to shares of Mphasis closing nearly 1.62 per cent or Rs 27.55 higher at Rs 1,725.25 on the BSE. At present, Marble II Pte Ltd has a 56.03 per cent stake in Mphasis. While the new acquirers will buy a little over 55 per cent, they are not part of the seller’s promoter group. Moreover, the seller and the acquirer belong to separate funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
27-04-2021||Business||Covid: Tech firms offer to help with oxygen and medical equipment shortage||Technology giants Google, Microsoft and Amazon have pledged support through various initiatives to help with the ongoing oxygen and medical equipment shortage in the country. While Google will provide Rs 135 crore in funding, Amazon will urgently airlift over 8,000 oxygen concentrators and 500 BiPAP machines from Singapore. Sundar Pichai, CEO, Alphabet, tweeted: “Devastated...Google and Googlers are providing Rs 135 crore in funding to GiveIndia, Unicef for medical supplies.” Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, in a tweet said: “I am heartbroken by the current situation in India. I’m grateful the US government is mobilising to help. Microsoft will continue to use its voice, resources, and technology to aid relief efforts and support the purchase of critical oxygen concentration devices.” Meanwhile, Gautam Adani, chairman of Adani group, tweeted the company’s first shipment of four ISO cryogenic tanks with 80 tonnes of liquid oxygen was on its way from Dammam (Saudi Arabia) to Mundra. Reliance Foundation has said its Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital will manage a 650-bed facility at the National Sports Club of India. HPL offers Bengal oxygen support Haldia Petrochemicals (HPL) can meet 40 per cent of Bengal’s requirement of medical oxygen, the company said on Monday. The petrochemical complex of HPL, located at Haldia, operates a nitrogen plant which also produces 95 tonne per day of liquid oxygen as a by-product. The unit needs substantial quantities of gaseous nitrogen which is met by HPL’s captive nitrogen plant owned by Praxair and built on HPL’s land. Therefore, HPL in the process of meeting its nitrogen requirement for its units, has been able to generate a substantial quantity of oxygen through Praxair and meet the urgent requirement of medical oxygen in the state. This will include the creation of 100 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds that will be made operational in phases from May 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
27-04-2021||Business||Linde plans to ease oxygen woes||Linde, a leading global company in industrial gases, has stepped in to ease the supply crunch of medical oxygen witnessed in the Covid-hit states. In an interview with The Telegraph, Moloy Banerjee, head of gases-South Asia of Linde South Asia Services Pvt Ltd, says it is working with their operations and partners across various countries in the Asia-Pacific region to source cryogenic containers in a short period. India is going through one of the worst phases of the Covid crisis because of non-availability of oxygen. Being in this industry for decades in India, what 
do you think has led to this crisis? This second wave of Covid-19 is spreading faster and wider than the first wave and is also leading to more severe infections, which require a higher use of medical oxygen for treatment. What measures need to be taken to alleviate the crisis? Our main focus should be on increasing supply and improving distribution efficiency, and thankfully many such measures are already in place. For example, Linde is working with various partners to urgently import cryogenic ISO containers from across the Asia Pacific to India. We are also converting liquid argon and liquid nitrogen tankers to liquid oxygen instead, as well as building new installations at various partner hospitals. The government of India has already issued a directive to redirect almost all oxygen production and supplies to healthcare services and have repurposed railways and airways to supply to areas in need. We are even seeing companies in other industries that are allocating resources to produce medical oxygen. Linde has 20 plants in India. Where are they located and how much LMO (liquid medical oxygen) can they produce? Our plants are spread across India, and are capable of producing over 2,000 mt of LMO a day. What is the current demand-supply scenario of LMO. How can we be more prepared should the demand rise further? Please refer to authorised publications for this data. Various ways are being explored to enhance availability and distribution. Will it impact the supply to industrial customers? The government of India has already issued a directive to redirect supplies of oxygen from most industries to healthcare services from April 22. Linde is completely complying with the directive. It appeared that the transportation of oxygen from the plants to the crisis-prone states had been a major challenge. We understand Tata Group and ITC imported cryogenic tankers and airlifted them to India. What role is Linde playing in this logistics chain? Linde India is working with our operations and partners across APAC, such as Singapore, China and Thailand, to supply and import ISO cryogenic containers to India. This is an unprecedented level of coordination for Linde as these arrangements are being done in an extremely short amount of time in tandem with partners from several countries. Once the tankers arrive in India, we facilitate their delivery to various partnered medical centers and hospitals. Is there a constraint on how many tankers can be filled in a day? If so, how can it be resolved? The bigger challenge right now is the limited availability of tankers, which is why Linde has been taking measures. How many cryogenic containers does Linde plan to bring to India? We have tied up with Tata Group to bring 24 containers and four of them have already arrived. Linde Group is procuring these containers from various sources. We are in dialogue with others to execute more such arrangements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
27-04-2021||Business||HDFC Life Insurance steps up its reserves on account of Covid-related risks||HDFC Life Insurance on Monday said that it has stepped up its reserves on account of Covid-related risks in 2021-22. The life insurer, which had provided Rs 41 crore as on March 31, 2020 for potential adverse mortality experience due to Covid, has increased the amount to Rs 165 crore for the ongoing fiscal. “Based on our actual experience in FY21 and after factoring in aspects such as the latest mortality trends across businesses and customer segments and geographical spread of Covid 2.0, we have provided a Covid reserve of Rs 165 crore for FY22. We will continue to review the adequacy of the reserve through the course of FY22,” said Vibha Padalkar, MD and CEO, HDFC Life. She added that while the reserve for the time being is adequate, there is no clarity on how bad the current pandemic is going to be, whether there is a possibility of another wave and how recovery will affect long term mortality rates. In 2020-21, HDFC Life had settled over 2.9 lakh death claims, resulting in payouts of more than Rs 3,000 crore. Covid claims net of reinsurance was Rs 145 crore. The life insurer, which saw its market share increase to 15.5 per cent  from 14.2 per cent on individual weighted received premium, posted a 5 per cent rise in profit after tax in 2020-21 to Rs 1,360 core. Total premium during the year increased 18 per cent to Rs 38,583 crore from Rs 32,707 crore in 2019-20. While new business premium saw a 17 per cent growth, there was a 19 per cent growth in renewal premium. The insurer said that it has seen an upswing in savings business on a sequential basis as more customers continue to evaluate investing in bundled solutions. “Given the resurgence of Covid and the looming uncertainty around economic and market momentum, we will continue to maintain a cautiously optimistic stance for FY22 and evaluate our approach dynamically. The current pandemic has led to a higher awareness around the need for protection and the inadequacy of current insurance coverage,” HDFC Life said in a statement. The board of the life insurer has recommended a final dividend of Rs 2.02 per equity share of face value Rs 10 for FY21. HDFC Life Insurance scrips at Rs 704.75 were up 2.52 per cent over the previous close at Bombay Stock Exchange.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
27-04-2021||Business||Former Maruti chief Jagdish Khattar passes away||Jagdish Khattar, who led Maruti Suzuki as managing director for eight years, died of cardiac arrest early this morning. He was 79. A former bureaucrat, Khattar was considered as one of the most high-profile leaders of the Indian automotive industry, laying the foundation for Maruti’s future growth after the government began its divestment in 2002 and gradually exited its joint venture with Suzuki Motor Corporation (SMC). His tenure saw Maruti establishing itself as India’s largest car company. After retiring from Maruti in October 2007, Khattar launched an entrepreneurial venture, Carnation Auto, a multi-brand automobile service network also dealing in used cars business. “This is a deep personal loss and has come as a big shock. We had worked together for many years. He is someone who had done a lot of good for Maruti,” R. C. Bhargava,  chairman of Maruti Suzuki India, told a television channel. Khattar had joined the then Maruti Udyog Ltd in July 1993 as director (marketing) and went on to become the executive director (marketing) in the next six years. He was promoted as the joint managing director in 1999, a year that saw various disagreements between SMC and the government. His second term as MD began in May 2002, which was to last till the age of 65 years or end of 2007, whichever was earlier. Khattar was appointed to the post of MD of Maruti Udyog Ltd, as per an agreement between the partners, who agreed to appoint their nominee for a three-year term. Even as the government and the Japanese partner continued to squabble over various issues, including ownership and technology transfer, Khattar had also to deal with industrial relations issues when workers at the company's Gurgaon plant went on an indefinite strike in 2000 demanding wage hikes, incentives and pensions, among others. In 2002, when it was SMC's turn to appoint MD, they renamed Khattar as their nominee. His second term as MD began in May 2002, which was supposed to last till the age of 65 years or end-2007, whichever was earlier. In 2007, he retired from the top post in the country's largest carmaker, having ensured that the company commanded 50 per cent of the passenger vehicles market in India despite growing competition from global players. A year after retirement, he founded a multi-brand car service chain, Carnation Auto with many reputed private equity investors including Premji Invest and Gaja Capital backing the venture. However, his entrepreneurial venture did not reach the heights of success that he achieved when he was helming Maruti Suzuki. In 2019, he was booked by the CBI along with his company Carnation Auto India Limited for allegedly causing losses of Rs 110 crore to Punjab National Bank (PNB).  Khattar had, however, defended himself stating that an exhaustive independent forensic audit at the behest of the bankers did not find any wrongdoings in the functioning of Carnation Auto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
27-04-2021||Business||Government extends cap on domestic airfares||The government on Monday extended the cap on domestic airfares, which was earlier slated till April 30, to  May 31. The ministry of civil aviation also capped the maximum capacity utilised by airlines to 80 per cent of the summer schedule of 2020 till May-end. The order comes days after the airlines had appealed to the government to reduce the capacity to 60 per cent as bookings had fallen because of the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19. Earlier this month, the airlines met ministry officials and sought financial help to keep running operations and “strict enforcement” of the lower fare limit fixed by the government to prevent predatory pricing by some. The ministry officials did not explain why the airline capacity has been kept unchanged despite the request from airlines and an increase in the number of cases. The summer schedule of 2021 is applicable between March 28 and October 30. The directorate-general of civil aviation had in March allocated 18,843 departures per week for domestic airlines during the upcoming summer schedule 2021 from 108 airports across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
27-04-2021||Business||RIL-BP start output from second gas field||Reliance Industries and its partner BP Plc of the UK have started production from the Satellite Cluster gas field in the deepwater KG-D6 block, two months ahead of schedule. The Satellite Cluster is the second of the three developments to come onstream, following the start of the R Cluster in December 2020. It was scheduled to start output in mid-2021. The field is located about 60 km from the existing onshore terminal at Kakinada on the east coast of India in water depths of up to 1,850 metres. The three clusters — R Cluster, Satellite Cluster and MJ — are together expected to produce around 30mmscmd (or 1 billion cubic feet a day) of natural gas by 2023, which will meet 15 of India’s projected demand. The MJ cluster will come on stream in the latter half of 2022. The fields will each use the existing hub infrastructure in the KG D6 block. RIL is the operator of the block with a 66.67 per cent participating interest and BP  holds a 33.33 per cent participating interest,” RIL said. The field will produce gas from four reservoirs using a total of five wells and is expected to reach an output of up to 6 mmscmd. Together, the R Cluster and Satellite Cluster are expected to contribute about 20 per cent of India’s current gas production. With state-run Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd (ONGC) also slated to begin the supply of 2 mmscmd of gas from KG-DWN-98/2 field in June 2021, India’s natural gas production is projected to jump 52 per cent to 122 million standard cubic meters (mmscmd) per day by 2024. HDFC Securities said in a report said the output is projected to rise in the current fiscal that started on April 1 to 93 mmscmd, 107 mmscmd in the following year and 122 mmscmd in 2023-24. ONGC, which had in recent years seen output stagnate, is likely to see production rise to 67 mmscmd in 2021-22 from 62 mmscmd in the previous year. This would rise to 69 mmscmd in FY23 and 75 mmscmd in FY24. The Reliance-BP combine, which in December last year brought newer fields in their eastern offshore KG-D6 block to production, would lead to the rise in gas output by non-PSUs. Its output, which was 11 mmscmd in 2020-21, would rise to 38 mmscmd by FY24, the brokerage estimated. It projected domestic gas demand to climb from 153.8 mmscmd in FY21 (April 2020 to March 2021) to 215.5 mmscmd in 2024-25. The increase in production augments well with the government plans for raising the share of natural gas in the country's energy basket to 15 per cent by 2030 from the current 6.2 per cent in a bid to cut emissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
27-04-2021||Business||Vedanta tells SC that Tamil Nadu govt shouldn't be allowed to take over its oxygen plant||Vedanta Limited has told the Supreme Court that the Tamil Nadu government should not be allowed to take over its Rs 150-crore oxygen plant in the state even as the main political parties of Tamil Nadu have agreed on Monday to let Vedanta operate its oxygen plant alone with some riders. However, the parties said in their joint resolution that under no circumstances should Vedanta be allowed to re-start any of its other facilities at the Thoothukudi factory. The Tamil Nadu Electricity Board will provide power to the plant for four months. A state-appointed monitoring committee will periodically oversee the unit. The all-party meet also demanded that Vedanta should first meet the oxygen requirements of Tamil Nadu before sending cylinders to other states. In an affidavit filed before the top court, Vedanta had said: “ Running the plant was beyond the competence of the government and would lead to the production of sub-standard oxygen.” Instead, the company had urged the apex court to permit it to operate the plant under the supervision of an independent body. The apex court will take up the company’s affidavit on Tuesday along with the views of the Centre and the Tamil Nadu government on the issue. The court had last week sought the response of the two governments on Vedanta’s plea to reopen the closed plant for daily production of 1,050 million tonnes of oxygen. The plant is closed since May 2018 following incidents of violence and police firing in which 13 persons had died. Appointments Vedanta Ltd on Monday announced the elevation of Sauvick Mazumdar as the the CEO of the company’s iron and steel business. The company, in a statement, also said that N. L. Vhatte, who was director, Vedanta-value added business, will take up the role of CEO, ESL Steel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
27-04-2021||Business||RBI imposes 15-year cap on bank chief’s tenure||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday capped the tenure of a chief executive at a private bank at 15 years while tightening corporate governance rules that have been vigorously debated in the industry since the central bank floated a discussion paper on the subject last June. The immediate fallout of the final guidelines is that Uday Kotak will be able to continue as MD and CEO of Kotak Mahindra Bank until January 2024 after which he will have to appoint a successor. The spotlight had fallen on Uday Kotak, who has been leading the bank since 2003, after the central bank articulated its resolve to tighten governance standards in the banking industry. Under the draft rules framed in the discussion paper, Kotak would have had to step down in April 2023 assuming the guidelines came into effect from April 2021.
However, the banking regulator had granted Kotak a three-year extension starting January 1, 2021. Under the provisions of the latest circular, he will be allowed to complete his tenure. Releasing the final guidelines today, the RBI said the post of the MD&CEO or whole-time director (WTD) cannot be held by the same incumbent for more than 15 years.
It added that the individual will be eligible for re-appointment as MD & CEO or WTD in the same bank, if considered necessary and desirable by the board, but this will be allowed only after a three-year cooling period during which the “individual shall not be appointed or associated with the bank or its group entities in any capacity either directly or indirectly”. The current upper age limit of 70 years for MD & CEO and WTDs in private sector banks will continue. However, within the overall limit of 70 years, individual bank’s boards are free to prescribe a lower retirement age for the WTDs, including the MD & CEO. The RBI said that a MD & CEO or WTD who is also a promoter or a major shareholder, cannot hold these posts for more than 12 years. However, in extraordinary circumstances and at the RBI’s sole discretion, the incumbent may be allowed to stay on as MD & CEO or WTD up to 15 years. There is a caveat here: the re-appointment of a promoter as MD and CEO will be linked to the bank’s adherence to milestones relating to share dilution — an issue that turned controversial last year when Kotak went to court challenging an RBI directive. In December 2018, Kotak had taken the RBI to court challenging the central bank’s directive issued in August 2017 that required him to trim the promoter’s stake to 20 per cent of paid-up voting equity capital by December 31, 2018 and to 15 per cent by March 31, 2020. A compromise was eventually reached and the banking regulator said promoters could hold up to 26 per cent in the bank. However, the promoter’s voting rights were restricted to 15 per cent with effect from April 2020. In June last year, Uday Kotak sold 5.6 crore shares, or a 2.8 per cent stake, to bring down his stake in Kotak Bank to a little over 26 per cent to comply with RBI regulations.
Banks have been given time till October 31 to comply with the latest set of instructions. The rules will apply to all private sector banks, including Small Finance Banks (SFBs) and wholly-owned subsidiaries of foreign banks. The RBI also stipulated that the chairman of the board should be an independent director. In the absence of the chairman, the meetings of the board shall be chaired by an independent director. The quorum for the meetings shall be one-third of the total strength of the board or three directors, whichever is higher. At least half of the directors attending shall be independent directors. The other key measure is that the upper age limit for non-executive directors (NEDs), including the chair, has been pegged at 75 years. The total tenure of an NED, continuously or otherwise, on the board of a bank will not exceed eight years. After completing his tenure, the person may be considered for re-appointment only after a minimum gap of three years. However, the person can be appointed as a director in another bank. An audit committee of a bank will only have non-executive directors, half of whom will be independent. Non-executive directors will form the majority on the risk management committee which must meet at least once every quarter. The nomination and remuneration committee of a bank will only have non-executive directors. Norms for rural banks, local area banks and payment banks will be notified separately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-69
