28-04-2021||Business||Sensex soars 790 points to close well above 49,000||Extending its gains for the third straight session, equity benchmark Sensex rallied 790 points on Wednesday, led by gains in financial stocks amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 789.70 points or 1.61 per cent higher at 49,733.84. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 211.50 points or 1.44 per cent to 14,864.55. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring around 8 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, SBI, Bajaj Auto and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Nestle India, HCL Tech, L&T, Dr Reddy's and TCS were among the laggards. "Superior Q4 results and vaccine optimism buoyed domestic markets to trade on a positive footing for the third consecutive day ahead of the US Federal Reserve interest rate decision, said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Strong buying interest was seen in banking and auto stocks with enhanced business prospects which is likely to be maintained, he added. Further, short covering ahead of derivatives expiry also contributed recent rally, analysts said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Seoul was in the red. Bourses in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.23 per cent higher at USD 65.82 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
28-04-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 350 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 350 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Bajaj Finance and Infosys. The 30-share BSE index was trading 351.06 points or 0.72 per cent higher at 49,295.20. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 95.30 points or 0.65 per cent to 14,748.35. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Auto, SBI, IndusInd Bank, M&M, Bharti Airtel, HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and Infosys. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Reliance Industries and Maruti were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 557.63 points or 1.15 per cent higher at 48,944.14, and Nifty surged 168.05 points or 1.16 per cent to 14,653.05. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,454.75 crore on Tuesday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) bought shares worth Rs 1,463.44 crore, according to provisional exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, there are some consistent trends in the market now. "One, despite the bad news on the COVID front, the market has been maintaining the upside momentum. Two, FIIs have been consistent sellers (above Rs 10,000 crore in April, so far) and DIIs have been consistent buyers. These trends are likely to continue in the short run and markets are likely to remain strong," he said. It appears that markets are looking into the post-second wave scenario which is likely to emerge in May, he noted, adding that global support to markets continues with positive economic data from the US. The FOMC comment expected later in the day is likely to reaffirm the US Fed's accommodative stance, imparting further resilience to markets. Meanwhile, Q4 results continue to be good. Axis Bank's numbers confirm the trend of leading private sector banks growing their market share. Early bird midcap results are much better than expected. Midcaps are likely to outperform in the coming days," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai and Seoul were in the red. Bourses on Wall Street ended with losses in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.09 per cent lower at USD 65.82 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
28-04-2021||Business|| Maruti Suzuki reports a 9.7 per cent fall in standalone net profit||Maruti Suzuki, the country’s largest car maker, shocked the Street on Tuesday by reporting a 9.7 per cent fall in standalone net profit at Rs 1,166 crore in the fourth quarter (January-March), belying a market’s consensus estimate of Rs 1,699 crore. The unexpected fall after two strong quarters in a Covid-battered year was blamed on a surge in commodity prices and lower non-operating income as a result of mark-to-market losses on surplus investments. Other income tumbled by almost 90 per cent to Rs 89.8 crore. The auto maker had reported a net profit of Rs 1291.7 crore in the year-ago quarter. Revenues from operations rose by 32 per cent to Rs 24,023.7 crore from Rs 18,198.7 crore. On a sequential quarter basis, it was up 2.4 per cent from Rs 23,457.8 crore. On a consolidated basis, the net profit dipped 6.1 per cent to Rs 1,241.1 crore. “With this second Covid wave, the demand for personal transport will, if anything, strengthen, not weaken. More and more people will want to have their personal transport,” Maruti Suzuki chairman R.C. Bhargava told reporters. He said the company was keeping a close watch on the impact of rising steel prices and government orders limiting the use of oxygen by industries which had made it difficult for the auto maker to provide a sales outlook for the current fiscal. But he was quick to add that he expected to see growth this year. Maruti has also been badly hit by the shortage of semiconductor chips which has forced car makers to slash production. Bhargava said he expected the crisis to continue for some time but refused to amplify. Maruti Suzuki sold 492,235 vehicles in the March quarter, up 28 per cent year on year. “Sales in the domestic market stood at 456,707 units, growing by 26.7 per cent. Exports were at 35,528 units, higher by 44.4 per cent. It may be recalled that in Q4 of FY20, there was a significant decline in the sales volume largely owing to Covid-19 lockdown,” the company said. For the full year, the carmaker reported sales of 1,457,861 units, lower by 6.7 per cent compared with the previous year. In FY21, the sales in the domestic market stood at 1,361,722 units, down 6.8 per cent while exports were at 96,139 units, down 5.9 per cent year on year. Full-year revenues declined 7.2 per cent on year to Rs 66,562.1 crore, while net profit declined by 25.1 per cent to Rs 4,229.7 crore due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the company said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
28-04-2021||Business||Axis Bank posts a consolidated net profit of Rs 2,960.4 crore for March quarter||Axis Bank on Tuesday posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 2,960.4 crore for the March quarter against a loss of Rs 1,250 crore in the year-ago period, and warned of an immediate business impact because of the second wave of Covid. The bank’s standalone net profit came at Rs 2,677 crore for the reporting quarter. Total income stood at Rs 20,213.46 crore against Rs 20,219.57 crore a year ago. Provisions for bad loans and contingencies declined significantly to Rs 3,294,98 crore compared with Rs 7,730.02 crore same quarter in the previous financial year. During the quarter, the net interest income (NII) grew by 11 per cent to Rs 7,555 crore from Rs 6,808 crore. Bajaj Finance Bajaj Finance on Tuesday reported a 42 per cent jump in consolidated net profit at Rs 1,347 crore for the March quarter of 2020-21. The company’s net profit stood at Rs 948 crore in the January-March period of  2019-20. The consolidated figures include results of wholly-owned subsidiaries Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd (BHFL) and Bajaj Financial Securities Ltd (BFinsec).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
28-04-2021||Business||RBI tenure cap to affect more bank chiefs||Uday Kotak may not be the only private bank chief who will be forced to step down when his current tenure ends in December 2023. There are question marks over Vishwavir Ahuja, who leads RBL Bank, Shyam Srinivasan of Federal Bank and Murali Natarajan at DCB Bank —  all of whom will complete more than 12 years in office at the end of their current terms in June, September and April next year, respectively. The key question here is will they get another extension. Brokerages are also awaiting clarity with regard to Bandhan Bank and AU Small Finance Bank on whether the RBI would consider their CEO’s timeline after the entities converted into a bank or SFB or before that period. On Monday, the RBI put out directions with regard to appointment of directors and committees of the board in private sector banks, small finance banks (SFBs) and foreign banks who are wholly owned subsidiaries. A key instruction was that the post of the managing director & CEO or whole time director cannot be held by the same incumbent for more than 15 years. Observers feel Uday Kotak, the promoter and CEO of Kotak Mahindra Bank, will be forced in December 2023 as he has completed more than 15 years at the lender. “The limit on the MD & CEO tenure has come as a negative development for Kotak Bank. We remain watchful of the continuity of some other mid-sized private bank CEOs such as RBL Bank, Federal Bank, and DCB Bank – their current MDs/CEOs have completed 10–12 year tenures and are thus eligible for an extension. The RBI recently granted a year-long extension to the CEO of DCB Bank,’’ analysts at Motilal Oswal said. N.Kamakodi, MD & CEO of City Union Bank, may continue up to May 2026, the brokerage said. Analysts at Axis Securities said that the upper limit of 15 years for MD & CEOs could result in fast-tracking the succession planning in banks like DCB Bank, Federal Bank, and RBL Bank. The RBI also said that the MD & CEO or WTD, who is also a promoter or major shareholder, cannot hold these posts for more than 12 years. However, in extraordinary circumstances, they may be allowed to continue up to 15 years at the sole discretion of the RBI. According to the banking regulator, while examining the matter of re-appointment of such MD & CEOs or WTDs within the 12 or 15 years period, the level of progress and adherence to the milestones for dilution of promoters’ shareholding in the bank will also be factored. While these directions will come into effect from October 1, 2021, the RBI said that banks with MD & CEOs or WTDs who have already completed 12 or 15 years they shall be allowed to complete their current term if it is already approved by the Reserve Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
28-04-2021||Business||Jindal Steel and Power to divest entire equity interest in Jindal Power to Worldone||Jindal Steel and Power (JSPL) on Tuesday said its board has approved the divestment of its entire equity interest in Jindal Power to Worldone, a promoter group company, for Rs 3,015 crore as part of its strategic plan to pare debt, reduce emissions and focus on its domestic steel business and significantly reduce its carbon footprint by almost half. The JSPL stock touched a 52-week high of Rs 455.95, rising 3 per cent in the morning trade on April 27 after it divested its majority stake in a subsidiary. “The equity value is an all-cash offer of Rs 3,015 crore for 96.42 per cent stake in JPL, including 3,400 MW Coal fired power plants in Chhattisgarh and other non-core assets owned by JPL,” the company said in a release. V.R. Sharma, MD of JSPL said, “This divestment is in line with our objectives to be amongst the top 10 lowest Co2 emitting steel companies of the world. “It is also a step towards our vision to reduce debt substantially and create a robust balance sheet for our investors and stakeholders. JSPL will now focus on undertaking expansion of its Angul steel plan to significantly reduce the JSPL carbon footprint by almost 50 per cent.” JSPL said Worldone was selected by way of an elaborate bidding process run by an independent third-party merchant banker, Grant Thornton Advisory, wherein the acquirer submitted the highest binding bid on acceptable terms and conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
28-04-2021||Business||Shapoorji Pallonji group says SC verdict dilutes corporate governance standards||The Shapoorji Pallonji group has said that the Supreme Court verdict handed down on March 26, which snuffed out Cyrus Mistry’s challenge against what he termed as an unfair dismissal as Tata group chairman in October 2016, dilutes corporate governance standards in the country guaranteed under the Companies Act 2013 and will leave minority shareholders “remediless” against the force of brute majority in boardrooms. Last Sunday, the SP Group had filed a review petition in the apex court challenging parts of the judgment. The apex court had set aside the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) order issued in December 2019 that ordered Tata Sons to reinstate Mistry as its chairman. The bench, headed by the recently retired Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, said Mistry’s removal as executive chairman of Tata Group was justified as “a person who tries to set his own house on fire for not getting what he perceives as legitimately due to him, does not deserve to continue as part of any decision making body”. The court also spiked an SP Group plea seeking alternative relief through its formal proposal for separation from Tata Sons by offering to exchange its 18.37 per cent stake in Tata Sons — the holding company of the $106 billion group —  for shares in the operational entities. The Mistry camp had valued the stake at Rs 1.78 trillion. In its review petition, the SP Group said the new Companies Act 2013 was legislated with the intent of furthering corporate governance and that its intention was to align with the best practices globally by offering protection to all stakeholders, particularly minority shareholders, against prejudicial and oppressive conduct by majoritarian shareholders. Pointing out that the Supreme Court is the final forum for interpretation of the statute, the SP Group said some of the observations in the March judgment erode the standards of governance expected under the Companies Act 2013. The SP group claimed that the judgment voices diametrically opposite viewpoints: at one point it says that the removal of a director “can never be oppressive or prejudicial”. It then goes on to assert that where the removal is oppressive, relief can be granted. The group also said the judgment makes the error of treating the “application of company law as a variable based on identity of the shareholder of the company”. The Court said the two parties could resolve their dispute under Article 75 of Tata Sons’ articles of association. Under Article 75, the 28 equity shareholders of Tata Sons only have to pass a special resolution directing the two Shapoorji Pallonji group entities — Cyrus Investments Pvt Ltd and Sterling Investment Corporate Pvt Ltd — to transfer the shares they hold to any of its existing members. According to the SP Group, the court erroneously held that Article 75 was an exit option available to the minority shareholder. “This finding is contrary not only to the text of the Article but also to Tata Sons’ own stand in these proceedings. The Court erred in not recognising that the jurisdiction in which the court considered the matter was one aimed at resolving the matters complained of,” the Mistry family said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
28-04-2021||Business||RBI approval mandatory for commercial and urban cooperative banks to appoint auditors||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday  made it mandatory for commercial banks and urban cooperative banks (UCBs) to seek its approval before appointing auditors. The banking regulator also ruled that the auditors will have to be appointed for a continuous period of three years with a maximum assignment tenure of six years. More importantly, entities with an asset size in excess of Rs 15,000 crore at the end of the previous year will have to appoint at least two auditors who will have to conduct a joint audit. The joint auditors should not have common partners and cannot belong to the same network of audit firms. The new guidelines for the appointment of statutory central auditors (SCAs) and statutory auditors (SAs) of banks and non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), including housing finance companies, have been framed at a time when banks have started to recognise fresh bad loans and make appropriate provisions in their books. The Supreme Court had recently lifted a freeze on bad loan recognition that had been imposed last September until the apex court delivered a ruling on a batch of petitions from small businesses and real estate developers seeking an extension of the debt moratorium that the RBI had granted for a period of six months till August 30 last year. The new auditor guidelines will be applicable for 2021-22 and onwards. However, banks have been granted some leeway with the RBI granting them the flexibility to adopt the new guidelines from the second half of this fiscal “in order to ensure that there is no disruption”. It was not immediately clear how many banks would have to scramble to change their auditors in the middle of the fiscal because of the six year cap on audit assignments. The regulator said that NBFCs with assets of less than Rs 1,000 crore can continue with the current guidelines. One audit firm will be permitted to concurrently audit a maximum of four commercial banks (including not more than one PSU bank or one all India financial institution like Nabard, Sidbi, National Housing Bank or the Export Import Bank), eight urban cooperative banks and eight NBFCs in a financial year. Audit firms will be allowed to provide non-audit services to banks, including actuarial services, investment advisory and take up special assignments from banks. But there will have to be a time gap of at least one year between a non-audit assignment and the firm’s appointment as a statutory auditor of a bank. The auditor guidelines come just a day after the RBI tightened corporate governance standards for the banking industry and set a 15-year cap on the tenure of a chief executive of a private bank. In its statement on developmental and regulatory policies that was issued as part of the monetary policy statement on December 4 last year, the RBI had said it would come out with guidelines on appointment of statutory auditors. The NBFCs will not have to seek prior approval from the RBI while appointing an auditor but will have to inform the central bank through an annual certificate. The norms said that entities with an asset size of below Rs 15,000 crore will have to appoint only one statutory auditor. At the same time, it set thresholds for the appointment of the maximum number of auditors at a bank. If the asset size of the regulated entity is Rs 5 lakh crore, it can have a maximum of four SCA/SAs. This will go up to six if the asset size is between Rs 5,00,000 crore and up to Rs 10,00,000 crore, eight if it is above Rs 10,00,000 crore and up to Rs 20,00,000 crore, and 12 if it is above Rs 20,00,000 crore. In the case of commercial banks (excluding regional rural banks) and NBFCs, the audit committee of the board (ACB) or the local management committee (LMC) will  monitor and assess the independence of the auditors and conflict of interest position, in terms of relevant regulatory provisions, standards and best practices. The RBI said that any concerns in this regard may be flagged by the ACB or LMC to the board of the commercial bank and concerned senior supervisory manager or regional office of the central bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
