29-04-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end marginally higher on F&O expiry||Market benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended marginally higher as monthly derivatives expired on Thursday amid a largely positive trend in global equities. After gyrating 840 points during the day, the 30-share BSE index finished 32.10 points or 0.06 per cent higher at 49,765.94. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 30.35 points or 0.20 per cent to 14,894.90. Bajaj Finserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying nearly 7 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Axis Bank, Reliance Industries and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, HDFC, HCL Tech and L&T were among the laggards. "Domestic equities traded mostly in positive territory amid high volatility on futures and options (F&O) expiry. Notably, benchmark Nifty breached 15,000 levels during initial hours, but it could not sustain to those levels, said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Metal stocks were in focus on account of sustained price increase in ferrous and non-ferrous metals. Further, Reliance Industries remained in focus for second consecutive day ahead of 4QFY21 results. Barring metals, financials and pharma, most of the key sectoral indices were in red, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Seoul was in the red. Bourses in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.36 per cent higher at USD 67.69 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-04-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 600 points in early trade||Market benchmark Sensex rallied over 600 points in early trade on Thursday, driven by gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and Infosys amid a positive trend in Asian equities. The 30-share BSE index reclaimed the 50,000-level and was trading 606.19 points or 1.22 per cent higher at 50,340.03 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 169.30 points or 1.14 per cent to 15,033.85. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 3 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, ONGC, Kotak Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Nestle India, HCL Tech and Sun Pharma were the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex surged 789.70 points or 1.61 per cent to finish at 49,733.84, and Nifty jumped 211.50 points or 1.44 per cent to 14,864.55. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 766.02 crore on Wednesday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) bought shares worth Rs 436.20 crore, according to provisional exchange data. V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services said, "the resilience of the market amidst the gloomy pandemic-related news has taken most market players by surprise." Nifty has gained more than 500 points during the last five trading sessions. "The favourable global market scenario is playing an important role in this vaccine-powered hope trade. The US Federal Reserve meet, as expected, has kept rates and the bond-buying program unchanged, reiterating the accommodative stance. Sustained bond-buying has the risk of higher asset price inflation in the market. "The localised lockdowns and curfews have not impacted industrial activity much but there is a downside risk to GDP growth and earnings estimates, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Bourses on Wall Street ended with losses in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.33 per cent higher at USD 67 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-04-2021||Business||Blackstone announces USD 5-million aid to help India fight the pandemic||The Wall Street-headquartered alternative investment management giant Blackstone, which has over USD 20 billion in live-investments in the country, on Wednesday announced a USD 5-million (close to Rs 40 crore) aid to help India to fight the raging coronavirus pandemic.

The announcement by Stephen A Schwarzman, the founder and chairman of the fund, comes on the heels of close to 40 major American companies committing millions of dollars to help the country fight the pandemic which has been topping the infection list globally for a week with daily caseload remaining above 3.25 lakh mark for almost a week now.

In a show of solidarity on Tuesday, heads of around 40 top American companies came together to create a global task force to mobilise resources to help fight the battle against the pandemic under the initiative of the US-India Business Council of the US Chambers of Commerce, and the US-India Strategic and Partnership Forum and Business Roundtable.

A day before this, chief of Google and its parent Alphabet Sundar Pichai announced a Rs 135 crore assistance to the country, which was soon followed up by the Satya Nadella-headed Microsoft who did not quantify the funding.

Their commitments follow Sun Microsystems' co-founder Vinod Khosla on Saturday promising to help with a plane load of oxygen, and e-commerce major Amazon donating oxygen concentrators and other equipment to several hospitals.

American vaccine maker Gilead also announced a Rs 20-crore worth of 4.5 lakh Remdesivir vials to the country through its India clinical trials partner Klinera on Tuesday.

We are committing USD 5 million (around Rs 40 crore) to support India's coronavirus relief and vaccination efforts, Schwarzman told PTI from his New York headquarters this morning.

The assistance will be focused on providing and expanding healthcare services to the marginalised communities in rural and urban areas to tide over the impact of the pandemic, supporting frontline healthcare workers with PPEs and other essential supplies, he said.

The Blackstone chief executive also said a part of the money will also be used to address the severe shortage of oxygen concentrators and ventilators; and to assist vaccine education programmes as there is lot of vaccination hesistancy here, apart from assuring equitable distribution of vaccines as they become available.

India is facing an alarming crisis from the pandemic and I am profoundly concerned about its human impact. Blackstone has deep roots in India having entered the country way back in 2006.

We need to corral our resources to support India's relief and vaccination efforts at this critical time. The international community is grateful to the frontline workers who are putting in tremendous efforts on behalf of all Indians, Schwarzman added.

India is one of Blackstone's most successful investment destination with the market that has been giving it the highest returns. It has over USD 20 billion in live-investments in the country which is valued at over USD 40 billion now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-04-2021||Business||State Bank to raise $2bn in bonds this fiscal||State Bank, the country’s largest lender, said its central board in its meeting on Wednesday has approved raising up to $2 billion (around Rs 14,880 crore) through bonds this fiscal. The executive committee  has approved long term fund raising in single/multiple tranches through a public offer and /or private placement of senior unsecured notes in US dollar or any other convertible currency during 2021-22, SBI said. SBI shares closed at Rs 363.30 apiece on the BSE, up 2.95 per cent from the previous close. PowerGrid Infrastructure Investment Trust on Wednesday raised a little over Rs 3,480 crore from anchor investors ahead of its initial public offer, which opens for subscription on Thursday. Meanwhile, infrastructure investment trust IndiGrid’s public issue of non-convertible debt securities has been subscribed nearly 10 times within hours of opening on Wednesday. The issue base size was of Rs 100 crore with a green shoe option of Rs 900 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-04-2021||Business||Morepen board approves raising over Rs 433 crore||Drug firm Morepen Laboratories on Wednesday said its board has approved raising over Rs 433 crore through the issue of shares to Switzerland’s private venture capital firm Corinth Investment Holdings and Liquid Holdings, a promoter group of the company, on a preferential basis. “The board of directors of the company considered and approved the issue and allotment of up to 10.85 crore equity shares on a preferential basis,” Morepen Laboratories said in a regulatory filing. In a separate filing, Morepen Laboratories said the Morepen Group has sealed a total investment of $100 million (about Rs 750 crore) from Corinth Group. Morepen Laboratories’ board has approved the issuance of up to 5 crore equity shares to Liquid Holdings, an entity belonging to the promoter group of the company, at a price of Rs 38 per equity shares, for an aggregate amount of up to Rs 190 crore. Morepen Laboratories’ board also approved the issue of up to 5.85 crore equity shares to Corinth Investment Holdings AG, a Switzerland based entity, that belongs to the public category.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-04-2021||Business||Hero MotoCorp and Harley-Davidson announce pricing of 2021 line-up of bikes in India||Hero MotoCorp and Harley-Davidson on Wednesday announced the pricing of its 2021 line-up of bikes in India. The price list under the new partnership, where Hero will market and retail the bikes in India, shows a significant revision compared with the old models sold by Harley Davidson till September 2020. Popular Harley models in India such as the Iron 883, which would sport a price tag of Rs 9.38 lakh at Harley dealerships, is now priced at Rs 10.1 lakh, a price hike of 7 per cent. Similarly, Fat Boy, which was priced at Rs 18.25 lakh now has a price tag of Rs 20.9 lakh, a 14.5 per cent jump. Forty-Eight, which sold for Rs 10.61 lakh, now has a price tag of Rs 11.75 lakh. The Road King will now cost Rs 26.99 lakh, up from Rs 25.83 lakh. When asked about the hike, Calcutta Harley dealer Adarsh Tulshan said: “There has been a huge rise in input costs. The last price list of Harley was for 2019 models. These are upgraded 2021 models.” Sources in the industry, however, denied any price hike. “This is the first time that Hero is announcing prices. A lot of factors need to be taken into account while arriving at the 2021 prices like rising input costs, long value chain since the bikes are being imported, devaluation of the rupee and yet the prices remain very competitive,” said a source. As many as 13 models have been launched by Harley-Davidson and Hero, which also includes the Pan America 1250 Adventure Touring motorcycle, which was globally revealed on February 22, 2021, and carries a price tag of Rs 16.9 lakh. Tulshan is happy with the Pan America price. He said: “There have been a lot of enquiries for Pan America and I think the pricing is absolutely fantastic, particularly compared to BMW Motorrad’s R1250 GS that is priced at Rs 20.45 lakh.” Ravi Avalur, head of the premium segment business unit of Hero MotoCorp, said, “We are excited to open the bookings for the 2021 range.” Theo Keetell, vice-president-marketing, Harley-Davidson Motor Company, said: “Harley-Davidson enters 2021 focused on motorcycling as an emotional experience. The pursuit of adventure on the open road is the foundation of our heritage and the vision of our future.” The line-up is now strengthened with the introduction of the Pan America Adventure Tourer. The 2021 model range appeals to a broader consumer segment and will ensure Harley-Davidson’s leadership in the leisure motorcycling segment||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
29-04-2021||Business||Auto industry steps up efforts to provide relief for Covid affected||The auto industry has stepped up efforts to provide relief for those affected by the pandemic. Maruti Suzuki will shut down its factories in Haryana to make oxygen available for medical needs, while Suzuki too will shut its factory in Gujarat. Hyundai is setting up oxygen generating plants even as Hero MotoCorp is ramping up health infrastructure at Haridwar. As part of the car manufacturing process, Maruti Suzuki uses a small amount of oxygen in its factories, while a relatively much larger quantity is  used by the component manufacturers. “In the current situation, we believe that all available oxygen should be used to save lives. Accordingly, Maruti Suzuki has decided to advance its maintenance shutdown, originally scheduled for June to May 1-9. Production in all factories will be closed during this period,” said a spokesperson. Hyundai Motor India Foundation (HMIF), the philanthropic arm of Hyundai Motor India, on Wednesday offered infrastructural assistance to Maharashtra, Delhi, Haryana, Telangana and Tamil Nadu. HMIF will roll out a multi-faceted relief package of Rs 20 crore that is focused on the crisis at hand. Hyundai will set up oxygen generating plants in hospitals and provide support staff to various hospitals and meet their operational cost for the next three months. Hero MotoCorp is partnering with the Ramakrishna Mission Sevashrama, Kankhal at Haridwar to strengthen their healthcare system. It will also help the Mission to deploy an immediate health preparedness plan to stop the spread of the coronavirus in the Haridwar region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
29-04-2021||Business||Part pay in units of mutual funds for top executives of asset management companies: Sebi||The Securities and Exchange Board of India has said that the top executives of asset management companies should receive 20 per cent of their salary in the form of units of the mutual funds over which they exercise oversight to ensure that they have some skin in the game. The market regulator on Wednesday announced a remuneration framework that seeks to align the interests of the key officials of AMCs with the unit holders of the mutual fund schemes — many of whom have been groaning about piffling returns in a Covid-battered year. The key employees include the chief executive officer, chief investment officer, chief risk officer, chief information security officer, and chief operation officer. It also covers fund managers, compliance officer, sales head, investor relations officers, heads of other departments and dealers of the of the AMC. It also includes direct reportees to the CEO (excluding personal assistant/secretary), fund management team and research team apart from other employees as identified  by AMCs and trustees. “A minimum of 20 per cent of the salary/ perks/ bonus/non-cash compensation (gross annual CTC) net of income tax and any statutory contributions (PF and NPS) of the key employees of the AMCs shall be paid in the form of units of mutual fund schemes in which they have a role/ oversight,” the Sebi circular said. The regulator added that the compensation paid in the form of units needs to be proportionate to the asset under management of the schemes. Exchange traded funds, index funds, overnight and existing close ended schemes have been excluded. The compensation will have to be paid proportionately over 12 months on the date of payment of such salary/perks/ bonus/non-cash compensation. If the compensation is paid in the form of employee stock options, the date of exercising such option will be considered as the date of payment. The mutual fund units issued to these officials will be locked-in for a minimum of three years or tenure of the scheme, whichever is less. Sebi has cut some slack for dedicated fund managers who take investment decisions for a single scheme or a single category of schemes. In their case, they will be permitted to receive 50 per cent of their fund-aligned compensation in the form of the units of the scheme or category that they manage. The remaining 50 per cent can be issued by way of units in those schemes whose risk value is equivalent or higher than the scheme they manage. No redemption of these units will be allowed within the lock-in period in case of resignation or retirement before attaining the age of superannuation. However, in case of retirement on attaining the superannuation age, the units can be released from the lock-in and the key employee will be free to redeem the units. However, AMCs may allow its key officials to borrow funds from the entity against such units to meet medical emergencies or on humanitarian grounds. The units issued to these officials will be subject to clawback provisions in the event of a violation of Code of Conduct, fraud, or gross negligence as determined by the regulator. Upon clawback, the units shall be redeemed and the amount credited to the scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
29-04-2021||Business||RBI committee on asset reconstruction companies invites views and suggestions from stakeholders||The RBI committee on asset reconstruction companies (ARCs), which will review the existing legal and regulatory framework applicable to these entities, has invited views and suggestions from stakeholders.
The suggestions can be given to the committee till May 31, 2021. On April 19, the central bank had set up a committee to undertake a comprehensive review of the working of asset reconstruction companies in the financial sector ecosystem and recommend suitable measures to enable them to meet the growing requirements. This panel was set up under the chairmanship of Sudarshan Sen, former executive director, RBI. According to the terms of reference of the committee, it will review the existing legal and regulatory framework applicable to ARCs and recommend measures to improve the efficacy of these companies.
It will also review the role of ARCs in the resolution of stressed assets, including under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), and give suggestions for improving liquidity in and trading of security receipts (SRs). Besides, it has been asked to review the business models of the ARCs. The panel is scheduled to submit its report within three months from the date of its first meeting. According to an RBI bulletin, the growth of the ARC industry in India has not been consistent over time and not always synchronous with the trends in non-performing assets (NPAs) of banks and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs). After the enactment of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (SARFAESI) Act in 2002, regulatory guidelines for ARCs were issued in 2003, to enable the sector to develop and facilitate the smooth functioning of ARCs. Since then, while ARCs have grown in number and size, their potential for resolving stressed assets is yet to be realised fully. According to an article in the RBI April bulletin, the growth of the ARC industry in India has not been consistent over time and not always been synchronous with the trends in non-performing assets (NPAs) of banks and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs). The article said that despite the increase in the number of ARCs since they were first allowed, the growth in their asset under management (AUM) has been largely trendless except for a major spurt in 2013-14. “When compared with the volume of NPAs of banks and NBFCs, the AUM of ARCs has been on a declining trend, except during the period of high growth in AUM around 2013-14. Going forward, the introduction of a new asset reconstruction company for addressing the NPAs of public sector banks may also shape the operations of the existing ARCs. There is a definite scope for the entry of a well-capitalised and well-designed entity in the Indian ARC industry; such an entity will strengthen the asset resolution mechanism further,” the article said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
29-04-2021||Business||Zomato files draft papers with Sebi for Rs 8,250-crore IPO||Online food ordering platform Zomato has filed draft papers with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) for a Rs 8,250-crore initial public offering (IPO). The share float comprises fresh issue of equity shares worth Rs 7,500 crore and offer for sale worth Rs 750 crore by Info Edge (India) Ltd. At present, Info Edge holds 18.55 per cent in Zomato, while the Alibaba group owns 16.53 per cent of the restaurant aggregator via Alipay and Antfin. On Tuesday, Info Edge had said that it will sell stake worth Rs 750 crore in the Zomato IPO. Zomato’s much awaited IPO comes at a time the country is passing through a second wave of the Covid pandemic. This has led to a rise in demand for its services. In a note earlier this year, analysts at Bernstein had said that India’s food services market is large and expected to reach $74 billion by 2023-24. “Organised food service is growing faster and expected to reach a 52 per cent market share by 2023-24. We expect online penetration to expand to 16 per cent by 2023-24 and the market size to reach $12 billion growing at 43 per cent CAGR,” the brokerage had said. Response to the Zomato offering will be keenly watched as there are others such as Mobikwik, Delhivery and online insurance portal Policy Bazaar which are also set to come out with IPOs. It also comes at a time the country’s start-up universe is seeing strong fund raising. Around 10 start-ups made it to the unicorn (whose valuation is above $1 billion) in the first four months of this year. In February, Zomato had raised $250 million (over Rs 1,800 crore) in funding from Tiger Global, Kora Management and others, valuing the online food ordering platform at $5.4 billion. Zomato said proceeds from the fresh issue would be used towards funding organic and inorganic growth initiatives and general corporate purposes. The company pointed out that it will continue to invest in three core areas for the growth of its business. These include customer and user acquisition, delivery infrastructure and technology infrastructure. The company added that it has made these investments in the past and they will continue to be critical for the growth of its business in the future. According to Zomato, it has in the past also made significant investments in marketing and promotions towards customer acquisition and retention. These investments include acquisition and retention costs through which it offers discounts to acquire new customers and users and retain existing ones.
It also spends on customer, user and restaurant partner appeasement in the form of refunds. Further, it also incurs marketing and branding costs. Here, Zomato said that it will continue to look at acquisitions to grow its presence in India. The company is not new to the inorganic route as it had acquired Uber Eats India assets in 2019-20. Similarly, in 2017-18, it had bought Carthero Technologies Pvt Ltd which enabled it to directly provide logistic services for online orders placed on the Zomato platform. Zomato posted a consolidated income of Rs 2,742.73 crore for the year ended March 31, 2020 and during this period, its losses rose to around Rs 2,367 crore. Kotak Mahindra Capital Company Ltd, Morgan Stanley India Company Pvt Ltd and Credit Suisse Securities (India) Pvt Ltd are the global co-ordinator and book running lead managers to the issue. BofA Securities India Ltd and Citigroup Global Markets India Pvt Ltd have been appointed as merchant bankers to the public issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
29-04-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 790 points, led by gains in financial stocks||Positive global cues and optimism over the country’s vaccination drive on Wednesday saw the Sensex rallying 790 points, led by gains in financial stocks. The positive close came ahead of the interest rate decision by the US Federal Reserve and the first address by US President Joe Biden to the US Congress. “World shares inched up close to record highs as traders waited to see if the US Federal Reserve utters the dreaded word — tapering of its mass stimulus programme —post its two-day meeting on Wednesday. The broad expectation is that it won’t want to unsettle the markets for now,” Deepak Jasani of HDFC Securities said. Analysts added that back home, though the results season has not yielded any major negative surprises, the focus will be on the Covid-19 cases and the vaccination drive. They, however, cautioned that shares may see intermittent corrections. The slow progress of the vaccination is another worry. The 30-share Sensex hit an intra-day high of 49801.48. It gave up some of these gains to end 789.70 points, or 1.61 per cent, higher at 49733.84. “World shares inched up close to record highs as traders waited to see if the US Federal Reserve utters the dreaded word — tapering of its mass stimulus programme —post its two-day meeting on Wednesday. The broad expectation is that it won’t want to unsettle the markets for now,” Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities, said. The broader NSE Nifty surged 211.50 points, or 1.44 per cent, to 14864.55. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 8 per cent. Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services, said that superior fourth-quarter results and vaccine optimism buoyed domestic markets to trade on a positive footing for the third consecutive day ahead of the US Fed interest rate decision. He added that strong buying interest was seen in banking and auto stocks with enhanced business prospects which is likely to be maintained. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Seoul ended lower. Bourses in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
29-04-2021||Business||Covid: S&P warns of downside risks for Indian economy||Global credit rating agency Standard and Poor’s (S&P) on Wednesday warned of downside risks for the Indian economy if the second wave of the pandemic persists. A long-drawn outbreak will impede India’s economic recovery and may force the credit rating agency to revise its 11 per cent growth forecast for 2021-22 if wider containment measures are re-imposed. The report says lenders’ asset quality remains strained and will hold back profitability this fiscal and banks will continue to face a high level of systemic risk. “In addition to the substantial loss of life and significant humanitarian concerns, S&P Global Ratings believes the outbreak poses downside risks to GDP and heightens the possibility of business disruptions,” the rating agency said in a note. S&P has a long-term credit rating of ‘BBB-’ on India, just one notch above junk. The country already faces a permanent loss of output versus its pre-pandemic path, suggesting a long-term production deficit equivalent to about 10 per cent of GDP, according to S&P. “Economic recovery right up until March 2021 has partly alleviated non-performing loan stress,” it noted. The government’s measures such as emergency credit guarantees for small to midsized enterprises have helped too. Under the state’s partial guarantee programme, the government promises to cover up to 20 per cent of the loss incurred by banks on certain bonds issued by finance firms. S&P said strong economic growth will be critical to sustain the government’s aggressive fiscal stance, and to stabilise its high debt stock relative to GDP. The pace of the post-crisis recovery will have important implications for sovereign credit rating, it added. ADB projection Asian Development Bank (ADB) has said the economy is projected to grow at 11 per cent in the current financial year on the back of the strong vaccination programme, but cautioned that the second wave of Covid is worrying. Another risk is the further tightening of global financial conditions, which would put pressure on India's market interest rates and, therefore, affect economic normalisation, the report added. IHS Markit view IHS Markit has said they expect the Indian economy to grow at 9.6 per cent in 2021-22. Maharashtra’s lockdown, it said, represents a significant dampener on growth as the state accounts for 16 per cent of national GDP. “There is scope for further reductions in economic growth as wider restrictions would mean income and job losses for workers alongside significant output and revenue losses for firms,” wrote Deepa Kumar, deputy head, Asia-Pacific, IHS Markit, in a co-authored note with Hanna Luchnikava-Schorsch, principal economist for Asia Pacific, and Angus Lam, senior economist. Brickwork revision Domestic rating agency Brickwork Ratings has revised downwards the country’s FY22 GDP growth projection to 9 per cent from an earlier estimate of 11 per cent. Until the virus is contained and a substantial proportion of the population has been vaccinated, the sectors that are impacted by social distancing norms and those adversely affected by supply disruptions, labour shortage and demand reduction will trail and may take longer to return to sustained growth path, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
